                   Document of
                The World Bank




                                                    Report No: 27263

    IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
(TF-23248 IDA-33120 PPFI-Q0050 PPFI-Q0051 TF-50389)

                      ON A

                     CREDIT

      IN THE AMOUNT OF US$ 25.0 MILLION

                        TO

        THE REPUBLIC OF SIERRA LEONE




                      FOR A

COMMUNITY REINTEGRATION & REHABILITATION




                 December 22, 2003

                                   CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                          (Exchange Rate Effective December 22, 2003)

                                      Currency Unit = Leones (Le)
                                           Le 2,350 = US$ 1.00
                                           US$ 1.00 = Le 0.00040816

                                            FISCAL YEAR
                                      January 1      December 31

                             ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ADF       African Development Fund
AFRC      Armed Forces Ruling Council
AFSL      Armed Forces of Sierra Leone
CAS       Country Assistance Strategy
CDF       Civil Defense Force
CG        Consultative Group
CRRP      Community Reintegration and Rehabilitation Project
DDR       Disarmament, Demobilization and Reintegration (Program)
DFID      Department for International Development (UK)
EC        European Commission
ERRC      Economic Rehabilitation and Recovery Credit
ERSF      Economic Recovery Support Fund
FMPU      Financial Management and Procurement Unit
GOSL      Government of Sierra Leone
ICB       International Competitive Bidding
IDA       International Development Association
IDP       Internally Displaced Person
IFAD      International Fund for Agriculture Development
MDTF      Multi-Donors Trust Fund
NaCSA     National Commission for Social Action
NCB       National Competitive Bidding
NCDDR     National Committee on Disarmament, Demobilization and Reintegration
NCRRR     National Committee for Reconstruction, Resettlement and Rehabilitation
NGO       Non-Governmental Organization
PBA       Pilot Beneficiary Assessment
PPF       Project Preparation Facility
RRR       Reconstruction, Resettlement and Rehabilitation (Program)
RUF       Revolutional United Front of Sierra Leone
SLIIC     Sierra Leone Integrated Information Center
TEP       Training and Employmnet Program
UNAMSIL   United Nations Assistance Mission to Sierra Leone
UNDP      United Nations Development Program
UNHCR     United Nations High Commission for Refugees
UNOCHA    United Nations Office for the Coordinatin of Humanitarian Affairs
UNAMSIL   United Nations Assistance Mission to Sierra Leone
UNOMSIL   United Nations Observer Mission in Sierra Leone
USAID     United States Agency for International Development
WFP       World Food Programme


                                    Vice President:       Callisto E. Madavo
                                 Country Director         Mats Karlsson
                                  Sector Manager          Alexandre Abrantes
            Task Team Leader/Task Manager:                Giuseppe Zampaglione

                                          SIERRA LEONE
                   COMMUNITY REINTEGRATION & REHABILITATION


                                             CONTENTS




                                                                                       Page No.
   1. Project Data                                                                          1
   2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                         1
   3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry               3
   4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                                  6
   5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                                  19
   6. Sustainability                                                                      20
   7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                       21
   8. Lessons Learned                                                                     23
   9. Partner Comments                                                                    25
   10. Additional Information                                                             47
   Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                                   49
   Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                                   53
   Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                                   55
   Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                                   56
   Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components                   58
   Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                      59
   Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                                  60
   Annex 8. Results of the DDR - TEP Assessment - September 2002                          63
   Annex 9. Report on a Pilot Beneficiary Assessment of the Emergency Recovery Support    67
   Fund - November 2003


MAP: IBRD 32404

Project ID: P040649                                                  Project Name: COMMUNITY REINTEGRATION &
                                                                     REHABILITATION
Team Leader: Giuseppe Zampaglione                                    TL Unit: ECAVP
ICR Type: Core ICR                                                   Report Date: December 22, 2003


1. Project Data
                   Name: COMMUNITY REINTEGRATION &                                L/C/TF Number: TF-23248; IDA-33120;
                            REHABILITATION                                                           PPFI-Q0050;
                                                                                                     PPFI-Q0051; TF-50389
   Country/Department: SIERRA LEONE                                                       Region: Africa Regional Office

        Sector/subsector: Central government administration (30%); Other social services
                            (25%); General education sector (15%); General agriculture, fishing
                            and forestry sector (15%); General water, sanitation and flood
                            protection sector (15%)
                  Theme: Conflict prevention and post-conflict reconstruction (P); Social risk
                            coping (P); Participation and civic engagement (P); Rural services
                            and infrastructure (S); Access to urban services for the poor (S)


  KEY DATES                                                                  Original               Revised/Actual
           PCD: 05/31/1996                                     Effective: 01/01/2000                03/03/2000
     Appraisal: 12/31/1996                                         MTR:
      Approval: 12/21/1999                                      Closing: 06/30/2003                 06/30/2003



    Borrower/Implementing Agency:          GOVERNMENT OF SIERRA LEONE/NCRRR AND NCDDR
                      Other Partners:      African Development Bank

STAFF                           Current                                        At Appraisal
Vice President:                 Callisto E. Madavo                             Jean-Louis Sarbib and Callisto E. Madavo
Country Director:               Mats Karlsson                                  Mamadou Dia
Sector Manager:                 Alexandre V. Abrantes                          Nicholas Burnett
Team Leader at ICR:             Eileen Murray                                  Florian Ficthl
ICR Primary Author:             Giuseppe Zampaglione;
                                Catherine A. Gibbons


2. Principal Performance Ratings

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly Unlikely,
HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)

                           Outcome:        S
                      Sustainability:      L
   Institutional Development Impact:       SU
                 Bank Performance:         HS
            Borrower Performance:          S


                                                      QAG (if available)             ICR
                                  Quality at Entry: S                                S
                     Project at Risk at Any Time: No

Forward

The Context: the conflict and the Bank's involvement

         Civil war, unrest, and indiscriminate violence plagued Sierra Leone for more than a decade.
Violence left 20,000 dead, thousands handicapped, over 2 million people internally displaced and 500,000
living as refugees abroad (IDPs and refugees together were about 50% of the population). The GDP per
capita halved during the course of the war, and by 2000 it was one-third of the level reached in 1970, with
more than 80% of the population living in extreme poverty. Communities and their infrastructure were
abandoned for years, looted, and destroyed. Public and private institutions were systematically attacked and
suffered from years of loss of capacity, lack of leadership, and uncertainty. The atrocities committed
during the war were systematic with organized killing, maiming, rape and torture of civilians, including
children and pregnant women. This ­ together with economic deprivation -- has had a devastating effect on
the economic, social and psychological texture of communities, hence of the country.

         The civil war began in March 1991, when the rebel forces of the Revolutionary United Front
(RUF), initiated a guerilla war against the Government, which by 1995 had expanded to the entire country.
The Government's military response was ineffective and this led to the formation of CDF (Civil Defense
Forces, a people's militia group). From mid-1995 onwards, RUF suffered a series of military defeats and
in March 1996 a cease-fire was agreed, followed by the signing of the Abidjan Peace Accord in November
1996. In support of the peace process, preparation of the Community Reintegration and Rehabilitation
Project (CRRP) was initiated in 1996. However, 1997, 1998, and 1999 saw a resurgence of violence and
continued political and institutional instability. The peace agreement signed in July 1999 in Lomé, which
led to the large scale deployment of UN peace keepers and observers, was violated in April-May 2000,
when RUF rebels held hostage some 500 UN staff. Thanks to mounting international pressure and rapid
UK military intervention, RUF released the UN staff and a new cease-fire was signed. Since end of 2000,
the UN presence has expanded to 12,550 personnel (UNAMSIL). In May 2001, the belligerent parties
agreed to a series of confidence-building actions that culminated in the demobilization of all combatants by
January 2002 and to the Declaration of End of War, signed by all parties to the conflict during that same
month.

         The preparation of a scheme for resettlement, rehabilitation, and reconstruction of the country goes
back to 1996. In 1997 its preparation benefited from a $2 million World Bank PPF advance, which helped
finance studies, prepare project manuals, assess the capacity of implementing agencies, initiate pilot
activities, and support Government capacity. It was in spring of 1998 that a comprehensive National
Disarmament, Demobilization and Reintegration Program was finalized.

         The Bank project was scheduled for Board discussion in May 1997, but was not presented due to
the coup d'état against President Kabbah. A revised version of the project was prepared to be submitted in
December 1998, but then delayed again because of security concerns. The project had to be re-appraised
in Fall of 1999, and was finally approved by the Board on December 21, 1999 and became effective on
March 3, 2000. The project was implemented under significant time pressure, due to the fact that a
resurgence of violence was something not to be ruled out at all, as past experience was also showing.
Despite protracted instability during 2000 and during part of 2001, the project closed as scheduled, on June
30, 2003.

Focus of this ICR

         While Credit 33120 was instrumental to attract additional donor support through a Multi-donor


                                                      - 2 -

Trust Fund (TF23248) and a parallel financing contribution from the US Government (TF50389), the
focus of this ICR is Credit 33120 and two related PPFI (Q0050 and Q0051). Operations financed by the
Multi-donor Trust Fund are still on-going and the closing date is February 28, 2004. TF50389 closed on
September 30, 2002. On operations financed by both TF, a separate assessment will be conducted within
six months from closing date of the MDTF.
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry

3.1 Original Objective:

         The project had a clear objective, which was: to support the peace process and expedite the return
to stability to Sierra Leone through the support of two initiatives - one that helped reintegrate demobilized
combatants into social and economic life and the other that sought to restore basic socioeconomic
infrastructure and services in the communities most affected by the war. The objective was necessarily
ambitious; the project's success depended upon addressing the reintegration and rehabilitation issues
simultaneously. The objective was also necessarily risky, given the uncertainty of the security situation at
the time the project was designed.

         The success of the rehabilitation component depended heavily on the success of the disarmament,
demobilization, and reintegration of the various armed factions. While, on the one hand, the project sought
to give the armed groups an incentive to disarm, it did not want to be seen as rewarding the brutal behavior
of the ex-combatants, at the expense of the civilians who had suffered from their actions. For this reason,
the project sought to contribute to social stability and facilitate the return of displaced and refugee
populations by investing at the earliest possible moment in the rehabilitation of the villages in the area,
many of which had been completely destroyed by the rebels.

         A Transitional Support Strategy was developed, through extensive consultations with the
government, two years after credit effectiveness. The TSS identified four main areas of focus for the
Bank's work: (i) consolidating peace, (ii) resettlement and reconstruction, (iii) improving governance, and
(iv) maintaining a macroeconomic framework conducive to recovery. All these areas were very compatible
with the Community Reintegration and Rehabilitation Program's goals. The successful implementation of
the project was also a precondition for any other Bank investment in Sierra Leone.

3.2 Revised Objective:

The project objective was never revised.

3.3 Original Components:

         The Community Reintegration and Rehabilitation Project (CRRP) consisted of two components,
which were:

1)       The Training & Employment Program (TEP), and related institutional support to National
Committee for Disarmament Demobilization and Reintegration (NCDDR) and partners. The TEP
was to support the social and economic reintegration of former combatants through targeting counseling,
training, and employment initiatives. While IDA funds were not used to disarm the combatants, they were
used to pay the operating costs of NCDDR, which was ultimately responsible for the Government's DDR
Program. The social reintegration efforts would include civic education, socio-psychological counseling and
community sensitization activities. Counseling and referrals would prepare ex-combatants for their return
to civilian life and assist them by providing critical psycho-social support during the reintegration phase



                                                       - 3 -

and by providing information and opportunities to access available reintegration assistance. The economic
reintegration services would include a vocational orientation, counseling on job-seeking strategies,
information and advice on training and employment opportunities and on establishing micro-projects. The
TEP program would also offer concrete means for linking ex-combatants to training and employment
opportunities, including the referral to labor-intensive public works, broader rehabilitation projects, income
generating activities, vocational training and apprenticeships. The TEP would also finance training
expenses incurred by artisans who train ex-combatants through informal apprenticeships; tool-kits would
be provided to increase the employability of the ex-combatants. The TEP activities were to be implemented
by international and national NGOs, government line ministry units, existing project units, and CBOs. (See
Annex N. 1 for the details on the Outcomes and Outputs planned for this component).

2)       The Emergency Recovery Support Fund (ERSF), and related institutional support to the
government implementing agency, the National Commission for Reconstruction, Resettlement and
Rehabilitation (NCRRR). The ERSF was to facilitate the social and economic recovery of communities
and the restoration of basic social and economic services through demand-driven, community-oriented
projects that target internally displaced persons, refugees and the communities affected by the conflict. The
ERSF was to finance sub-projects in the areas of agricultural rehabilitation, temporary shelter,
reconstruction of community infrastructure, establishment of essential social services, promotion of
reconciliation, and local institutional capacity building that target IDPs, refugees and the communities to
which they were to return. The ERSF was also to support labor-intensive urban and rural public works
programs that help rehabilitate economic and social assets, and which provide a temporary social safety net
for specifically targeted vulnerable groups of unemployed youth, ex-combatants, and others. Sub-projects
were to range in cost from US$10,000 to US$500,000 equivalent, and would be implemented by eligible
partners, including international and national NGOs, line ministry units, existing project units, and
community-based organizations. (See Annex N. 1 for the details on the Outcomes and Outputs planned for
this component).

        The two components were very clearly related to the Project Development Objective. As noted
above, the overall project was necessarily ambitious. Recognizing the challenge of mounting two separate
components, simultaneously, given the limited organizational capacity of the Government of Sierra Leone
weakened by a decade of civil war, the project anticipated the need to: (i) support Government in
establishing separate institutions in charge of ERSF and the DDR Programs, staffed by professionals and
led without the constraints usually afflicting Government civil service; and (ii) contract out the financial
management and procurement activities (contract were then awarded to an international firm that worked
with local staff also).

        The project design also drew on the Bank's extensive experience in lending to social funds around
the world and on the growing body of knowledge about post-conflict interventions.

3.4 Revised Components:

        No formal revisions of the components took place. Nonetheless, the number of ex-combatants to
receive reintegration assistance increased significantly as the number of demobilized ex-combatants rose
well above initial estimates. The new beneficiaries were financed through additional funds, from other
donors, raised by the Multi-donor Trust Fund (See Box N. 1 below).




                                                      - 4 -

                                         Box N. 1 - Multi-donor Trust Fund

              The Multi-donor Trust Fund (MDTF) was set up and was administered by the World Bank, to
    facilitate broad donor support to the DDR Program, and in particular to the following activities: i) screening,
    registration and basic living provisions for ex-combatants during a brief encampment period; (ii) pre-
    discharge orientation, discharge, and transportation of ex-combatants into communities; (iii) a transitional
    social safety net allowance; (iv) economic and social reintegration support; and (v) general program
    operations, management and technical assistance.

              As of September 30, 2003 signed commitments to the MDTF were of US$35,021,760, which with
    an investment income of US$726,197, brought total resources at US$35,783,957 of which US$34,376,647
    were on expenses incurred and US$1,407,310 in available fund balance. The MDTF accounted for roughly
    50% of the overall resources that the donor community and the GoSL have invested in the DDR Program.
    The following countries and institutions contributed to the program: the European Commission, The
    Netherlands, Germany, United Kingdom, Norway, Canada, Switzerland, Sweden, Italy, and Denmark. The
    US contributed through a parallel TF. The program is currently phasing out, and closing date is February 28,
    2004.

              The MDTF proved to be an extremely efficient instrument to mobilize additional resources as new
              areas of the country became accessible and additional caseloads of former combatants were joining
    the DDR Program.




3.5 Quality at Entry:

         The ICR found that the Quality of Entry was Satisfactory. The design which addressed
government priorities, was flexible enough to adapt to changing circumstances, and was necessarily
ambitious and risky. The project risks were mitigated, in part, through several studies conducted as part of
the design phase, which served to enhance the overall quality of the project.

         According to QAG, the overall Quality at Entry was Satisfactory with the Project Concept,
Objectives, Approach and the Poverty and Social Aspects considered Highly Satisfactory.

    With the benefit of hindsight, the ICR team would concur with most of the findings of QAG. On the
positive side, the project:

l Was consistent with the government's strategy for demobilization, reintegration and rehabilitation.
l Was ambitious and risky, but designed with sufficient built-in flexibility to adjust to the uncertainty of
    the changing post-war environment.
l Included funding for the operational costs of both the Government Implementing Agencies, which
    served to leverage a variety of other international donors and helped the Government keep pace with the
    larger than expected number of combatants seeking to disarm. The Bank played an important role in
    convening and managing relations with the various donors who contributed to the Multi-donor Trust
    Fund.
l Was realistic in assuming that the Government would need technical assistance with the financial
    management and procurement aspects of the project. The largely Bank-financed Financial



                                                         - 5 -

    Management and Procurement Unit (FMPU) for the project handled the day to day administration of
    the fund resources and gave donors confidence that their funds would be managed in a transparent
    manner.
l Had benefited from careful design conducted over a two year period, supported by a PPF which helped
    finance several studies, prepare detailed project manuals for both components, assess the capacity of
    the two government implementing agencies, initiate pilot activities under the ERSF to identify and
    address potential technical and administrative problems which could negatively affect implementation,
    and to prepare a "pipeline" of sub-projects to allow rapid start-up of activities immediately after credit
    effectiveness.

In retrospect, the project could have benefited from a better design in the following areas:

         Planned Capacity-building for Implementing Agencies. One of the constraints mentioned in many
reports and during the ICR mission was the limited capacity of the NGO partners, who were contracted to
implement each of the two components. While the project did include funding to provide training and
technical assistance to the NGOs, the project should have been proactive in developing and delivering
up-front a series of training workshops and on-going technical assistance to NGOs at various stages of the
project cycle. Topics covered might include participatory needs assessment and planning, proposal
development, financial management, procurement, and monitoring and evaluation. This should have been
an integral part of project design.

         Logframe Complex and Difficult to Monitor. The indicators in the logframe included in the
project design were very challenging to monitor and not always very relevant. This was particularly true of
the indicators planned for the NCRRR/ERSF component. Given the capacity limitations of the two GOSL
teams at the outset, it was not realistic to expect them to conduct the rather complex baseline studies
required by the logframe and gather the necessary data to monitor these indicators during project
implementation. The difficulty the GOSL teams had in completing Annex 1 is a consequence of this design
problem.

         Inclusion of HIV/AIDS Awareness and Prevention Activities for Ex-Combatants. Protracted
conflict, systematic sexual violence, influx of foreign soldiers, mass displacement and widespread
prostitution, have created the conditions for explosive HIV/AIDS growth in Sierra Leone. Experience in
other post-conflict African contexts, shows that former combatants are likely to have higher than average
HIV prevalence rates, and hence they should be a priority target in any voluntary counseling and
sensitization campaign. While this approach was developed as part of the implementation of the DDR
program, it was not discussed as a priority at project preparation.

4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs

4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:

         In the opinion of the ICR Team, the project achievements were remarkable, given the very
challenging security, logistics, and capacity limitations facing the Government Implementing Agencies and
given the sense of urgency that characterized donor interventions in Post-conflict Sierra Leone. However,
there were aspects of project implementation -- especially of the ERSF component - that could have been
better and which are discussed in the Outputs by Component Section below. The rating for the
achievements of the two components are Highly Satisfactory for TEP and Satisfactory for the ERSF
component. That said the overall assessment of the ICR team for the project outcome is Satisfactory,
also considering that the ERSF component absorbed slightly less than 75% of the credit and that the rest



                                                       - 6 -

financed the TEP component. On project ratings, the ICR Team acknowledges the fact that the PSR team
has recommended an HS rating on project outcomes (as well as higher ratings for some other sections of
the ICR). The ICR team has reviewed such recommendation and other suggestions provided by the PSR
Team. The latter were in part incorporated in the ICR. The ICR team then requested -- and was given --
feedback and guidance from management in AFTHD, AFTOS, and AFTQK. Also on the basis of the
Bank's definition of HS and S, the team confirms the rating S for the ICR section on outcome/achievement
of objective. (HS: Project achieved or exceeded all its major relevant objectives and has achieved or is
highly likely to achieve substantial development results, without major shortcomings. Satisfactory.
Project achieved most of its major relevant objectives and has achieved or is expected to achieve
satisfactory development results with only a few shortcomings.)

         Over 72,000 combatants were disarmed and demobilized; of these, over 56,000 signed up for
reintegration assistance; and 48,000 participated in the TEP program thanks to both the MDTF and IDA
funding. Roughly half of those who participated in a TEP program were employed or self-employed one
year after completing the program. In parallel, the ERSF supported 269 community projects in the affected
areas, which served to get 84 schools and 28 health centers back into operation, give 200,000 people access
to potable water, and put over 9,000 hectares of land back under cultivation, and improve production close
to a million hectares. (See Annex 1.) The efforts served as an incentive to attract over 220,000 IDPs back
to their areas of origin and clearly contributed to the sustained peace, which has now held for almost two
years.

         As the Government's ICR simply states: "It is now over three (3) years since the IDA credit
3312-S-L became effective and so many important changes have occurred in our political and economic
history. Most significantly, the civil war has finally and dramatically come to an end, the emergency phase
is over and Sierra Leone is now moving towards long-term sustainable development." (See Partner
Comments in Section I of this document.)

         Since the January, 2002 Declaration of the End of the War, no significant outbreak of violence
occurred. While this cannot be attributed to this project alone, without a doubt the project contributed to
this positive outcome, indeed to a very large extent.

         During the ICR, the team traveled to six of Sierra Leone's 13 districts, where it visited
communities that had been destroyed by the war and spoke to ex-combatants and civilians. All the IDPs
have left the camps, either to return to their areas of origin or to settle in another preferred location.
Villagers are gradually rebuilding homes and basic community infrastructure; families are now producing
their own food, rather than depending upon hand-outs. While not all ex-combatants have dared return
home, in many of the communities the team visited, both RUF and CDF ex-combatants were living
side-by-side. Of those that participated in the TEP program, a mid-term assessment found that one year
after completing training, roughly half were employed or operating their own business. (See summary of
study findings in Annex 8).

         The signs of NCRRR's (NaCSA's) community investments are everywhere. Many of these signs
refer to sources other than the World Bank, whose investment in the operating cost of NCRRR and the
independent Financial Management and Procurement Unit, served to attract and subsidize these additional
project funds. These other sources financed a total of 458 projects valued at US$6.9 million (See Table N.
1 below for details: this figure is calculated by adding up resources from HIPC, the Islamic Development
Bank, the African Development Bank and from UNDP), so one could say that for every US$1 invested by
the Bank, US$0.36 were leveraged from other donors. This without accounting for the fact that NCRRR
also coordinated the humanitarian assistance in Sierra Leone.


                                                       - 7 -

         Table N. 1: Overview of Project Components and Disbursements by Source of Financing (in US$ Million)

                                     NCDDR                          NCRRR/NaCSA                               Total                Grand
                          Operations            Projects        Operations       Projects          Operations       Projects        Total
 Project Sources:
 IDA                                  0.00             4.64             5.76          11.36                  5.76         16.00     23.59(1)
 ADB (2)                              0.64             0.00             1.55           7.55                  2.19           7.55        9.74
 GOSL                                 6.30             0.00             0.71           0.00                  7.01           0.00        7.01
 MDTF (3)                             8.85             23.9             0.00           0.00                  8.85           23.9   32.75 (4)
 UNICEF/WFP/                                                                                                                       22.00 (5)
 DFID/UNHSF/
 EDF
 HIPC                                                                                  0.69                                 0.69        0.69
 IDB                                                                                   1.27                                 1.27        1.27
 ADB-PWP                                                                               0.65                                 0.65        0.65
 ADB - SAPA                                                                            2.88                                 2.88        2.88
 UNDP                                                                                  1.41                                 1.41        1.41
 Total                          15.79 (6)         28.54 (7)             8.02          25.81             23.81 (8)     54.35 (9)    78.16 (10)
 1. The Total also includes the $1.83 million disbursed as a PPF.
 2. This does not include MDTF sources or DIFD, which did not pass through the FMPU.
 3. As of September 30, 2003, US$3.06 million of MDTF funds remained unspent and are not included in this table. The total raised
 by the MDTF was US$35.14 million, which financed roughly 50 percent of all DDR expenses, compared to the IDA contribution,
 which financed 10 percent or less.
 4. These figures are drawn from the September 30, 2003 Quarterly Progress Report prepared by the World Bank on the Multi-Donor
 Trust Fund.
 5. These resources financed DDR activities, but the breakdown between projects and operations is unavailable.
 6. Note that this figure does not include the allocation from UNICEF/WFP/DIFID/UNHSF/EDF.
 7. Ibid.
 8. Ibid
 9. Ibid
 10. This total includes the UNICEF/WFP/DFID/UNHSF/EDF fund. It does not include the $ 1.83 million disbursed as a PPF.




4.2 Outputs by components:

The Training and Employment Program (TEP) of the NCDDR

          The ICR Team considers the Outputs of the TEP component to be Highly Satisfactory. TEP
exceeded its goal to train 45,000 ex-combatants by 3,000 and helped close to 50 percent of the trainees find
employment or self-employment. According to the TEP assessment conducted in September, 2002, the
level of interaction between ex-combatants and their communities is high, suggesting the project has also
helped the ex-combatants become reintegrated into the social fabric of their country. (See Summary of
TEP Assessment results in Annex 8.)

          Once combatants had been disarmed and demobilized, they were given some pre-discharge
orientation, which was partially funded by the Bank project. During this orientation, the combatants were
made aware of the benefits they would receive and the training options available. This period was also
used to address psychological, legal and socioeconomic issues these demobilized combatants faced as they
prepared to reintegrate back into society.

          The DDR eventually disarmed 72,000 fighters, well above the 45,000 it had planned to serve. This
was done through the creation of 16 demobilization centers in 12 districts and 7 interim care centers. The
scale-up of this project was feasible given the success of the Multi-Donor Trust Fund in attracting funds



                                                                    - 8 -

from other international sources. (See Table 1 for details.)

                 Table #2: Breakdown of Disarmed Combatants by Affiliation and Age Group
 Category Disarmed                 Adults            Children            Total         Percent of Total
 RUF                                                                          24,352               34%
 AFRC                                                                          2,574                 4%
 Discharged/Ex-SLA                                                             5,953                 8%
 CDF                                                                          37,377               52%
 Others                                                                        2,234                 3%
 TOTAL                             65,645             6,845                72,490 (1)             100%
 Percent of Total                   91%                9%

1. NCDDR disarmed combatants who were presented conventional weapons of war.

         According to an NCDDR District-level staff-person, the number of child combatants was much
greater than is reflected in the statistics. Rebel commanders were concerned about accusations of war
crimes, so they encouraged child combatants to register as adults. (On the issue of exclusion from DDR
benefits see also The Social Assessment Study, Paul Richards, et. al.)

         The demobilization of combatants was key to opening up previously in-accessible areas to
humanitarian organizations and returning IDPs and refugees; it also enabled Government to re-establish
government services in affected areas; and it facilitated the free flow of people, goods and services within
the country and re-ignited a stagnant economy.

         Of the 72,490 combatants who were disarmed, 95 percent or 69,000 were demobilized and 56,751
or 81 percent registered with NCDDR for reintegration training. As of mid-September of 2003, 48,240 or
85 percent of the registered ex-combatants had benefited from reintegration services. Over 90 percent of
those receiving reintegration services participated in the IDA financed TEP program. As of the time of the
ICR site visit, NCDDR was registering the last batch of ex-combatants (approximately 4500) who are
returning to Sierra Leone from Liberia. NCDDR is in the process of closing down its program and all of
the TEP funded activities have been completed, so it will be unable to offer the traditional six months
training program to this final group. A $200 one-time cash payment to this group to help finance their
reintegration is under consideration.

         The results of a mid-term assessment of the TEP component were generally positive and are
summarized in Annex 8.(Comninos, Stelios, Aki Stavrou, and Brian Stewart (September ­October, 2002),
Assessment of the Reintegration programmes of the National Committee for Disarmament,
Demobilisation and Reintegration. Freetown, Sierra Leone.)

Table N. 3: Ex-Combatants Participating in Reintegration Services by Funding Source and Region
      Region           IDA/A       DFID         GTZ           ICRC         UNDP         TOTAL
                       DB
      EAST              11,936              141        688           453           979     14,197
      NORTH             12,158            1469         202                         416     14,245
      SOUTH             10,241                          59                                 10,300
      WEST                9,498                                                              9,498
      TOTAL             43,833            1610         949           453         1395      48,240
      % of Total           91%              3%         2%            1%            3%        100%




                                                      - 9 -

        The IDA Credit financed a total of 397 TEP projects, whose disbursed value was US$4.64 million.
These projects were implemented primarily by NGOs. The geographic distribution of the projects
presented in Table N. 4, shows that over 75 percent of the project were implemented in the Western
Region, where 65 percent of the combatants demobilized. The vast majority of the TEP projects (92
percent) were vocational training activities (See Table N. 5 for details.)

Table N. 4 : IDA Financed TEP Projects by Geographic Region

 Region              # Projects             Total           Total Region as %
                          TEPs           Contract      Disbursed of Total
                                           Value             US$ Disbursed
                                              US$
 East                         39         712,478         546,089            11.77
 North                        23         548,594         401,746             8.66
 South                        35         501,298         400,864             8.64
 West                       300        3,985,915       3,291,301            70.93
 Total                      397        5,748,285       4,640,000           100.00


Table N. 5 : IDA Financed TEP Projects by Sector
 Region              # Projects Total                       Total Sector as %
                          TEPs Contract                Disbursed of Total
                                   Value US$                 US$ Disbursed
 Agriculture                  15         925,959         681,267            14.68
 Public                        5         264,176         249,404             5.38
 Works
 SE                           10         266,486         265,589             5.72
 Vocational                 367        4,291,664       3,443,740            74.22
 Training
 Total                      397        5,748,285       4,640,000           100.00

The IDA funded reintegration program had mainly strengths:

On the strengths side:

l Well Targeted: In order to qualify for the TEP program, ex-combatants had to present a
    demobilization ID that was issued by DDR in the demobilization camps. Once an NGO implementing
    agency had a list of registered trainees, DDR cross-checked the ID numbers of all of the proposed
    beneficiaries to make sure that they were indeed demobilized combatants and that they had not
    benefited from another training program offered by any other partner. This system ensured that the
    funds budgeted for training ex-combatants was used only to benefit ex-combatants.

l Rapid Implementation: Despite a slow start, the program quickly picked up speed and was able to
    respond rapidly to demand for training from the ex-combatants. IDA funds had been fully committed
    by December, 2000. This quick response was facilitated by NCDDR's decentralized structure and
    devolved decision-making authority. It had 4 regional offices and 13 district offices, which enabled



                                                    - 10 -

    better project supervision and problem-solving at the field level.

l Employment Success: As mentioned above, roughly 50 percent of the ex-combatants trained by the
    program were either self-employed in a trade or employed by someone else and had been for over one
    year. This is an acceptable employment and retention rate for any training program, in the US context,
    and particularly impressive in an economic environment such as Sierra Leone.

l Leveraging International Support: The robustness of the project proved to be a critical factor in
    attracting donor support through the Multi-donor Trust Fund. Moreover, the commitment of the Bank
    and of senior management in remaining strongly engaged in Sierra Leone, also at very difficult security
    and institutional junctures, proved to be an important factor in giving to both local and international
    stakeholders the level of comfort needed to pursue the project, and in mobilizing additional resources.

l Social Reintegration: The mid-term TEP Assessment found that the overall conclusion amongst the
    general populace of Sierra Leone, and also amongst the ex-combatants themselves, is that social
    reintegration has taken place. Ex-combatants have integrated within society and there is little
    difference between them and other residents of their areas. Two-thirds of all ex-combatants are
    currently residing in their community of choice. This was consistent with the findings of the ICR team
    during field visits

         Given the shortage of Qualified Implementing Agencies, the very volatile context, the nature and
scale of the challenge facing the team, the ICR team rated the output of this component as Highly
Satisfactory. This rating holds also when considering some specific shortcomings such as the late delivery
of toolkits (mainly as a result of poor planning in the procurement process) and weaknesses in the M&E
(unable to systematically and instantly detect problems in project implementation, despite the fact that the
MIS system was well designed and to a large extent up to date).

The Emergency Recovery Support Fund Component of the NCRRR

         The ICR Team found the overall performance on this component to be Satisfactory.

         The war left hundreds of villages without even the most basic of social infrastructure. Villages had
been left abandoned for years. Returning IDPs needed some basic support to re-establish their productive
activities and the government needed help to jump start social services in these abandoned communities.
NCRRR responded quickly to these basic needs by financing a total of 269 sub-projects, benefiting an
estimated 1,000,000 people in all of the districts of Sierra Leone using IDA (US$11.36 million exclusive of
PPF funds that went to ERSF sub-projects.) and ADB (US$7.55 million) funds. The total disbursed
amount was 25,730,507,000 Leones.

         Projects were distributed geographically as follows: the Southern region benefited the most with 40
percent of the projects and 35 percent of the sub-project budget. The Eastern Region received the smallest
proportion of the budget (15%). The Western Region had the least number of projects, the average value
of each contract was higher and thus received 19 percent of the sub-project budget. Some of these regional
imbalances were evened out by investments in NCRRR projects by other donors; nonetheless, the South
remained the most privileged region receiving 36 percent of all resources.




                                                     - 11 -

Table #6: Indicators of Impact of Conflict by Region
 Region                         Percent of                    % of              % of Total Ex-               Estimated
                                  National              Dwellings in              combatants                 Displaced
                                Population                  Region                registered in               from this
                               Estimated in               Destroyed               this Region             region as % of
                                  2000 at                                                                    total IDPs
                                5,654,120
       Eastern                      24%                       82%                      31%                      59%
      Northern                      33%                       37%                      23%                      39%
      Southern                      20%                       37%                      21%                       2%
      Western                       22%                        2%                      25%                     0.18%
 .
1. This data is drawn from a government document entitled The National Recovery Strategy - Sierra Leone 2002-2003


           While the South was clearly affected by the conflict, the East and the North of the country were
more heavily affected as illustrated by the data provided in the table above. When asked why ERSF
sub-project investments did not coincide with the regional impact of the war, NCRRR staff explained that
the investment pattern was a function of accessibility rather than need. The Western part of the country
came under government control first, followed by the South. The North and East of the country came last.



Table #7: ERSF Sub-Projects by Sector
   Sector                   # Sub-          % of Total Sub-            % of Total Contracted              Disbursed as % of
                           Projects        Projects by Sector            Amount by Sector                    Contracted
        Agriculture           107                 40%                           28%                             87%
       Community              17                   6%                            8%                             92%
     Infrastructure
         Education            84                  31%                           37%                             94%
              Health          28                  10%                           10%                             89%
    Information &              7                   3%                            1%                             94%
      Sensitization
   Microenterprise            23                   9%                            6%                             88%
         Promotion
 Resettlement and              1                  0.4%                          0.4%                            99%
     Reintegration
             Shelter           2                   1%                           0.2%                            93%
               Total          269                 100%                          100%                            91%



           The Sector breakdown of the contracted sub-projects is presented in Table 7. Education consumed
the highest proportion (37%) of the budget, followed by Agriculture (28%) and Health (10%).

           Just over one million Sierra Leoneans benefited from the 269 projects implemented. Assuming that
the beneficiary numbers do not double count, from a cost per beneficiary perspective, the Resettlement and
Reintegration sub-projects were most expensive at US$121 per beneficiary, followed by Education US$43
and Agriculture US$36. The lowest cost projects were Information & Sensitization (US$1), and Health
(US$3).

           There was considerable variation across regions in the sectorial make up of approved projects.
Agriculture was the most important sector in the Southern (54%) of and Western Regions (38%) and least
important in the Eastern Region (13%). Education was most important in the Northern (54%) and Eastern
(49%) regions and least important in the Southern Region (23%). This partly reflects the chronology of the



                                                                    - 12 -

investments. The emphasis during the early period was on Agriculture, which showed results quickly and
responded to the initial needs. However, the first round of projects suffered from lack of experience,
constraints in the environment, and limited supervision and logistic support. This resulted in
implementation problems such as a high death rate of livestock inputs and poor quality seeds. The Bank
detected such problems and supported the preparation of a study which also gave recommendations on how
to solve them. Community infrastructure projects in education, health, and other sectors were later seen as
better investments that would have a more visible long-term impact. Although at a lower pace, ERSF
continued investing in agriculture, but increased the number of infrastructure projects. This helped balance
the portfolio and address some basic community needs which were essential also for restarting food
production (rural roads, water and sanitation, seed storing facilities).

         As part of the ICR, a Pilot Beneficiary Assessment (PBA) on 428 beneficiaries was conducted
during September 2003 by a research team from the Economics Department of Fourah Bay College ­
University of Sierra Leone. (See Box N. 2.) Fifty sub-projects were surveyed, and their distribution by
districts was done so as to ensure that the four administrative areas in the country were represented,
although some districts were not surveyed, namely those of Bombali, Koinadugu, Kono, and Kailahun.
The PBA surveyed 7-8 people per sub-project, for a total of 328 beneficiaries (75% were men and 25%
women), and 46 chiefs of communities, for a total of 428 individuals. The main results can be summarized
as follows.

Box N. 2 ­ Summary of Pilot Beneficiary Assessment Findings
Theme                              Findings
Beneficiaries                      200 respondents (46.7%) qualified themselves as direct
                                   beneficiaries, 128 (29.9%) as indirect and 100 (33.4%)
                                   responded they did not benefit from the sub-project.
Sub-project Identification         Only 40% of the sub-projects were identified by communities
                                   and village chiefs. The rest was identified by implementing
                                   partners and/or NaCSA/NCRRR.
Implementing partners              65% of the sample rated the implementing partners'
                                   performance either as highly satisfactory or as satisfactory.
                                   33% either did not know or rated the IPs' performance as
                                   unsatisfactory.
NaCSA/NCRRR                        55% of the sample rated NaCSA/NCRRR performance
                                   either as highly satisfactory or as satisfactory. 43% either did
                                   not know or rated NaCSA/NCRRR performance as
                                   unsatisfactory.
Implementation problems            33 % of the sample said that the sub-project had problems of
                                   implementation, while 60% said there were no problems (7%
                                   did not know). However almost 50% of those who said there
                                   were problems in implementation, could not agree on which
                                   were these problems. Almost 12% said that the sub-project
                                   did not follow the original plan, while 38% said that there
                                   was too much reporting.
Community Participation           More than 90% of the respondents confirmed that there was a
                                  contribution of unskilled labor to the sub-project, while 80% of
                                  the respondents confirmed that there was a community
                                  contribution in the form of local materials. The contribution
                                  was limited in terms of Monitoring and Evaluation,



                                                     - 13 -

                                   Procurement Services and Financial Management.
Sub-project Completion              40% of the beneficiaries felt that not all components of the
                                    sub-project were completed.
Sub-project Output                  66% of the respondents thought that sub-project outputs
                                    were either highly satisfactory or satisfactory. 34% thought
                                    that they were either fair or poor.
Management/maintenance              57% of the respondents thought that ERSF facilities were
                                    well managed, and 43% thought they were poorly managed,
                                    or that management could be improved significantly. More
                                    than 40% of the beneficiaries indicated that there was no
                                    maintenance strategy in place (41.6%) and 30.2% of the
                                    sample indicated some household contribution (17.8%) or
                                    user fee (12.4%).
Views of Chiefs/beneficiaries       One of the main differences between the views of Chiefs and
                                    those of the larger sample, is Maintenance arrangements:
                                    41% of the chiefs said that there was a revolving scheme in
                                    place while this percentage is of 4% for the larger sample.
                                    Interestingly, 24% of the respondents thought that there was
                                    some kind of community committee in place to deal with the
                                    issue, whereas only 10.8% of the chiefs indicated that such
                                    committee existed. This suggests that arrangements are not
                                    well in place, and that there is a disconnect on whom is really
                                    in charge. In terms of participation in procurement/contract
                                    10% of the chief said that they were very involved, while the
                                    rest of the sample said they were not involved at all (virtually
                                    100% of the sample).
Gender considerations              Women thought that the sub-project was targeting the
                                   vulnerable groups (children, disabled, unemployed, and
                                   women) to a greater extent than what the men or chiefs
                                   perceived.
Former combatants                  Of the entire sample, slightly more than 14% were former
                                   combatants. 32.7% of the sample indicated that there was no
                                   problem of reintegration of ex-combatants, while almost 43%
                                   of the sample confirmed that the sub-project provided
                                   assistance to ex-combatants and 22% said that the sub-project
                                   provided no assistance.
Vulnerable groups                   46% of the sample indicated that the group which was
                                    targeted the most was the poor, followed by women (18.7%
                                    of the sample), the unemployed (11.4%) and children (9.6%).
                                    Only 3.7% of the sample indicated that the disabled were
                                    targeted and 7.7 % indicated other groups as main
                                    sub-project target.

         In summary, one could say that the sample is broadly divided into two groups: a 60 % who is
satisfied or very satisfied with the sub-project and its implementation. And a 40% of respondents holding a
not-very-positive perception of the sub-project (accounted for the "poor" response and by the "fair"
response, considering that one choice was also "satisfactory"). In fact, only 40% of the respondents said
that the communities and village chiefs were involved in identifying the sub-project (and this can be



                                                      - 14 -

ascertained as a negative factor), 40% of the sample said that the sub-project was not completed, 43% that
the facilities were poorly managed, 41% that there was no maintenance strategy in place and 33% that the
sub-project had problems of implementation. Conversely, roughly 60% had a rather positive view of the
sub-project, its implementation, its outcomes, and of the management and maintenance arrangements in
place.

         There were no significant differences in views between men and women, while the chiefs were more
involved in sub-project design and implementation there were divergent views on the maintenance and
management arrangements. That said, an overwhelming 87% of the sample agreed that the sub-project
implemented in the community was a priority.

         The ICR mission had an opportunity to verify the results of the survey by visiting 5 sub-project
sites targeted by the survey. On balance, direct findings matched with the outcomes of the survey.

    The strengths of the ERSF component were:

l Largest Rehabilitation Program in Sierra Leone: The ERSF was the main mechanism for the
    reconstruction of community-oriented infrastructure and re-establishment of critical services and
    income generating activities in war-affected areas of Sierra Leone. It served to jump-start community
    life and local services.

l Rapid Implementation: The NCRRR worked rapidly to commit IDA funds. As a result, by December
    2002, all funding for NCRRR sub-projects had been spent. The unit's decentralized structure helped
    facilitate this quick start-up. The Bank also allowed its funds to serve as a bridge for the ADB funds,
    which started flowing later.

l Leveraged Additional Resources: The World Bank support for NCRRR's central and regional
    offices and ADB's support for the district offices helped leverage an additional US$ 6.9 million in
    sub-project funds which were used to finance an additional 458 community sub-projects.

l Project Selected Consistent with Community Priority: While only 40 percent of the respondents to
    the Beneficiary Assessment reported that the community had participated in the identification of the
    project financed in their community by NCRRR, 87 percent said that they felt that the project did
    represent a priority.

l Contribution of Community Materials and Labor: Likewise, despite the weak community
    participation in project identification, over 90 percent reported that the community had contributed to
    the project in the form of labor and 80 percent in materials. In evaluating this positive outcome, it is
    important to keep in mind that in Sierra Leone, the chiefdom system is very successful in pressuring
    "low status" families into performing these types of community tasks. Richards, Paul, Khadija Bah,
    and James Vincent. (September, 2003) Draft Report. The Social Assessment Study:
    Community-driven Development and Social Capital in Post-war Sierra Leone. When the ICR team
    was visiting one of the project villages, it was informed by the village chief that he had two young men
    in prison for a few days as punishment for not agreeing to provide free labor to clear the brush from a
    village path. The young men were concerned about being bitten by snakes.

         All of the above contributed to establishing the sense of security and the minimal conditions
required to attract the IDPs back to their areas of origin.




                                                      - 15 -

    The project's weaknesses were:

l Weak Emphasis on Capacity of Implementing Partners: Like their NCDDR colleagues, one of the
    greatest challenges identified by the ERSF staff was finding qualified NGOs that worked in the rural
    areas it sought to target. As a result, early on, several NGOs had difficulty complying with the Bank's
    Procurement and Financial Management requirements. The project, could have put greater emphasis on
    this aspect, and launch right at the beginning a capacity building program.

l Weak Emphasis on Collaboration with Sector Ministries: The design assumed that the line
    ministries ­health, education, agriculture, water and sanitation-- would participate in the sub-project
    technical review process. In reality, it proved difficult to get the ministries involved. The lack of
    ministry commitment was also evident during the ICR mission's sub-project visits, where teachers and
    health care providers in facilities built or rehabilitated with ERSF funds complained that they were not
    being paid and, in some cases, were not receiving a regular supply of essential materials.

l Inadequate Supervision of ERSF project by NCRRR: Some of the communities visited during the
    ICR process reported that their projects were left with some loose ends, which suggests that NCRRR
    staff at the District level may not have done a thorough enough job in verifying that all of the project
    components had been fully completed before signing off to the FMPU that the project be closed. The
    recently completed Pilot Beneficiary Assessment found that 40 percent of the beneficiaries surveyed
    reported that their sub-project had not been fully completed. Based upon the ICR team's site visits, the
    missing elements of the project were, in some cases major, such as a boat to ferry patients from
    isolated villages to the nearest health post.

l Weak Monitoring and Evaluation System (and MIS): The need to provide technical assistance to the
    GOSL for an M&E and MIS Consultant was recognized by the Bank as early as November 2000. At
    that time, it was agreed that DFID would finance this consultancy. For reasons out of DFID's control,
    the TA finally came in November 2002, when the project was almost at an end. As a result, the data
    provided in Annex 1 is sketchy.

         Relative to the accomplishments of the ERSF component and considering the fragile political and
security conditions, these shortcomings did not have a major detrimental impact on the outcome of this
component.

4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:

         While NPV or ERR was not calculated at appraisal, the Memorandum to the President provided
guidance to Cost-Effectiveness Analysis and Cost-Benefit Analysis.

         The standard required for the rehabilitation of basic and economic infrastructure was at "the
minimum [standard] sufficient to permit households and communities to reestablish themselves". By the
end of 2002, virtually the entire caseload of internally displaced persons and about 100,000 refugees were
resettled. (Sierra Leone: Post-Conflict Development Agenda: Strategies for Growth and Poverty
reduction. Consultative Group Meeting, Paris, 13-14 November 2002.) Considering that since then more
refugees were resettled, and that recent positive developments in Liberia are expected to have a positive
impact on the situation in Sierra Leone and to release a number of both refugees and combatants, the
project met the standard required. The ERSF direct contribution to the return of IDPs as reported in Annex
1, is of 221,745 people.




                                                      - 16 -

         ERSF Civil works were to be largely small scale rehabilitation rather than new construction, using
mainly local materials and local labor. The Pilot Beneficiary Assessment shows that more than 90 percent
of the respondents confirmed that there was a contribution of unskilled labor to the project, while percent of
the respondents confirmed that there was a community contribution of local materials. At times, the quality
of local materials was not fully appropriate to the needs; which the rehabilitation of infrastructure may
have.

         While the MOP and the implementation procedures pointed to the need to minimize costs without
giving up much grounds in terms of quality, the average cost of the infrastructure rehabilitated by ERSF
seems to fall on the high side compared to the experience with other social funds, and rehabilitation of
small infrastructures in post-conflict environment. This may be explained, in part, by the larger than
average school size. The average cost per project by sector is presented in the table 8. (In Liberia, UNPOS
estimates for the reconstruction of schools are of US$10,000 for standard rehabilitation, US$20,000 for
major rehabilitation, and US$40,000 for total reconstruction. Well and Sanitation are not included and
their combined average costs is US$2,200. Schools are of 6 classrooms, for a total surface of
approximately 400 square meters).

Table #8: Sub-Project Costs per Unit and per Beneficiary by Sector
     Sector/Region           N.Sub-      Beneficiar     Avg. Contracted          Contracted Cost
                             Projects        ies          Cost per Sub-          per Beneficiary
                                                         Project in US$                US$
 Agriculture                      107       135,433                 45,647                        36
 Community                          17      112,608
 Infrastructure                                                     61,888                         9
 Education                          84      118,056                 60,211                        43
 Health                             28      403,710                 47,969                         3
 Information &                       7      202,730
 Sensitization                                                      16,062                         1
 Microenterprise                    23       24,303
 Promotion                                                          33,181                        31
 Resettlement and                    1           513
 Reintegration                                                      62,282                      121
 Shelter                             2        3,230                 17,479                        11
 Total                            269     1,000,583



         Community infrastructure projects tended to be the most expensive at US$ 61,888 USD per
project, followed by Education, and Resettlement and Reintegration. The lowest cost projects were
Information and Sensitization, Shelter, and Microenterprise Promotion.

         In terms of Costs-Benefit Analysis, the MOP stated that "Extremely high opportunity costs in
terms of growth foregone. Not investing in rehabilitation of basic social and economic infrastructure, not
enabling conflict affected communities to reintegrate returning households and individuals, not laying a
basis for restoring local economies would seriously hamper its economic growth prospects".

         Looking back to the three years of project implementation, Sierra Leone has improved considerably
its economic performance. Economic activity began to recover in 2000, with a real GDP increase of 3.8
percent. The recovery accelerated in 2001, as GDP rose 5.4 percent, and then in 2002 with a 6.6 percent



                                                    - 17 -

increase. Real GDP growth for 2003-2004 is forecasted at 6-7%, owing to recovery in agriculture,
increase in reconstruction, and rebound in the service sector. The growth will continue to be largely
financed by donors, although up to 2004 when donor funding is likely to start being reduced as the country
moves on from immediate post-war reconstruction. Annex 1, shows that ERSF has contributed to the
increase of production rates of almost 1,000,000 ha of various crops, and has directly rehabilitated almost
10,000 ha, thus supporting the jump start of rural economy.


4.4 Financial rate of return:

         No financial rate of return (FRR) or other financial indicators were calculated for the project.
There were no assumptions about costs and revenues, but an indication of minimizing the costs for
sub-projects (see section on ERR).

         The impact of the TEP and ERSF components on recurrent budget of Sierra Leone was not
discussed in Schedule B of the MOP, although there were specific provisions for direct community
participation in project implementation and maintenance. As indicated also in Annex 11, of the PAD for the
National Action Social Plan Credit, most ERSF financed productive activities such as fishing, livestock
and farming while crucial in jump starting local economic activities, were less viable in their long terms
sustainability. As discussed in other parts of the ICR, some agricultural projects suffered from relatively
poor implementation, poor quality of inputs, and some components of the sub-projects were often missing.
In the case of physical facilities, the maintenance arrangements were not always in place, and often the
community was involved only marginally in the maintenance arrangements. More than 40% of the
beneficiaries interviewed during the Pilot Beneficiary Assessment indicated that there was no maintenance
strategy in place (41.6%), while 30.2% of the sample indicated some form of household contribution
(17.8%) or user fee (12.4%).

         From the field mission, the ICR team reported that headmasters in the case of schools and nurses
or doctors in the case of health centers, were awaiting line ministries to cover recurrent costs such as staff
salaries and maintenance expenses. In virtually all of the projects visited by the mission (6 schools and 3
health centers) roughly 20% of the staff was not paid, and there was systematic lack of staff and material.
This is also the consequence of limited integration with the activities of line ministries.

4.5 Institutional development impact:

         The Institutional Development impact of the project was substantial. The impact on the
capacity of the two implementing government agencies, the NCDDR and the NCRRR, was very
substantial, if we take into consideration their performance in achieving desired project objectives and
outputs in a timely and transparent fashion, their limited capacity at outset, and the difficult post-conflict
environment in which they operated.

         This project, both during preparation and implementation, served to build the capacity of the
GOSL to design and manage internationally financed projects. This capacity was developed at the
national, regional and district levels. The institutional development impact was especially strong in the
areas of promotion, of project review and approval. The Bank's staff and consultants, through their work
during preparation and supervision missions and through their on-going communications with the project
teams, contributed in an important way to the capacity of the GOSL to design and implement similar
projects.




                                                      - 18 -

         While NCDDR is likely to be phased out at this stage, having successfully fulfilled its mission,
NCRRR has now been transformed into NaCSA (National Commission for Social Action), which is the
GOSL's main instrument for investing in the socio-economic advancement of Sierra Leone's communities.


         Some might argue that the contracting out of the Financial Management and Procurement functions
to an international accounting firm diminished the potential institutional impact of this project. However,
most of the staff that were employed by the FMPU managed by Price Waterhouse Coopers (PWC) were
Sierra Leoneans and will be available to the new internal Finance Department of NaCSA. Ultimately, the
contracting out was a requirement, because of serious lack of local capacity, need to introduce strong
fiduciary safeguards on a post-conflict environment and to attract leverage of additional financing.

         The project was implemented in the context of weak institutional capacity of the NGO sector in
Sierra Leone. Both the NCDDR and the NCRRR tried to address the weakness of their implementing
partners through training, particularly in the areas of administration. The impact of these interventions was
moderate. However, there is no doubt that the NGO sector is stronger now than it was prior to the start of
this project.

5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome

5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:

         After effectiveness, the TEP was somewhat delayed due to the taking of UN hostages in April-May
2000, and consequent political and security instability. This however did not slow down disbursement to
any great degree and did not prove to be a major constraint to the success of the project, given the fact that
both the NCRRR and the NCDDR were poised for action as soon as the peace was achieved.

5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:

         The GOSL should have conducted a more in-depth capacity assessment of its proposed
implementing agencies and, with the Bank, developed a proactive strategy to build the capacity up-front of
national NGOs, so that they could be more effective in following Bank Procurement and Financial
Management requirements and in completing sub-projects implementation according to community needs
and plans.

5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:

         As noted above, as soon as the violence ceased, the project went into full swing and disbursed
ahead of schedule. By December 15, 2002, 2.5 years into the project, only one year after the project got
into full gear, the project had disbursed US$ 23.2 million or 98% of the IDA funds. Once the problem of
weak capacity of implementing partners had been identified, a well-thought out comprehensive
capacity-building program should have been developed and implemented right from start.

         The monitoring and evaluation of the project could have been more systematic. No initial targets
were established for each component and delays in contracting M&E and MIS technical assistance has
made it challenging to gather reliable data to objectively assess the impact of the project.

5.4 Costs and financing:

         The Bank disbursed 94 percent of the US$ 25 million planned at appraisal. The six percent gap is



                                                     - 19 -

largely explained by changes in the exchange rate between the US Dollar and the SDR. The total value of
GOSL counterpart funding and support to the project was agreed on US$ 4.10 million as indicated in Table
9.2 of the Technical Annex. According to the financial annex, US$ 0.71 million in counterpart funds were
raised; this sum actually exceed the required cash contribution (80% of operating costs and 90% of locally
procured goods), as per Schedule 1 of the DCA. The remaining US$ 3.39 million were required in the form
of (i) community contribution both in kind and labor; (ii) implementing partner contribution in kind and
labor, and (iii) government contributions to sub-projects. Whereas it is clear that all these contributions
were made, the ICR team was unable to track down with FMPU the value of such contributions.
According to latest estimates, 80 percent of the ADB funds committed at appraisal has been disbursed.
The balance is expected to be disbursed by the time the ADB credit closes next spring.

         Institutional support ended up getting a higher proportion of the project funds than was planned at
appraisal, as it consumed 44% of total project budget. The higher than expected expenditure on
institutional support occurred because this project financed the majority of the entire operational costs
(both fixed and variable) of the two agencies, NCDDR and NCRRR (NCDRR also benefited from
significant sub-project resources raised by the MDTF.) However, if we account for the cofinancing
components, the proportion of institutional support to total costs would likely be more in line with the 28%
figure projected at appraisal, and probably even below such percentage.

6. Sustainability

6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:

         In terms of sustainability, this project has some strengths and weaknesses, but overall, the gains
achieved by the project are Likely to be sustained, given its contribution in consolidating peace and in
getting Sierra Leonean communities re-established and functioning

         The project has been successful in giving the ex-combatants a reason to lay down their arms and
reintegrate to every-day life. Over 70 percent of the demobilized benefited from the TEP program training
opportunities and of these 45 percent were reported being employed. Both combatants and ex-combatants
reported that the social reintegration objective has been met. This achievements, combined with the
continued presence of the UK military and other factors, give hope that the peace will be sustained. The
sustainability of the peace is a precondition for the sustainability of all of the other project outputs.

         The investments made by NCRRR created the basic socioeconomic conditions required in affected
communities for residents to return and take up their lives again. These investments helped reinvigorate
local agriculture, re-start local government, and re-build schools and health posts, which are all critical to
attracting and keeping community residents rooted in their communities. The ICR team found
infrastructure projects that had deficiencies in terms of construction quality, that over 40% of the
Beneficiary Assessment respondents reported that no maintenance plan was in place, and that in many
cases the line ministries were not fulfilling their commitments to pay staff and guarantee basic supplies.
These shortcomings are typical of a post-conflict environment, and were discussed at length with the PSR
team, and in particular with the TTL. The ICR team feels that the sustainability of many sub-projects is
questionable, and that the overall sustainability of the project objective "to reduce poverty and to enhance
social stability and economic growth by helping the population of war affected areas to return to normal,
productive lives", as stated in Schedule 2 of the DCA, is rated as Likely.

         Most of the NCRRR and NCDDR's operating costs were financed by the World Bank, at the
Central and Regional levels, and by the ADB at the District level. This was a critical element to the



                                                      - 20 -

success of the project during the post-conflict stage.

         The institutional and management arrangements of NCRRR are very likely to be sustainable, and
for this reason NCRRR has been transformed into an agency (NaCSA) under the Bank financed National
Social Action Project. When it comes to ERSF sub-projects sustainability, the situation is less positive:
"...many productive activities financed by the ERSF, such as fishing, livestock and farming are not
sustainable. Productive project assets end up as the property of the group coordinator or the NGO, and
activities cease when the project is closed. For physical facilities... there is little desire on the part of the
community to contribute to the maintenance of the facilities". Annex 11, Lessons Learned from the
Implementation of the on-going Financed Community Rehabilitation and Reintegration Project and
Proposed Actions to Address them in NSAP, PAD National Social Action Project.

6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:

         Discussion of transition of NCRRR to a Social fund began as early as mid-2000. The idea was to
transform the existing institution, NCRRR, which was de facto already functioning as a Social Fund, into a
full-fledged Social Fund with a focus on development, not relief.

         In mid-2003, the Bank approved a US$35 million credit to support the continuation of the work of
the NCRRR, now called the National Commission for Social Action (NaCSA). NaCSA is the GOSL's
principal instrument to support the consolidation of peace and lay the foundations for longer term
development. It is responsible to implement the GOSL's National Social Action Plan. Most of the NCRRR
staff will continue with the Social Fund, which will now work directly with community associations,
instead of going through NGOs.

7. Bank and Borrower Performance

Bank
7.1 Lending:
Bank

Lending:

         The Bank's performance during the design phase was Highly Satisfactory. It demonstrated an
ability to adjust its strategy to the changing reality on the ground and take advantage of delays to improve
the quality of the final design. It facilitated US$2 million in PPF funding that helped support initial Bank
engagement and preliminary activities, so that the project was ready to get off to a fast start once the
security situation allowed. Probably, a more in-depth assessment of the NGO sector could have been
conducted during the design phase to determine, early-on, their capacity building needs, and to the design of
an NGO capacity-building program during project start-up. That said the quality and level of Bank's
commitment was extraordinarily high, both from staff and management. This led to a strong partnership
with the client, and to win the trust of both local and international stakeholders in a time of very unstable
institutional and security situation.

7.2 Supervision:

         The Highly Satisfactory rating for Bank supervision, is based on the quality of the project Status
Reports and Aide Memoires, the early detection of critical bottlenecks to implementation, the quality of the
advice provided, the effort made by the task manager and his team to have their recommendations
implemented, and the very positive feedback the ICR team received from the client on the quality of the



                                                       - 21 -

supervision support they received.

         The ICR team reviewed eight PSRs and six aide memoires and found in all of them a remarkable
level of detail, a clear identification of problems in project implementation, a clear and strategic approach
to address such problems, and substantive sector management involvement. The Bank supervision also
proved to be flexible in deciding for alternative solutions, and to respond to emerging client needs. On
example of this hands-on approach was during the initial phases of implementation, when there were
inefficiencies in the relationship between NCDDR, NCRRR and FMPU. The Bank's role was essential in
reaching an agreement on specific operating principles (integration of FMPU into NCDRR and NCRRR,
capacity building in these institutions, and compliance). The agreement was well thought and proved to
hold during the continuation of the project.

         The ICR team also found a strong link between the work of Supervision missions and subsequent
operationalization of recommendations. Issues of compliance with procurement and financial management
guidelines, and of reporting and transparency were early detected and addressed, mainly through stronger
compliance with manual rules, standard procedures, and with Bank recommendations. A specific report
was commissioned to identify all sub-projects and IPs with poor compliance record, and an in-depth review
of these sub-projects for submission to the Bank was produced and discussed during subsequent missions.
The "Report of the In-Depth Review of the Sub-Projects with Poor Compliance" reviewed 74 of 174
projects and found some discrepancies in the accounting and reporting of reimbursements to
Implementation Partners. The World Bank then recommended quick action to sanction errant IPs.

7.3 Overall Bank performance:
         Overall Bank Performance was Highly Satisfactory for the reasons outlined above.

Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
         The Borrower's performance during preparation was Highly Satisfactory. The Government was
actively engaged with the Bank throughout the preparation phase and helped ensure that the project was
well-adapted to the Sierra Leonean context.

7.5 Government implementation performance:

         The Government's performance during Implementation was Highly Satisfactory. The
Government recruited two top-notch teams to implement the project and showed commitment all along the
implementation of the project, and provided the required level of counterpart financing.

7.6 Implementing Agency:

         The two agencies entrusted with implementation -- NCDDR and NCRRR, later NaCSA -- did
remarkably well in getting the two components up and running and implemented well before the end of the
three-year project period. The professionally-led Financial Management and Procurement Unit (FMPU)
helped the project staff focus its energies on the program aspects of project implementation instead of the
administrative details. This set-up was ideal for a post-conflict situation when speed of implementation is
essential in getting the country back on its feet. Despite these achievements, the ICR team view on project
implementation is that under ERSF a better supervision of NaCSA on sub-project implementation would
have improved the quality of the sub-project significantly. At ICR, the Bank team also felt that the data
provided by NCDDR could have been of better quality, so as for the collaboration with the team itself. The
rating for this component is Satisfactory.



                                                      - 22 -

7.7 Overall Borrower performance:
         The overall Borrower Performance was Satisfactory.

8. Lessons Learned

         Parallel Reintegration and Rehabilitation Activities: This project was one of the first efforts by
the Bank to simultaneously address reintegration and rehabilitation issues. The division of labor between
the NCDDR and the NCRRR appears to have worked well. Originally, these two functions were housed in
the same unit, but it was decided to manage the demobilization and reintegration function as a separate unit
to ensure a greater impact. Keeping these functions separate also makes sense from a service delivery
perspective. On the one hand, the DDR component required a tightly controlled, top-down, targeted
approach to achieve the desired results; on the other hand, the ERSF required a different structure designed
to empower communities to lead the rehabilitation process.

         Consider Separating DD from R: The time horizon, business process, and skills required for
disarming and demobilization activities are quite different from the reintegration process. At ICR, the Bank
team discussed with representatives of the donor community and with experts, the case to reintegrate
former combatants as part of the broader reconstruction and rehabilitation process of communities, and to
separate the two functions and manage them by two different agencies. (Ex-Combatants Reintegration,
Simon Arthy, DFID, August 2003, and discussions with AgriSystem, DFID, and with GTZ.) The ICR
team acknowledges the fact that looking at how the DD and the R components were linked and worked
together in the case of Sierra Leone, was not among its specific objectives, as per the Mission Objectives
Statement. However, as indicated in the ICR guidelines, "... the ICR discusses the most significant positive
and negative lessons learned from the success or failure of the project, and shows how they are reflected in
the arrangements for its future operation. The ICR also indicates which of these lessons have more general
applicability and are most relevant for similar projects in the sector/subsector or the country". On this
basis the ICR Team -- possibly also in contrast with Bank's current practice in other countries -- suggest to
revisit the notion of having former combatants trained/reintegrated as a special group, rather than as part of
their communities and of their reconstruction and rehabilitation effort.

         Be Realistic About How Much Community Participation Is Feasible During the Early Phase
of a Post-Conflict Situation: While it is important to strive to maximize community participation in the
reconstruction of communities destroyed by conflict, it is also important to be realistic about how much
participation is feasible immediately after the end of the conflict, when community residents are moving
from IDP camps back to their communities. There is a trade-off between quickly re-establishing basic
community services, so IDPs are motivated to return, and high levels of community participation. While
only 40 percent of the respondents to the Beneficiary Assessment stated that the community or village chief
was actively involved in identifying the sub-project financed by ERSF, 87 percent said that they agreed that
the selected project was a priority.

         Flexible Financial Instruments: The Bank played an important role in creating the Multi-Donor
Trust Fund, which made it feasible to rapidly scale up the response in accordance with the higher than
expected number of ex-combatants seeking reintegration services. Had the funding not been there, the
inability to respond to this high demand could have been a source of instability. The Bank resources also
served as bridge financing to some of the other donors. This was critical to creating visible rapid
improvements at the field level, which served as a magnet to IDPs seeking to return to their communities.

         Independent Financial Management and Procurement Unit May Increase Effectiveness of



                                                     - 23 -

Post-Conflict Investments: The independent and professionally managed Financial Management and
Procurement Unit (FMPU) served a number of purposes: a) it served to increase the confidence of donors
to invest in this project; b) it helped establish a common set of administrative rules, instead of each donor
having its own requirements, thus facilitating the administration of the project; and, most importantly, c) it
may have increased the level of trust that the rebel forces had in the sincerity and transparency of the peace
process. A clearly defined statement of roles and responsibilities between the FMPU and the government
implementing agencies is important to smoothing the way to a successful relationship.

         Conduct Capacity Assessment of NGO Sector and Plan Up-Front Capacity-Building Program
During Design Phase: Heavy up-front investment in capacity-building is essential for Implementing
Agencies and, in some cases, for the participating communities. Most projects in Africa and Latin America
that seek to work through NGOs have found this to be true. Hence, the recommendation is to assess the
NGO sector capacity limitations during the design phase and develop a capacity-building program that
helps NGOs overcome these weaknesses and become more effective implementing partners.

         In the Context of the Economic Causes of Conflicts, Consider Establishing Investment
Targets: Some funding targets could be established to ensure that all affected parts of the country benefit
from post-conflict rehabilitation support according to their needs. This would help in addressing -- at least
partially -- some of the root causes of the conflict. For the record, looking at root causes of the conflict in
Sierra Leone was not among the objectives of the ICR mission. However, on the basis of its review of
project documentation and of other reports on Sierra Leone, and on its mission findings, the ICR team
considers that an important cause of the conflict is to be traced in long-standing regional economic and
social imbalances. There are data available showing that such imbalances have increased if one compares
the pre- to the post- war periods, also as a result of the investment policy adopted by the donor community
(on this issue see The Social Assessment Study, Community-driven Development and Social Capital in
Post-war Sierra Leone, Paul Richards et. al. and National Recovery Strategy, Sierra Leone 2002-2003) .

         Simpler logframe/indicators. Project design should be structured around few easy-to-monitor key
performance indicators, based on relatively simple base line studies. (With more than 60 key performance
indicators, see Annex 1, this project has just far too many indicators to monitor, and some of them are
redundant or not very relevant).

         When appropriate address DDR issues at the regional level. The nature and determinants of the
conflict that ravaged Sierra Leone for years are domestic as well as regional. The involvement of Liberia
was clear all along the conflict, at all levels: financially, military, and politically. Probably, the fact that a
significant number of combatants could count on safe havens in Liberia, and that the borders were porous,
out of control, and unsafe, allowed the protraction of the conflict for years. The role of neighboring
countries in giving financial and political support and protection to combatants is a recurrent feature in
West African conflicts all along the 90s and also in more recent times. Regional conflicts need to be
addressed at the regional level, and so as for DDR projects. This is what the World Bank has promoted in
recent years (see the Multi-country DDR project in the Great Lakes Region).

         Procurement Rules: In post-conflict situations, it is difficult to envisage requirements and thereby
plan for bulk procurement. There should be flexibility in setting the aggregate thresholds, and the full
scenario of procurement methods should be available (ICB, LIB and others, but limiting sole-sourcing as
much as possible). In addition projects in post-conflict situations require very close support to ensure
compliance with fiduciary requirements. Finally, an ex-post procurement audit is also recommendable.




                                                       - 24 -

9. Partner Comments

(a) Borrower/implementing agency:
C.      Partner Comments

NCDDR Comments




                      NATIONAL COMMITTEE FOR DISARMAMENT, DEMOBILISATION AND
                                             REINTEGRATION (NCDDR)

                              IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT

INTRODUCTION

        The DDR Programme was born out of Sierra Leone's peace process and the Lome Peace
Agreement of July 1999 provided the framework for its design, planning and implementation. The
Programme was considered to be the first step in the realization of lasting peace and security in Sierra
Leone. It was like a foundation stone on which all other national recovery and development efforts rested.
As an initiative in the country's war-to-peace transition, the programme was designed to be short-term,
supply-driven and contribute to the consolidation of peace and security.

        The programme was endorsed by both Government and the international community and the latter
provided financial support for its implementation. The World Bank played a major role from the inception
stage of the programme,from which the DDR program benefited. Funds provided under CRRP financed
technical assistance to the DDR Program in the areas of project preparation, program operations
coordination, financial management and procurement.

        An IDA credit was negotiated with government for the Community Reintegration and
Rehabilitation Programme (CRRP). The credit became effective in March 2000 and has been used to
support the training and employment component of the DDR programme.

        Other funding sources at the outset were the World Bank administered Multi-donor Trust Fund, the
Emergency Support from DFID, and the counterpart contribution from the Government of Sierra Leone.

PROGRAMME GOAL AND OBJECTIVES

        The overall goal of the DDR was to contribute to the attainment of national security and
consolidation of peace. This was to be achieved through a programme focused on the combatants and their
transformation to normal civilians.




                                                    - 25 -

         To achieve this goal the following broad objectives were formulated:

i.       To collect, register, disable and destroy all conventional weapons and ammunition retrieved from
the combatants during the disarmament period.

ii.      To demobilise approximately 45,000 combatants then which in reality became 72,000 combatants
from all the factions.

iii.     To prepare and support ex-combatants in their socio-economic reintegration.

ASSESSMENT OF PROJECT DESIGN, OBJECTIVES AND IMPLEMENTATION

The Design

         The design of the programme was such that a combatant gets disarmed, demobilised and encamped
for a while. After the encampment, he/she is allowed to go into the community of preferred settlement. In
the community the ex-combatant has one of two options, he/she can decide to register with the NCDDR
reintegration office closest to his/her or may decide to self-reintegrate.

         The TEP Programme is supply driven. The ex-combatants register at the regional or district offices
indicating their reintegration preferences. The outreach was very effective as DDR operated in every
district.

         The reintegration offices then ask potential implementing partners to submit project proposals for
the training of the ex-combatants. These proposals once submitted are presented to a Projects Approval
Committee for review and approval. Once approved, payments are made to the IP for implementation to
start.

         The implementing partners, according to the programme design, offer six months short-term
reintegration assistance to those in agric or skills training projects and eight and nine months for those in
formal training programmes like computer or schools/tertiary institutions.

         The uniqueness of the NCDDR Programme is that it was targeted for reasons of peace and security
as the target group was a potential security threat to the country's peace process.

         This design was seen to be very appropriate given the resources and the relatively short life span of
the DDR programme and the fact that the goal was to offer short term reintegration support.

TEP OBJECTIVES

         The Training and Employment Programme (TEP) was designed to address the economic and social
reintegration of demobilised ex-combatants. The programme was thus designed to achieve the following
specific objectives:

i.       To promote the social acceptance and reintegration of the ex-combatants into their communities of
return.

ii.      To assist the ex-combatants become productive members of their communities through economic


                                                       - 26 -

reintegration measures.

iii.     To reinforce and support the process of social reconciliation of war affected communities.

         These objectives were very much in place as some of the reasons for the war were the lack of
skilled manpower leading to mass unemployment and social and economic inequalities in the Sierra
Leonean Society. The basic objective was to enable the ex-combatants contribute to national security,
reconciliation and development of Sierra Leone.

THE IMPLEMENTATION OF THE TEP

         As stated earlier in this report, the implementation of the TEP was not done by the NCDDR
directly but through implementing Partners who may be either community-based organisations (CBOs),
non-governmental organisations NGOs/International NGOs or other service providers.

         At the outset of the programme, a general invitation for expression of interests was sent out to all
would be providers of services to the ex-combatant beneficiaries.

         The response at the early stage in the year 2000 was not encouraging as the capacities of NGOs at
that time were limited. Added to that, the few that had the capacity were not brave enough to operate
outside Freetown or Port Loko.

         This development and the desire of some individuals or groups to get access to NCDDR funds by
whatever means gave rise to the creation of many mushroom CBOs/"NGOs". Of course the result of this
was obvious; poor quality training output and submission of late financial technical and poor quality
reports. In some cases instead of monthly reports only one report was submitted.

         However few international NGOs responded to the invitation for the expression of interest. Infact
only one or so did. Later on in many of their meetings, the INGO blamed the NCDDR for not involving
them in the implementation process.

         This was however resolved later and the few INGOs that submitted project proposals were
approved.

         The INGOs, we observed later, had serious reporting problems and very huge operational
overheads. Even at the time of writing this report, some of these INGOs still have not fulfilled their
reporting obligations.

         Another aspect of the implementation that was very effective was the Communication and
Sensitisation. The programme used a lot of agencies to get messages out to both the beneficiaries and the
public. In fact this started right from the Demobilisation stage when they were being prepared to transition
from combatant to civilian life. Sensitisation served a dual purpose of informing the ex-combatants about
the reintegration programme and resolving social problems that inhibited the return of the ex-combatants to
their communities.

         Another very important aspect of the implementation was the involvement of key stakeholders. On
the Projects Approval Committee and the Technical Coordinating Committee for example were
organisations like UNDP, UNAMSIL, UNICEF, DFID, NCRRR(NacSA), etc. These organisations were
very helpful in formulating policies, mobilising resources and taking decisions that moved the programme


                                                     - 27 -

forward.

         Although implementation had some problems as could be expected from any implementation
situation, it was highly successful given the socio-economic environment that prevailed in the country at the
time of the implementation.

EVALUATION OF GOVERNMENT (NCDDR) PERFORMANCE

         The first over-arching goal of the NCDDR programme was to consolidate national peace security
and promote the free flow of people, goods and services, as a basis for national recovery. This goal has
been successfully achieved by the completion of disarmament and demobilisation of armed combatant
groups in collaboration with UNAMSIL.

         The above achievement came about after the signing of the Lome Agreement, the Abuja II and the
first meeting of the Joint Committee on DDR (comprising of UNAMSIL/GoSL/RUF) on 15th May 2001.
Thereafter, the NCDDR then launched the Phase III of the DDR programme that culminated in the
disarmament of over 72,000 fighters. The process involved the establishment and management of 15
demobilisation centres in 12 districts and 7 interim care centres.

The achievement of the aforementioned programme objective has been instrumental in making areas
accessible to humanitarian organisations, Government agencies and private sector organisations resulting in
the resettlement of IDPs and refugees, re-deployment of civil servants, police, armed forces, voter
registration for elections ect. Moreover, the tremendous increase in commercial trade of goods and services
has triggered economic activity in areas previously inaccessible to trade.

         The social and economic reintegration of ex-combatants has been and is still the most important
challenge for the Government and all key partners. NCDDR has been involved in providing reintegration
opportunities for those discharged ex-combatants in previous phases since 1998, but could only expand the
services nationwide when the disarmament was completed in 2001.

         The NCDDR sourced its strength in its decentralization and devolution of authority. There are 4
regional offices and when the country finally opened up 12 district offices in addition to the central
headquarters in Freetown were opened. The presence of NCDDR is felt all over the country. Suitably
qualified and dedicated personnel adequately staffed the offices. There are of course the attendant costs to
this level of decentralization in terms of operations, logistics and capital equipment.

         Sensitisation especially of all the fighting factions and key partners played a major role in the
achievement of the aforementioned objective.

         Because beneficiaries were not completely ignorant of the components in any given project the need
to formally launch a project was superfluous, though some Implementing Partners were at liberty to do so.
Because ex-combatants were knowledgeable about the components in any project, they were able to exert
pressure on the IP in the event the IP fails to provide the required training materials that facilitate and
enhance the training.

         In addition to the above, proper monitoring systems were designed before implementation of all
projects commence. As a result, problems of implementation that can be handled in the field were always
dealt with at that level but those that need management attention were quickly reported to management for
redress. This provided a suitable situation to collect baseline information on all projects. Project tracking,


                                                       - 28 -

as an integral component of monitoring, was always done on a monthly basis.

         In order to forestall double dipping on the part of the ex-combatants, all the names of potential
ex-combatants wanting to access a reintegration opportunity had to be validated. Validation is a process an
ex-combatant undergoes to determine his/her eligibility for an opportunity. The method proved to be very
effective in eradicating double dipping.

         The NCDDR performance was always open to scrutiny by all stakeholders, the donors, the
Government, the Supervisory Missions and external audits.

STATUS OF THE NCDDR PROGRAMME

         The NCDDR phases out in December this year ­ meaning it will close its offices and all official
functions. Already nine out of twelve district offices and one regional office have been closed and about a
little over 50% of staff already laid off.

         The disarmament and demobilization figures stands at 73,000 and 69,000 respectively. Out of
those demobilized, 56,000 have registered with our offices throughout the country, and 48,000 of these
have either completed training or are in ongoing programmes.

 Region/agency DFID                  FMPU         GTZ           ICRC         UNDP            Total
 EAST                 141            11936        688           453          979             14197
 NORTH                1469           12158        202                        416             14245
 SOUTH                               10241        59                                         10300
 WEST                                9498                                                    9498
 TOTAL                1610           43833        949  (1)      453          1395            48240

1. GTZ claims that these combatants were never actually "given" to GTZ to be trained/reintegrated. And that
NCDDR uses numbers in a tricky, non-transparent way. There are groups of "ghost" combatants: those who are
double counted, held-up, never

EVALUATION OF THE BANK'S PEFORMANCE

         The role of the Bank in this process was to provide the much needed credit to kick start the
programme, provide technical assistance to help in the design and supervision and to help mobilize
additional resource for the programme.

         The role of the World Bank was very significant in the implementation of the DDR Programme
especially as it relates to the design and supervision.

         However, there were few lapses in the areas of disbursements and procurement.

LESSONS LEARNT

1.       The wide ranging disparities between local and INGOs in the payment of contract fees by the
NCDDR did not help in the economic development of this nation as it could have if such disparities were
narrowed.




                                                     - 29 -

2.      The training period of six months especially for skills training projects was far inadequate as the
normal training period for most of those skills is 18 months. The reason for the short training period was
two fold; one had to do with the short life span of the NCDDR Programme itself and secondly, inadequacy
of funds to support a longer term reintegration process.

3.      The subsistence allowance was introduced though not part of the original design, to facilitate the
learning process as it was supposed to assist the ex-combatants with transport and lunch. However, this
was abused as most of the ex-combatants developed interest only in the allowances and not the training.




                                                     - 30 -

                                          NCRRR Comments

     SIERRA LEONE: COMMUNITY REINTEGRATION AND REHABILITATION PROJECT
                                              (Cr 3312-SL)
                              Implementation Completion Report (ICR)


TABLE OF CONTENTS

        Executive Summary                                                                     1
1.0     INTRODUCTION                                                                          1
2.0     Context                                                                               1
3.0     Project Goals and Rationale                                                           1
4.0     Assessment of Project Objectives, Design, Implementation and Results                  1
4.01    Project Design                                                                        1
4.02    ERSF Objectives                                                                       1
4.03    Project Implementation                                                                1
5.0     Targets Achieved                                                                      1
        TABLE I                                                                               1
        ERSF SUB-PROJECTS BY REGION                                                           1
        TABLE II                                                                              1
        ERSF SUB-PROJECTS BY SECTOR                                                           1
6.0     Evaluation of NaCSA's Performance                                                     1
7.0     Evaluation of the Bank's Performance                                                  1
        TABLE III                                                                             1
8.0     Lessons Learnt                                                                        1
Recommendations                                                                               1
ANNEX 1
ANNEX II

     SIERRA LEONE: COMMUNITY REINTEGRATION AND REHABILITATION PROJECT
                                              (Cr 3312-SL)
                              Implementation Completion Report (ICR)

                                           Executive Summary

The Credit for the CRRP became effective in March 2000 after the implementation of a Project
Preparatory Facility (PPF). During the pilot phase (PPF) twenty sub-projects were approved for
implementation that was constrained by insecurity and lack of access to all parts of the Country.

During the ERSF Period, two hundred and sixty-nine (269) sub-projects, at a total contracted cost of Le
28.42 billion were approved. Coverage was total as peace was declared in Jan 2001. Those districts like
Kono, Kailahun in the East and Koinadugu in the North became accessible and NaCSA was able to
implement sub-projects in those areas.

The ERSF project design was patterned around a bottom-up instead of top-down approach, with NaCSA
responding to the needs of communities through implementing partners, namely, Non-governmental
Organisations (NGOs), and line ministries. They were the main implementers of the ERSF, but the
communities were expected to play a participatory role in the implementation of sub-projects.



                                                  - 31 -

Community participation in the entire sub-project cycle was not the ideal. Also implementing partners
were concentrated mainly in urban areas. They also did not have the specialized capacity to undertake
sub-project implementation, which led to delays in report submission, late disbursement of tranches
eventually resulting in the undue prolongation of sub-project duration beyond the twelve-month period
allowed under the emergency programme.

The decentralization of NaCSA into all the four regions and 12 districts of Sierra Leone facilitated the
implementation of the ERSF. This decentralization coupled with devolution is one of NaCSA's strongest
attributes. The Regional Project Approval Committees approved sub-projects under $25,000, and the
National Projects Approval Committees approved those above $25,000. Sub-projects above $200,000
were approved by the National Project Approval Committee but were sent to the Bank for review and
no-objection.

NaCSA's collaboration with line ministries did not match with the ideal. Apart from the feeling of
overlapping functions, there was also the issue of not improving the capacities of line ministries to assist in
the sub-project implementation. There was no provision for incentives to line ministries in the ERSF
design.

Around the mid-term of the ERSF, NaCSA took the initiative of contracting an external local firm to
conduct a Beneficiary Impact Assessment of the ERSF. The results, which were shared with the Bank,
were useful and pointed the way forward for better sub-project implementation. Similarly in March 2002,
NaCSA conducted an internal sample review of ERSF sub-projects; this was also considered in the
pre-appraisal phase of the NSAP, which is a successor project to the ERSF.

The Bank's Supervision Missions proved an asset to the work of the Commission as useful advice was
culled from deskwork and field visits on the sub-projects. The issue of compliance of some of the
implementing partners to the dictates of the ERSF was a matter of concern to the Bank. This necessitated
the investigation of forty-two sub-projects that were thought to have compliance problems. After desk
reviews, twenty-four were discovered with compliance problems and an in-depth review followed.

Greater involvement of communities from the design stage, up to the evaluation phase of the sub-project
will enhance sub-project implementation and ownership.

A strategy mix of various approaches, namely, top-down (public works) and bottom-up (Community
demand driven), would introduce more flexibility into the project design.




                                                    - 32 -

    SIERRA LEONE: COMMUNITY REINTEGRATION AND REHABILITATION PROJECT
                                              (Cr 3312-SL)

                              Implementation Completion Report (ICR)


1.0   INTRODUCTION

      A Preparatory Project Facility (PPF), approved in 1998, preceded the Community Reintegration
      and Rehabilitation Project (CRRP), which became effective in March 2000. During the pilot
      phase, the Commission appraised and received approval from the World Bank to implement 20
      sub-projects. Due to various factors, mainly the continued political instability, the start of
      implementation of some of the projects was delayed till security and access improved sufficiently
      for us to continue. In spite of the poor security rating of Sierra Leone at the time government
      enjoyed donor (WB) confidence to the extent of receiving approval to proceed with project
      implementation.

2.0   Context

      It is now over three (3) years since the IDA credit 3312-SL became effective and so many
      important changes have occurred in our political and economic history. Most significantly, the
      civil war has finally and dramatically come to an end, the emergency phase is over and Sierra
      Leone is now moving towards long-term sustainable development.

      The National Commission for Reconstruction, Resettlement and Rehabilitation (NCRRR) has been
      transformed into a NaCSA Social Fund with three funding windows, namely, the Community
      Driven Programme (CDP), the Public Works Programme (PWP) and the Micro-Finance
      Programme (MFP).

      Because of the fast pace of funds disbursement and the near exhaustion of the available resources,
      NaCSA had to scale down project approval activities during the latter months of the ERSF. Major
      interest was centred on implementation issues. The peace that came with the ending of the
      disarmament and demobilization of combatants brought about a high degree of expectations from
      the people of Sierra Leone and other stakeholders in the conflict. The opportunity for moving from
      reconstruction to development was created and the displaced population eagerly pushed for their
      resettlement and restart of their economic livelihood. Similarly the productive areas of the East,
      which for a long time was inaccessible to civil authority, suddenly opened up. The opportunity
      was also created for productive activities to reopen in the mining areas of the South and East.
      Above all, the threat posed by a hostile environment that prevailed during the war years, leading to
      massive displacement of population, was removed.

      The humanitarian situation has improved considerably, especially after the declaration of cessation
      of hostilities in January 2002. Safety and security have enhanced the resettlement of IDPs, an
      exercise that has now been completed; in turn, the return of refugees has been greatly facilitated by
      the declaration of safe areas and access into areas previously held by the Revolutionary United
      Front (RUF).

3.0   Project Goals and Rationale




                                                  - 33 -

     The commitment of the GoSL and the international community to the recovery process presented a
     unique "window of opportunity" to revitalize Sierra Leone's economic and social development.
     This opportunity also raised expectations as well as concerns over the Government's ability to
     manage the enormous post-war reconstruction effort facing the country and to quickly succeed in:
     (i) consolidating peace and undertaking to disarm and demobilize combatants; (ii) resettling IDPs
     and repatriating refugees from the sub-region; (iii) rehabilitating key elements of the country's
     rural infrastructure; (iv) providing material, financial and other inputs to Sierra Leonean farmers to
     encourage resettlement and the resumption of agricultural production; and (v) restoring basic social
     services, particularly primary health care and basic education.

     Security, social and economic stability and future economic growth in Sierra Leone will depend,
     inter alia, on the successful demobilization and reintegration of ex-combatants, the return of IDPs
     and refugees to their communities, and the revitalization of social and economic infrastructure.
     Therefore, the ERSF Project, which was designed to provide the needed immediate support for the
     reintegration of these groups and to strengthen the social and economic infrastructure in the
     communities most affected by the war, played an important role in the process of continued
     recovery.

4.0  Assessment of Project Objectives, Design, Implementation and Results

4.01 Project Design

     The ERSF design was based on "a decentralized bottom-up project planning, approval and
     implementation process that taps into and builds upon existing structures at the regional and local
     levels" Cf the Operations Manual. According to its mandate, NaCSA does not implement
     sub-projects directly; this is done primarily through NGOs and line ministries. This implementation
     strategy was based on the assumption that NGOs were involved with communities at the grassroots
     and that their presence in the rural areas was more widespread than other development partners.
     Also the prevailing development paradigm was to utilize the apparent comparative advantage of
     NGOs that were involved in the delivery of humanitarian assistance to implement post-conflict
     recovery.

     Government through NaCSA did put forward the case for including private contractors in the menu
     of implementing partners but the Bank was not agreeable to this proposal.

4.02 ERSF Objectives

     The ERSF objectives of restoration of economic livelihoods and the rebuilding of community
     infrastructure to enhance the resettlement of internally displaced persons (IDPs) and returnees were
     sound and clearly stated. They were also realistic. However, considering the scale of the
     destruction, the Credit agreed with the Bank was not adequate in addressing the huge needs. For
     the Round Table Conference convened in Geneva in September 1996, the two year Quick Action
     Programme (the QUAP), on which Government's reconstruction needs were elaborated, estimated
     it's cost at USD211.0 million. This amount was not accessed because of the 1997 military take
     over. Worse than that, there was massive additional destruction that followed after the coup and
     subsequent unrests.

     One area that was important and vital to the entire resettlement programme, but did not feature in
     the Bank's support to the government of Sierra Leone, was assistance to the construction of


                                                  - 34 -

         permanent shelter. This topic was vigorously discussed with various Bank missions but the Bank
         was very reluctant to include the construction/rehabilitation of permanent shelter for individuals.
         The argument was that the cost was astronomical and it did not fall within the category of
         community infrastructure. Nevertheless the construction of permanent shelter was central to the
         entire resettlement process.

         The idea of community contribution was also sound in terms of socio- economic development
         principles, especially as a means of fostering community ownership. Nevertheless Sierra Leone
         was not only just emerging from a ten-year brutal war but it was for a long period of time plagued
         with economic mismanagement. The Government argued against this levy to no avail. In the
         ERSF, community contribution was a constant levy of 10% across all sub-sectors, regardless of
         whether the sub-project was income generating or a social infrastructure. However this was a
         difficult parameter to price as most community contribution was in kind.

4.03     Project Implementation

         The initial response of NGOs to the implementation of the ERSF was not very encouraging: -
·        The assumption that they were more widely dispersed in the Country was not entirely correct;
·        Concentration of NGOs was mainly in the large towns and urban areas;
·        Their experience in the implementation of sub-projects as opposed to the delivery of humanitarian
relief was severely limited;
·        At the beginning, the response of international NGOs was lukewarm.

         These problems impacted adversely on sub-project implementation.

·        Implementing partners defaulted in submitting their monthly technical and financial reports thereby
slowing down project implementation:

·        Late submission of reports resulted in delayed payment of tranches; which again resulted in the
slippage of sub-project activity implementation.

·        Planned duration of most of the sub-projects was too optimistic; actual implementation was longer.

·        Since the ERSF was a Community demand-driven project implemented by NGOs, communities in
which NGO presence was absent or weak were disadvantaged in accessing the ERSF. Remote areas like
Bonthe Island (riverine areas) were difficult to service. On the other hand, a supply-induced approach
could have facilitated direct interventions in those disadvantaged communities by NaCSA.

·        The amount of institutional support allowed for in the sub-project implementation was a topical
issue. International NGOs argued that 20% of direct cost for institutional support was inadequate. At the
start, the Project Approval Committees could not agree on what items should qualify for institutional
support; this issue was subsequently referred to the Bank for clarification.

·        The ERSF log-frame was scarcely used during the entire life cycle of the ERSF. The
circumstances that warranted the ERSF might have adversely affected proper discussions and use of the log
frame. The prevailing emergency relegated proper planning into the background.

·        Finally on the design, the ERSF was established as "a demand driven social fund that allows the
government great flexibility..." Cf CRRP Technical Annex Document At the time the concept of a social


                                                     - 35 -

fund was novel so it was not thoroughly grasped by all stakeholders.

5.0    Targets Achieved

       Regardless of all the problems and the environment in which the Project was implemented, the
       ERSF was a success; many lessons emanated from its design and implementation. To a large
       extent, the Government and the Bank, through consultations, resolved most of the
       implementation, administrative and financial problems.

       In the education sub-sector a total of 84 structures were rehabilitated/reconstructed. In health, 28
       structures were rehabilitated/reconstructed. It is estimated that in agriculture, the ERSF
       sub-projects contributed over 11,663 MT of paddy, 115.2 MT of groundnuts, 1,500 MT of
       Cassava and 600 MT of Sweet Potato. The ERSF also supported the rehabilitation of 12,248 oil
       palms, 8,777 Coffee trees and 6,432 Cocoa trees. Drying floors and stores were also provided Cf.
       NaCSA Quarterly Report Oct. ­ Dec. 2001.

       In terms of sub-projects, 269 Sub-projects were implemented in all of the 12 districts of Sierra
       Leone, including Kailahun and Kono that only became accessible in 2002. Over one million
       beneficiaries were served. Tables I and II give an indication of the progress of sub-project
       implementation by region and by sector.

       TABLE I - ERSF SUB-PROJECTS BY REGION

   REGION            Total Sub-Projects            Contract Amount             Disbursed
   EASTERN           62                            4385.804                    3929.47
  NORTHERN           64                            8452.547                    7658.884
  SOUTHERN           107                           10069.645                   9558.913
  WESTERN            36                            5510.163                    4583.24
   Total             269                           28418.159                   25730.507




                                                   - 36 -

       TABLE II - ERSF SUB-PROJECTS BY SECTOR
   Sector                               Total Sub-Projects       Contracted           Disbursed
                                                                 Amount               Amount
                                                                 (Le Mill)            (Le Mill)
   AGRICULTURE                          107                      10806.687            9441.966
  COMMUNITY                             17                       2214.152             2033.889
  INFRASTRUCTURE
  EDUCATION                             84                       10379.104            9777.519
  HEALTH                                28                       2923.63              2596.48
  INFORMATION &                         7                        230.564              217.352
  SENSITISATION
  MICRO-ENTERPRISE                      23                       1672.13              1475.321
  PROMOTION
  RESETTLEMENT AND                      1                        121.601              120.402
  REINTEGRATION
  SHELTER                               2                        70.291               67.578
   Total                                269                      28418.159            25730.507

6.0    Evaluation of NaCSA's Performance

       The Establishment of the ERSF was the first of its kind in the annals of Sierra Leone. Sierra
       Leone had never experienced such a long period of instability, characterized by a brutal civil war.
       The setting up of NaCSA and the establishment of the fund were responses to a war that ravaged
       the country for over 10 years.

       On the whole NaCSA's performance was adequate for the challenges that its mandate called for.
       The transformation of NaCSA from a Ministry when it was first established in 1996, to a
       Commission at the end of the interregnum in 1998 and finally into a true social fund in 2001, is an
       attestation that GoSL responded positively to the prevailing situation on the ground. Sierra Leone
       is now moving from relief to development; the relief phase was characterized by capacity depletion
       that has to be rebuilt to enhance and sustain the country's long-term development prospects.

       NaCSA's greatest strength lies in its decentralization and devolution of authority. There are 4
       regional offices and 12 district offices in addition to the central headquarters in Freetown:
       NaCSA's presence is felt all over the country. The offices are adequately staffed by suitably
       qualified and dedicated personnel. There are attendant costs to this level of decentralization in
       terms of operations, logistics and capital equipment.

       The decentralization and devolution of authority were closely linked to the design of the ERSF.
       The regions had authority to approve sub-projects that were below US$25,000.00. They could
       also review sub-projects that were above the $25,000.00 threshold but had to send these
       sub-projects to the National Approval Committee for approval. Sub-Projects above $200,000
       were referred to the Bank for no-objection. Theoretically, this should fast track sub-project
       turnover but it did not always work out that way. The protracted movement of some of the
       sub-projects between the regions and the National Projects Approval Committee and delayed
       transmission of information more often than not delayed subsequent sub-project approval and the
       start of implementation.



                                                    - 37 -

Considering that resources were scarce, and the needs unlimited sub-projects were subjected to
desk and field appraisals only. All things being equal, these were necessary but not sufficient
conditions for sub-project approval. In spite of all this, in the strict sub-project analytical
methodology, there was no provision made to carry out either financial or economic analysis. This
would have provided a good yardstick to compare sub-projects across sectors and locations.
Taking into account the finite nature of resources and the illimitable needs of communities, the
ERSF did not provide for Participatory Poverty Assessment of communities.

Another problematic area that the National Projects Approval Committee had to deal with was
rehabilitation. Since this was generally undefined, there was a lot of variation between and within
the rehabilitation of various community infrastructure sub-projects. While reconstruction or new
construction was carried out according to design specifications, and therefore could be packaged,
rehabilitation was not. Rehabilitation was difficult to define in specific terms thus standard cost
estimates were difficult to arrive at.

On the operational level, NaCSA's interaction with line Ministries was not as high as was
anticipated in the project design. This probably emanated from a perception by line ministries that
NaCSA was competing with them for donor support and over lapping with their sectional mandate.
By virtue of its mandate, NaCSA's responsibility for post-conflict recovery cuts across sectors and
sub-sectors-health, education, agriculture, water and sanitation, etc. According to the ERSF
design, apart from the line ministries being taken as implementing partners, they were also included
in various committees at the policy and operational levels, both at Headquarters and the regions. In
the operational manual it is stated that the sectoral line ministry chaired the technical
sub-committees. The Ministry of Development and Economic Planning had seats at the regional
and national projects approval committees. The ERSF approach was intended to build a
multi-sector implementation capacity rapidly to respond to urgent post-war needs and spearhead
the transition to development.

At the inception of the ERSF, the technical sub-committees ­ health, education, agriculture, water
and sanitation ­ scarcely functioned in the regions. This may have been caused in part by the fact
that in the ERSF design, there was no provision for incentives for line ministry staff. The case for
providing some form of incentives was strenuously argued by the Commission but the Bank did not
see the rationale for this. The Bank argued that the ERSF was a government project and the
government was already paying officials. On the other hand, the line ministries contended that
NGOs were provided with institutional support to implement the sub-projects. (NGOs, of course,
are by definition not part of government). The issue was never resolved and the net effect was to
further slow down the implementation process.

In trying to meet some of the criteria established by the Bank during the first six months of Credit
effectiveness, the beginning was characterized by a rash of approval of sub-projects. This
condition resulted in the receipt, appraisal and approval of a large number of sub-projects,
predominantly agricultural. Supervision was weak, so also was sub-project monitoring. Also in
the project approval process, no recourse was made to the seasonality of sub-projects in the
agriculture and construction sub-sectors. As a result, some unsound sub-projects were approved,
some sub-projects were not properly appraised, and even some of the institutional assessments
carried out were not thoroughly done.

It should be mentioned here that sub-projects in the agriculture sector posed the greatest amount of


                                             - 38 -

problems, ranging from late deliveries of inputs, high mortality rates in the various restocking
sub-projects to the supply of poorly fabricated tools and unviable seeds. In the end the planned
output from this sector was not realized.

Similarly with civil works projects, supervision at the start was inadequate because the
implementing partners did not employ the technical expertise to undertake this task. In the concept
and design of the ERSF, although provision was made for institutional support to the implementing
partners, it was not stipulated that where an implementing partner does not have the technical
capability to implement civil works sub-projects, clerk of works should be employed to check on
the quality and daily supervision of the work of contractors. The result of this omission was
apparent in some of the community infrastructure sub-projects that were being done at the time.
NaCSA then recommended that this omission be corrected. A strong recommendation was made
that implementing partners employ qualified Clerk of Works to supervise civil works projects. The
Commission went as far as to draw up the terms of reference.

Initially implementing partners were apt to give the impression that the resources for the
community sub-projects were provided by the partners and not GoSL. This became apparent when
staff members went out on site visits to the sub-project. Even though sensitisation was done and
the ERSF was publicly launched in all regions, some communities still laboured under this
misconception. To correct this misconception NaCSA advanced the use of signposts on all
sub-project sites to acknowledge the roles and responsibilities of GoSL, the Donors and the
Implementing partners. The cost of the signpost was then factored into sub-project costs and this
became standard.

In talking with beneficiaries during sub-project implementation, it also became apparent that they
were not always cognizant of the sub-projects components ­ inputs, outputs budget etc, - of the
sub-project. Previously no formal ceremony for sub-project launch was built into the ERSF
design. This issue was addressed and sub-project launch became a part in the sub-project cycle;
beneficiary communities became more knowledgeable of/about their sub-project components.

Community involvement in sub-project implementation was not what was anticipated. There was
some level of participation in sub-project identification but very little participation in approval and
monitoring. There was also the question of feedback from sub-project monitoring; it was felt that
this was an area of weakness in providing management with decision-making tools. Sometimes M
& E reports were circulated but management failed to act. Apparently, at the start of the ERSF
implementation there was some confusion over the lines of reporting.

Oftentimes, role definition was a problem, especially among frontline staff. This was not helped by
the absence of instant and direct communications lines between the central and the regional and
district offices. To arrest this situation the Commission conducted a workshop for the entire staff
on "role definition and image building". It became apparent that proper orientation and induction
were not conducted for new staff. Project staff was also of the opinion that the various stages of
the sub-project cycle were distinctly compartmentalized with monitoring for example being the sole
responsibility of the M&E directorate.

Proper monitoring systems were only designed after implementation had started. As a result,
problems of its implementation were encountered on the way. Because of the prevailing situation, it
was difficult to collect baseline information. Also, there was no provision in the project proposal
form for an M&E plan; the sub-project indicators form, more often than not, was not completed by


                                               - 39 -

    the implementing partners. Impact indicators were only devised towards the end of the ERSF and
    communities did not participate in the choice of their monitoring indicators.

    Project tracking, which was so important as the ERSF was an emergency response project, was
    very elusive. Although some effort was made, it did not always prove successful. Indeed a form
    was originally designed and later revised for that purpose. The response varied widely from region
    to region. One shortcoming of the exercise was that only sub-projects that went through the cycle
    were tracked. Sub-projects that did not reach the approval stage were not systematically recorded.
    As a result, valuable information on communities not being serviced were lost.

    Financial Management: this was the responsibility of an externally contracted firm that enabled
    transparency and probity in the management of donor and GoSL funds. While the management of
    donor funds proceeded well, the same cannot be said for financial planning and budgeting.

    Because of the autonomy of the financial management system, FMPU concentrated on financial
    management but not much importance was given to forward planning and budgeting.
    Consequently NaCSA was not continuously advised about the status of resources available nor
    was advice provided when sub-project approvals were running far ahead of replenishment. This
    led to a situation during the third quarter of 2002 when approvals had to be slowed down and only
    sub-projects that met certain ad hoc criteria were considered. This happened at a time when areas
    like Kono and Kailahun that had been inaccessible became free at the cessation of hostilities.

    The Commission's performance was always open to scrutiny by all stakeholders, the donors, the
    Government, the Bank's Supervisory Missions and external audits. The Commission on its own
    initiative took the step of contracting a Beneficiary Impact Assessment (BIA) of the ERSF,
    midway through its implementation.

    Also in a bid to improve its performance, the Commission developed a training plan for its frontline
    staff. Such areas as the project cycle, monitoring and evaluation, engineers' refresher courses,
    were covered. Selected implementing partners were invited to participate in some of the internal
    training.

7.0 Evaluation of the Bank's Performance

    NaCSA had a good relationship with the Bank. Mention especially should be made of the support
    received from the Task Team Leader Mr. Florian Fichtl who was always willing to help and very
    particular about all aspects of the ERSF. His contribution in the entire life of the ERSF proved
    most valuable and useful.

    Mention should also be made of the confidence that the Bank had in the GoSL to even approve a
    Project Preparatory Facility during a period of political instability. Although implementation was
    sometimes abrogated because of insecurity, yet the project was never terminated altogether.

    Before the Military Junta regime of May 1997, the major source of funding, for operational costs
    of the then Ministry of National Reconstruction, Resettlement and Rehabilitation was the UNDP.
    On return to constitutional rule in March 1998, not only did the Bank play an active role in the
    restructuring of the Commission, it absorbed most of the operational costs at Headquarters and the
    Regions, while the African Development Bank agreed to fund operations at the District level. It
    was through the Bank's advice that the Disarmament Demobilization and Reintegration


                                                 - 40 -

        Programme that was then in the Ministry was separated as a stand alone Programme.
        The Bank also convened Consultative Group Meetings to mobilize resources for GoSL's
        Post-conflict Recovery strategy.

        On implementation, the scheduled Supervisory Missions that were fielded by the Bank during the
        lifespan of the ERSF proved to be invaluable. During these missions, field visits were made,
        concerns were raised and subsequently addressed. Through this method, not only did
        implementation improve, but also NaCSA's capacity and performance in the sub-project cycle
        improved considerably.

        During these missions, the World Bank fielded no less than six (6) Supervision Missions to the
        Project, and in all of these missions valuable contributions were made which further strengthened
        the implementation of the ERSF and also improved the delivery of services by NaCSA to the
        beneficiaries. Very useful discussions emanated between the Bank, NaCSA Staff and the
        beneficiary Communities that resulted in better management, cleaning up of sub-project files,
        conducting more vigorous supervision and monitoring of the sub-projects. The various missions
        that visited the project were not confined to desk activity, but made intensive visits to the field,
        sensitized beneficiary communities, examined the sub-project records, both financial and technical
        of the Implementing Partners and also looked very closely at the financial systems of the FMPU.

        On the recommendations of the Bank, various landmark decisions were made and actions taken to
        improve the systems and project service delivery: -

·       Activities to establish a Management Information System and more involvement of the FMPU into
the sub-project level of the FMPU. These were recommendations that came out of the first Supervision
Mission. The outcome was that FMPU became more involved in NaCSA's activities, conducted training
on financial management for NaCSA staff and implementing partners. This however affected the contract
cost of Price WaterHouse Coopers services that was deemed additional to the original contract.

·       The Management Information System has not been established but a consultancy was effected
which resulted in the formulation of a Concept Document for NaCSA's Management Information System.
Work is still in progress and it is anticipated it will be established for the ERSF successor project, the
National Social Action Project (NSAP).

·       During one of its Supervision Missions, after going out into the field, the Bank advised the
Commission to carry out an in-depth review of sub-projects with compliance problems. During a desk
review forty-two sub-projects were identified as deficient, requiring investigation. The FMPU and the P, M
and E Directorate mounted field investigations of these forty-two sub-projects of which twenty-four (24)
were found to have compliance problems. Recommendations were made to Management and these were
acted upon. This also established the ground rules for dealing with future implementing partners with
compliance problems. Fortunately the action taken by NaCSA management and also the more vigorous
actions of FMPU internal control minimized such problems.

·       Realising the importance of Monitoring and Evaluation, the Bank also did propose the procurement
of Technical Assistance to support the Monitoring and Evaluation Unit. At a meeting among GoSL, the
Bank and DFID, it was decided that this technical assistance should be provided by DFID. Unfortunately
the process was long and protracted. The Technical expert was only recruited in November 2002 when the
ERSF was coming to an end.




                                                       - 41 -

·       Generally, the Bank's performance in providing financial management and procurement support to
the programme was satisfactory.

·       Responses from the Bank on financial and procurement queries on the Bank's rules and guidelines
were prompt and satisfactory.

·       The Bank exhibited close monitoring of the project through its scheduled semi annual and other
supervision and monitoring visits which involved review of the Statement of Expenditures and procurement
procedures.

·       The Bank's disbursement department provided constant support in facilitating the processing of
withdrawal applications.

·       Resolving the PriceWaterhouse Cooper's additional claims was long and protracted.

·       The procurement procedures and sub-project thresholds of the World Bank IDA Credit and the
African Development Bank ADF loan were different. Consequently, the rate of utilization of these
resources varied considerably. For a long period, the FMPU disbursed resources from the IDA funds to
finance sub-projects while the ADF resources were lying fallow. As a result, sub-projects were scarcely
co-financed, and the IDA funds were exhausted more readily than the ADF funds. This led to some
implementation problems toward the end of the ERSF.

TABLE III - SUMMARY OF CATEGORIES OF EXPENDITURES FINANCED UNDER THE IDA CREDIT

   Categories of                Budget in SDR            Budget in USD              Actual
   Expenditure                                                                      Expenditure
                                                                                    as at 30/06/03
                                                                                    USD
   1. Sub-Projects              10,900,000               14,900,000                 11,663,544
  2. Office equipment &        500,000                   800,000                    1,436,808
  vehicle
  3. Consultancy services & 1,030,000                    1,400,000                  6,263,213
  training
  4. Operating costs           1,900,000                 2,600,000                  3,051,399
  5. Refund of project         1,460,000                 2,000,000                  1,830,313
  preparation    facility
  6. Unallocated               2,420,000                 3,300,000                  -
  7. Net exchange loss         -                         -                          1,903
   Total                        18,210,000               25,000,000                 24,247,180

8.0     Lessons Learnt

-       Community sensitisation on NaCSA's activities should be more vigorous and intense.

-       Communities did not participate fully in the identification and prioritization of their sub-projects.
NaCSA should play a lead role in ensuring that Communities are fully aware of and conversant with their
sub-project components. Most of the beneficiaries never even saw the sub-project proposal.




                                                   - 42 -

-        Interact with other stakeholders especially the line Ministries more closely with a proper definition
of roles in the entire project cycle. Memorandum of Understanding (MOU) must be entered into with all
stakeholders before the commencement of the project. This should minimize tensions with line ministries
and also involve them in post-conflict transitional initiatives.

-        The necessity of capacity building of NaCSA staff especially the frontline staff, and also the
implementing partners. For longer-term sustainability, there should also be some skills transfer to
community leaders.

-        Marriage between an NGO and a CBO as a means of increasing the capacity of CBOs in project
implementing did not turn out well the roles of both partners should be properly spelt out in a
Memorandum of Understanding.

-        The importance of providing sufficient feedback on sub-project supervision and monitoring not
only to management, but also to other directorates/Units of NaCSA, implementing partners and not least
the beneficiaries.

-        The need to interact more with implementing partners and beneficiaries by having periodic
experience-sharing reviews.

-        Capacity building for community monitoring and impact assessment is critical for success of social
fund projects and so the need to simplify reporting requirements.

Recommendations

-        If the ideals of the Social Fund are to be achieved, a combination of approaches ­
Community-Driven, Direct Community Financing, use of private Contractors, and using labour intensive
methods to target the poor in urban areas, etc. ­ should be used to address the reconstruction needs of
major stakeholders and communities which are at varying degrees of social mobilisation.

-        Considering the levels and skills mix of the NaCSA's staff, it is essential that they are exposed to
the experiences of other social funds; staff should also be given the opportunity to undertake specialized
courses to sharpen their strategic management skills.

-        Communities should be actively involved in all stages of the project cycle-identification, planning,
implementation including monitoring and evaluation. Stronger collaborative ties with line ministries and
local government should be fostered.




                                                     - 43 -

Financial Management and Procurement Unit Comments:

MEMO
Date: Tuesday, 14 October 2003
Subject: IDA Credit 3312-SL PCR ­ FMPU Comments

1.       Role of the Financial Management and Procurement Unit (FMPU):

1.1      The rationale for the FMPU was to provide the expertise to ensure compliance with the protocols
of funding utilization required by the Donors of CRRP funding, viz. IDA and the African Development
Bank. This appeared to confer an assumed autonomy on the unit but the unit was contracted by the
Government of Sierra Leone (GOSL) and worked with the GOSL Executing Agencies (EAs) of
NCRRR/NaCSA and NCDDR as the client(s). This possible dichotomy of, in effect, overseeing the client
on behalf of the donors, particularly in the initial stages of operations, resulted in occasional disagreements
with regard to the strict application of the protocols of the operational manual referred to in Schedule 4,
paragraph A1 of the Credit.

1.2      The Executing Agencies, NCRRR/NCDDR initially considered that for FMPU to be members of
committees such as Project Appraisal Committees to be inappropriate. It was and is the view of FMPU that
the selection of suitable Implementing Partners is critical to the successful achievement of sub-project
objectives and that, to receive signed contracts without having the opportunity to express a view regarding
the IP's suitability could and did give rise to differences between the unit and the client.

1.3      This was eventually resolved by attendance at committee meetings of FMPU staff as, in effect,
advisers with no voting rights.

1.4      The strict application of the protocols of the operational manual by the unit resulted in views
expressed in aide memoire issued following WB supervision missions which were mixed: in one criticising
the strict application of protocols and recommending some form of accommodation; in another citing a
relaxation of the protocols as contributing to defects in sub-project implementation.

         Conclusion: There was a normalization process in the interaction of FMPU with the Executing
Agencies and conflict was avoided. It is difficult to suggest any lesson that can be used to improve future
projects as the necessary mechanistic rules of donor agencies probably cannot be formally amended and the
conflict with the organic system operations at field level particularly in developing countries is normally
resolved informally.

2.       Implementing Partners (IPs) as Agents of the Beneficiary Communities (BCs).
2.1      The unit dealt with the IPs and not the BCs. Dealings with the BCs were at field level by NaCSA
regional and district staff.

2.2      One effect of this was that, when the sub-project had problems, blame was commonly attributed to
delays in funding by FMPU and the protocols applied by that unit were blamed for the delays. Most
commonly, disbursements were the result of delays in reports reaching FMPU and in this respect the
requirement for such reports to be monthly was probably unrealistic as there was no instance of an IP
submitting a report each and every month.




                                                       - 44 -

2.3      Reports were routed through District Offices and at this initial stage often referred back to the IP
for clarification.

2.4      The EAs M & E sections also had input regarding the observation of protocols and modalities of
sub-project implementation

2.5      A view often expressed was that reporting requirements were too complex but, given that the
sub-projects were being managed by IP (normally NGOs), it is suggested that the defects in the reporting
capabilities of IPs was probably the major factor as, if funds are disbursed, they must be accounted for.
FMPU considered this to be the one unalterable "iron" rule.

         Conclusion: It seems reasonable to stress that the selection of IPs is a critical factor and the checks
and balances of report processing are a necessary evil. The unit often had IPs come to enquire regarding the
progress of payments considered to be due and often could say only that reports had not reached the unit. It
would possibly have improved matters to have had knowledge of the stage of progress of reports being
processed by the regional offices. Consideration should be given to amending the reporting lines of the
EA's Finance Officers, perhaps to the extent of having these officers under the direct control of the FMPU.

3.       FMPU Internal Control Section.

3.1      During IC visits to sub-projects/IPs there were complaints by IPs that they were being visited by
Regional Officers, M& E Officers and also by the IC section of FMPU and they found they were having to
answer similar queries several times.

3.2      The IC section gave advance notification to the EAs of IC visits following complaints that such
visits were being made without notification.

         Conclusion: There seems to be a conflict regarding the need for independence of the IC unit.
Should the EA M&E section and the FMPU IC section undertake visits jointly? Would this limit the
effectiveness of the IC assessments? With regard to prior notification, one point to be made is that often
during visits the IP accounting officer was not present and accounting records were not available. On
balance it seems that prior notice is useful. With regard to joint visits, given the number of sub-projects to
be covered with limited staff, it seems better to have separate visits with each unit using the findings of the
other to prioritize sub-projects requiring attention.

4.       NCDDR:

NB It is appreciated that comments regarding NCDDR may relate to aspects of the MDTF
administration by the FMPU, particularly with regard to toolkit procurement and issue but payments
of subsistence allowances and other costs of the pilot TEPs were initially from Credit 3312-SL, in
value totalling approximately US$3.8m.

4.1      The key targets were individual ex-combatants and the volume of this population (ca 56,000 in the
reintegration phase of the NCDDR programme) introduced significant difficulties in database management
of sub-project (TEP) operations.

4.2      Contracts were complex and often TEPs commenced before contracts were drawn up and signed.

4.3      Initially the NCDDR Reintegration Unit (RU) allocated one TEP reference number to several


                                                     - 45 -

TEPs, particularly with regard to School/Institution provision of tuition to ex-combatants (one example
was TVT14 which had 54 separate contracts/MOUs signed with schools and colleges for teaching a total of
276 ex-combatants). FMPU in dealing with the accounting and funds disbursement with regard to separate
contracts/MOUs allotted series numbers, e.g. 14.01...14.54, but had difficulty in having this numbering
adopted by the NCDDR RU. The effect of this was that subsistence allowance payment applications were
difficult to identify with the specific contracts to which they related.

4.4      The NCDDR database was and is sophisticated but designed initially for the DD part of the DDR
programme. The reintegration component was initially limited in part due to the initial modalities of the
NCDDR Reintegration Unit being amended without the necessary adjustments to database design. Two
main areas of system dysfunction were: -

4.4.1    With regard to payment of subsistence allowances to ex-combatants in TEPs and

4.4.2    Procurement and issue of start-up toolkits.

         Both of these TEP components were initially to be carried out by the IPs but later were undertaken
mainly by NCDDR officers. The M&E database design was not amended to deal with these changes with
the effect that tracking was defective and subsistence allowance payments delayed. In the field FMPU was
commonly cited as being responsible for the delays. The problems with regard to toolkit procurement and
issue are expatiated on below under Procurement.

         Conclusion: The problems experienced by FMPU with payments of subsistence allowances in
ensuring that these were made promptly and without omission or duplication could have been avoided if
systems amendments were incorporated throughout all sections of NCDDR. The importance of this must be
stressed. It is also necessary to stress the difficulties in retrospective updating of a database dealing with
approximately 56,000 records relating to over 2,000 sub-projects.

5.       Procurement.

5.1      Procurement Plans were drawn up and approved for both NCRRR/NaCSA and NCDDR and in the
main the NCRRR/NaCSA plans were implemented without amendment. The NCDDR procurement plans
were subject to significant amendments, possibly as the NCDDR programme was, of necessity, open ended
in relation to the numbers of ex-combatants entering the programme and again possibly due to the financing
assistance and support from other donors e.g. DFID, UNICEF. UNAMSIL etc.

5.2      Procurement Rules were often significantly relaxed due to the emergency nature of some aspects of
the NCDDR programme. It was on occasion difficult for FMPU to be certain of the relaxations and the
"mixed messages" received from various quarters.

5.3      Toolkits: Procurement of start-up toolkits gave particular difficulties with regard to procurement
timing and variations in the normal rules of procurement. It was the view of FMPU (which seems now to be
accepted by NCDDR) that much, if not all, of the difficulties could have been avoided if it had been
appreciated that the toolkits required were for specific ex-combatants in TEPs having a six-month training
period during which procurement could be carried out and "guesstimates" were not necessary. For this to
be given effect required coordination between the NCDDR RU and the M&E Database.

J. King/FMPU




                                                        - 46 -

(b) Cofinanciers:
Requested comments to AfDB.

(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):


10. Additional Information


Workshop with NaCSA (NCRRR) Regional and District Staff ­ ICR Input Session
Wednesday ­ October 7-8 - 2003

The ICR Team met briefly with the NaCSA Regional and District Staff to get their impressions of what
worked well, what did not work well, and what they would advise other Post-Conflict Countries to do.
Here is what they had to say.

What worked well?

·       The ERSF enabled an immediate response.
·       Tranche disbursement system enabled them to have some control over the implementing agencies.
·       Use of Implementing Partners was necessary because the communities were still in disarray
        at the time the project started.
·       Good coordination between NaCSA, the Implementing Agencies, and other Stakeholders.
·       The funding base was there.

What did not work well?

·       The reporting system was complex.
·       The Implementing partners had weak capacity.
·       The Ips mis-informed the community as to the source of the funds.
·       NaCSA had no control over the geographic area of intervention of the Ips.
·       Poor community participation: Little in kind contribution, did not participate in the design
        and M&E; often did not know about the project; does not participate in maintenance.
·       Imbalances in distribution of funds ­ no targeting.
·       Seasonality of sub-projects ­ delays in sub-project approval resulted in seasonal projects
        receiving funds late Implementation delays.
·       Too much back and forth during the sub-project preparation phase.
·       No International NGOs.

What would you recommend to other Post-Conflict Countries?

·       Promote community ownership right from the start, taking into account what is feasible.
·       Provide up-front training to local NGOs.
·       Minimize use of International NGOs ­ they cost more and they do not take the work seriously
        because sub-projects are so small and allowable overhead rates low.
·       Reduce the bureaucracy of project processing (preparation/appraisal/approval).
·       Incorporate operational and maintenance plan in the project design phase.
·       Transparent targeting of resources, both at the national level and within the districts.
·       Ensure that the Implementing Agencies collect baseline data and includes it in the sub-project
         proposal.


                                                   - 47 -

·   More training of staff.
·   Better benefits for staff, including insurance, given the risks they face.




                                                 - 48 -

Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix


DDRP Component

Program Development Objective: Consolidation of the national security situation and improvement in social stability in SL

  Planned Project Outcomes:                    Key Performance Indicators:                           Actual and Latest Estimate        Data Source
  Ex-combatants that have gone through the     Percentage of ex-combatants that chose to settle in   NA                                NCDDR
  DDRP are social and economically             their areas of origin and still are resident there 1                                    M&E Unit (October
  reintegrated                                 year after demobilization.                                                              2003)
                                               Level of interaction between ex-combatant             High. While there are no data     NCDDR
                                               (families) and members of their immediate             available, there is evidence that M&E Unit (October
                                               communities of settlement.                            interaction is high. There have   2003)
                                                                                                     been no reports of violence and
                                                                                                     retaliations. NCDDR social
                                                                                                     reintegration projects
                                                                                                     supported interaction. Former
                                                                                                     CDF combatants interaction
                                                                                                     was very high. It was high
                                                                                                     with Former RUF combatants.
                                               Percentage of ex-combatants active in gainful         The percentage of former          DDR Beneficiary
                                               economic activities.                                  combatants holding a full time    Assessment November
                                                                                                     job after one year of their       2002
                                                                                                     demobilization was of 50%
  Significant numbers of AFRC and RUF          Number of AFRC and RUF fighters that give up          AFRC 2,574                        NCDDR ­ Briefing
  fighters motivated to report for             arms to join the DDRP.                                RUF 24,352                        Note ­ February 18,
  demobilization under the DDRP.                                                                                                       2002
  Project Outputs:
  Phase 1: Lungi Demobilization Center
  Demobilization completed and reintegration   4,000 ex-combatants provided with basic shelter,      3,183 (Phase I ­ Sept- Dec        NCDDR ­ Briefing
  initiated of 4,000 ex-combatants at Lungi    food and health care at LDC                           1998)                             Note ­ February 18,
  Demobilization Center                                                                                                                2002
                                               All ex-combatants at LDC have been screened by        Yes                               NCDDR
                                               UMOSIL.                                                                                 M&E Unit (October
                                                                                                                                       2003)
                                               Socioeconomic profiles of ex-combatants at LCD        Yes                               NCDDR
                                               have been prepared.                                                                     M&E Unit (October
                                                                                                                                       2003)
                                               All ex-combatants at LDC have been prepared.          NA                                NCDDR
                                                                                                                                       M&E Unit (October
                                                                                                                                       2003)
                                               All ex-combatants at LDC have taken part in, and      All ex-combatants have taken      NCDDR
                                               benefited from, the Pre-Discharge Orientation and     part to PDO.                      M&E Unit (October
                                               Training component of DDRP.                           Roughly 80% to Training           2003)
  Phase 1: CDF and RUF
  Disarmament and demobilization completed Demobilization centers have been established with         16 centers were established       NCDDR
  and reintegration initiated of ex-combatants adequate capacity to cope with the expected in flow   across the country (Phase 1       M&E Unit (October
  from the CDF and RUF.                        of ex-combatants from CDF and RUF.                    through Phase 3)                  2003)
                                               All ex-combatants from CDF and RUF provided           69,000 ex-combatants were         NCDDR ­
                                               with basic shelter, food and health care at their     demobilized.                      Implementation
                                               respective demobilization centers.                                                      Completion Report
                                                                                                                                       September 2003
                                               All ex-combatants have been screened by               Yes
                                               UMOSIL/UNMSIL.
                                              Socioeconomic profiles of ex-combatants have been      41,792 ex-combatants filled       NCDDR
                                              prepared.                                              the Expectation forms.            M&E Unit (October
                                                                                                     Socio-Economic forms were         2003)
                                                                                                     filled by the entire caseload but
                                                                                                     not inputted
                                               All ex-combatants have taken part in, and benefited   PDO modules were delivered        NCDDR
                                               from, the Pre-Discharge Orientation and Training      to 100% of RUF combatants,        M&E Unit (October
                                               component of the DDRP.                                and 100% of Phase I of ex         2003)
                                                                                                     SLA. Approximately 27,000
                                                                                                     ex-combatants. Training
                                                                                                     completed in phase I : 401.
                                                                                                     Total training completed in all




                                                                      - 49 -

                                                                                             phases: 48,240
       Planned Project Outcomes:                  Key Performance Indicators:                 Actual and Latest Estimate         Data Source
Adequate planning, implementation, and  The Executive Secretariat timely submits pertinent   Executive Secretary has          NCDDR
management capacity of the Executive    plans and reports to the NCDDR including:            submitted plans every six        M&E Unit (October
Secretariat of the NCDDR.               Detailed Implementation Plans for Pre-Discharge      month.                           2003)
                                        Orientation and Training program prepared,
                                        approved and implemented;                                                             NCDDR
                                        Discharge plans prepared for ex-combatants at        Yes                              M&E Unit (October
                                        LDC and, when relevant, other demobilization                                          2003)
                                        centers;
                                        A high quality and comprehensive plan has been       Yes (based on the Lome'          NCDDR
                                        prepared for the implementation of Phase 2           Agreement)                       M&E Unit (October
                                        covering the reintegration of ex-AFSL, CDF and                                        2003)
                                        RUF and the disarmament, demobilization and
                                        reintegration of additional members of these
                                        groups.
                                        Plans are being implemented according to             Yes, despite the interruption of NCDDR
                                        schedule.                                            May 2000 (UN hostages) and       M&E Unit (October
                                                                                             other subsequent security        2003)
                                                                                             problems and tensions.
                                        The Executive Secretariat is responsive to pertinent Yes                              NCDDR
                                        developments on the ground.                                                           M&E Unit (October
                                                                                                                              2003)
                                        Efficient collaboration between the Executive        Initial misunderstanding which   NCDDR
                                        Secretariat and the FMPU.                            were quickly overcome. Since     M&E Unit (October
                                                                                             then, collaboration was smooth   2003)




                                                               - 50 -

ERSF Component
Program Development Objective: Social and economic revival of war-affected communities.

      Planned Project Outcomes:                        Key Performance Indicators:                  Actual and Latest Estimate       Data Source
Increased "social capital" of war-affected  Population in war-affected communities returns to      IDP Returns 221,745           Sierra Leone
areas                                       75% or more of pre-war level.                                                        Information System
                                                                                                                                 (SLIS)
                                            Increase in no. of viable community institutions       Over 20 CBOs implemented
                                            (CBOs, etc.) responding to needs of resettled          ERSF Sub-projects             NaCSA Reports
                                            populations.
Revitalization of Productive Resources      Increased production rates for various crops in        930,547 ha of various crops   Office for the
                                            war-affected communities.                                                            Coordination of
                                                                                                                                 Humanitarian Asst
                                                                                                                                 (OCHA)
                                            No. of people needing food aid declines from X to
                                            Y over project life.
                                            Increased production of poultry and small
                                            ruminants
                                            Increased no. of new rural businesses established
                                            and operating profitably.                                           N/A
Recovery of public/community services       No. of fully functioning (staffed and equipped)
                                            schools, clinics, market places, etc.                  Clinics = 584                 OCHA
                                                                                                   Schools = 746
                                            Percent increase of population with access to          From Aug 02 ­ Oct 03 ­
                                            potable water.                                         200,000                       OCHA
                                            Increased traffic on rehabilitated roads.
                                            Number of villages reconnected to national road
                                            network.
                                            Increased levels of consumption among vulnerable
                                            groups.
Improved intra-governmental and             Increased number of inter-agency meetings re:          Regular Inter-agency meetings
Government-NGO coordination re: NaCSA       NaCSA Program and QUAP (national and                   held at HQ and Regions
Program                                     regional)                                              fortnightly up to Jan 2002.   NaCSA Records
                                            Increased no. of collaborative project                 Over 200 Sub-projects         NaCSA database
                                            implementation between government and NGOs             implemented by NGOs and
                                                                                                   CBOs
                                            Number of Memoranda of Understanding                   Line Ministries members of
                                            established between NaCSA and line ministries for      S-P Technical Committees.
                                            implementation of NaCSA Program.                       Endorsed all approved S-Ps.   NaCSA Records
                                            Number of different organisations accessing and
                                            sharing information with the Integrated Information
                                            Center.                                                             N/A
Project Out puts:
Successful implementation of ERSF           Performance Indicators:
sub-projects
                                            Reduction of number of IDPs and refugees in            All IDPs Resettled and camps  NaCSA and UNHCR
                                            camps and ex-combatants in reception centers.          closed. Liberian Refugees     Records
                                                                                                   housed in one camp
                                            Number of hectares rehabilitated and planted.          > 9,859                       NaCSA Sub-project
                                                                                                                                 Profiles
                                            Quantity of poultry/small ruminants delivered.         Poultry ­ 3,150               NaCSA Database
                                                                                                   Small Ruminants ­ 1,111
                                            Number of beneficiaries and trained (by subject,       Vocational training Total     NaCSA Database
                                            gender and level of effort)                            1,722 of which 722 were
                                                                                                   women
                                            Number of KM. Of feeder roads rehabilitated.           7 KM
                                            Number of schools, clinics, and other community        Schools - 84                  ERSF Database
                                            facilities rehabilitated.                              Market - 1                    NaCSA
                                                                                                   Court barrays ­ 6
                                                                                                   Health Units ­ 28
                                            Percent of community contribution to                   Varies between 5 and 10% (in
                                            infrastructure.                                        kind)
                                            Adequate appropriate technical staff posted in         All ERSF Schools & Health     Sub-project Files,
                                            clinics and schools by the respective line ministries. Units received line ministry  NaCSA
                                                                                                   endorsements
                                            Number of wells rehabilitated and water systems        1 Gravity System 35 Wells,    NaCSA Database
                                            repaired                                               excluding schools & clinics




                                                                      - 51 -

      Planned Project Outcomes:                    Key Performance Indicators:                   Actual and Latest Estimate         Data Source
                                         Number of local institutions supported/trained (by
                                         subject and level of effort)

                                         Number of people employed for community public
                                         works activities.
                                         Number of temporary shelters constructed.
                                         Number of village town plans developed.                           NONE
                                        Process:
                                         Average time lag for sub-project review, approval,     Calculated for the North only  NaCSA Quarterly
                                         contraction and disbursements.                         3.5 Months                     Progress Report
                                         Total amount of funds committed, total disbursed.      Contracted Le28.42 bill       NaCSA Database
                                                                                                Disbursed Le25.73 bill
                                         Percent disbursement lag.
                                        Number of sub-projects conforming to agreed criteria    All Schools and Clinics,       ERSF Sub-project
                                        implemented (refer to standard tech. Specifications for Markets and Court Barrays      files NaCSA
                                        each sub-project type)
                                         Number of sub-projects submitted for funding by        East    = 409                  NaCSA Quarterly
                                         sector, geographic region and type of implementing     North    = 327                 Progress Report
                                         agency.                                                South    = 1,100
                                                                                                West     = 434
Capacity of NaCSA and associated         Government, donors, and NGOs have an effective         (OCHA has established the
organisations strengthened to manage,    access to information system from IIC.                 Sierra Leone Information
coordinate and monitor the IDA Recovery                                                         System (SLIS), accessible to
and Reintegration Project.                                                                      GOSL and NGOs).
                                         Project accounts maintained in manner satisfactory
                                         to Project auditor and World Bank.                     Refer FMPU
                                         Semi-annual and annual audit reports submitted
                                         within allowable time frame.                           Refer FMPU
                                         NaCSA regional staff in place and performing            Yes                           AHRM Database
                                         satisfactorily.
                                         Timely preparation and submission of sub-project       Generally a problematic area   NaCSA Records
                                         monitoring reports and NaCSA quarterly reports.        causing implementation delays
                                         Four or more training programs designed and
                                         delivered for implementing partners.                   Refer FMPU
                                         No more than 15% disbursement lag in Project
                                         Implementation.                                        Refer FMPU




                                                                 - 52 -

Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing

Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                                                             Appraisal             Actual/Latest              Percentage of
                                                                                              Estimate                 Estimate                   Appraisal
                                    Component                                               US$ million              US$ million
 Emergency Recovery Support Fund
 ERSF Facility                                                                                  23.62                        13.31                        0.56
 Instutitional Support                                                                          10.95                        13.62                        1.24
 Total ERSF                                                                                     34.57                        26.92                        0.78
 Training and Employment Program
 Pilot TEP Facility                                                                                4.77                       4.64                        0.97
 Institutional Support to NCDDR                                                                    0.00                       0.64
 Total TEP                                                                                         4.77                       5.28                        1.11
 Advance from PPF                                                                                  2.00                       1.83                        0.92
 Total                                                                                          41.34                        34.03                        0.82

 Total Baseline Cost                                                                           122.02                      100.27
                                       Total Project Costs                                     122.02                      100.27
                                          Interest during construction
                                                                Front-end fee
                             Total Financing Required                                          122.02                      100.27
The totals are slightly different from the figures in table 9.2 on page 42 of the technical Annex, because in this case, the PPF is included as a separate
line item, rather than spread across the other line items, as in table 9.2


Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
                                                                                                           1
                                                                          Procurement Method
       Expenditure Category                             ICB                     NCB                            2               N.B.F.              Total Cost
                                                                                                      Other
1. Works                                                0.00                    0.00                  19.22                     9.78                   29.00
                                                       (0.00)                  (0.00)                (17.30)                   (0.00)                 (17.30)
2. Goods                                                0.50                    0.22                   0.22                     0.82                    1.76
                                                       (0.50)                  (0.20)                 (0.20)                   (0.00)                  (0.90)
3. Services                                             0.00                    0.00                   1.70                     1.68                    3.38
                                                       (0.00)                  (0.00)                 (1.70)                   (0.00)                  (1.70)
4. Operating Costs                                      0.00                    0.00                   3.88                     1.33                    5.21
                                                       (0.00)                  (0.00)                 (3.10)                   (0.00)                  (3.10)
5. Refunding of PPF                                     0.00                    0.00                   2.00                     0.00                    2.00
                                                       (0.00)                  (0.00)                 (2.00)                   (0.00)                  (2.00)
     Total                                              0.50                    0.22                  27.02                    13.61                   41.35
                                                       (0.50)                  (0.20)                (24.30)                   (0.00)                 (25.00)


Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Actual/Latest Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
                                                                                                          1
                                                                          Procurement Method
       Expenditure Category                             ICB                     NCB                           2               N.B.F.              Total Cost
                                                                                                     Other
1. Works                                                0.00                    0.00                  18.61                    0.00                  18.61



                                                                           - 53 -

                                                 (0.00)               (0.00)            (11.06)             (0.00)          (11.06)
   2. Goods                                      0.00                  0.80               1.03               0.00            1.83
                                                 (0.00)               (0.80)            (0.59)              (0.00)          (1.39)
   3. Services                                   0.00                  0.00               8.01               0.00            8.01
                                                 (0.00)               (0.00)            (6.26)              (0.00)          (6.26)
   4. Operating Costs                            0.00                  0.00               3.76               0.00            3.76
                                                 (0.00)               (0.00)            (3.05)              (0.00)          (3.05)
   5. Refunding of PPF                           0.00                  0.00               1.83               0.00            1.83
                                                 (0.00)               (0.00)            (1.83)              (0.00)          (1.83)
       Total                                     0.00                  0.80              33.24               0.00           34.04
                                                 (0.00)               (0.80)            (22.79)             (0.00)          (23.59)
   The totals are sligthly different from the figures in table 9.2 on page 42 of Technical Annex. See note to table 2a.
     1/Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Loan. All costs include contingencies.

     2/Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of contracted staff
       of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental operating costs related to (i)
       managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local government units.



Project Financing by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                                                                                   Percentage of Appraisal
        Component                       Appraisal Estimate                       Actual/Latest Estimate
                                    Bank          Govt.          CoF.         Bank         Govt.        CoF.         Bank  Govt.   CoF.
Emergency Recovery Fund
ERSF Facility                      12.41          2.41           8.80         5.76          0.00        7.55         46.4   0.0     85.8
Institutional Support               6.30          1.21           3.44         11.36         0.71        1.55        180.3   58.7    45.1
Total ERSF                         18.71          3.62          12.24         17.12         0.71        9.09         91.5   19.6    74.3
Training and Employment
Program
Pilot TEP Facility                  4.29          0.48           0.00         4.64          0.00       108.00       108.2   0.0     0.0
Institutional Support to            0.00          0.00           0.00         0.00          0.00        0.64          0.0   0.0     0.0
NCDDR
Total TEP                           4.29          0.48           0.00         4.64          0.00        0.00        108.2   0.0     0.0
Advance from PPF                    2.00          0.00           0.00         1.83          0.00        0.00         91.5   0.0     0.0
Total                              25.00          4.10          12.24         23.59         0.71        9.74         94.4   17.3    79.6




                                                                   - 54 -

Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits

NA




                                      - 55 -

Annex 4. Bank Inputs

(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                No. of Persons and Specialty            Performance Rating
                                     (e.g. 2 Economists, 1 FMS, etc.)    Implementation Development
                   Month/Year  Count           Specialty                   Progress       Objective

 Identification/Preparation
              06/08/1999                2    SOCIAL PROTECTION SP (1);        S               S
                                             CONSULTANT (1)
              08/03/1999                3    TTL (1); PROGRAM ADVISOR         S               S
                                             (1); POST-CONFLICT
                                             SPECIALIST (1)

 Appraisal/Negotiation
              08/29/1999                5    SOCIAL PROTECTION SP             S               S
                                             (1); CONSULTANT (3); FM
                                             SPECIALIST (1)
              11/24/1999                3    TTL (1); SECTOR MANAGER          S               S
                                             (1); SOCIAL PROTECTION SP
                                             (1)

 Supervision

              11/07/2000                3    SOCIAL PROTECTION SP. (1);       S               S
                                             SOCIAL FUND SPECIALIST
                                             (1); PROCUREMENT
                                             SPECIALIST (1)
              05/17/2001                6    TTL (1); SR. PROC.               S               S
                                             SPECIALIST (1); FIN. MNGT.
                                             SPECIALIST (1); SR. AG.
                                             ECONOMIST (1);
                                             POST-CONFLICT SPECIALI
                                             (1); SOCIOLOGIST (1)
              11/03/2001                8    TTL (1); ECONOMIST (1);          S              HS
                                             IMPLEMENTATION SPEC. (1);
                                             REINTEGRATION SPEC. (1);
                                             SOCIAL FUND SPEC. (1);
                                             PROCUREMENT SPEC. (1);
                                             DISAR/DEMOB. SPEC. (1);
                                             SECTOR MANAGER, AFTH2
                                             (1)
              03/30/2002                3    TEAM LEADER (1);                 HS             HS
                                             AGRICULTURE ECONOMIST
                                             (1); CDD SPECIALIST (1)
              11/15/2002                1    SOCIAL FUND / DDR TF (1)         HS             HS
              05/23/2003                4    TTL (1), PROCUREMENT             HS             HS
                                             SPECIALIST (1), FINANCIAL
                                             MANAGEMENT SPECIALIST
                                             (1), OTHER SPECIALIST (1)

 ICR
              10/6/2003                 5     TEAM LEADER (1)                 S               S
                                              SOCIAL FUND SPEC. (1)
                                              HUMAN DEVELOPMENT



                                              - 56 -

                                                                        SPECIALIST (1)
                                                                        PROCUREMENT SPEC.
                                                                        (1)
                                                                        FINANCIAL
                                                                        MANAGEMENT SPEC. (1)

This schedule is different from the milestone information in SAP as there were measure delays in preparing the
project, due to the resurgence of conflict


(b) Staff:

         Stage of Project Cycle                                           Actual/Latest Estimate
                                                        No. Staff weeks                             US$ ('000)
  Identification/Preparation
  Appraisal/Negotiation                                              93                                 261,556
  Supervision                                                   167.3                               471,043.09
  ICR                                                             5.66                                13,193.18
  Total                                                        265.96                               745,792.27
No information available for Identification/Preparation
For Appraisal/Negotiation only US$ value was available and 93 staff weeks were calculated based on the same ratio of the supervision figures.




                                                                       - 57 -

Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components

(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
                                          Rating
  Macro policies                        H        SU    M       N    NA
  Sector Policies                       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Physical                              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Financial                             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Institutional Development             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Environmental                         H        SU    M       N    NA

Social
           Poverty Reduction            H        SU    M       N    NA
           Gender                       H        SU    M       N    NA
           Other (Please specify)       H        SU    M       N    NA
        Post-conflict
  Private sector development            H        SU    M       N    NA
  Public sector management              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Other (Please specify)                H        SU    M       N    NA




                                                    - 58 -

Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)


6.1 Bank performance                           Rating

   Lending                                       HS     S     U       HU
   Supervision                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU


6.2 Borrower performance                       Rating

   Preparation                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Government implementation performance         HS     S     U       HU
   Implementation agency performance             HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU




                                                    - 59 -

Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents

(List of selected documents)

Technical Annex for a Proposed Emergency Recovery Credit in the Amount of US$25 million Equivalent
to The Republic of Sierra Leone for a Community Reintegration and Rehabilitation Project; Report
Number T ­ 7349 ­ SL; December 23, 1998 (Revised October 21, 1999)

Quality at Entry Assessment of Proposed Emergency Recovery Credit in the Amount of US$25 million
Equivalent to The Republic of Sierra Leone for a Community Reintegration and Rehabilitation Project

National Committee for Disarmament, Demobilization and Reintegration Operational Manual for the
Training and Employment Programme (TEP)

National Commission for Reconstruction, Resettlement and Rehabilitation Operational Manual for the
Emergency Recovery Support Fund (ERSF), November, 1998.

Aide Memoire ­ Supervision Mission, November, 2000

Aide Memoire ­ Implementation Support Mission, April/May, 2001

Aide Memoire ­ Implementation Support Mission, November, 2001

Aide Memoire ­ Implementation Support Mission, March, 2002

Aide Memoire ­ Sierra Leone DDR Progress Review and Support Mission, April/May, 2003

Aide Memoire ­ Implementation Support Mission, June, 2003

Beneficiary Impact Assessment of the Emergency Recovery Support Fund (ERSF) Sub-Projects by Prof.
Harry Turay and Duramahy Kamara, October, 2001.

Ex Combatants Reintegration: Key Issues for Policy Makers and Practitioners Based on Lessons from
Sierra Leone, Simon Arthy, August 2003.

Second Beneficiary Impact Assessment of 50 ERSF Sub-Projects (Draft Report), October, 2003.

First Operational Performance Evaluation of the CRRP/ERSF ­ Volume One : Performance Evaluation,
October ­ December, 2000. Prepared by: Piet Goovaerts and Harry Turay

Project Quarterly Report and Donor Commitment Report for the Period November ­ December, 2000 ­
Financial Management and Procurement Unit of Community Reintegration and Rehabilitation Project,
December, 2000

NCRRR Progress Report on ERSF, March 2000 ­ March 2001, April 2001

In-depth Review of Sub-Projects with Poor Compliance - Emergency Recovery Support Fund (ERSF),
Community Reintegration and Rehabilitation Project (CRRP), NCRRR, June 16 ­ August 30, 2001.




                                                 - 60 -

NCRRR ­ Emergency Recovery Support Fund (ERSF) ­ Summary of Implementation (March 2000 to
September 2001) and Operation for period October 2001 to June 2002.

Transitional Support Strategy for The Republic of Sierra Leone; Report Number 23758-SL; March 3,
2002.

National Recovery Strategy ­ Sierra Leone 2002 ­ 2003

The World Bank Administered Multi-Donor Trust Fund for the Sierra Leone Disarmament, Demobilisation
and Reintegration Program ­ Progress Report #10; June 30, 2002.

The World Bank Administered Multi-Donor Trust Fund for the Sierra Leone Disarmament, Demobilisation
and Reintegration Program ­ Progress Report #13; September 30, 2003.

Assessment of the Reintegration Programmes of the National Committee for Disarmament, Demobilisation
and Reintegration ­ Freetown, Sierra Leone, September ­ October, 2002. Assessment Team: Stelios
Comninos; Aki Stavrou; and Briand Stewart.

National Committee for Disarmament, Demobilisation and Reintegration ­ Status of the DDR Programme.
Prepared for Consultative Group Meeting, Paris, November, 2002.

Project Appraisal Document on a Proposed Credit in the Amount of SDR 25.4 million (US$35 million
Equivalent) to the Republic of Sierra Leone for a National Social Action Project; Report Number: 25105 ­
SL; March 19, 2003.

The Social Assessment Study: Community-driven Development and Social Capital in Post-war Sierra
Leone (Working Draft) ­ by Paul Richards, Khadija Bah, and James Vincent, September, 2003.

Pilot Beneficiary Assessment - ERSF Component - September 2003 - Draft

Inputs of the World Bank to the DDR/IDPs component of the Needs Assessment for Liberia, based on the
World Bank support to the Reintegration (of combatants) and Rehabilitation (of communities) in Sierra
Leone. The World Bank, December 2003.

Other reports

Community-Driven Reconstruction as an Instrument in War-to-Peace Transitions, Sarah Cliffe, Scott
Guggenheim, Markus Kostner, Social Development Papers, The World Bank, August 2003

The DDR Process in Sierra Leone: Lessons Learned, DDR Coordination Section UNAMSIL, August 2003

The English Lesson, Daniel Bergner, New York Times, September 27, 2003

Evaluating Community-Based and Community-Driven Development: A Critical Review of the Evidence,
Ghazala Mansuri and Vikayendra Rao, Development Research Group, The World Bank, September 2003

Defense White Paper, Ministry of Defense, Freetown, October 2003

CRP Newsletter, CRP-DFID, Freetown, July 2003


                                                  - 61 -

Government Budget and Statement of Economic and Financial Policies for FY 2003, Government of Sierra
Leone, Freetown, November 2002

Guidelines for School Maintenance Programme, Ministry of Education, Freetown, 2002

National Recovery Strategy ­ Sierra Leone 2002-2003, National Recovery Committee, Freetown,
September 2003

Report of the Public Expenditure Tracking Survey (PETS), Ministry of Finance, July-December 2001,
Freetown, December 2002

Sierra Leone After Elections: Politics as Usual?, Africa Report, ICG, Freetown/Brussels, July 2002

Sierra Leone's Truth and Reconciliation Commission: A Fresh Start?, African Briefing, ICG,
Freetown/Brussels, December 2002




                                                   - 62 -

Additional Annex 8. DDR - TEP Assessment September 2002


An assessment of the TEP component was conducted in September, 2002. It provided the following
conclusions and recommendations:

General Conclusions:

·        "Given the reality of the situation on the ground, it can be said that the NCDDR is largely meeting
its overall objective and is effecting the change it planned for."
·        "Given the socio-economic situation that tends to militate against a facilitating environment, it can
be said that NCDDR is largely achieving its project goals as a consequence of the results achieved."
·        "As a consequence of the activities implemented, NCDDR is largely achieving its social and
economic reintegration result targets."

Specific Conclusions:

·        Partnerships: The NCDDR has developed a remarkably significant number of partnership, but in
some cases has had to accept lesser quality delivery from some of the Implementing Partners given their
limited capacity. NCDDR has tried to invest in capacity building of its partners to improve their
performance.

·        Economic Reintegration: According to the assessment, the NCDDR training programs, which
averaged 6 months in length, were successful in providing the ex-combatants with skills that have resulted
in about half (45.5%) being reintegrated into the economy. Roughly half of those who reported that they
were employed, were working for someone else and the other half was self-employed. When asked how
long it took them to find employment, 44.5% reported that it took less than a month, and over 93 percent
reported being employed for over 12 months. When asked what type of employment they had, the top three
responses were: Petty Trading (30.9%), Carpentry (21.0%) and Tailoring (14.9%). Only 7.2 percent
reported that they were engaged in Agriculture. Not surprisingly, these results are related to types of
training received with 23 percent reporting that they had received Carpentry training, 16.3 percent
Tailoring, 11.5 percent Agriculture. Interestingly, while Auto repair was one of the most popular training
programs, with a 15.3 percent participation rate, only 2.8 percent reported finding employment in this field.
On the other hand, Petty Trading, which was the most common type of employment, was not one of the
training options provided. The training activities are best considered "basic skills development
programmes" rather than apprenticeship or vocational education programmes give the lack of standards
and long-term training inputs. The lack of job opportunities within the economy has stifled job creation,
which is a factor beyond the NCDDR's control.

·        Social Reintegration: The overall conclusion amongst the general populace of Sierra Leone, and
also amongst the ex-combatants themselves, is that social reintegration has taken place. Ex-combatants
have integrated within society and there is little difference between them and other residents of their areas.
One-third of all ex-combatants are currently residing in a place other than that they would prefer and many
would like to return to their areas of origin, or move to new areas. An integral part of social reintegration
must relate to the ex-combatants ability to deal with the trauma of their recent past. Whatever
psycho-social support was made available was insufficient, or it failed to meet the psycho-social needs of
the majority of ex-combatants.




                                                      - 63 -

The assessment summarized the details of its findings in the logframe that follows:

Framework as amended on 02/13/2001
Narrative SummaryPerformance Indicators (OVI)Performance
Overall Objectives
To contribute to national security, reconciliation and development through the reintegration of
ex-combatants into civil society.
Three years after demobilization, 45, 000 Ex-combatants settle in their communities and the majority
participate in civil society and engage in economic activities along with other groups and do not pose
threat to national security
The targeted number of ex-combatants has turned out to be greater than expected
- Ex-combatants have generally settled in their communities, but there are still those who have not
returned to their community of choice (the survey indicates that 31.3% have not returned )
- Some evidence was found in focus groups that they are participating in civil society
- They are no longer posing a discernable threat to national security
- Of the sample interviewed, there are many who have yet to integrate into the economy. (the survey
suggests 57.8%)

Given the reality of the situation on the ground, it can be said that the NCDDR is largely meeting it's
overall objective and is effecting the change it planned for.
Project Goals
To facilitate an environment where ex-combatants have access to counseling, skill acquisition, short-term
employment and other economic opportunities.
Ex-combatants access training, rehabilitation and participate in agriculture and other forms of economic
activities promoted under the DDRP.
- They did access training provided by the NCDDR but 12.5% would, have chosen different opportunities,
should these have been made available to them
- Social rehabilitation programmes appear to be largely absent from the sub-projects of the NCDDR ­
especially in the area of counseling. 54.3% experience regular sleeping difficulties and 95.3% experience
difficulty with dreams.. In addition, 30.8% of quarrel with friends and 22% with their family . Although
some access to rehabilitation was made available, it was either insufficient or it failed to meet the
psychosocial needs of the majority
- Although it is now evident that there is an increasing participation in agricultural activities ­ it has been
insufficiently dealt with and mitigated against a more fuller participation. 30% of the ex-combattants were
farmers before the war, but only 7.8% received some form of agrarian training.
- The NCDDR, apart from its sectoral programmes, has not fully promoted economic activities ­ it has
merely provided the means to engage in economic activities

Given the socio-economic situation that tends to mitigate against a facilitating environment, it can be
said that NCDDR is largely achieving its project goals as consequence of the results achieved.
Result 1
Ex-combatants are socially reintegrated
- Ex-combatants are accepted as active members of their communities
- Ex-combatants participate in community social and traditional events
- Ex-combatants improve their perception of personal security

- Ex-combatants return to their communities of origin or choice
- Ex-combatants are involved in various forms of social activities



                                                     - 64 -

- Social tension and conflict between ex-combatants and their communities reduced

- They have not all returned to their communities of origin and choice (one ­third are currently residing in
a place other than that preferred). The survey conducted shows that many would like to return to areas that
are different to where they currently reside.
- The focus groups indicated that they are participating in social activities. It can be said that social
reintegration at this level has occurred
- Some social tension exists, particularly with unemployed young ex-combatants who have congregated on
the outskirts of Freetown but this is minimal. Inputs from Ingo's working in the Western region would
suggest that there still remains some form of potential instability in the region, in that they are confronted
with greater anger than seen elsewhere in the country.
- They mostly appear to feel personally secure

As a consequence of the activities implemented, NCDDR is largely achieving this result
Result 2
Ex-combatants are economically reintegrated.
- Ex-combatants provided with initial marketable skills.
- Ex-combatants are placed in apprenticeship scheme
- Ex-combatants access at least subsistence income through participation in short-term employment and
training.

- Ex-combatants provided with the capacity and are engaged in training, short-term apprenticeship
employment.
- ex-combatants trained or assisted to obtain initial marketable skills and participate in some subsistence
activities
- ex-combatants assisted to access capital input and toolkits

- In terms of training and apprentiships this is true for almost four-fifth of all ex-combatants and
employment for half of all ex-combatants
- They are trained, although for many it is unlikely that in the near future they will be able to apply these
skills to the market place
- The survey indicates that most are earning some income and/or are able to subsist
- No capital is able to be accessed through the NCDDR
- Most, but not all those surveyed received toolkits - however in some cases these were inappropriate and
in many cases delivered late causing considerable ill-will. (Most, 88.5% claimed they should have
received a toolkit, but only 50.5% said that they did. )

As a consequence of the activities implemented, NCDDR is largely achieving this result, taking into
account the poor economic climate in Sierra Leone

The assessment went on to make the following recommendations:

·        Peace has largely been achieved and it is recommended that NCDDR review its mandate and
         give priority to social and economic reintegration          issues.
·        Administrative processes of the NCDDR should be streamlined and Implementing partners
         should receive more capacity-building especially in financial management.
·        NCDDR should accelerate the scope and depth of agricultural programs.
·        There is a need to improve aftercare and provide implementing agencies with funds to follow-up
after    training.


                                                      - 65 -

·   Office and business training should be added to the menu of choices.
·   There is a need to get some consistency of service provision going through the implementation
    of standards at basic skills levels and relate these to the needs of the labor market.
·   The public works programs and community based works programs should be expanded.
·   Job creation projects which are linked to training projects should be expanded.
·   There is a need to confront the rural-urban drift.
·   There is a need to ensure that ex-combatants have sufficient access to psycho-social
    counseling throughout the country.




                                                 - 66 -

Additional Annex 9. Report on a Pilot Beneficiary Assessment


 REPORT ON A PILOT BENEFICIARY ASSESSMENT OF THE EMERGENCY RECOVERY
                                SUPPORT FUND (ERSF)

                                   CONDUCTED FOR
               THE IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT (ICR) OF
THE COMMUNITY REINTEGRATION AND REHABLITATION PROJECT IN SIERRA LEONE




                                      Prepared by
                            Samuel J Briama, Lead Consultant
                        Sheik Tejan Regers, Associate Consultant


                                     November, 2003




                                         - 67 -

                                       Pilot Beneficiary Assessment
                                              ERSF Component
                                               September 2003

1.0     Introduction

        The Pilot Beneficiary Assessment was carried out to provide inputs into the Implementation
Completion Report (ICR) of the Community Rehabilitation and Reintegration Project (CRRP) implemented
between 2000 and 2003. The objective was to collect information on community/beneficiary perceptions of
the design, implementation and impact of the Emergency Recovery Support Fund (ERSF); a component of
the CRRP. The development objective of the ERSF was the promotion of social and economic revival in
war-affected communities.

        Between 2000-2003, the project funded 269 sub-projects, mostly in rural communities in
agriculture (including livestock, crop production and plantation farming), fishery, education, health, skills
training and employment creation, water and sanitation sectors, mostly in rural communities.

        This survey was conducted between September 28 and October 2, 2003, few days before the ICR
mission to Sierra Leone. Its preliminary findings were validated during the field visits of the mission. This
report explains the survey design, sampling and data collection procedures as well as analysis of findings.
The information here is wholly that obtained from the communities.

1.1     Survey Design

        Primary data was generated from a field study conducted in ten districts The districts were: Bo,
Bonthe, Kambia, Kenema, Moyamba, Port Loko, Pujehun, Tonkolili, Western Area (rural), and Western
Area (urban). based on the administration of a structured questionnaire, which was made of two modules
with similar questions: one for the chiefs and the other for individual inhabitants, who were residing in the
community during the project life.

Each questionnaire elicited information on:

A. Sub project identification and design
B. Sub project implementation
C. General benefits and impact of sub project in the community
D. Sustainability

1.2     Sampling and Data Collection Procedures

        Multi-stage proportional purposive sampling method was used in the selection of the projects.
While the distribution of projects by districts was done across chiefdoms to ensure that the four
administrative areas in the country (Eastern, Northern, and Southern Provinces and the Western Area) were
represented, some districts were not surveyed, namely Bombali, Koinadugu, Kono, and Kailahun. Hence,
the results of the survey are somewhat biased towards the Southern Province and the Western Area. Special
consideration was given to sub-projects in the rural areas while the selection of individuals in
towns/villages/chiefdoms was purely random. Sub-projects were selected from all sectors (see Appendix 2)
.




                                                     - 68 -

        The enumerators selected for fieldwork were college graduates and students who had offered a
project planning and management course and had done field surveys before for NGOs and/or the
Government. The enumerators were trained for two days: Day one training covered an introduction to
project cycle and project document; different types of data collection and sources of data; Day two training
covered customizing the survey instrument and discussion of questionnaire line by line.

        The enumerators were then sent for pre-testing of the questionnaire in groups of three to: Mama
Beach, Songo, Hastings, Mabela, and Grafton. On their return from the field the team discussed the
problems they faced and how they overcame them. The team then revised the questionnaire accordingly.

        Following the pre-testing, the enumerators were sent to the various districts and instructed to
contact NaCSA head offices to identify the specific sub project locations, title and code. All enumerators
were encouraged to administer the questionnaires assigned to them in at most three days. The number of
questionnaires to be assigned was nine per sub-project (total of: 9 x 50 = 450), and the responses were 428
(response rate of 95%).

        The data was captured in Microsoft Access and exported to Statistical Package for Social
Scientists (SPSS) for data cleaning and cross tabulation.

2.0     Analysis of Findings

2.1     General

        Demographic characteristics of respondents is 58% males, 42% females; youths 41% and elderly
59%. (PS this is a self-assessment answer, as birth certificates are not available and often people don't
know their age). (See Table 1a below).




                                                    - 69 -

Table 1a: Distribution of Sample, by District, Gender and Perceived age group

    Districts No.    of   No. of  No.       of Male   %    Fem.    %    Youth   %
              Sub-        Chiefs  individuals                                        Elderly  %
              projects
    Bo                8        7            70   38    54     32   46        34  48      36      52
    Bonthe            4        4            32   20    62     12   38        12  38      20      62
    Kambia            3        3            27   14    52     13   48        13  48      14      52
    Kenema            7        6            56   36    64     20   36        13  23      43      77
    Moyamba           5        5            45   22    49     23   51        15  33      30      67
    Port Loko         6        7            63   38    60     25   40        23  36      40      64
    Pujehun           4        4            36   22    61     14   39        13  36      23      64
    Tonkolili         7        7            63   34    54     29   46        35  55      28      45
    Western           4        3            27   18    67      9   33        11  41      16      59
    Area
    (Rural)
    Western           2        0             9    5    55      4   45         4  45        5     55
    Area
    (Urban)
    TOTAL            50       46          428   247    58    181   42       178  41     255      59




         From the survey, 200 respondents said that they benefited directly from the sub-project (47%),
while 128 were indirect beneficiaries (30%) and 100 said they did not benefit from the sub-project (23%)
(See Table 1b). The table shows that in Bonthe, 73% of the people perceived no benefits from the
sub-project, while in Tonkolili, Kambia, Bo and Western Area the majority of the individuals saw
themselves as direct beneficiaries.

         Of the entire sample, 14% were former combatants. The participants perceived that NaCSA and
Implementing Partners (IPs) identified about 36% of sub-projects reflective of government's specific
intervention in strategic areas such as provision of social services in say, Kambia. The disarmament and
demobilization started in Kambia. It was the first inaccessible area declared safe. Consequently, donors,
NGOs and the GOSL wanted some presence in the district. Those identified by the community and village
chiefs were about 40%. This result is buttressed by the 87% positive response of the sample that the
project's designed and implemented reflected the community's priority. The sample shows that the
community development committee was more involved in the design and implementation of the project than
other groups.




                                                     - 70 -

Table 1b: Perception of Benefits to Community (in percentage, by district)

                District                                           Perceptions
                                             Directly               Indirectly           Not Benefited
Bo                                                        56                    21                     23
Bonthe                                                    16                    11                     73
Kambia                                                    70                    30                      0
Kenema                                                    21                    58                     21
Moyamba                                                   49                    13                     38
Port Loko                                                 41                    41                     18
Pujehun                                                   16                    42                     42
Tonkolili                                                 79                    16                      5
Western Area (Rural)                                      52                    33                     15
Western Area (Urban)                                      67                    33                      0
Total                                                     47                    30                     23




         There is solid indication that the projects targeted the vulnerable (see Table 2 below). The groups
which were mentioned as the most targeted were Women (404), Children (400) and Poor (384). The
groups which were perceived as least targeted by the sub-projects were: Disabled (244) and Unemployed
(206). By cross-checking the answers to the "Least" and to the "Most" categories, one finds a strong
correlation/consistency with the group Poor, greater than that with the Children and Women groups.

Table 2. Perception about Socio-economic group targeted the most,
(by gender and chiefs response)

                                  MALE                   FEMALE                CHIEF
                             Most Partial  Least   Most   Partial Least Most   Partial Least
                   Children  247    85      86      127     43     11     32     5      9
                   Disabled  171    86      171     90      36     55     18    10      18
                    Poor     247    128     43      109     61     11     28     9      9
                Unemployed   172    128     128     90      36     55     23    10      13
                   Women     247    86      85      127     43     11     28     9      9



         Evidence from data supports some elements of community participation in implementation since
the village chief, village committee, women, youths and the unemployed were considered in the
implementation of the project.

         More than 90% of the respondents confirmed that there was a contribution of unskilled labor to the
sub-project, while 80% of the respondents confirmed that there was a community contribution in the form
of local materials. The contribution was limited in terms of Monitoring and Evaluation, Procurement
Services and Financial Management.

         Table 3 below reveals that the majority of the sample (60% of the individuals, and 70% of the
chiefs) perceive that sub-projects had all components fully implemented. Those who dissented (all
components were not fully implemented) form a reasonable proportion (40% of the individuals, and 30% of
the chiefs): a cause for concern. For sub-projects not to have all components fully implemented might be
linked to the weak capacity of IPs, and, or inadequate supervision by NaCSA.




                                                       - 71 -

Table 3: Perception about whether all components of projects were fully implemented
(and percentages on respondents)

                                               YES                            NO
                      MALE                      148             60             99             40
                    FEMALE                      109             60             72             40
                      Total                     257             60            171             40

                      CHIEF                     32              70             14             30



Table 5b shows the proportion of respondents who rated the sub-projects as beneficial. Less than a third
rated the benefits as highly satisfactory while 36% considered it satisfactory. About 20% rated the benefits
as poor and 13.8% as fair This poor rating could be ascribed to the fact that there were inadequate
complementary supports to make facilities functional. For example, a school without learning materials and
teachers or a clinic without drugs and staff. This is generally the limitation of Social Fund implemented by
separate institutions outside the mainstream ministries.

Table 5b. Opinion about benefits of Sub-Projects

                                                Frequency                  Percent
                Highly Satisfactory                                 124                 29.0
                Satisfactory                                        156                 36.4
                Fair                                                 59                 13,8
                Poor                                                 89                 20.8



          Tables 6a,b and c illustrates that the capacity of the sampled communities to sustain the
sub-project is fairly good. This is not surprising because after loosing all basic infrastructures, whatever
little is available will be handled with dexterity. That is,the war has taught communities to value public
property. Besides, since the communities were involved in the design and implementation, it borders on a
good number of community members to see the project succeed- this might be in tune with the involvement
of the Community development committee.

          This illustrates that some communities have the capacity to manage facilities. Table 6b portends
that these communities have the likelihood to maintain output. Table 6c illustrates that the sampled
communities have knowledge of the following strategies -: Maintenance Committee, Community/
Household contribution and User-fees. The acceptance of community/household contribution and user fees
reflects some willingness to pay for a certain facility instead of go without it.

Table 6a :Opinion about Management of Facilities by communities.

                                                Male              Female                Chief
         Very well                                    42                      34                  7
         Well                                         47                      51                  5
         Well but could be improved                   89                      53                19
         Poorly managed                               45                      26                  7
         Don't Know                                   12                      17                  8




                                                      - 72 -

Table 6b: Sample opinion about maintenance of output by Communities.

                                     Male            Female                Chief
                  YES                        147            120                       27
                  NO                         100             61                       19



         Table 6c reveals that communities are being sensitized about the need to maintain facilities. The
critical challenge therefore is for Project Implementation Units to facilitate the establishment of
maintenance arrangements and provide assistance for implementing such strategies.

Table 6c : Perception of Maintenance strategy

                                                      Male             Female               Chief
              Community/
              Household
              Contribution                                        41                   35                 8
              Maintenance
              Committee                                           62                   41                11
              Revolving
              Arrangement                                         12                    6                 2
              User Fees                                           26                   27                 5
              Not applicable                                     106                   72                20




2.2      Chiefs Perception

         From the survey, 8.7% of the sampled chiefs in the sub-project areas were females and
coincidentally 8.7% of the sample are youths. Approximately, 2/3 of the sampled chiefs claim direct benefit
while almost 24% claimed no benefit. The chiefs perceived that the community and themselves identified
about 33% of the projects. They also purported that the chiefdom development committee was mostly
involved in the design and implementation. They also confirmed that the target beneficiaries were the
vulnerable.

         In terms of local contribution, unskilled labour was the greatest community contribution while little
or no contribution was made to M & E, Financial Management and procurement/contracting services. This
should be expected as NGOs undertake all these activities.

         The chiefs also intimated that for about 1/3 of the sub-projects, not all components were fully
implemented. Their overall impression about NaCSA and IP support is encouraging. The chiefs also
believed that the ERSF projects aided community rehabilitation, reconciliation and in some cases
reintegration of ex-combatants. The evidence that ERSF projects helped in job creation and an
improvement in quality service delivery implies that the project met its objective.

         There is some evidence that the communities can manage the facilities and maintain output.




                                                     - 73 -

2.3      Men's Perception

         Out of the total sample of men interviewed, 39% were youth. In this sample of men, 20% were
combatants and 26% of the inhabitants did not benefit at all from the sub-projects implemented in their
communities.

         Half of the projects were identified by the village chief, community and descendants and the third
by NaCSA and IPs. The men also perceived that the sub-projects undertaken were their priorities and as
such it is not surprising that the data reveals involvement of village chiefs, women, youth and community
development committee in design and implementation. Like the chiefs, the sample of men support the view
that the project targeted the vulnerable in their communities. Unskilled labour, provision of local materials
were the main inputs contributed with little/no contribution in terms of M & E, Procurement Services and
Financial Management. The men also believe that in a reasonable number of projects all components were
fully implemented with slight implementation difficulties. This sample was satisfied with NaCSA and IP
support.

Though the conflict severely affected the sampled communities the projects greatly helped in rehabilitation,
resettlement and reintegration of ex-combatants.

2.4      Women's Perception

         The sample of women reveal that 42% of them were youth and over ¾ of them benefited (directly
48% and indirectly 32%) from the projects. 5% of the women interviewed were combatants.

         The women believed that 40% of the projects were identified by NaCSA and IPs and the village
chief, community and descendants identified about 50%. Thus the projects were considered as their
priorities and they were mostly involved in the implementation and design. They also claim that the
sub-projects, to a large extent, targeted children, disabled, unemployed and women.

         Evidence from the sampled women collaborate those of the chiefs and men in terms of local
contribution of the communities ­ unskilled labour, local materials and little/no contribution in terms of M
& E Procurement Services and Financial Management. The women also perceived that implementation
problems were minimal. They were more satisfied with IP support than NaCSA support. This is not
surprising since the IPs are in closer contact with the communities than NaCSA

         They also believed that the ERSF project aided rehabilitation, resettlement and reintegration of
ex-combatants. They are also of the opinion that the sub-projects created jobs and a large proportion of the
community benefited from the projects. They considered quality of service delivered by the project good.
Their view of management of facilities and output maintenance was satisfactory. They considered the
maintenance committee as the best strategy for the sustainability of the projects.

3.0      Conclusions and recommendations

         Survey data produced a good picture of the sampled ERSF sub-projects. On balance, communities
expressed satisfaction that the ERSF was initiated to rebuild their communities.

         Overall, community involvement in design and implementation was limited. NGOs had limited
consultation with communities on sub-project. This could as a result of the fact communities were resettling
and the NGOs themselves were eager to be in business.


                                                      - 74 -

        The limited involvement of communities and the absence of maintenance arrangement may impair
the sustainability of the sub-projects. The challenge therefore is for Government to continue to sensitize
communities and facilitate the establishment of maintenance systems. In the case of schools, the newly
established School Management Committees (SMCs) can be used for maintenance of facilities. The Village
Development Committees (VDCs) and the District Health Management Teams (DHMT) can play key role
in maintenance of the health units. The early reintroduction of user fees in health care delivery can also
help.




                                                    - 75 -

Appendix 1

COMMUNITY REINTEGRATION AND REHABILITATION PROJECT
(Emergency Recovery Support Fund)
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
Community/Beneficiary Survey

II. Interview to Village Chief/Community Members

    General

1.      Sub-project Title ...............................................
2.      Sub-project Code ..............................................
3.      Location:        Village/Town...............          Chiefdom.............District.........
4.      Type of sub-project
        -       Agric./Food        -        1         -       Comm.Infras/bridges-            11.
        -       Agric./Tree.      -2        -         Comm.Infras/barrays-            12
        -       Agric/Livestock-            3         -       Comm. Infras/Market- 13
        -       Agric/Fishery      -        4         -       Comm.Infras/Roads-              14
-       -Agric/Forestry-5          -        Skills Dev        -               15
-       Agric/infrastruture-       6        -         Health/CHC-                     16
        -       Education/Primary-          7         -       Health/CHP-                     17
                Education/Sec. -            8         -       Health/MCP-                     18
        -       Education/Tech. Voc-        9         -       Health/water-                   19
        -       Education/Colleges-         10        -       Health/sanitation-              20

5.      Gender Male -1             Female -           2
6.      Age     Less than or 35 years - 1                     Above 35 years -        2
7.      How did you benefit from the project:
            -   Directly1
            -   Indirectly         2
            -   Not benefited      3
     8. Were you a combatant:
            -   Yes      1
            -   No       2

A.      Sub-Project Identification and Design

A.1 - Who identified the sub-project
            -   Implementing partner        -         1
            -   NaCSA              -        2
            -   Ministry                    -         3
            -   The community -             4
            -   Village chief               -         5
            -   Descendants                 -         6
            -   Others, (specify)           -         7                       -
                ......................................
                .....................................


                                                       - 76 -

A.2 - Do you think this sub-project was actually the priority need of the community?
           -    Yes      -      1
           -    No       -      2

A.3 - Which of the following categories of people were actively engaged in the design of
      the sub-project

                 Categories                      Involvement -1 most, 5 least
                 Village chief
                Women
                Ex- combatants
                Chiefdom Development
                Committee
                Youths
                 Others, specify

A.4 - Which of the following categories of people the project has targeted the most

                 Categories                        Targeted - 1 most, 6 least
                 Poor
                Women
                Children
                Disabled
                Unemployed
                 Others, specify

B.     Implementation

B.1 - Which of the following categories of people was involved in the implementation of the sub-project

                 Categories                        Involvement
                                                   1 most, 5 least
                 Women
                Youth
                Ex- combatants
                Unemployed
                Village/Chiefdom Dev.
                Committee
                 Others, specify

B.2 - What was the contribution of the community (can select more than one)
                                                                   Yes             No
           -    providing unskilled labor                  ...     1               2
           -    providing skilled labor           ...      1                2
           -    procurement/contracting services...        1                2
           -    Monitoring and Evaluation services         ...     1               2



                                                   - 77 -

            -   Financial management services ...          1                 2
            -   providing local materials                  ...      1                 2
            -   storing materials                          ...      1                 2
            -   tools                                      ...      1                 2
            -   food for the workers                       ...      1                 2
            -   cash contribution                          ...      1                 2

B.3 - Was there any community training activity associated with the project
            -   Yes     -        1 If Yes specify ..............................................
            -   No      -        2

B.4 - Were all components implemented
       -        Yes     -        1
       -        No      -        2

B.5    Were there major implementation problem

       -        Yes     -        1
       -        No      -        2

B.6    If yes in B.5, please rank the difficulties faced during implementation (1 meaning
       most and 9 Least)
         -      Not followed the original plan                      ......
         -      Lack of qualified skills                            ......
         -      Lack of materials                                            .......
         -      People did not do the work they were paid for       .......
         -      Poor management by the NGO/Implementing partner......
         -      Poor participation of community                     .......
         -      Poor support from NaCSA and others                  .......
         -      Procedures too complicate                                    .......
         -      Too much reporting                                           .......
-      Others, specify
B.7    What can you say about support from NaCSA?

-      Highly satisfactory                -         1
-      Satisfactory                       -         2
-      Unsatisfatory                      -         3
-      I do not know                      -         4
B.8    What can you say about support from the Implementing Partner (NGO)

-      Highly satisfactory                -         1
-      Satisfactory                       -         2
-      Unsatisfatory                      -         3
       -        I do not know                       -      4

C. Benefits and Impact (General)

C.1 - To what extent your community was affected by the conflict
       -        Very severely    -        1


                                                     - 78 -

        -       Severely         -        2
        -       Lesser extent - 3
C.2 - What affected your community the most?
        -       Destruction of infrastructures     -      1
        -       Displacement of people -           2
        -       Loss of human lives                -      3
        -       Others (specify)...........        -      4

C.3 - Would you say that the sub-project has helped the rehabilitation of the community, and its
reconciliation?
         -      Yes very much -           1
         -      Yes                       -        2
         -      No                        -        3
         -      I don't know              -        4

C.4 - Did the sub-project help the reintegration of ex-combatants?
        -       Yes              -                        1
        -       No               -                        2
-       There was no problem of reintegration
                of ex-combatants                          3

C.5 - What can you say about the benefits of the sub-project?
             -  highly satisfactory       -        1
             -  satisfactory              -        2
             -  fair                      -        3
             -  poor                      -        4
             -  very poor                 -        5


C.6 ­ Were jobs created during the implementation of this sub-project?

        -       Yes              -        1
        -       No               -        2



C.8 - What is your opinion of the quality of the services provided (education, health,
        water and sanitation, road and other infrastructure, training, etc.,)
             -  very good        -        1
             -  good             -        2
             -  fair             -        3
             -  poor             -        4

D.      Sustainability

D.1         What can you say about the management of the facility?

             -  Very well                          -      1
             -  Well                               -      2
             -  Well, but could be improved        -      3


                                                    - 79 -

       -    Poorly managed       -        4
       -    I don't know                  -       5

D.2    Can the community continue to maintain the output of this sub-project?
            -       Yes          -        1
            -       No           -        2

D.3  If yes, how ?

    -       User fees                             -       1
    -       Community/household contribution      -       2
-   Revolving arrangement        -        3
-   Maintenance committee        -        4
-   Not Applicable               -        99




                                           - 80 -

  Appendix 2.
  CRRRP (ERSF) ­ Community/Beneficiary Survey ­ Distribution Of Sub-Projects by District

District             Agriculture  Community    Fishery  Health Sanitation Schools Skills Water Totals
                                  Integration
Bo                           2                               1                  2      3           8
Bonthe                       2                                                         2           4
Kambia                                       1                                  2                  3
Kenema                       1               1               2                  1      1    1      7
Moyamba                      1               1       1       1                         1           5
Port Loko                    1                       1       1                  3                  6
Pujehun                                      1               1                         2           4
Tonkolili                    3               1                          1       2                  7
Western Area (Rural)         1                       1                                 2           4
Western Area
(Urban)                                                      1                         1           2

Totals                      11               5       3       7          1     10     12     1     50




                                                 - 81 -

- 82 -

