mum mum a maussma  mmsaurs ma mammanssau
E- 299
..                                      a          a
Government of Malawi                     :
Ministry of Works and Supplies
The Preliminary
Economic & Technical Feasibility Study
of the
Road Maintenance & Rehabilitation Program                         a
a          a
r:   #rr                         U           a tEepDj    
part r  Environmentaf Issues for the Road
S ector                        .
SNI IC I NTI.IRNATI 0 NAI PTY I MI T EI    *    3 
ir, associatiorl with-                       a
July 1 99E                       *          a
a..,
SNIEC:aZZJ--Z--=.----wZs-i--J-5--s---s--^"-A |
.   .  .   .~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
SX[ ITRNXIONI T  JNIL)aa
.                           .     .   .  .   .   .~~~~~~~
*a-----------------w----------!-a--U--U






Ilaiai,wsp-i  oKtVor and Suvplws      Prehnminan Economic and Technical Feasibzru Sziuao
sa  .tfzn encn~ce anid Reihabiluatior 0rcraPr                Final Reoor:
,,W/SMEC    International Pth. Ltd.
THE PRELIMINARY ECONOMIC AND TECHN'ICAL FEASIBILITY' STUIDY
OF ROAD MAINTENANCE AND REHABILITATION PROGRAM
(ROMARP)
The MinistrY of Wo.ks and Supplies commissioned SMEC International to undertake this World
Banlk funded Stud\ between Februarv and Julx 1998. This is the Final Report of the Study and
follo\\s or; from the Draft Final Report and comments received thereon.
This Final Report comprises:
PART A - EXECUTIVE SUMMARY
AN'NEEXES TC) THE EXECTIVTE SUMMARY
P>AR T B - ROAD MAINTENANCE, REHABILITATION AND UPGR-ADLNG PROGR!AM
I MAINTENANCE. REHABILITATION AND UPGRADING
2 ROAD SECTIONS 1N THE STUDY
S ECONOMIC CRITERIA AND METHODOLOGY
4 ML LIT-CPJTERIA AND METHODOLOGY
S ROAD AGENCY COSTS
6 HDM III APPLICATiON
, MAINTENANCE AND REHABILITATION OF BITUMEN ROADS
8 MAINTENANCE. REHABILITATIbN AND UPGRADING OF UNPAVED TRUINK ROADS
9 M1AINTENANCE. REHABILITATION AND UPGRADING OF FEEDER ROADS
i 0 DRAINAGE. FLOODING AND WATERWAY CROSSINGS
I P f'ROPOSED ROAD W ORKS ENVIRONMENTAL EFFECTS.ASSESSMENT
PAR'T'C - ENVIRONMENTAL ISSUES FOR THE ROAD SECTOR
iINT RODLCTION'
HISTORICAL PERSPECTIVE
'3ENVIRONMENTAL LEGISLATION 'NMALAWI
4 ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT ASSESSMENT IN MALAWI
5 ENVIRONAMENTAL INIPACT ASSESSMENT REQUIREMENTS IN THE ROAD SECTOR
0 ROAD SECTOR ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT ASSESSMENT PROCESS
F !ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT IN THE NRA
S ENVIRO}NMENTAL AWARENESS EDUCATION AND TRAIN'ING
9 ROAD SECTOR ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT ASSESSMENT AND MITIGATION
10. REFERENCES AND FURTHER READING
PART D - OTHER REVIEWS AND OUTPUTS
I ECONOMIC MONITORING INDICATORS
' FOLLOW-UP PROGRAM OF ACTION
S MOWS ROAD DATA COLLECTION MANUAL
4NATURAL ROAD MAKING MATERIALS
SNIUC International                                           Frontispiece
F:na: cpor. No 58402






(0%SMEC  International Pty. Ltd.
THLE PRELIMINARY ECONOMIC AND TECHNICAL FEASIB[LITY STUDY
OF THE ROAD MAIN'TENANCE AND REHABILITATION PROGRAM
(ROMARP)
Final Report - Report No. 58402
DOCUMENT CONTROL SHEET
Preparation and check:
This docurnent was prepared by Stud) Team Members under the guidance and leadership of
the Study Team Leader who finalised this document. This final version is based on the Draft
Final Report and comrnents thereon by the Task Force. World Bank. Department Of
Environmental Affairs. the workshop that discussed the Draft Report and SMEC intemal
reviewers.
Name: John Wid4up Position: Study Team Leader.
Signature: ...... ..C.....  ...      ..................   Date: 26 July 1998.
Each sections of this document was reviewed by at least one Study Team member and the
document as a whole was reviewed bv:
Name: Tim Winn Positio,: transport Economist.
Signature: ..               i.Date: 26 July 1998.
ISSUE A.ND REV'ISION RE(ISTER
'No. and Date Delivered
Final Report         I
No  Date Delivered   Signed.  No. Date             Signed
i Delivered to           .   or Sent                   _    l
MOWS                   20  27 July 1998                     _ 9_ l
W'orld Bank            2   27 Julv 1998        iL;)
SMEC H&T Cooma         2   27 July 1998   l                     _        _      -
SMEC Sydnev             1   28 July, 1998   T     L    =
SMEC Librarv Cooma   1   28 JulN 1998           3          .
SMEC Africa             I   28 July 1998    _                             _ l
SMEC Malawi             1   28 July 1998      xy 
Bua Eneineerine         1   28 July 1998    _
Studv Team Members   5   28 July 1998
K                                ___                  












Malawi Mznistrv of Ff orks and Supplies  Part C- Environmental Issues for the Road Sector
Road Marntenance and Rehabilitation! Project
PART C
EN\IRONMEN'TAL ISSUES FOR THE ROAD SECTOR
TABLE OF CONTENTS
1. INTRODUCTION ................... . . .   .      .     .     1
2. ESTORICAL PERSPECTIVE .
3. ENVIRONMENTAL LEGISLATION IN MALAWI. 
3.1 THE ENVIRONMENT MANAGEMENT ACT .
3.2 OTHER LTGISLATION.                                       3
4. ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT ASSESSMENT IN MALAWl       .4
5. THE ENVIRONMENTAL ASSESSMENT REQUIREMENTS IN THE ROAD SECTOR  .6
6. ROAD SECTOR ENVIRONMEN'TAL IMPACT ASSESSMENT PROCESS  .8
6.1 THE NEED FOR A PROCESS               .8
6.2 PROCESS ADMINISTRATION               .9
6.3 KEY PLAYERS IN THE PROCESS                               9
7. ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT TN THE NRA .                       0
7.1 AN ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT UNIT .10
7.2 AN EN`VIRONMENTAL REVIEW COMMITTFEE .13
8. ENVIRONMENTAL AW'ARENESS EDUCATION AND TRAINING .13
9. THE ROAD SECTOR ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT ASSESSMENT AND MITIGATION .15
9.1 ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT PLAN FOR THE ROAD SECTOR .15
9.2 ROAD SECTOR ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT REVIEW PROCESS .15
9.3 PRIVATE ROAD DEVELOPERS .19
9.4 COMMUNITY PARTICIPATION .19
9.5 ROAD SECTOR ENVIRONMENTAL REVIEW GUIDELINES .           21
9.6 ENVIRONMENTAL MITIGATION PROVISIONS IN ROAD WORK CONTRACTS .21
10. REFERENCES AND FURTHER READING.                           2
APPENDIX A - LEGISLATION WITH AN IMPACT ON THE ENVIRONMENTAL ASPECTS OF
THE ROAD SECTOR
APPENDIX B - PROJECTS REQUIRING AN ENVIRONMENTAL IMACT ASSESSMENT
REPORT
APPENDIX D - TERMS OF REFERENCE FOR THE ENVIRONMENTAL REVIEW
COMMITTEE
APPENDIX E - EN\IRONMENTAL ASSESSMENT REVIEW^- REPORT FORMS
APPENDIX F - MODEL TERMS OF REFERENCE FOR UNDERTAKING AN EIA
APPENDIX G - CONTRACT CONDITIONS FOR ENVIRONMENTAL EFFECTS MITIGATION
APPENDIX H - IMPLEMENTATION REQUIREMENTS, TIMETABLE AND BUDGET
APPENDIX I - ROAD SECTOR GUIDELINES FOR ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT ASSESSMENT
SMEC International                                       Part C Page i
Final Draft Report No 58402,'2






Malavi AMlnzststJ of Uorks and Supplies                Par; C- Environmental Issues for the Road Sector
Road Alaintenance and Rehabilitation Project
1. INTRODUCTION
This Part C of the Final Report for this Preliminary Study provides advice and guidance on the
requirements for environmental impact assessment and mitigation in the road sector in Malawi. The
environment includes the physical and human environments as the! relate to and are affected by the
road sector.
In recent vears the legislative and administrative requirements for environmental impact assessment
and mitigation in Malaui has changed dramaticallN. especially its application to the road sector. The
initial sections of this Part discusses the context in which the road sector now operates including the
current legislative and administrative framework. The following sections discuss how the road sector
can address these requirements and minimise the potential environment impact.
2. HISTORICAL PERSPECTIVrE
The recent drive to set up an operational environmental impact assessment process (EIA) in Malawi
began just prior to the 1992 United Nations Conference on the Environment (UINCED).  The
international focus at this conference was "Global Sustainable Development" and the environmental
impact assessment process was seen as a sipnificant tool to realise this goal. This theme was taken up
in Malawi.  Prior tp 1992 there was no legislated environmental impact assessment process.
However. since then the following key actions have been undertaken:
*  February 1994. Malawi prepared its first National Environmental Action Plan (NEAP) and
District Environment Action Plans (DEAPs);
•  August 1996 the Environment Management Act (EMA) was enacted creating the legislative
basis upon which environmental impact assessment is to be undertaken: and
•  December 1997 the Environmental Impact Assessment Guidelines were issued giving
guidance to the process.
Nowv Malawi has a legislative framework for the assessment and mitigation of environmental impacts
of prOJects. The road sector should abide (and is required to)by the spirit and requirements of this
framework.
Prior to the EMA being enacted in August 1996. there was no legal or administrative frarnework
covering the requirements for EIAs or their implementation. This sometimes resulted in avoidable
social and environmental impacts that could have been avoided. Examples in the road sector include
un-rehabilitated borrow pits and works storm water being directed onto adjoiningfmlands-and
villages resulting in silting and, in some cases, extensive flooding). To-date -a number of government
departments have undertaken environmental impact assessments although, in many instances, these
have not been comprehensive. Most of these assessments have been completed in response to the
requirements of donor agencies and to meet the legal obligation for environmental assessment. For
example, the National Parks and Wildlife Act has for some time required a Wildlife Impact
Assessment if there is reason to believe a proposed activity will have an adverse effect on wildlife.
An important factor influencing the past and present environmental impact assessment practice in
Malawi, appears to be the apparent lack of environmental awareness and appreciation that,
environmental assessment can assist in realising long-term, economic development. The time and
cost involved in making an assessment has meant that extensive assessments have not been
undertaken unless required and paid for by donors.
SMEC International                                                               Part C Page I
Final Report No. 58402



I
Part C- Environmental Issues for the Road Sector             Malawi Ministrv of Wforks and Supplies
Road Maintenance and Rehabilitation Project
3. ENVIRONMEN'TAL LEGISLATION IN MALAWI
Legislation that impacts directl) upon the road sector environmental impact assessment and
mitigation is included in the following acts:
*  Environment Management Act;
* Forestry Act;
*  National Parks and Wildlife Act;
*  Fisheries and Conservation Act;
*  Water Resources Act;
*  Local Government Act;
*  Land Act;
*  Land Acquisition Act:
*  Town Planning Act, and
*  Agriculture Act.
The effects of this legislation on the road sector are discussed in this Section.
3.1 THE ENVIRONMENT MANAGENENT ACT
The Environment Management Act (EM9A), passed in August 1996, is a legislative framework that
makes provision for "the protection and management of the environment and the conservation and
sustainable utilization of natural resources and for matters connected therewith and incidental
thereto". The EMA establishes a process of environmental review and has precedence over other
legislation where approvals may be required or licences are required under other Acts. Section 7 of
the EMA establishes that where there are inconsistencies with other Acts, in respect to protection and
management of the environment, the Environmental Management Act will prevail to the extent of the
inconsistency. The EMA applies to all sectors and is designed to address the environmental issues
associated with a wide range of development projects.
One aim of the EMA is to prevent government departments and Authorities operating independently
and provide (through the Technical Committee on the Environment (TCE) set up by the Act) a co-
ordinated "whole government" approach to environment protection with all relevant government
departments playing an active role. To this end, the Department of Environmental is now addressing
the institutional weaknesses that have affected the environmental impact assessment process. With
the support of the World Bank, it provided training courses in 1997 for the TCE and EIA practitioners
and has an on-going program of environmental education (although its activities are restricted by
resource constraints).
The Environment Management Act comprises 13 parts addressing a wide range of environmental
manaaement maners. The key parts in relation to the environmental impact assessment process and
the road sectors are:
a  Part 11 General Principles   -  establishes the principles upon which environmental
management in Malawi are based;
*  Part III Administration - establishes the National Council for the Environment (NCE), the
Technical Committee on the Environment (TCE), and the District Development committees
(DDC) and the District Environment Officers (DEO): and
*  PartV Environmental Impact Assessment, Audits and Monitoring - establishes the legislative
framework for the environmental impact assessment (ETA) in Malawi
Par: C Page 2                                                              SMEC International
Final Report No. 58402



Afalawt Ainistnr of Works and Supplies                   Part C- Environmental Issues for tfhe Road Sector
Road Maintenance and Rehabihitarion project
Table I provides a brief summary of the kev sections of the EMA applicable to assessment and
mitigation of the environmental impacts of road projects.
Table 1 - Key Sections Of The EMA Applicable To Assessment Of Environmental Lffects
LENMA Section                                  Effect of Provision
5         States as an objective that every person shall have the right to a clean and
healthv environment and provides the right of appeal to the High court of
Malawi where environmental harm is being caused.
7         Provides, where inconsistencies with other Acts exist with respect to the
protection and management of the environment, that the EMA prevails to the
extent of the inconsistencx.
10         Provides for the establishment of a National Council for the Environment
(NEC) comprising a Chairman appointed by the President and various
Ministerial Secretaries.
16         Provides for the establishment of a Technical Committee on the Environment
(TCE) comprising 10 to 20 members (with the Director of Environmental
Affairs as its Secretary'). The Committee has a range of responsibilities
including recommending to the National Council for the Environment, the
criteria, standards and guidelines for environmental control and regulation.
24(1)       Allows the Minister. by notice in the Gazette. to specifi the types and sizes of
projects that shall not be implemented unless an ELA is carried out. This list
was gazetted in June 1998 (refer to Appendix B of this Part C). It is also
included in the road sector environmental assessment guidelines prepared as
part of this Study (see the Appendix I to this Part C). The list includes
'construction of newk highways and feeder road", the extraction of soil. sand
gravel and rock, blastine operations and projects that have a potential effect on
environmentallv sensitive areas.
25(3)       Provides that EIA reports shall be available for public inspection and
comment.
26(l)       Recuires the Director of Environmental Affairs, upon receipt of the EIA. to
invite written or oral comments from the public.
SoUrce Environmental Management Act 1996
3.2 OTHER LEGISLATION
A summarn of the other legislation that has a potential effect on the environmental impact and
mitigation assessment in the road sector is given in Appendix A to this Part C. The main items of
significance to the road works are:
The Forest and National Parks and Wildlife Act:
•  recognises that roads can have a deleterious impact upon forests, parks and wildlife.
•  identifies that an EIA should form part of road planning and construction where forests, parks
or vvildlife may be affected: and
*  identifies that inter-sector liaisons as a means of ensuring the road construction, maintenance
and resultant traffic does not have adverse environmental impacts.
Legislation for the Fisheries and Water Sectors:
* do not specificallk identify the road sector as having adverse impacts on the fisheries and
water sectors; but
*  they identifV environmental impacts that roads could exacerbate and that must be considered
SMEC International                                                                 Part C Page 3
Final Report No. 58402



I
?ari C- Environmental Issues for the Road Sector              Malawi Ministry of Works and Supplies
Road AMaintenance and Rehabilitation Project
in the EIA process. including pollution, erosion, siltation, alteration of river flow and fouling
of the water.
The Land Act, Town and Country Planning Act and Agriculture Act:
* these Acts address and seek to control issues that affect and are affected by the road sector:
but
*  they do not provide specific controls or policy initiatives to deal with the envirornmental
impact assessment of road works.
4. ENVIRONMENTAL Ir ACT ASSESSMENT IN MALAWI
The Environmental Affairs Department is responsible for the environmental impact assessment
process in Malawi. The process is established by the Environmental Management Act (EMA) and set
:)ut the Guidelines For Environmental Impact Assessment (GEIA) (reference Government of Malawi
1997). The process involves a number of requirements and stages as discussed in this Section.
The following definitions, given in the EMA, are important to an understanding of the assessment
process:
* Environment means the physical factors of the surroundings of the human being including
land. water, atmosphere, climate, sound, odour, taste, and biological factors of fauna and
flora, and includes the cultural. social and economic aspects of human activity, the natural
and the built environment.
*  Environmental impact assessment (EIA) means a systematic evaluation of a project to
determine its impact on the environment and the conservation of natural resources.
* Environmental impact assessment report means the report to be completed when assessing
the environmental impact a project will have on the environment. (As required under Section
25( I ) of the EMA).
* Biological diversity means the variability among living organisms from all sources including,
among other things. terrestrial, marine and other aquatic ecological systems and the ecological
complexes. of which they are part, and includes diversity within or between species and of
ecosvstems.
* Project means a development activity or proposal that has or is likely to have an impact on
the environment.
* Developer means any person who has proposed to implement or has undertaken a project in
the public or private sector.
Under the provisions of the EMA Section 24(2), a developer is required to prepare an environmental
.project brief' for projects that have, or are likely to have, potential impact on the environment. To
enable the developers to decide which projects fall into this category a list of so called "prescribed
projects" was gazetted in June 1998. (see Appendix B to this Part C). This lists the types of projects
that require an environmental assessment brief to be sent to the Director of Envioroiiental Affairs for
determination if a full comprehensive EIA study and report is required.
In December 1997, the Malawi Environmental Affairs Department (EAD) produced the Guidelines
for Environmental Impact Assessment (GEIA). The aim of this document is to facilitate compliance
with the requirements of the EMA and to foster consideration of environmental effects of projects,
carried out by developers, both private and public. The Guidelines include:
Par- C Page 4                                                               SMEC International
Fina) Rcpont No. 58402



Alalaw i, Xfnisrrv of Works and Supplies                 Part C- Environmental Issues for the Road Sector
Road- Alainlenance and Reihabilhtatron Project
*  a lists of activities for which formal environmental impact assessments (ELA) must be
undertaken (nov, superseded by the gazetted list of "prescribed projects" given in Appendix B
to this Part C).
*  the pre-requisites for effective ElAs;
*  an outline the formal EIA process:
*  the detailed roles and responsibiities of different stakehoiders in the EIA process;
*  the format of the EIA reports;
*  criteria for the evaluating adequacy of EIA reports; and
*  a list of legislation with environmental and natural resource provisions.
The general process for the administration of the environmental impact assessment is shown in Figure
1. It involves:
*  First the developer must decide if the proposed project is a "prescribe project" or not. If it is not.
then a full EIA report is not required and the organisation that issues the licence for the project to
proceed ("licensing authority") submits a copy of the licence to the Director of Environmental
Affairs (DEA). The DEA could. at that stage. decide that the project is a "prescribed project".
*  If the project is a "prescribed project". the developer produces a project environmental brief
(described below after Figure I ) and submits it to the DEA. Then the DEA determines whether a
full EIA report is required.
*  If a full EIA  report is not required, the DEA  approves the proiect subject to specified
environmental managzement recommendations.  These are given to the developer who may
proceed on the basis of the recommendations.
*  When a full EIA study and report is required (for all or part of the project). the developer
undertakes the study and produce the report.  The report is delivered to the DEA  for
consideration.
' Then the EIA report is reviewed and the DEA makes a decision to accept the project, recommend
redesign of the project to make it acceptable or to reject the project. If the project is rejected. the
developer may appeal the decision to the Environmental Appeals Tribunal.
•   Wk'hen the EIA report is accepted, a certificate is issued by the DEA giving permission to proceed
under specified terms and conditions. The developer may then proceed (subject to all other
required approvals and licences) in accordance with the requirements. The project will be audited
b\ the DEA to ensure the terms and conditions are met.
The project env ironmental brief delivered to the DEA for all "prescribed projects" should state in a
concise manner:
*  a description of the project,
*  the activities to be undertaken in the implementation of the project;
*  the likely impact of the activities on the environment;
*  the number of people to be emploved for the purpose of implementing the project;
*  the segment or segments of the environment likely to be affected in the implementation of the
project; and
*  such other matters as the Director of Environmental Affairs may in writing require from the
developer or any person who the Director reasonably believes has information relating to the
project.
The process for environmental assessment in the Act and Guidelines is not specifically directed at the
road sector and does not provide guidance for environmental assessment of projects not requiring a
comprehensive EIA. The following Section discusses the proposed adoption of the process in the
road sector.
SMEC International                                                                  Part C Page 5
Final Report No. 58402



Part C- Environmen[a! Issues for the Road Sector               Malaw Mfinistry of Works and Supplies
Road Maintenance and Rehabilitation Protect
Developer         Note:
In the road sector the developer will normally
'be the road authority responsible for the road
Project concept     where the project is proposed.
!        s~~~~1
No
Prescribed Project ----_  No EIA required  _--
Yes                             V
Licencing authority
i  -  -         -_________ -   submits copy of
I         Project                  licenceto DEA
environmnental brief
No        Environmental
EIA required          F     management       _
EIA required
i    ---                           recommendations
Yes
Conduct EIA based
on TOR approved
by DEA
EIA review                                         Abbreviations:
I _   V                                         EIA = forma, environmemtal
Project rejected  No  DEA certificate to       X inpact assessment as perscribed
Pocrjcdproceed plus terms       by the Environmental
or                      and condi:ions          Management Act (EMA)
in need of redesign
IDEA = Director of Environmental
Yes
! -   -b-   Developer  _             Affairs
may ___               proceed as
Developer may                    required             TOR = terms of reference
appeai to the
Environmental                                         ?  decision, normally to be made
Appeals Tribunal                                       'by the DEA
Figure I - Flow Chart Of The ELIA Process In Malawi (from GEIA 1997)
5. THE ENVIRONMEN'TAL ASSESSMENT REQUIREMENTS LN THE ROAD SECTOR
The Environmental Management Act (EMA) and Guidelines For Environmental Impact Assessment
(GEIA) have significant impacts upon the management, administration and technical aspects in the
road sector. The following items are of particular relevance:
*  The provisions of the EMA bind road project developers. In the public sector, that is the road
agencies.
* The EMA prevails over any other environmental assessment provisions in other Acts that
relate to road projects.
*  The gazetted list of "prescribed projects" (given in Appendix B of this Part C) defines a
Parn C Page 6                                                                 SMEC International
Final Repor, No. 58402



Afalawi Ministry of Works and Supplies                 Par/ C- Environmental Issues.for the Road Sector
Road Maintenance and Rehabilitation Project
number of cases where an EIA is likely to be mandatory on road projects. Those of particular
relevance include (the item numbers refer to those in the list):
- The construction of new highways and feeder roads or the expansion (i.e. change
in use or capacity) of existing highways and feeder roads (Item A4.5).
- All extraction of sand. gravel and clay or topsoil material. be it from the ground or
from the banks and beds of water bodies, where explosives or heavy machines will
be used (Item A8.2 l.
- All blasting operations (Item A8.3).
- Construction of dikes and grovnes. of greater than 2 metres in height or I km in
lenzth, to remedy flooding (Item AI 1.1).
- Construction of dams and weirs with a height of greater than 2 metres, or which
divert more than 20 cubic metres of water per second, or any bypass channels or
channel realignments to remedv river erosion or flooding (Item Al 1.20).
- Projects in proximity to, or that have a potential to affect: areas of unique
historical . cultural, scientific or geographical significance or that have received
some kind of World Heritage designation;s National parks, game reserves and
protected areas: wetlands; water bodies; flood zones: major sources of drinking
water, including communal wells; cemeteries or ancestral shrines: or residential,
school and hospital areas, as designed in local planning documents(ltem A13).
The report "Preparation of Administrative Guidelines for Environmental Impact Assessment for
Malawvi. Final Report" (Bovle et al, 1995) was submitted to the W'orld Bank and UTNDP upon the
completion of the proposed Guidelines for Environmental Impact Assessment. That report discussed
the need for sector specific environmental impact assessment and mitigation guidelines and gives a
frameworkl for the productiorn of such guidelines. These are especially required for those sectors that
have potential to cause or exacerbate environmental problems, identified in the 1994 National
Environmental Action Pian (NEAP) as including:
*  soil erosion:
*  deforestation;
*  water resources depletion and degradation;
*  loss of biodiversitv;
e  human habitat degradation;
•  air pollution;
*  highwayi grovwth ;and
*  climate change.
Therefore, any sector with potential to exacerbate any of the above forms of environmental problems
should be targeted for early preparation of sector specific environmental impact mitigation guidelines.
Roadworks, comprising construction of nevu roads, their maintenance and rehabilitation and
associated activities, have a potential to exacerbate most of these environmental problems. Thus
guidelines for environmental impact assessment in the road sector is desirable to assist in the
identification and to mitigate the impacts.
The EIA process established by the Guidelines for Environmental Impact Assessment (GEIA)
concentrates on projects that are likely to have significant environmental impacts as defined in the
gazetted list of "prescribed projects" (Appendix B of this Part C). Many road projects are likely to
have onls a minor impact on the environment, particularly where potential impacts have been
identified early in the project cycle and appropriate mitigation measures have been implemented.
Therefore. there is a need for road sector environmental assessment and mitigation guidelines for
work that have less significant. but nevertheless real, effects. These road sector guidelines should
SMEC International                                                               Part C Page 7
Final Repont No. 58402



'art C- Environmen.al Issuesfor the Road Sector              Malaw. Mlnisrt) of Works and Supplies
Road Maintenance and Rehabilitation Proiect
hdge the gap in the environmental impact assessment process between carrying out a full ETA as
required by the EMA and no assessment. Then should assist practitioners to achieve environmentally,
sociallv and economically sustainable developments, while undertaking environmental due diligence.
This can be achieved bv:
•  providing a means of screening environmental impacts to determine whether an EIA is
likely to be required;
•  identif;ine likele  environmental impacts and their causes:
*  identifying key environmental receptors;
*  providing a range of mitigation measures:
*  providing a means of assessing the significance of environmental impacts of a project;
*  providing guidance for community participation; and
*  assisting project developers and environmental professionals in working with Malawi's
environmental requirements.
This Studv has developed a set of proposed guidelines to fulfil this (refer to the Appendix I to this
Part C). These provide general information on environmental assessment and a simple and standard
framework for the identification and mitigation of potential impacts. Their use should result in a
reduction in the number of full EIA reports required for road projects. The guidelines should be
adopted to serve as a standard framework} for this assessment work. They can be used as a means of
informing and guiding those, who may not be fully aware of environmental issues
6. ROAD SECTOR ENVJXIRONMENTAL IMPACT ASSESSMENT PROCESS
6.1 THE NEEDI FOR A PROCESS
A specific environmental impact assessment and mitigation process is required within the road sector
that includes guidelines for environmental assessment of all works. The process needs to allow
development within the road sector to proceed without causing significant or unnecessary
environmental harm. The process should facilitate the development. rehabilitation and maintenance
f roads while addressing the environmental obligations and requirements. It also needs to address
the environmental criteria from the project inception stage. through planning. design and construction
i the environmental effect monitoring stages.
The proposed road sector environmental review guidelines., accompanied by a suitable process, should
allowN the road sector to develop the desired improvements in transport and access needs, while
considering the environmental implications of such activities. The process must, as far as possible,
institutionalise environmental reViewV in road project development, while expediting the approval
process and minimising costs. Thus the objectives of the road sector environmental review process
snould be to highlight the relationship between road projects and the environment in which they are
proposed and undertaken.
To be acceptable and successful. the process should be designed and implemented in ways that:
*  facilitates diligent application of the road sector environmental review guidelines;
*  promotes the delegation of responsibilities to suitable people, groups or committees;
*  institutionalises environmental review and responsibility within the road sector, rather than
relying upon administrative and supervision from another sector;
*  expedites the process of determining if a project requires an EIA or not ( by the Director of
Environmental Affairs);
a  interfaces with the existing national process for EIA;
Part C Page 8                                                               SMEC International
Final Report No. 58402



MAaiavi z tfinistn of Works and Supplies              Part C- Lnvzronmental Issues frr the Road Sector
Road Maintenance and Rehabilitation Project
.  provides cross checks between organisations at different levels to ensure the process remains
valid and applicable :and
*  ensures environmental diligence in the road sector.
6.2 PROCESS ADMINISTRATION
The eariv identification and resolution of environmental issues is important to prevent their
identification by others (in government, donor, an NGO or the community) after large amounts of
effort and mone\ have been spent on the project conception, planning. design and construction. The
process should be designed to identify possible environmental impacts and mitigation measures as
early as possible. In this way the best outcome should be possibie with the least expense.
The neve National Road Authority (NRA) uwill soon be responsible for the planning, funding.
implementation of the maintenance, rehabilitation. upgrading and improvement of all designated
roads in Malawi.  Therefore. it must be pro-active in the identification and resolution of
environmental issues and be environmentally responsible. The NRA should have, within its structure,
the necessar- specialist capabilities required for this role. A suggested EnvirDnmental Manazement
Unit (EMU) to assist in this role is discussed in Section 7.
The environmental review process in the road sector requires co-ordination between the NRA
(possibly via the EMU) road agencies. other govemment departments and agencies and the broader
community. Ministries and departments of particular importance are:
•  Environmental Affairs;
*  Forestr:,
*  National Parks and  Wildlife:
*  Fisheries: and
* Local government
So that the requirements and process are understood and adopted, it is important that technical
trainina be undertaken for a range of people and organisations involved in environmental impact
assessment and mitigation.  The aim  should be to ensure the continuation of a co-ordinated.
environment protection program in Malawi.
6.3 KEY PLAYERS EN THE PROCESS
As well as those directly responsible for the roads in Malawi, government agencies and the broader
community have an important role to play in many stages of the road sector environmental
assessment. The key bodies directi responsible for the road sector environmental reviews are given
in the following.
*  The National Road Authoritv (NRA)
As a result of the l99? the National Road Authority Act, the The National Road Authority (NRA) was
set up to manage the financing, maintenance and upkeep of the road network in Malawi. In
conjunction with the road agencies. it is to develop an annual National Road Program and ensure the
budget meets the needs of the program.
* Road Agencies Defined by the NRA Act
A road agencv. as defined by the NRA Act is "any institution or body. whether or not incorporated,
charged under an) written law with the responsibility of maintaining, rehabilitating or developing
SMEC International                                                             Part C Page 9
Final Report No 58402



Part C- Environmental Issues for the Road Sector              Malawi Minisinr of Works and Supplies
Road Maintenance and Rehabilitation Protect
public roads and includes any institution or bodx designated as a road agency by the Minister by
notice published in the Gazette".
Currently the key road agencies in Malawi are the Ministry of Work and Supplies and the Ministry of
Local Govemment. When the NRA becomes fulls operational it is understood that the "road
agencies" responsible for the "designated roads" will become part of the NRA. There may well be
other road agencies, such as citr and municipal councils, responsible for non-designated roads. The
abilitv of the Minister to designate the road agencies means that other bodies may be identified as
road agencies from time to time.
Under Section 25 of the NRA Act, road agencies shall '... at least six months before the
commencement of ever' financial year, submit to the [NRA] Board an annual road program. The
program should contain such details as the Board shall specif,, outlining a comprehensive plan of
action, for the maintenance, rehabilitation and development of public roads, tracks and trails under the
charge of the roads agency, and the estimated cost of evern activity recuired to implement the plan of
action."
The requirement for road agencies to have regard for "every activity required to implement the plan of
action" means that anN environmental impact mitigation works required, must be included in the
annual road program  submission.  Therefore, road agencies must carry out an environmental
assessment to ensure that potential environmental impacts are identified and that adequate funding is
requested for anv required EIA or to implement any required mitigation measures.
Road agencies are responsible for ensuring the road designs. tender documents and contracts include
provisions for environmental mitigation measures and that these measures are implemented.
*  The Public
Community participation (and the resultant political effects) can greatly assist the achievement of
responsible environmental management, including environmental impact assessment and mitigation.
The public can assist in ensuring that appropriate measures are implemented to mitigate and is an
important element in the process.
7. ENV'IRONMENTAL MANAGEMEN'T IN THE NRA
-1 AN ENV'IRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT L'NIT
Curren-iv the road sector in Malawi has no internal environmental unit dedicated to providing advice,
guidance or checking for environmental issues associated with road projects. Establishment of an
Environmental Management Unit (EMU) within the National Road Authoritv (NRA) is considered a
desirable kwax of overcoming this deficiency. The EMU should have a wide range of responsibilities
focused on the environmental impact assessment and mitigation process in the road sector. Such an
unit would significantly improve the environmental capabilities of the road sector.
The NRA is an appropriate location for such an environmental unit as the NRA, will, in the near
future, be the administrative body responsible for construction, rehabilitation and maintenance of
most of the public roads in Malawi (all the to be "designated roads"). The NRA is required to
determine the requirements for road maintenance, rehabilitation and upgrading, and accordinglv, will
be the central bodx responsible for the allocation of resources to the road sector. The NRA's role
makes it the appropriate location for an EM1J, as from such a location it would be able to assist and
monitor the environmental impact management across all road agencies.
Part C Page 10                                                              SMEC international
Final Repon No 58402



Malawi Mitnistrm of Works and Supplies                   Par, C- Environmental Issuesfor the Road Sec.-or
Road Maintenance and Rehabilitanon Protect
Suggested terms of reference for the EMl are given in Appendix C of Part C. It is envisaged as a
respected specialist operational group with suitable knowledge and administrative skills. The roles
and responsibilities of the EMLU to enable it to cam out an effective and beneficiallv integrated.
environmental reviev process are:
* Promoting environmental awareness at all levels within the road sector (this could include
training and the review of proposals and engineering designs:
*  Assistine the "road agencies" to undertake environmental review s;
* Providing input into the project design to minimise the environmental impacts;
* Identifying the environmental impacts of the road program proposals,
* Assistine and monitoring the preparation of environmental management plans:
*   Preparing and updating standard forms to be used by road agencies and the EMU:
* Monitoring and auditine road agencies. consultants and contractors to ensure that the
proposed environmental effects: mitigation measures are carried out effectively;
*  Liaison, on behalf of the road sector. with the Department of Environmental Affairs (DEA):
* Assisting the road agencies to prepare draft EIA termns of reference for submission to the
DEA: and
*  Assistingi road apencies in the administering the preparation of ElAs. This could include
providing advice on the preparation of small EIAs and helping agencies write briefs. engage
consultants and review draft documents for large EIAs.
The precise composition and role of the ENIU. especiallN its role within the road sector environmental
reviewA process. needs further investigation. The ultimate role of the EMU will depend upon its
position in the road sector, its financial resources and human skills, It is envisaced that the unit would
have, within it or on call from other organisation and consultants, personnel witil suitable
qualifications and experience in environmental assessment. This is likel, to require personnel with
qualifications and skills in:
*  environmental sciences (flora. fauna. soils etc.):
*  geography,
*  hvdrology:
*  sociolog!:
*  geology: and
*  environmental engineerinc.
The precise structure of the NRA has not vet been determined though it is understood that the broad
structure shown in Figure 2 is likely to be adopted. Two locations for the EMU are suggested as
shown in Figure 2. The proposed composition of the Environmental Management Unit and its
location within the structure of the NRA (either location shown in Figure 2), must give it the authority
and bureaucratic importance, particularlv on budgetary considerations, necessary for it to have
influence upon decisions made by the NRA Board. The EMU needs to be able to ensure that the
Technical Directors ("road authorities") and other road authorities have consideration for
environmental issues. when assisting in preparation of the annual National Road Program. Location I
is a direct line position reporting to the Director of Operations. At that location the EMU would be on
a level with the Road Deviations (the future "road azencies") and may not have the authority to
enforce (when required) the environmental requirements.  Location 2 is in a support role to the
Director of Operations. In that location the EMU, would be an adjunct to the Director and assist with
implementation of the Director's role. In that location the unit may have the required authoritx' as it
would take the authoritv of the director. The EMU, leader needs to maintain a position within the
structure equivalent to that of the Technical Directors and report directlv to the Director of
Operations. So either locatiDn may be suitable.
SNIEC International                                                                Part C Page I1
Final Report No. 58402



Part C- Environmental Issuesfor the Road Sector                  Malawi Minisrry of ;Vorks and Supplies
Road Maintenance and Rehabilitation Project
Minister responsible for roads
NRA Board
Chief Exective Officer
LOCATION 2
Environmental
Director of Finance        Director of Operations  <   - Management
I  -    -                             !            ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Unit
Central Roads                             Urban & District Roads
Devision             LOCATION 1               Devision
--         Environmental
Managernt
Figure 2 - Proposed location of the EMUl within the NRA
Currently the knowledge, experience and capacity of the NTRA and road agencies are not adequate for
envircnmental impact assessments so a transitional arrangement is necessary. Consequently. for the
first 5 to 10 vears, the EMU  will need to be proactive.  Initially it needs to be involved in
environmental impact assessment and mitigation, ELA preparation, construction auditing and related
activities. Ultimately, when the caoacitm exists elsewhere, these activities will become standard
practice within the road authority. Then the EMU can adopt a review, monitoring and training role.
The size of the EMU is dependent upon its eventual role. In determining the number and the type of
sk-illed people required, the key consideration should be that the unit has the capacitv to ensure the
-N.RA and all the road agencies fulfil their environmental responsibilities. For the unit proposed, it is
suggested that it should be composed of the followving six personnel:
*  Unit Leader- A Senior Professional with suitable experience -at least at Professional
Level 6;
*  2 Environmental Specialists ( graduates in the relevant environmental discipline with at
least 2-5 vears experience) -At least Professional Level 8:
*  2 Field Officers ( graduates in the environmental discipline) - at Professional Officer
level; and
*   1 Office Assistant.
The EMU could comprise this comparatively small number of personnel and resources on the basis
that some environmental issues facing the road sector (and therefore initiallI the responsibility of the
EMU) will require the use of consultants. They will have an important role in giving advice, impact
assessment, mitigation options, documentation, assessment, auditing and monitoring of road projects.
This means that the budget must be adequate for both fundamental resource requirements and enough
to employ consultants.
In considering the establishment of the EMU, it is essential to consider the logistics and fundamental
resource of the unit, or its ability to fulfil its functions, will be compromised. A suggested basic
inventorn of requirements for the EMU is given in Appendix H of this Part C.
Par C Page 12                                                                   SMEC International
Final Report No. 58402



Alalawi Mtnmstnr of Wiorks and Supplzes                Part C- Envrronmental Issues for the Road Sector
Road Mainenance and Rehabilitation Protecr
7.2 AN EN-VIRON'MENTAL REVIEW COMMITTEE
The NRA is responsible for the development and implementation of road works and need to establish
systems and procedures for environmental impact assessment and mitigation. To assist in getting
these established. it would be desirable to put into place a multi-disciplinarv Environment RevieA
Committee (ERC) for the road sector. Such a committee would oversee the implementation of
environmental impact assessment and mitigation processes in the road sector. This ERC should be
established soon and determine work out the detailed terns of reference and budget for the EMU,
oversee its operation. for a suggested initial 2 vear period, organize training and production of the
road sector environment assessment guidelines. Appendix D of this Part C gives the suggested terms
of reference for the Environmental Review Committee.
Under the current arrangements. details of all "prescribed projects" must be submitted to the Director
of Environmental Affairs for consideration and an assessment as to whether a full EJA is required.
The existing Technical Committee on the Environment (TEC), established under the EMA. will
frequently be involved in assessment. The TEC is concerned with environmental issues in general
and will not have specific detailed knowledge on road issues. Thus the ERC (and later the EMU)
could augment the TEC and address road issues in detail. In this was. when details on 'prescribed
projects' are submitted to the DEA they would be readily handled as the ERC, with specialized road
sector as well as environmental knowledge, would have look at the details first.
8. ENVIRONMENTAL AWARENESS EDUCATION AN'D TRAINFIG
Effective environmental impact assessment and mitigation in the road sector, requires that those
responsible for and undertaking the process have the necessarn knowledge and skills. Currently, the
road sector in Malauwi has a shortaze of such people but if the appropriate people receive training this
will rectify this situation.
Once the road sector environmental impact assessment procedures and guidelines (refer to the
Appendix J to this Part C) are adopted and an Environmental Management Unit has been created (as
discussed previously) the precise training needs should be determined by completing a training needs
analysis. This analysis would identifx exactly who in the process needs to be trained and the type of
training required for each of the different participants and stakeholders.
The first people to train are those in positions central to the initial implementation of the
enxironmental impact assessment process and those who initiate works and will have to provide
assessments of the iikely impacts. As a guide, people in the following key positions should undergo
environmental training in the near future (desirably within the next 6 months):
a  National Roads Authority Board members;
*  The NRA Director of Operations and the heads of the of the Roads Divisions (see Figure
2):
*  chief design engineers in all road agencies:
*    members of the Ministry of Works and Supplies Planning Unit (or the equivalent in the
NRA if the function is transferred),
*  district development officers:
*  Environmental impact assessment, mitigation and audit practitioners (consultants, etc.);
*  key personnel in road contractors and subcontractors supplying aggregates, bitumen and
asphalt (likely to be bidding and winning road work contracts), and
* local representatives of key international donors.
SMEC International                                                              Part C Page 13
Final Repon No. 58402



Part C- Environmental issuesfor the Road Sector                Malawi Ministry of Works and Supplies
Road Maintenance and Rehabilitation Project
Following training of people in key positions, it is necessary to extend training to include peopie and
organisations such as:
*  district, area and local development comminee members;
*  representatives from other line Ministries involved in the road sector environmental
review process;
* representatives from non-government organisations (NGOs);
* aid agencies and donors;
* academics:
* media;
•  training organisations.
* Members of Parliament; and
*  the general public.
Fve-vone involved needs to have an understanding of the assessment process in general and the road
sector specific issues and environmental impacts that the environmental review process aims to
identify and mitigate.  Thus the training program  should have the broad objectives of giving
participants:
* an understanding and appreciation of the benefits of environmental impact assessment
and mitigation,
* an understanding of the EIA process established by the EMA and how it can be
implemented in the road sector;
• an awareness of how the road sector and other sectors are affect by the process:
*  a practical understanding of, and an ability to undertake, the assessment process (to a
level dependant on their involvement in the process); and
• an understanding of the road sector environmental assessment guidelines and their
interaction with the overall EIA process in Malawi.
Environmental experts who have a detailed understanding of the existing ELA process and the issues
of significance for the road sector should carry out the training. In Malawi the EiA process is new
and at present there are insufficient trained professionals to undertake training of the type and scale
required. However, there are sufficient skills and resources present to permit initial training and
develop issue sensitisation amongst the key participants outlined above. It should be possible to
provide professional development and refresher courses to new recruits within the NRA and road
agencies. thereby strengthening the institutional capacity within the sector.
'Where there are trained District Environmental Officers they can be involved in giving assistance and
iocal training. However, in areas where environmental skills are low, training will need to be more
intense than elsewhere. Additionally, where the environmental skills are low, the EMU will need to
review the submissions to the NRA more closely and carry out more site inspections.
In the short and medium term, international practitioners could be used to provide the technical
assistance and training needed in Malawi. This may involve expatriate personnel with skills in:
* EIA practice;
* EIA policy development;
* education - "train the trainer"
*  community participation;
* community development ; and
* resource management.
Par C Page 14                                                                 SMEC International
Final Report No. 58402



Malavi Ministrv of H'orks and Supplies               Par: C-Environmental Issues for the Road Sector
Road Adaintenance and Rehabilitation Project
The Environment Management Unit (EMU) and a technical training program are important
contributors to the development of a successful environmental impact assessment and mitigation in
the road sector. In order to be able to carry out environmental impact and mitigation assessment
education, it is essential that in the NRA and road agencies be given adequate budgets to cover these
needs.
9. THE ROAD SECTOR ENIIRONMENTAL IMPACT ASSESSMENT AND MITIGATION
9.1 ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT PLAN FOR THE ROAD SECTOR
For the environmental impact assessment and mitigation process to be a success in the road sector,
there needs to be an environment management plan. This plan should be developed by the NRA and
initially include:
*  adoption of the principals of environmental impact assessment and mitigation in all
aspects of the road program development and implementation:
*  establishment of an Environmental Management Unit (EMIU);
*  establishment of an Environmental Reviewn Committee (ERC) for the road sector;
*  incorporation of the environmental impact review process into the planning, budgeting,
and implementation processes,
*  review of the proposed road sector environmental impact assessment guidelines (in the
Appendix I to this Section) and, after any required modification, publication and
distribution:
*  training in the principals of environmental impact assessment and mitigation and the Luse
of the proposed road sector environmental review guidelines:
*  environmental assessment of specific road improvement projects; and
*  monitoring the implementation of the environmental management plans for selected road
projects.
Appendix H of this Part C gives a suggested timetable for the implementation of the proposed initial
plan. Subsequently the plan should include the full adoption of environmental impact assessment and
mitigation throughout the road sector.
9.2 ROAD SECTOR ENVIRONMEN'TAL IMPACT REVIIEW PROCESS.
The proposed process of environmental impact assessment in the road sector is outlined in Figure 3
and discussed in this Section. The proposed process is based on the requirements discussed in Section
3.4 and illustrated in Figure 1. It should clarify the actions required and avoid confusion in
determining when a comprehensive ELA study and report is required for road projects. The process is
based on the gazetted list of "prescribed projects" defining those projects that are, and thus those that
are not. to be considered for a full environmental impact assessment (EIA) study and report.
An eight Step review process is proposed below that demonstrates how the environmental review and
mitigation process can be institutionalised into the NRA road works programming process and the
implementation of the works. The emphasis is on interfacing the road sector environmental reviewr      j
process with the existing national process for EIA and it incorporates the process shown ir. Figure 3.
The proposed process concentrates on the environmental aspects of a project although many other
aspects should be considered in developing and implementing a project. Consequently the process
should be integrated into the whole project development, approval, design and construction process.
SMEC International                                                           Part C Page 15
Final Report No 58402



Part C- Environmental Issues for the Road Sector                  Malawi Ministry of Works and Supplies
Road Maintenance and Rehabilitation Project
o  Project conception
Project identified by road authority      c
sufficiently to enable a decision to be made    defined in the gazetted isa
on whether it is a prescribed project.
NRA determines road program      other projects   Assess project with road sector
and prescribed projects     -     in program      environmental effects checklists
Prescribed projects                               --__
in program                                    Determine effects and
recommended mitigation
______  Prepare project   For public sector projects
i environmental brief    ncorporate te bnef wdh the  -   Submit project
NEC prqect subml5sx0n     1 (with other information)
for NRA approval
DEA determines if
formal EIA required -~'- No formal EIA required
V +              '  Environmental                  V
EIA required for some or       management               NRA decision
all aspects of the project  recommendations :            to proceed         A
from the DEA
Road authority conducts the EIA  1
-based on the TOP                    Advise DEA of   Implement -
provided by the DEA ______            project details   planning
T                                             .cdesign
EIA submitted to the DEA                                  documentation
0               EiA reviewed by DEA                                      construction
with appropriate -
V t                                           . mitigation plans
For the environmental aspects, .                             documentation
the DEA. action and audit.
o,               accepts the project,    _--  Project accepted
rejects the project, or                                                     i
determines the need for redesign.            DEA issues certificate
.  to proceed with terms
X   .        .                             ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~and conditions    I
Project redesign
_-.                 or
Project rejected                     Road authority may proceed with the project
in accordance with the terms and conditions
The road authority may appeal to the
Environmental Appeals Tribunal
Figure 3 - Proposed Process For Environmental Review In The Road Sector
Review process Stage Four: Road agencies undertakes environmental impact assessments
Pan C Page 16                                                                    SMEC International
Final Report No. 58402



Malawi Ministry of W'orks and Supplies                Pari C- Eni ironmentai Issues for the Road Sector
Road Maintenance and Rehabilitation Project
The environmental assessment and mitigation process stages are:
Process Stage 1:
Road Agencies Propose Projects to National Road Authority
In accordance with Section 25 of the National Roads Authority Act, road agencies are to submit an
annual road program to the NRA. These programs should include a comprehensive plan of action for
the maintenance. rehabilitation and development of public roads, tracks and trails and estimate the
costs of every activity required in implementing the plan of action. As part of the submission the
agency should determine if the project is a or is likely to be. a "prescribed project" and advise
accordingly.
Process Stage 2:
NRA Assesses the Road Projects and Produces A National Roads Program
The National Road Authoritv Board assesses each road project submitted and identifies the roads
requiring maintenance, rehabilitation or upgrading in order of priorit'. having regard for the social and
economic requirements of the country.
The NRA (possibly via the Environmental Management lUnit) considers the environmental aspects of
the proposed projects and the likely costs of environmental mitigation associated with the works.
This is to ensure that the "prescribed projects" are correctly identified and that the time and money
allocated for environmental assessment is realistic. The NRA (with delegated authority from the
Director of Environmental Affairs) should be empowered to determine which projects in the National
Road Program are "prescribed projects". This will simplifi the process and reduce the number of
projects submitted to the DEA  for determinations.  The EM1U  is expected to assist in this
determiination. The assessment of the environmental aspects of proposed projects could be provided
in a standard format such as the "objection" and "no objection forms contained in Appendix E of this
Part C.
Process Stage 3:
National Road Program Approved And Road Agencies Advised
The NRA  approves a National Road Program  (current and future vears).  This will contain
"prescribed projects" and other projects with an environmental "no objection". The NRA Board may
then be submitted to the Minister responsible for roads for a determination.
After deterrnination of the National Road Program, the NRA Board advises road agencies of the
projects included in the National Road Program. This advice should include notification of the
"prescribed projects".
Process Stage 4:
Road Agencies Undertake Environmental Impact Assessment
When the National Road Prozram has been determnined, the NRA informs the road agencies of the
projects that are included in the current and forward program together with those projects determined
as '-prescribed projects".
For prescribed projects, the road agency must prepare and submit an environmental "project
environmental brief' to the Director of Environmental Affairs for a determination. The Director of
Environmental Affairs then determines if the environmental issue(s) can be resolved internallv or if
the documentation should be referred to the Technical Committee on the Environment (TCE) for
determination as to whether a full EIA report is required.
SMEC International                                                            Part C Page 17
Final Report No. 58402



Part C- Efvironmen"al issuesfor the Road Sector               Malawi Mznustry of Works and Supplies
Road Maintenance and Rehabilitatior ProWeet
Following a determination that requires a comprehensive TEIA, the road agency undertakes the EIA
stud) and submits the EIA report to the Director of Environmental Affairs. Draft terms of reference
for undertaking an EIA are given in Appendix f to this part C. :Additionally, the road agency must
undertake any- ther actions necessarv to obtain environmental approval for the project.
For "prescribed projects" in the National Road Program, the NRA needs to provide the road agency
with funds for the-preparation of the environmental brief and the comprehensive EIA(if required) and
other work tvolved-in obtaining environmental acceptance.
For other projects (i.e., not prescribed), the road agency should continue environmental assessment
and community participation activities throughout the planning. design. documentation, construction
and maintenance work. Trained officers in the road agency or under contract thereto (with the
assistance from the EMU) should initially complete the road sector environmental assessment
checklists for road projects (refer to Appendix I to this Part C). They should then prepare draft
environmental management plans (EMPs) and provide a summary assessment in accordance with the
road sector environmental assessment guidelines. Communiry participation should commence at an
early stage to vield significant benefits at a later stage. That is. the communities adjacent to the
proposed works and otherwise affected by the works need to be made aware of the effects and
benefits of the project.
If the road agency identifies an issue of environmental concern with a project, that is not a "prescribed
project", then it should refer this to the Director of Environmental Affairs for further advice. This
may occur where, for example. significant environmental impacts associated with the project cannot
be resolved by additional mitigation measures.
Process Stage 5:
Road Agencies Designs And Final Environmental Management Plans Submitted To NRA
After environmental assessment of a project (internally or via the DEA and an ELA report), the road
agency requests the NRA for approval to proceed with detailed documentation, procurement of
.ontractors and undertaking the works. This gives the NRA a final decision point before the work
proceeds. XlVhen a decision to proceed is made the NRA (as licensing authority) should inform the
Director of Environmental Affairs that the project has been approved (together with the relevant
details).
Process stage 6:
Notifv The Communith, Call Tenders And Engage Contractors
Following advice from the NRA that the project may proceed, the road authority can then prepare
tende. and contract documents, community and education participation  initiatives and final
environmental management plans (EMPs). Then it can call tenders and engage contractors to
undertake the works. During this stage the road agency must advise the community representatives
that wvill be affected by the works.
The NRA (through the EMU) could activelv assist in the preparation of the community and education
participation initiatives and final environmental management plans (EMPs).
Process Stage 7:
Undertaking The Works
Once the construction commences and the contractual requirement to carry out the work in
accordance with the EMP is implemented, the road agency is responsible for ensuring the required
Parn C Page 18                                                              SMEC International
Final Report No. 58402



Malawi Ministrr of Works and Supplies                  Pari C- Environmental issues for the Road Sector
Road Maintenance and Rehabilziation Protect
environmental impact mitigation measures are implemented.
Community participation and training of work-ers continues through the works.
The NRA. with advice from the EML, can audit any project to ensure the correct environmental
impact mitigation process is followed. that the contractor is fulfilling their obligations and that the
road agency is managing the process properly.
The DEA may also audit the works at an! time.
Process Stage 8:
The NRA Audits The Works Upon Completion
During and upon completion of construction and environmental impact mitigation works, the NRA,
(through the EMU or a consultant on its behalf) audits the works. This involves the diligent checking
of the implementation of the environmental impact mitigation measures included in the EMP - to
which the road agency and contractor are bound. This is effectively a review of the contractor and the
road agency. Failure of the road agenc) to adequatel- monitor and manage the contractor would be
identified at this audit stage.
The final environmental audit is essential for the following reasons.
Where an EIA is not required. the NRA needs to be sure that the neasures identified in the
Environmental Management Plan were adequately covered in contractual agreements and that they
\.ere satisfactorilk carried out.
The NRA is given delegated powers by the Director of Environmental Affairs and forwards the
information on the project to the DEA. If roads are constructed in a way that causes environmental
harm, then the integrity and role of the NRA (and the EMU) will be jeopardised. The result could be
that the NRA might have its powers for determining the "prescribed projects" revoked.
9.3 PRIV'ATE ROAD DEVELOPERS
Private road project developers are unlikely to be classified as road agencies under the NRA Act. So
for private road projects the process proposed for the NRA can not apply. Consequentlx, private
developers must deal directly with the Director of Environmental Affairs. Then the national EIA
process set out in the Guidelines for Environmental Impact Assessment (outlined in Sub-section 3.2)
applies.
9.4 COMMNI1NITY PARTICIPATION
The success of the environmental impact assessment process, and consequently the National Road
Program established bv the NRA, relies heavily on community awareness and involvement at all
stages. Thus, the process of assessment and mitigation should involve community participation at an
early stage in a way designed to reinforce communitv involvement.
Roads in Malawi have traditionally been built where and as the developer determines. There is often
little regard for those who must accommodate the impacts of the construction or maintenance
program. This has resulted in, amongst other things:
Borrow pits being left "un-rehabilitated" and dangerous condition. This has contributed,
in some cases, to the spread of communicable diseases and seriously affecting
watercourses and agricultural production.
SNIEC international                                                             Pant C Pagc 19
Final Report No. 58402



Part C- Environmental Issues for the Road Sector               Malawi Ministry of Uorks and Supplies
Road Maintenance and Rehabilitation Project
*  The communith not having a sense of `ownership" of the project and feeling alienated.
That is, the community has not understood what the road does for them. Since many
people in Malawi do not drive cars, the linkage between the road works and their lives
may not be obvious. The linkages are, nevertheless, there. For example, the roads permit
the delivery of medical supplies to the clinic, fuel for a generator to provide power and
the delivern of goods to the market place etc.
*  The "lack of ownership" resulting in the community not actively assisting in the
maintenance of the road. W'here, for example, batters and roadside drains have been
stabilised with vegetation. local communities have permitted animals to graze on the
vegetation, thereby destabilising the batters and deformning the drains. This in turn has
significant impacts on the road structure and its longevity.
Communitv participation in the road project development, at appropriate stages in the environmental
impact assessment process, will serve to identifv matters of environmental significance and possible
means bv which arl impacts can be managed and mitigated. Figure 4 is an example to demonstrate
hou local communities, through their existing committees. may be involved in the environmental
review process for local roads. By implementing such a process involving community participation,
projects should be successfully completed with a reduction in the harrnful impacts on the
environment. It will also give the community a better sense of involvement and ownership.
DISTRICT COUNCIL
i   DISTRICT DENVELOPMENT COMIMITTEE (DDC).   I
l Determines the road program to be presented to the NRA for
| consideration for inciu-sion in the National Road Program l
DISTRICT EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE (DEC).                      District Environmental &
Comprises Government officers and NGO representatives       Sustainable Development
and gives technical advice to the DDC                   Subcommittee
gives advice on environmental
issues to the DEC
I LAREA DEVELOPMENT COMMITTEE (ADC)                         M
IChaired b     a chief and considers projects from vargeous v illages
ARE,A EXECUtTI'VE COMMITTEE (AEC)                      CSub-committee consisting of
Comprise extension workeers. Gives technical advise 4  0     3-4 members of the AECg
p to the V'DC. and ADC on environmental review          Resnvironetal s awaen
I through a sub-committ e of 3  membersMontori
Village Natural Resources
VILLAGE DEVELOPMEN T COMMITTE E {VDC                         Comprsae member cofthee
Identifies -potential projects for the village   rvillages arld is responsibi for:
-Technical advice at viwage
level
-Envirorimental awareness
-Monitoring outcomes   ,
Also raises environmental
issues directly with the DESD
Figure 4 - Flow Chart Showing Local Community                                         ..
Participation In The Environmental Assessment Of Local Road Projects
Par-, C Page 20                                                               SMEC International
Final Report No. 58402



Malawi Ministry of Works and Supplies                 Part C- Environmental Issuesfor the Road Sector
Road AMaintenance and Rehabilitation Project
9.5 ROAD SECTOR ENVIRONMENTAL REVIEW GUIDELINES.
Environmental impact assessment guidelines, with checklists and information relating specifically to
the road sector, should be prepared. They would provide engineers and others involved in the
environmental impact assessment and mitigation with a simple effective and uniform method and
process making the whole process easier to undertake and manage. Under Section 24(1) of the EMA,
a "prescribed" project, requiring an, EIA report, can be exempted from the need to prepare a report if,
the environmental issues have been satisfactorily identified and addressed". So all that can be easil)
done to minimize the need to undertake a full ElA should be implemented. The guidelines should be
designed so that in most cases the environmental issues can be satisfactorily identified and addressed
without the need for a full EIA report even for "prescribed projects".
A suggested set of guidelines, incorporating checklists, is given in the Appendix I to this Section.
These are designed to help the road sector fulfil its environmental review obligations in an economic
and timelv fashion by:
*  clearly enumerating the responsibilities of the.road sector;
* identifying environmental issues associated with various classes of development;
* providing check lists and supporting information to allow initial assessment of
environmental impacts;
*  providing generic environmental impact mitigation measures for each class of
development (implementation of which mav assist in the exemption of the project from
further compliance with ELA requirements); and
*  providing generic EIA terms of reference where, due to the scale and likely impacts of
larger projects, an EIA report is required.
The proposed guideline should be reviewed and amended where necessary and then adopted b! the
NRA. The review and recommendation for adoption should be by some such as the Environmental
ReviewA Committee (suggested for established within the NRA in Sub-section 7.2) or the Technical
Committee on the Environment (within the DEA). Then a manual, for practitioners, should be
produced comprising the guidelines, the checklists and other pertinent information such as the list of
'prescribed projects" and the NRA procedures. The process of involving a multi-disciplined technical
body and the NRA will provide the guidelines with the vision and the needed for successful
impiementation. Then if the NRA make it a requirement that the checklists are completed and
reviewed before considering final approval of a road project, it will assist in the successful
impiementation of the EIA process within Malawi road sector.
9.6 EN-VIRONMENTAL MITIGATION PROVISIONS IN ROAD WORK CONTRACTS
The process of getting from a design for an approved work to completion involves five main phases
namelv:
1. preparatory works to finalise the design, impact mitigation, community involvement, etc..
2. tender and contract document preparation and contractor procurement;
3.. approval and awarding of contracts;
4. project implementation organisation and establishment; and
5. construction including supervision of the works (including supervision of physical works
environmental impact mitigation).
The Ministry of Works and Supplies Road Planning Manual 1972, Chapter I I mentions the
importance of the environmental considerations of proposed route improvement during deveiopment,
and evaluation to ensure that road works are conducted in the best overall public interest. It
SMEC International                                                            Part C Page 21
Final Report No. 58402



Part C- Environmental Issues for the Road Sector              Malawi Ministrv of Works and Supplies
Road AMainmenance and Rehabilitarion Project
recognizes the need for planners to give positive and negative aspects and mitigation. However, it
does not give details of how to do this.
The current Ministry of Works Standard Specifications For Roads and Bridges (1978) requires the
general clean up and grading of borrow pits and the work site. It does not address environmental
mitigation issues in any detail. An examination of tender and contract documents indicate that
environmental appraisal activities to particular phases of contract preparation are not covered.
Detailed environmental management plans should formr part of all the contract documents and
aereements. They will demonstrate that the road agency proposes to fully address its environmental
obligations as identified in environmental management plans (EMP) prepared in the environmental
process (refer to Sub-section 9.2 - Process Staze 4).
To ensure that contractors undertake environmental mitigation activities, the tender and contact
documents should include environmental clauses such as given in Appendix G of Part C. There
,nould also be a provision for environmental education for sub-contract workers to be emploved by
the primarn contractor. Road agencies must ensure that contractors train their workers (including
those with sub-contractors) in the environmental components of the EMP to which the contractor is
bound. This should include fundamental work and operational practices.
The environmental management unit (EMU) should be responsible for setting out specific clauses for
use in the documents. Environmental mitigation plans should be considered and environmental
performance benchmarks established and agreed upon during the supervision of physical works.
Penalties for falling to comply with the environmental requirements in the contract should be
substantiated by withholding sufficient pavments to allowk the road authority to rectify the situation.
10. REFERENCES AND FURTHER READLNG
Broyle J. Kalindekafe M P and Nkhoma P D (1995), Report on Preparation of Administrative EMA
Guidelnes for Malawi,. Department of Environmental Affairs. Lilongwe.
onsilium  Legis (Pt') L.t.d (1998), Model Legislation ROADS ACT., Prepared for SATCC-TU.
Mtaputo. USAID.
5overnment of Malawi (1994). The Aational Environmenial Action Plan (NEAP), Department of
Environmental Affairs Lilongwe.
Government of Malawi (1962), Public Roads Act Chapter 69:02.
Government of Malawi Draft National WTildlife Policy of Malawi, Department of National Parks and
\Wildlife Reserves. LilonrxL'e.
Government of Malawi (1992). National Parks and Yiildlife Act, Number 11 of 1992.
Government of Malawi (1996), Environment Management Act,. Laws of Malawi. Number 23.
Government of Malawi. (1996). National Environmental Policy, Ministry of Research and
Environmental Affairs, Lilongwe.
Government of Malawi (1 996), National Forest Policy of Malawi Ministry of Natural Resources.
Govemment of Malawi (1997), Forestry Act Ministry of Forestry, Fisheries and Environmental
Affairs Number II of 1997.
Dart C Page 22                                                              SMEC International
Final Report No. 58402



Malawi Mznistry of Works and Supplies               Part C- Envrronmental Issuesfor the Road Sector
Road Afaintenance and Rehabziltation Project
Government of Malawi (1997), Guidelines for Environmental Izmpact Assessment, Environmental
Affairs Department. Ministrv of Forestry, Fisheries and Environmental Affairs.
Government of Malawi (1997),. National Roads Authority Act, Number 13 of 1997.
Government of the Republic of Zambia (1997),. Environmental Guidelines for Road Rehabilitation
and Maintenance Works,Technical and Operational Guidelines Draft.
Government of Zimbabwe (1997). Environment Impact Assessment Guidelines.
JICA (1997), EM Project briefs for Feasibility Study on the Reconstruction of Mangochi Road
Bridge, Department of Environmental Affairs, Lilongwe.
JICA. (1992), Environmental Guidelines for Infrastructure Projects 1] Roads Environmental
Guidelines September 1992
Julius M Chileshe in association with Chalo Consultants (1996), Environmental analvsis of road
sector investment program (ROADSIP), Ministry of Communication and Transport, Zambia.
Mapila SA, K Nyirenda and E M Makawa (1998), A guide to the Fisheries Conservatton and
Management Act 1997, Fisheries Department
Ministrv of Communication and Transport (1996), Road Sector Investnent Program (ROADSIP)
Environmental Management Plan (EMP.),J.Proposed W"ork Plan and Budget Draft, Republic of
Zambia.
Ministry of Works and Supplies (1992), Road Planning Manual. Lilongwe.
Ministry of 'Works and Supplies (1978), Standard Specification for Road and Bridge Works,
Lilongwe.
Mlinistry of Works and Supplies (1997), Karonga - Chilumba - Chiweta Road Environmental
Analysis, Lilongwe.
RTA (1989), Environmental Awareness Training and Reference Manual, Version Number 1.0 12'h
October 1993.
Scott Wilson Kirkpatrick Consulting Engineers in Association with Otiembo Odongo and Partners
(Kenya) (1997), Nyala boarder Post Chitipa - Karonga Road. Environmental considerations for
Design, Ministry' of Works, Government of the Republic of Malawi.
U'NDP (1996), Environmental Impact Assessment Training Resource Manual, Nairobi Kenya.
Preliminary Version.
World Bank. Roads and the Environment, A Handbook Edited by Koji Tsunokawa and Christopher
Hoban. W'orld Bank Technical Paper Number 376.
World Bank (1989), Striking A Balance- The environmental Challenge of Development, ISBN
0821312715 Washington DC.
World Bank (I991), Environmental Assessment Source Book Volume II Sectoral Guidelines, World
Bank Technical Paper Number 140.
SMEC International                                                         Part C Page 23
Final Report No. 58402



Parr C- Environmental issuesfor the Road Sector                  Malawi Afinis'ry qf Forks and Supplies
Road Miaintenance and Rehabilitation Project
W'orld Bank (1991). Environmental Assessment Source Book Volume 1. Policies, Procedures and
Cross-Sectoral Issues, Technical Paper- Number 139
WVorld Bank (1995). Environmental Assessment in Africa, A World Bank commitment.
World Bank (1996), The Impact of Environmental Assessment,. The World Bank Experience.
World Bank. (1993), Secioral Environmental Assessment, Environment Department Update October
1993 Number 4.
Part C Page 24                                                                  SMEC International
Final Report No. 58402









Malawi Ministry of Works and Supplies                  Part C - Environmental Issues for the Road Sector
Road Maintenance and Rehabilitation Project                               Appendix A - Legislation
APPENDIX A
LEGISLATION WITH AN IMPACT ON THE ENVIRONMENTAL ASPECTS OF THE
ROAD SECTOR
The Environmental Management Act (EMA) forms the legislative basis for the management of a wide
range of environmental issues and, importantly for the road sector,the environmental impact
assessment requirements. Other key legislation is outlined here in.
i) FORESTRY
The Forestry Act (9 May, 1997) has the following general aims which are applicable to the road
sector:
*  protect forests in order to maintain environmental sustainability;
* meet basic fuel and forest produce needs of local communities;
* control trafficking in wood;
* protect fragile areas such as steep slopes, river banks, water catchment and to conserve and
enhance biodiversitv; and
. promote bilateral, regional and international co-operation in forest augmentation and
conservation.
Issues of significance for the road sector include the removal of trees for new or modified roads or
road maintenance programs and the issue of improved access into otherwise inaccessible areas and the
resulting impacts upon timber trafficking.
In addition to the Forestry Act, Cabinet approved (on 26 January. 1996) a National Forestry Policv of
Malawi. The Policy includes the following important provisions:
2.4.1.17    discourage excisions in gazetted forest, except in cases of environment
friendly public utility, for which suitable inter-sector and local consultations will be
established; and
* 2.4.1.18    foster the carrying our of environment impact assessment where actions are
likely to have significant adverse impacts on important forest and forest resources and
where such actions are subject to a decision of a competent authority"
ii) NATIONAL PARKS AND WILDLIFE
The National Parks and Wildlife Act (of 4 May, 1992) deals primarily with the protection and
sustainable management of wildlife.
The most relevant part of this Act relating to roads is Part IV - Wildlife Impact Assessments. This
permits any person to request the Minister (through the Board) to have a Wildlife Impact Assessment
prepared where they have "...good and sufficient reason to believe that any proposed or existing
government process or activitv ... may have an adverse effect on any wildlife species or community..."
The Draft National Wildlife Policy of Malawi provides some additional detail with respect to the road
sector. Specifically, the draft policy includes the following provisions:
* 4.1 (c)(xvii) Develop guidelines for infrastructure development in national parks and
wildlife reserves; and
SMEC International                                                             Part C Page A - I
Final Report No. 58402



Part C - Environmental issues for the Road Sector              Malawi Ministrv of orks andSupplies
Appendax A - Legislation                                   Road Maintenance and Rehabilhtation Project
. 4.1(c)(xviii) Liaise with appropriate authorities to ensure that road construction, road
maintenance, and traffic passing through national parks and wildlife reserves do not have
adverse impacts on wildlife.
iii) FISHERIES
The Fisheries Management And Conservation Act 1997 repiaced the previous Fisheries Act of 1973.
The new Act has no direct impacts upon the road sector. However it provides the legislative
framework under which the National Fisheries Policy of Malawi was prepared. The Policy identifies
and addresses certain issues that are related to development by the road sector including:
* degradation of spawning grounds by siltation and changing flow regimes;
. retention of the unique biodiversity of Lake Malawi which has resulted in Lake Malawi
National Park being acknowledged by UNESCO as a World Heritage site is an important
objective: and
* pollution sources must be identified and monitored.
iv) WATER RESOIURCES
The Water Resources Act (cap 72:03) deals with control, conservation, apportionment and use of the
water resources of Malawi. Section 16(1) is relevant to the road sector. This section states that any
person who interferes with, alters flow of or pollutes or fouls anv public water shall be guiltv of an
offence. Of significance for the road sector is the direction or discharge of water into, or in the
vicinity of public water, or in a place where public water is likely to flow.
The UWater Works Act (Cap 72.01) provides for the establishment of water boards and water areas and
for the establishment and maintenance of waterworks in such water areas. Section 47 specifies
penalties for foul accumulation of earth into the water works. Section 43 specifies penalties for
negligence leading to pollution of the waterworks.
v) LAND
The Local Government (Urban Areas) Act (Cap 22.01) deals with powers to acquire land and by-laws
on agriculture, forestry, health, sanitation and water supplies in urban areas. It also gives power to the
local authority. where the Urban Areas Act has not been applied, to level, pave, drain, alter, repair or
clean any street situated on un-alienated public land.
The Land Act (Cap 57.01) deals with use of land . trespass and encroachment of customary, public
and private land. This Act has an impact on the roads sector.
vi) OTHER ACTS
Other Acts having a minor impact on the environmental aspects of the road sector include:
• The Land Acquisition Act;
* Town and Country Planning Act;
* Physical Planning Act;
*  Agriculture Act; and
*  Town and Country Planning Act.
Par, C Page A - 2                                                             SMEC International
Final Report No 58402



Malawi Ministrn of WSorks and Supplies               Part C - Environmental Issues for the Road Sector
Road AMaintenance and Rehabilitation Project                    Appendix B - Prescribed Projects
APPENDIX B
PROJECTS REQUIRING AN ENVIRONMEENTAL IMPACT ASSESSMENT REPORT
These are "prescribed projects "as gazetted in June 1998
Al.   AGRICULTURE /AQUACULTURE PROJECTS
Al.1  Agricultural drainage projects of more than I ha.
A  .2  Irrigation schemes designed to serve more than 10 ha.
Al.3  Land development for the purposes of agriculture on greater than a 20 ha land
holding.
A 1.4  Agricultural projects necessitating their resettlement of 20 or more families.
Any change form one agricultural land use to another on greater than a 20 ha land
holding.
Al.5  Use of more than I tonne of fertiliser per hectare per annum on greater than a 20 ha
landholding except for lime applications.
A1.6  Use of the following concentrations of pesticides on greater than a 5 ha holding:
A. 1.6.1 more than 5 1/ha of ultra low volume pesticides per application;
A. 1.6.2 more than I 1ha of aerial application of pesticides; or
A. 1.6.3 more than 20kg/ha for each application of granular pesticides.
Al.7  Construction of fish-farming or ornamental pond(s) where the capacity is greater than
1 00 cubic metres or where there is anv direct discharge frorr. a fishpond to a receiving
water body.
A1 .8  Any proposal to introduce fish species in an area where they do not presently exist.
A2   PROJECTS IN THE FOOD AND BEVERAGE PRODUCTION INDUSTRY
A2.1   Construction of new abattoirs or slaughtering houses w ith a capacity of greater than
100 animals/day and expansions to existing abattoirs or slaughtering houses to a
capacity of greater than 100 animals/day.
A2.2   Construction of neu canning and bottling operation with work space of greater than
5000 square metres or expansion to an existing canning or bottling operation to a
work space of greater than 5000 square metres.
A2.3   Construction of new breweries and distilleries with a production capacity of greater
than 25,000 litres per day, or expansions to existing breweries or distilleries to a
production capacity of greater than 25,000 litres per day .
A2.4  Construction of new sugar production operations or expansions to existing sugar
production operations by greater than 10%.
A2.5   Construction, or expansions to, tea or coffee processing industries.
A3  WATER RESOURCES DEVELOPMENT
A3. I  Construction. or expansion of, ground water utilisation projects where the utilisation
will be greater than 15 1 /s or where the well is 60 m or deeper.
A3.2  Construction of new water pipelines or canals longer than I kmn, or expansion to
existing water pipelines or canals by longer than I km, where the cross- sectional area
is greater than 20 square metres and the volume of water to be carried will be greater
than 50 cubic metres per second.
A3.3   Water pumping stations adjacent to lakes, rivers, and reservoirs, which withdraw
more than 2 cubic metres per second.
SMEC International                                                           Part C PageB - ]
Final Report No. 58402



Part C - Environmental Issues for the Road Sector              Malawi Ministry of Works and Supplies
Appendix B - Prescribed Projects                           Road Maintenance and Rehabilitation Project
A3.4   Drinking water supply schemes to serve a population of greater than 10,000 people,
or expansions of existing schemes to serve such a popuiation, or water reticulation
networks with more than 10 kilometres of pipeline.
A3.5  area of greater than 100 ha, or expansions of existing reservoirs by greater than
500,000 1 or greater than 100 ha.
A3.6   Construction or expansion of dams with a height of 4.5 m or higher.
A4  INFRASTRUCTURE PROJECTS
A4. 1  Construction of nevu sanitarv sewerage works or expansion of existing sanitary
sewerage works. to serve a population of more than 5,000 peopie.
A4.2   Construction of new storrm sewerage works. or expansion of existing stormn
sewerage works, to drain an area of greater than I 0 ha.
A4.3   Any new sewerage outfall to a receiving water body or location of sewerage systems
or septic tanks within I kmn of a water body.
A4.4   Construction or expansion of septic tanks servicing more than 100 people or 20
homes or which receive more than 1 00 cubic metres per day of waste water.
A4.5   Construction of new highways and feeder roads or expansion of existing highways
and feeder roads.
A4.6   Construction of new airport and airstrips or expansion of existing and airstrips and
their ancillary facilities.
A4.7   Construction of hospitals with a bed capacity of greater than 200 beds, or expansions
of existing hospitals to a capacity of greater than 200 beds.
A4.8   Construction of new, or expansions to existing, railway lines.
A4.9   Construction of new. or expansions to existing port or harbour facilities.
A4. 10 Establishment or expansion of industrial estates.
A5  WASTE MANAGEMENT PROJECTS
A5. I  Establishment, or expansion, of any of the following hazardous waste management
facilities:
A.5.l.1 incineration plant.
A.5. 1.2 off-site recovery plant:
A.. 1 .3 off-site waste disposal facility;
A.5.1.4 off-site storage facility; and
A.5.1.5 landfill site.
A5.2   Establishment, or expansion, of any of the following municipal solid waste
management facilities serving a population of greater than 1,000 people:
A5.2.1 landfill site;
A5.2.2 incineration facility;
A5.2.3 composting facility;
A5.2.4 recovery/recvcling facility; and
A5.2.5 waste depots/transfer stations.
A5.3   Establishment, or expansion of, on-site waste treatment facilities.
A6   ENERGY GENERATION, TRANSMISSION AND STORAGE PROJECTS
A6.1   Construction or expansion of electrical generating facilities designed to operate at
greater than 4 MW or, in the case of hvdro-electric generating facilities, where the
total head is greater than 20 m or where there is a firm flow of 100 cubic metres per
second.
A6.2   Construction of electrical transmission facilities operating at a voltage of 132kV or
greater.
Parn C Page B - 2                                                             SMEC International
Final Repon No. 58402



Malawi Ministry, of Worlks and Supplies              Part C - Environmental Issues for the Road Sector
Road Maintenance and Rehabilitation Pro,ec;                      Appendix B - Prescribed Pro'ects
A6.3   Construction or expansion of oil and gas pipelines longer than I km.
A6.4   Construction or expansion of storage facilities (excluding services station) for oil,
gas, petrol or diesel located within 3 kilometres of commercial, industrial or
residential areas and with a storage capacity of 500,000 litres or more.
A6.5  All activities associated with nuclear power development.
A7     NDIUSTRIAL PROJECTS
A7.1   Construction of, and expansions to, industries involving the use, manufacturing,
handling storage. transport or disposal of hazardous or toxic chemicals as regulated
under the hazardous chemicals regulation under the Environment Management Act.
A7.2   Construction of. or expansion to, any of the following industrial operations:
A7.2.1 tanneries;
A7.2.2 pulp and paper mills;
A7.2.3 lime plants;
A7.2.4 cement plants;
A7.2.5 all types of smelters;
A7.2.6 soap and detergent plants: and
A7.2.7 fertiliser manufacturing operations.
A7.3   Construction of textile manufacturing operations (including carpet-making which
consume greater than 5,000 square metres of surface area, or expansions to existing
textile manufacturing operations to a capacitv of more than 5000 square metres.
AS    MINLNG AND QUARRYIISG PROJECTS
A 8.1  All mining and quarrving activity for which an exclusive prospecting license, a
mining claim license or a mining license is required or any major amendments to an,
of the above licenses.
A8.2   All extraction of sand. gravel, and clay or topsoil material - be it from the ground or
from the banks or beds of water bodies - where explosives or heavy machinery will
be used.
A8.3   All explosives manufacturing and blasting operations.
A9  FORESTRY PROJECTS
A9.]   Establishment or expansion of logging operations covering an area of greater than 50
ha.
A9.2  Establishment of, or expansions to existing, logging operations on hill sides with a
slope of greater than 10% covering an area of greater than 10 ha or any conversion of
forested land with a slope of greater than 10% to another land use on greater than 10
ha.
A9.3   Establishment of logging or conversion of forested land to another land use within
the catchment area of reservoirs.
A9.4  Establishment of forest plantations of greater than 50 ha.
AIO  LAND DEVELOPMENT, HOUSING AND HUIMAN SETTLEMENT
PROJECTS
A 10.1  Establishment of, or expansion to an existing ; housing development of a size greater
than 5 ha or where more than 500 people are intended to be housed.
A10.2 Resettlement programmes for 500 or more people or the creation of refugee camps
intended to shelter 500 or more people.
A10.3  Filling in water bodies for the purposes of land development where the surface area
of gross fill deposit is greater than 50 ha.
SMEC International                                                           Part C Page B - 3
Final Report No 58402



Pori C - Environmental Issues for the Road Sector             Malawi Ministry of Works and Supplies
Appendux B - Prescribed Projects                          Road Maintenance and Rehabilitation Pro;ect
A 10.4 Land reclamation projects greater than 100 ha .
All  REMEDIAL FLOOD AND EROSION CONTROL PROJECTS
All .1 Construction of breakwaters, seawalls, jetties, dikes and groynes of greater than 2
metres in height or I km in iength to remedy shoreline erosion or flooding.
AI 1.2 Construction of dams or weirs with a height of greater than 2 metres, or which divert
more than 20 cubic metres per second, or any bypass channels or channel
realignments to remedy riverine erosion or flooding.
Al 1.3  Shoreline stabilisation projects where the shoreline involved is greater than 50m.
A12  TOLURISM DEV1ELOPMENT PROJECTS
A12.1 Construction of resort facilities and hotels with a capacity of more than 50 people, or
expansions to existing facilities by a factor of greater than 50 people.
A 12.2  Construction of safari lodges and operations with a capacity of more than 50 people,
or expansions to existing facilities by factor of greater than 50 people.
A 12.3  Construction of marine facilities with more than 10 boat slips, or expansion of
existing marine facilities by more than 10 boat slips.
A12.4  Development of tourism master plans. which have several projects, associated with
them.
A13  PROJECTS, IN PROXIMITY TO, OR UWHICH HANE THE POTENTIAL TO,
AFFECT:
A 13.1 areas of unique historical, cultural. scientific or geographical significance or which
have received some kind of world heritage designation;
A 13.2  national parks, g,ame reserves and protected areas;
A 1 3.3  wetlands:
A 13.4  water bodies;
Ai3.5  flood zones:
A 13.6  major sources of drinking water, including communal wells;
A 13.7  cemeteries or ancestral shrines: and
A 13.8  residential, school and hospital areas, as designed in local planning documents.
A14   MAJOR POLICY REFORMS For example:
A 14.1  De-gazettment of Forestr-y Reserves;
A 14.2 Changes to Zoning Plans; and
A 14.3 Proposed introduction of exotic species.
Part C Page B - 4                                                            SMEC International
Final Report No. 58402



Malawi Minisry of Works and Supplizes                 [Part C - Environmental Issues for the Road Sector
Road Maintenance and Rehabilitation Project    Appendix C - Terms of reference for Environmental Management Unit
APPENDIX C
TERMS OF REFERENCE FOR THE ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMEN'T UNIT
This appendix sets out a suggested terms of reference for the proposed Environmental Management
Unit (EMU) for the road sector.
The aim of the Environmental Management Ulnit is to provide advice, guidance and assistance to the
National Road Authority and "road agencies" on environmental issues related to the road sector. This
includes:
* Facilitating the integration of environmental concerns into all road projects.
*  Promoting environmental awareness at all levels within the road sector, including training and
review of proposals and designs.
* Assisting the "road agencies" undertake environmental reviews.
*  Identifying the environmental impacts of road proposals and providing input into road project
design to minimise these impacts.
*  Assisting, and monitoring, the preparation of environmental management plans.
*  Monitoring and auditing road agencies. consultants and contractors to ensure that proposed
environmental mitigation measures are being carried out effectively.
*  Assisting road agencies to prepare environmental project briefs and draft EIA terns of
reference for submission to the Director of Environmental Affairs.
*  Assisting road agencies to undertake environmental impact assessments and prepare full ELA
reports. This includes providing advice on the preparation of small EIAs and helping
agencies write briefs, engage consultants and review draft documents for larger ELAs.
*  Invoiving other organisations in environmental mitigation efforts (through the use of sub-
committees).
*  Preparing and reviewing standard road sector tender and contract documents with clauses
referring to environmental issues, for submission to the National Road Authority.
*  Reporting the effectiveness of environmental impact mitigation in the road sector to the NRA
highlighting examples where it has been successful and unsuccessful.
SMEC International                                                             Part C Page C - I
Final Report No. 58402






Malaw: Ministry of Works and Supplies                  Part C- Environmental Issues for the Road Sector
Road Maintenance and Rehabilitation Project  AppendLx D - Terms of Reference for Environment Review Committee
APPENDIX D
TERMS OF REFERENCE FOR THE ENVIRONMEN'TAL REVIEW COMINITTEE
This appendix sets out a suggested terms of reference for the proposed Environmental review
Committee (ERC) for the road sector.
The aim of the Environmental Review Committee is to establish and oversee the process for the road
sector. The suggested terms of reference for the ERC are:
*  Provide a focus for environmental matters relating to road projects and the establishment of
an environmental review process.
•  Establish and oversee the proposed Environmental Management Unit within the NRA.
*  Provide policy guidelines to the NRA and road agencies on the environmental review of the
road sector projects.
•  Facilitate final production of the road sector environmental guidelines, training, seminars, etc.
It is envisaged that once the EMU and the environmental impact assessment and mitigation processes
are well established and functional the committee would be disbanded.
SMEC International                                                             Part C Page D - I
Final Repon No. 58402






Malawi Ministrv of Korks and Supplies               Part C- Environmental Issues for the Road Sector
Road Matintenance and Rehabilitation Project        Appendix E - Environmental Review Reporr Forms
APPENIDIX E
ENV'IRONMENTAL ASSESSMENT REVIEVE REPORT FORMS
The EMU completes an "Objection" or a "No Objection" to proceed with the works form, after
reviewing the project brief, the road authority has submitted to the NRA for approval
ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT UNIT
OBJECTION
Developer:
Project name:                        Project Number:
Location:
Proposed Budget (MK):
An environmental review was received for the above project from the developer. The environmental
reviewx has been completed in accordance with the requirements of the Road Sector Environmental
Review Guidelines and includes the following documentation (included where applicable):
2D  Completed Environmiental Review Checklists for each activity required to be carried out
as a part of the project.
21 An Environmental Management Plan for the design stage.
:1 An Environmental Management Plan for the construction stage.
:2 An Environmental Management Plan for the operational stage.
21  A  completed Environmental Impact Review  Check sheet including the Summary
Environmental RevieK Assessment.
l have reviewed the information submitted to ensure that the Environmental Review Checklists have
been completed correctly and competently, that the mitigation measures proposed are adequate to
address the identified environmental issues and that the budget requested for completion of these
works is adequate.
DECLARATION
I. .                     in my position as ..............   hereby declare that I have
checked all documentation submitted by the developer in support of the project and, on the basis
of the informatidn provided, I propose AN OBJECTION to the project on the following
environmental grounds.
O.
4..
Prepared by: .    ..........................  Signed:.
Technical Officer.                                   Unit Leader
Date:
SMEC International                                                          Part C Page E - I
Final Report No. 58402



Parr C - Environmental Issues for the Road Sertor          Malawi Ministrv of Works and Supplies
Appenda F- EIA Terms ofReference                       Road Maintenance and Rehabilitation Projecr
ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT UNIT
NO OBJECTION
IDeveloper:
Project name:                       Project Number:
Location:
Proposed Budget (MK):
An environmental review was received for the above project from the developer. The environmental
review has been completed in accordance with the requirements of the Road Sector Environmental
Review Guidelines and includes the following documentation (included where applicable):
D Completed Environmental Review Checklists for each activity required to be carried out
as a part of the project.
Z1 An Environmental Management Plan for the design stage.
1 An Environmental Management Plan for the construction stage.
3  An Environmental Management Plan for the operational stage.
!l A  completed Environmental Impact Review  Check sheet including the Summary
Environmental Review Assessment.
I have reviewed the documentation and confirm the following:
D All documentation appears to have been completed correctly and competently.
3  No additional information is required from the developer in relation to the environmental
effects associated with the project.
DECLARATION
I............ in my position as ..........            hereby declare that I have checked
all documentation submitted by the developer in support of the project and, on the basis of the
information provided, that the environmental impact of the project is likely to be insignificant and
that the budget proposed by the developer is adequate for the completion of the environmental
mitigation works required.
I therefore propose NO OBJECTION to the project on environmental grounds.
Prepared by: ................. .......       Signed:.
Technical Officer.                                  Unit Leader
Date:
Parn C Page E - 2                                                        SMEC International
Final Report No. 58402



Malawi Minzsrrv of Works and Supplies                  Part C- Environmental Issues for the Road Sector
Road Maintenance and Rehabiltcauon Pro;ect                      Appendix F - EIA Terms of Reference
APPENDIX F
MODEL TERMS OF REFERENCE FOR UNDERTAKING AN EIA
This appendix outlines generic termns-of-reference (TOR) for an undertaking a full Environmental
Impact Assessment (EIA) study and report. It assumes the project developer (usuall) the road
authority) is soliciting proposals from consultants to carry out the work. Thus, the TOR informs the
consultant about the developer's intentions and the work expected, Where project-specific text needs
to be inserted by the developer, it is shown in italic.
INTRODUCTION
(N'ame of developer) requests proposals from qualified consultants to carry out an Environmental
Impact Assessment (ELA) for the (name ofproject> in accordance with the requirements of Malawi's
EIA process and road sector environmental assessment guidelines (give final name of such
documents).  (Name of develooer, intends that this project is tol incorporate all practical, cost-
effective measures for avoiding or minimising negative environmental impacts, for capturing
environmental benefits and, overall, for ensuring sound environmental management. Thus, the
purpose of the Study is:
•  to advise (developer 's name) how the road design or plan may be changed or adapted to avoid or
mitigate negative impacts or improve anticipated environmental benefits; and
*  to undertake an Environmental Impact Assessment (EIA) prepare a report on the assessment and
proposed mitigation measures in a way and forrn acceptable to the Director of Environmental
Affairs.
PROJECT DESCRIPTION
(The developer, the project proposal and its stage in the project cycle are described here in general
terms together with the parts of the project (if not the total) to be covered by the EIA. The project
proposal and any alternatives being considered are described in sufficient detail to allow, the
preparation of a SIudy proposal. Available backgrouncd reports and studies concerning the project
and its environmental setting are summarised to provide an indication of the kinds of information
available for the Studv. Project related policy, legislation, regulations and rules are outlined, as well
as planning and implementation approvals, which will be neededfrom central and local government
authorities. If it exists, the developer 's corporate environmental policy is included.)
ENVIRONM[ENTAL CONCERNS TO BE ADDRESSED IN THE EIA
In consultation with the Director of Environmental Affairs, the foliowing biophysical, resource use
and socio-economic concerns were identified as the key issues to be addressed in the EIA.
(The agreed upon concerns are listed here.)
While the Studv is to be focused on the above issues, the consultant may, in the course of its work,
identifv further concerns, that should be addressed.  These are to be brought to the immediate
attention of (developer's name) for consideration and possible inclusion in the Study after
consultation with the Director of Environmental Affairs. Following advice from (developer's name)
that such additional issues are to be addressed, the consultant is to include them in the study.
SMEC International                                                             Part C Page F - I
Final Report No. 58402



Part C - Environmental Issues for the Road Sector           Afalawi Ministrv of Works and Supplies
Appendix F - EIA Terms of Reference                    Road Maintenance and Rehabilitation Project
ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT
The consultant is to pay particular attention to identifving and recommending measures or practices
for avoiding, mitigating or managing negative impacts of the project, and enhancing potential
environmental benefits. As potential measures or practices are identified, the consultant is to bring
them to (developer's name)'s attention, as soon as practical, for possible inclusion in the project plan.
The consultant is to prepare an environmental management plan for the construction, operation,
maintenance and decommissioning of the project and is to estimate the costs of implementing this
plan. including all capital, operating and training costs.
RELATIONSHII OF ELIA TO PROJECT PLANNING AND DESIGN
For the best environmental planning and design of the project. the consultant is to work closely with
(developer's name)'s engineering team. As appropriate, the consultant is to offer suggestions how the
project design or plan may be changed to improve its environmental performance. Any changes
accepted by (developer's name) are to be incorporated into the project plan and form part of the basis
upon which the consultant forecasts impacts and recommends environmental management measures,
practices and costs.
PUBLIC CONSULTATION
(Developer's name) intends that all concerned public and private stakeholders in the project are to
have adequate input to its planning and design, and approve the project. Thus, in addition to the usual
government liaison, the consultant is to propose an adequate program of consulting the public during
the EIA. The purpose of the program is to assist (developer's name) to both inform all interested
parties about the project and solicit their ideas. Specifically, the consultant is to propose an effective,
comprehensive public consultation strategy, that includes at least its objectives, an initial list of
stakeholder or audiences to be consulted, methods for reaching thesc stake-holder and audiences, the
scheduling of consultation activities and how the consultation efforts are to be analyzed. In devising a
public consultation program, the consultant is to pay close attention to the guidance provided in the
Guidelines for Environmental Impact Assessment and other reievant documents published by the
Environmental Affairs Department (and others).
CONTENT OF THE EIA REPORT
The EiA report produced by the consultant is to contain the information outlined in the Environmental
Affairs Department's Guidelines for Environmental Impact Assessment (or the relevant document).
And ensure that the report can be readily evaluated against the review criteria of the Department of
Environmental Affairs.
REPORTING REQUIREMENTS
The consultant is to submit (regular) monthly progress reports on the work to (developer's name).
The consultant is to submit (number) copies of the draft EIA report to (developer's name) within
(numberj weeks of signing this contract. When (developer's name) has reviewed the draft EIA report
and the consultant has made any mutually agreed upon changes, the consultant is to submit (number)
copies of the final draft EIA report to (developer's name). Then (Developer's name) is to submit the
desired number of copies to the Director of Environmental Affairs.
Appropriate members of the consultant's staff, including any sub-consultants, involved in the
development of the EIA report are to be available to discuss the report with the Environmental Affairs
Department and Technical Committee for the Environment. The consultant is to make any additions,
Part C Page F - 2                                                         SMEC InternationaI
Final Report No. 58402



Malawi Ministry of UWorks and Supplies                    Part C- Environmental Issues for the Road Sector
Road Maintenance and Rehabilitation Project                         AppendLx F - EIA Terms of Reference
clarifications or changes to the EIA report agreed upon by both "developer's name) and the Director
of Environmental Affairs.
EIA TEAM MEMBERS
The consultant and the persons undertaking the EIA are be recognised by the Minister for
environmental Affairs as being suitable for the task. The consultant is to meet the EIA quality
standards expected by the Director of Environmental Affairs as outlined in the Guidelines for
Environmental Impact Assessment (or other relevant document).
CONSULTANTT' S PROPOSAL
The consultant is to submit a technical and cost proposal in response to these terms-of-reference to
(name and address of developer's representative) by (time and date). The technical proposal is to
include:
* details of the proposed overall strategy and work-plan including the specific tasks to be
undertaken;
*  the Stud\ team members, their qualifications and responsibilities,
* the curriculum vitae of ali principal team members:
* the time schedule for carrying out the work:
= the expected outputs:
-  evidence that the consultant's past experience and training qualifies them to carrn out the work to
the satisfaction of (developer's namej and the Director of Environmental Affairs;
• a cost proposal based on daily fee rates for each team member and the number of days they are to
be involved; and
* proposed rates and costs for field subsistence and reimbursable expenses.
SMEC International                                                                 Parn C Page F - 3
Final Reporn No 58402






Malawi Minzstry of Works and Supplies                  Part C- Environmenfal Issues for the Road Sector
Road Mainienance and Rehabilhtatzorn Project   AppendLs G - Contract Conditions for Environmental Effects
APPENDIX G
CONTRACT CONDITIONS FOR ENVIRONMENTAL EFFECTS MITIGATION
This appendix outlines generic clauses that can be used to develop specific clauses for inclusion in
roadwork contracts. The) assume the project developer (usually the road authority) is soliciting
proposals from consultants to supervise the work and contractors to undertake the work. Thus, the
clauses inform the contractor of the developer's intentions, their management and supervision systems
and provides guidance to the supervisor on the expected work,
The contract should include all environmental management and impact mitigation measures required
by the ElA or Director of Environmental Affairs, recommended in the project environmental
assessment process or in the environmental mitigatiorn plan.
WORK SITE INSTALLATIONS.
The contractor is to propose the location of work sites. and installations for consideration by the
supervisor. He is to include details of proposed measures to reduce impacts on the environment of
these sites and the people living in the immediate vicinity. This is to include the surface area used
(e.g., clearing, brush and tree removal, drainage. rubbish dumping) and underground impacts
(disruption or pollution of the water table). The facilities to be created are to be defined before any
work is to be commenced on site and the contractor will allow site inspections.
The contractor is to limit disturbances to the residents in the immediate vicinith and the environment
at and around the work sites (particularly the clearing of bush or trees, water flow. waste storage and
pollution of ground water.
On completion of the work, the contractor is to do everything necessary to restore the work sites to an
acceptable environmental standard. The supervisor is to report on the restoration and the restoration
must be approved before acceptance of the works.
PREPARATION AND SUPPLY OF GRAVEL MATERIALS IN PIT OR QUARRY
During works execution, the contractor is to ensure:
* the preservation of trees and vegetation as is practicable particuiarlv during clearing and the
stock piling of materials,
*  the spreading of stripped materials to facilitate water percolation;
* natural vegetation growth is allow and encouraged;
* the maintenance of previous natural drainage flows;
* improvement to the site appearance;
*  there are ditches to collect runoff; and
• the maintenance of ramps where a pit or quarry is a declared usable water source for livestock
or people nearby.
Once the works are completed the contractor, at its own expense, is to restore the environment around
the work sites to acceptable environmental standards. The supervisor is to report on the restoration
and confirm the restoration is approved before acceptance of the works.
SMEC International                                                             Part C Page G - I
Final Report No. 58402



Part C - Environmental issuesfor the Road Sector             Malaiw Afinistiy of Workl and Supplies
AppendLX G - Contract Conditions for Environmental Effects  Road Maintenance and Rehabilitation Project
CLEANING OF SIDE DITCHES, DIVERGING DITCHES, AND SUMMIT SLOPE OR FOOT
SLOPE DITCHIES.
All debris is to be dumped clear of ditches and streams at a sufficient distance from the roadside and
spread with a counter slope, with respect to the ditch or stream, to prevent surface water runoff being
polluted with fine materials.
VEGETATION PLANTING
The contractor is to plant trees, shrubs and grasses in the locations shown on the drawings or
determined by the supervisor, with protection as specified (mud, brick walls, wire netting, etc.). The
contractor is to provide water needed for the trees, shrubs and grasses to grow, and promptly replace
any dead trees, shrubs and grasses. The contractor is to carry out the required maintenance of trees,
shrubs and grasses for one year from the time of planting, including watering, cleaning the area at the
base of the tree, cutting grasses and maintaining the protection in good condition.
SITE REPORT
A monthly report on completion of the works is to be submitted by the contractor to the supervisor. It
is to present summar) information on:
*  the environmental improvements made during the month;
*  the steps taken by the contractors to preserve the environment:
* the improvements observed upon closing down the site;
* the trees, shrubs and grasses planted (location, number, method of protection, maintenance,
monitoring);
*  the data on quarries and borrou pits used (location, area, depth, improvements, quanties
removed, etc.);
* location and length of diverging ditches (partial and cumulative for all new and old ditches);
*  the position and volume of laying-up basins constructed, and
* the position of strengthening works carried out on approaches to structures.
1-PDATING OF ROLTTE PLANS
The contractor is to update the route "as built" plans each month with:
* a summary of all environmental data from the monthly reports;
* the specific locations of tree, shrubs and grasses planted;
* the locations of quarries and pits used;
* the updated characteristics of each location of diverging ditches;
• the condition of structures after sand removal upstream and downstream; and
* the location, type and number of anti-erosion devices in the drainage system.
These plans are to be made available to the supervisor whenever requested.
Prior to the completion of the road maintenance period, the contractor is to record the plantings made
(position, number) on the route "as built" plans and deliver a copy to the supervisor.
UTILIZATION OF QUARRIES, BORROW PITS AND STORAGE AREAS
The contractor is to ensure proper utilization of all quarries and borrow pits with the aim of reducing
the impact on the environment.
Pan C Page G - 2                                                           SMEC International
Final Report No. 58402



Malau i Ministry of IVorks and Supplies                     Part C- Environmental Issues for the Road Sector
Road Maintenance and Rehabilitation Project        Appendix G - Contract Conditions for Environmental Effects
The contractor is to designate trees to be protected and storage areas for material that will not disrupt
water drainage.
SUPERVISOR'S OBLIGATIONS
The supervisor is to enter in the site records details of:
*   the vegetation removed or damaged;
*   the vegetation planted and its protection;
*   work that affects, or maN affect, water flovw or quality:
The supervisor is to oversee the restoration of the work sites to a natural state, including spreading
stored-stripped material to facilitate water percolation and natural plant re-growth.
The supervisor is to record the location and technical details of drainage vworks and debris placement.
including:
* the construction of diverging ditches;
*  the construction of laying-up basins; and
* the cleansing of side ditches, diverging ditches, and summit slope ditches.
The supervisor is to instruct the contractor where trees, shrubs and grasses are to be planted and the
type of protection to be provided.
The supervisor is responsible for ensuring that the contractor is keeping adequate site reports of work
done.
On completion of the work, the supervisor is to:
* report on specific requirements for the subsequent maintenance program;
* indicate special features of the road environment;
*   indicate urgent tasks to be undertaken to improve or protect the environment;
* propose improvements to the contract environmental clauses; and
*   provide any supplementary data required on the state of quarries, pits. and drainage.
SMEC International                                                                   Part C Page G - 3
Fina' Report No 58402






ifalai A Minisry of Works and Suppihes                Part C- Environmental Issues for the Road Sector
Road Afainienance and Rehabilzgctzon Propeci                AppendLx H - Implementatnon Time Table
APPEN'DIX H
IMPLEMENTATION REQLUIREMENTS, TIMETABLE AND BUDGET
Three main activities are proposed to address both immediate and future environmental concems of
the road sectors. These are:
*  the development of Road Sector Environmental Review Guidelines;
* the establishment of an Environmental Management Unit (EMTU) as a focal point for the
integration of environmental concerns in all road related projects; and
*  the Establishment of an Environmental Review Committee (ERC) to oversee the proposed
activities above.
The proposed timetable to implement these is:
SPECIFIC ACTIOIN                      TIME       RESPONSIBLE
ORGANISATION
Finalising terms of reference for the ERC             start now  jNRA
Determine membership of the ERC                       ]S month   NRA
Establish ERC                                         2" month  NRA and ERC
* Review TOR of ERC
. Finalise work plan
*  Finalise budget
Finalise TOR for the EMlIT and administrative         3rd month   NRA and ERC
arrangements (size, location. budget and
Establish EMNU 5i  month   NRA and ERC
* Select unit leader
*  Finalise TOR of unit
*  Establish objectives and unit's work plan
* Finalise budget
a  Procure staff, equipment etc.
Implement environmental assessment in the road sector    711 month   EMIJ
Review guidelines
Stakeholder workshop
Publish road sector guidelines
First training program
in consideration of the number of road agencies and road projects the EMIU will be handling, it is
essential to consider the logistics and fundamental resourceing of the unit or its ability to fulfil its
functions will be compromised. A basic inventory of requirements for the EMIJ is:
*  office space in Lilongwe;
* office furniture;
*  one (preferably two) phone lines,
* access to a fax and email;
*  one desk top computer with adequate software;
* rwo lap top computers for field work;
* adequate stationary and printing supplies budgets;
* adequate communication budgets;
*  adequate staff training budgets;
* nominal international travel budget;
SMEC International                                                            Part C Page H - I
Final Report No. 58402



Part C - Environmental Issuesfor the Road Sector                        Malawi Ministrv of Works and Supplies
Appendix H - Implementation Time Table                            Road Maintenance and Rehabilitation Project
*   access to suitable venues for environmental training and stakeholder workshops;
*   two 4 wheel drive vehicles (for field work);
*   one 4 wheel drive for site visits and training: and
*   adequate fuel, accommodation and other operational budgets to allow significant field work.
A suggested budget framework for the first two vears is:
Item  description      Quantity       Unit Cost          Total Cost          Remarks
ERC member fees
ERC transpon
ERC office, supplies.
etc.
ERC communication
ERC incidentals      !                        .
ERC Sub Total        l                                  |           _
EMU leader                                              l
L EMU enmironmentalists               _
EMU field officers
EMU transport                               __.
EMU communication
EMU vehicles
EMU computers.
printer and software
EML support staff     _
EMU office. supplies,
,tc.
EMU staff training &
workshops
EMU incidentals
EMU: Sub-Total                             _               _
Environmental training
Training Sub-Total
Guidelines-  production __ _ _ _ _ _ _ __ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _
Guidelines - workshops  _                                                  I
Guidelines Sub-Total   !         -- --I
GRAND TOTAL          I                                                     I
Notes:
I . The ERC is proposed to meet at least twice a month over a period of two years. The composition
of the ERC should be multi-disciplinary with at least 10 members.
2. The training budget should initially be based on a five residential course s per year for 15 to 25
people at a time over 5 days. An indicative cost for this is MK 300,000 per course.
Part, C Page H - 2                                                                      SMEC International
Final Report No. 58402



Malawi Mrinistr of Forks and Supplies                           Pari C - Environmental Issues for the Road Sector
Road Maintenance and Rehabilitation Project              AppendLx I - Environmental Impact Assessment Checklists
APPENDIX I
ROAD SECTOR GUIDELINES FOR ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT ASSESSMENT
This Appendix includes a proposed set of guidelines for assessing the environmental impacts of road
projects and determining suitable mitigation measures. They are designed to complement the
requirements of the Department of Environmental Affairs requirements for "prescribed projects" and
full Environmental Impact Assessment (EIA) studies and reports.
TABLE OF CONTENTS
L. GUIDE TO THE ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT REVIE' PROCESS ...............                        .......................... 1-2
2. GUlIDE TO THE ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT ASSESSMENT PROCESS ............................... 1-2
2.1 ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT ASSESSMENT ............................................................... - - . 1-2
2.2 THE LEGAL BASIS FOR ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT ASSESSMENT IN MALAVvl .... 1-3
2.3 THE IMPACT OF ROADS ON THE ENVIRONMENT .......................................................... 1-3
2.4 REDUCTION OF ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT ................................................................... 1-3
3. A GUIDE TO THE USE OF THE ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT ASSESSMENT
CHECKLISTS ....................................................................... 1-4
3.1 OBJECTIVES OF THE ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT ASSESSMENT CHECKLISTS ...... 1-4
3.2 RESPONSIBILITY FOR USING THE ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT ASSESSMENT
CHECKLISTS ........................................................................ 1-5
3.3 PRESENTATION OF THE ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT ASSESSMENT
CHECKLISTS .........            ............................................................... 1-6
3.4 ADDRESSING CO MMUNITY `NEEDS IN THE ASSESSMENT PROCESS ........................ 1-7
3.5 2.5 CONSIDERING THE SIGNIFICANCE OF AN ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT ............. 1-7
4. ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT ASSESSMENT OF A PROJECT .................................................. I-9
4.1 USE OF ENVIRONMENTAL EFFECTS IMPACT ASSESSMENT CHECKLISTS ............. 1-9
4.2 PREPARI`NG ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT PLANTINIG CHECKLISTS .............. 1-9
5. THE ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT ASSESSMENT CHECKLISTS .......................................... 1-1T
5.1 ACTIVITIES COVERED BY THE ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT ASSESSMENT
CHECKLISTS .......................................................................I -  I.
5.2 SYMBOLS AND ABBREVIATIONS ITN THE CHECKLISTS ............................................. 1-12
6. GLOSSARY OF TERMS ......................................................                             1-13
ANNEX  I - ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT SCREENING CRITERIA ....................................... 1-16
ANTNTEX 2 - COMMUNITY CONSULTATION GUIDELINES .................................................. 1-I-2
ANNEX 3 - ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT ASSESSMENT AND MITIGATION
CHECKLISTS ..........................................                                   1-26
SMEC International                                                                          Part C Page I - I
Final Report No. 58402



Part C - Environmental Issuesfor the Road Sector             Malawi Ministrn of works and Supplies
Appendu I -Environmental Impact Assessment Checklists   Road Maintenance and Rehabilitation Project
1.  GUIDE TO THE ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT REVIEW PROCESS
These guidelines comprise five main sections:
* Section I  gives an explanatory guide to environmental impact assessment and outlines the
role of environmental impact assessment in the road sector.
* Section 2   is a guide to the use of the environmental impact assessment checklists.
* Section 3   covers the environmental impact assessment of a project as a whole using the
impact assessment checklists for each activity associated with the road sector.
* Section 4   describes the checklists and their use.
* Section 5   provides a glossary of terms covering the terms shown in the main text in italics.
* Annex I summarises the environmental impact screening criteria based on the Environmental
Impact Assessment Act.
* Annex 2 contains euidelines for undertaking the community consultation process.
The environmental impact assessment checklists for road projects are at the end of these guidelines.
2. GUIDE TO TIIE ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT ASSESSMENT PROCESS
2 .1 ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT ASSESSMENT
An environmental impact assessment is the review of the potential impact a project or development
proposal may have upon the environment and those who live within it. The type and detail of the
environmental impact assessment undertaken for a project are dependent upon the scale of the
development and the likely impact it could have upon the environment.
The most intensive and detailed environmental impact assessment is an environmental impact
assessment (EIA) study and report undertaken for submission to the Director of Environmental
Affairs. "Prescribed projects"  (refer to Annex 1), that will, or are likely to cause significant
environmental harm require these reports. To determine the degree of likely impact upon an
environment and therefore to deter-mine whether an EIA is required, an initial assessment needs to be
completed.  This is known as screening and represents the first stage of environmental issue
identification and consideration. The screening criteria as proposed in the Malawi Guidelines for
Environmental Impact Assessment (1997) are given in Annex 1. The guidelines given in this
document cover the initial screening of road projects.
Environmental impact assessment is a process and tool for project planning and decision making. Its
purpose is to ensure that the environmental and socio-economic costs and benefits of projects are
properly accounted for, that unwarranted negative impacts are avoided or mitigated and that potential
benefits are maximised. Throughout the development and implementation of a project (consideration,
planning. design, documentation and construction), the environmental impact assessment aims to
provide decision-makers with information on the environmental effects, costs and benefits. This is
designed to compliment information on technical and economic feasibility.
An environmental impact assessment should incorporate the communities where the project is
proposed. Therefore. involvement of the community at the earliest stages of project conception is
likely to result in a successful environmental impact assessment aTid ultimately a successful and
sustainable road project.
Par, C Page 1-2                                                           SMEC International
Final Report No. 58402



Malawi Mrnzstrv of Wforks and Supplies               Parr C - Environmental issuesfor the Road Sector
Road Maintenance and Rehabilitation Protect     Appendkx 1- Environmental impact Assessment Checklists
2.2 THE LEGAL BASIS FOR ENVIRONMENTAL FIPACT ASSESSMENT IN MALAWI
The Malawi Environmental Management Act of 1996 (EMA). is the legislative basis for the overall
management of environmental issues, including environmental impact assessment for road projects.
The EMA defines what is a formal Environmental Impact Assessment (FIA), establishes an
administrative process for their production and review, and identifies the key players in the process.
The EMA was complemented in December 1997 by the Guidelines for Environmental Impact
Assessment GEIA). The GEIAs were prepared to facilitate compliance with requirements of the
EMA. Thev aim to assist the integration of environmental issues in all projects in both the private and
public sectors.
2.3 THE IMPACT OF ROADS ON THE ENVIRONMENT
Motor vehicles do cause indirect environmental impact such as global warming, ozone layer
depletion, air pollution, noise pollution and wAater pollution. etc. These guidelines are not designed to
address these broader issues. Rather they relate to the direct environmental impact associated with
road vehicle usage and road construction. maintenance and rehabilitation.
Road works place significant demands upon natural resources and influence the use of natural
resources with consequent effects on human and biophysical environments. The major environmental
concerns for the road sector include:
*  air and water pollution during construction;
* noise pollution during construction;
*  soil contamination;
*  soil erosion and sedimentation;
*  local flooding and drainage problems;
*  vegetation loss and disfiguring of landscapes;
*  degradation of sensitive areas such as wetlands;
*  land degradation through quarrying and other activities;
•  changes to access;
•  loss of productive agricultural land: and
*  the disruption of economic activities.
2.4 REDUCTION OF ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT
The impact on the environment associated with the road sector can be reduced through the
implementation of impact mitigation measures.
Environmental mitigation may be defined as the lessening of negative environmental impacts. This is
usually through changes in the design, construction practices, maintenance, and operation of a road
and additional actions taken to protect the biophysical and social environment, as well as individuals
who have been impacted adversely by a project.
The extent and timing of mitigation actions should be based on the significance of the predicted
impacts. The stage when a mitigation measure is implemented can have significant effect on its
success by reducing the environmental impact. Therefore, it is important to consider which mitigation
measures are appropriate to reduce each impact and when these measures need to be considered.
In manv instances, particularly with permanent structural works such as drains and embankments, the
mitigation measure begins al the design stage. For example, the impact of a new drain upon adjoining
SMEC International                                                           Part C Page I - 3
Final Report No. 58402



Part C - Environmental Issues for the Road Sector            Malawi Mznistn of Works and Supplies
Appendix I -Environmental Impact Assessment Checklists  Road Maintenance andRehabilitaton Proiect
agricultural lands could be greatly reduced by looking at alternate designs and locations for the drain
at the design stage.
Mitigation to prevent further impact may need consideration and implementation at the construction
or operation stages. For example, if dust raised by vehicles during construction is identified as an
impact, regular water spaying on unpaved access roads may assist in minimising the impact.
Similarly, other mitigation measures may require implementation over an extended time frame.
Examples of these measures include the maintenance of vegetation on potentially unstable banks and
the clearing of drains and culverts.
3. A GUIDE TO THE USE OF THIE ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT ASSESSMENT
CHECKLISTS
3.1 OBJECTIVES OF THE ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT ASSESSMIENT CHECKLISTS
The framework and procedure for the preparation of EIA reports established by the EMA and the
Mlalawi Guidelines for Environmental Impact Assessment is designed to address the environmental
issues resulting from developments that will, or are likely to cause significant environmental harm.
The process for environmental assessment does not however provide guidance for environmental
assessment of smaller scale projects not requiring a comprehensive EIA.
Not all road sector projects require the preparation of a comprehensive EIA. Indeed, many road
projects are likely to have only a minor impact on the environment, particularly where the potential
impacts have been identified early in the project cycle and appropriate mitigation measures
implemented.
The key objective of these guidelines therefore is to breach the gap in environmental impact
assessment between carrying out no environmental assessment, and completing a comprehensive EIA.
This is achieved by:
*  facilitating environmental serfassessment and environmental due diligence;
*  providing a means of screening environmental impacts to determine whether an ELA is likelv
to be required: environmental receptors:
*  identifving key;
*  identifying likely environmental imnpacts and its causes;
*  providing a range of mitigation measures;
*  providing a means of assessing the significance of the environmental impact of a project;
*  providing guidance for communithyparticipation; and
.  assisting project developers and environmental professionals to work within Malawi's
environmental management requirements.
These guidelines are not specific to a single road project. Rather, they provide general guidance for
the review of environmental impact arising from different types or classes of road works. They also
serve the important role of informing and guiding those who may not be fully aware of environmental
issues arising from the road sector.
Part C Page 1 - 4                                                         SMEC International
Final Report No. 58402



Malawi Mnistry of Works and Supplies                Part C - Environmental Issuesfor the Road Sector
Road Maintenance and Rehabilitation Project   Appendix I - Environmental Impact Assessment Checklists
3.2 RESPONSIBILITY FOR USING THIE ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT ASSESSMENIT
CHECKLISTS
The environmental impact assessment checklists (Annex 3) are for use by a range of government
bodies, road construction contractors and the community. These people in a combined way, play
important roles in minimising the environmental impact of road projects.
The construction, rehabilitation and maintenance of roads (and therefore assessment and mitigation of
the resultant environmental impact) are generally the responsibility of government agencies. Thus,
the checklists are specifically directed to officers within these agencies to promote environmental
self-assessment and environmental due diligence within the road sector.
The broader community however, is also an important participant in many stages of road sector
environmental assessment. The environmental impact assessment checklists are therefore directed to
the community to promote environmental awareness and involvement in the road sector.
The body directly responsible for the use and implementation of the environmental impact assessment
checklists are as follows:
* The National Roads Authority (NRA)
Created by the National Roads Authority Act 1997, the NRA is responsible for ensuring that public
roads are maintained and rehabilitated at all times. The NRA, in the development of annual national
road programmes will review the road programmes submitted by individual road agencies (see
below). This is to ensure that the budget requested for the programme is adequate for every activity
required to implement the pian of action.
* Roads Agencies Defined By The NRA Act, 1997
A road agencv as defined by the National Road Agency Act: "means any institution or body, whether
or not incorporated, charged under any written law with the responsibility of maintaining,
rehabilitating or developing public roads, and includes any institution or body designated as a roads
agency by the Minister [responsible for roads] by notice published in the Gazette."
The key road agency for the "designated roads" is the NRA (via the Central Roads division and the
Urban and District Roads Division) and, for other roads, the city and municipal councils. (Note: this
is to be adjusted once the NRA is operational and the road agencies are defined.) The ability of the
Minister to designate road agencies in the Gazette however, means that other bodies may be identified
as road agencies from time to time.
Section 25 of the NRA Act, requires that the road agencies: "...shall, at least six months before the
commencement of every financial year, submit to the [NRA] Board an annual roads programme in
such a form and containing such details as the Board shall specify, outlining a comprehensive plan of
action for the maintenance, rehabilitation and development of public roads, tracks and trails under the
charge of the roads agency, and the estimated cost of every activity required to implement the plan of
action."
The requirement for road agencies to have regard for "...every activity required to implement the plan
of action" means that any environmental impact mitigation works required must be included in this
submission.  Road agencies must therefore carry out an environmental impact assessment in
accordance with these guidelines to ensure that potential environmental impacts are identified and
adequate funding is requested as a part of their road programme to permit the implementation of
mitigation measures.
SMEC International                                                         Part C Page 1- 5
Final Report No. 58402



Part C - Environmental Issues for the Road Sector           Malawi Minzstry of Works and Supplies
Appendix I -Environmental impact Assessment Checklists  Road Maintenance and Rehabilitation Project
Road agencies are also responsible for ensuring road designs, tender documents and contracts include
provisions for environmental mitigation measures and that these mitigation measures are
implemented. Therefore, those concerned with the preparation and supervision of contracts, and
those directly involved in executing maintenance and rehabilitation works, should use these
guidelines. To assist in this task. these guidelines identify ke) environmental issues and provide
suitable generic clauses to address these issues in project documentation.
* The Public
These guidelines are proposed to increase the level of environmental awareness not only in the
relevant arms of government and amongst road contractors, but also within the broader community.
Only with community participation (and the resultant political effects) can responsible environmental
management, including environmental impact assessment and mitigation be achieved. Therefore, the
public can use the guidelines to ensure appropriate measures are implemented to mitigate
environmental harm as a result of road projects.
3.3 PRESENTATION OF TIE EN-VIRONMENTAL IMPACT ASSESSMENT CHECKLISTS
The environmental impact assessment checklists included in Annex 3 of this document are generic in
nature. They are designed to provide information and a tangible means of first stage environmental
assessment for most activities within the road sector. They are designed for use by people with
widely varying levels of environmental awareness and knowledge.
An annotated checklist approach is used with the following general layout:
1. PROPOSED ACTIVITY-
2.              3.                  4.                     5
RECEPTORS    IMPACTS &              MITIGATION             TIMING AND
LIKELY CAUSES   MEASURES AND               SIGNIFICANCE, ASSUMING
STAGE OF               FULL MITIGATION
IMPLEMENTATION         MEASURES ARE ADOPTED
The purpose of each section of the checkiists is discussed in the following.
1. Proposed activity:
This represents the tvpe of activitv to be undertaken. For example, the rehabilitation of a road may
involve a number of activities that when combined, make up the project. Activities mav include
transportation and storage of materials, construction of detours, carriageways and drainage works.
For each activity to be carried out, the appropriate checklist should be completed.
2. Receptors:
This is the first column in the checklist table. Environmental receptors are identified as the actual
components of the environment that are likely to experience the impact from the proposed activity.
The five broad receptors identified in the checklists are:
* soils, water and air;
* vegetation and landscape.
• wetlands,
* wildlife; and
* human settlement and cultural heritage.
Parn C Page ] - 6                                                        SMEC International
Final Report No. 58402



Malawi Minisrry of Works and Supplies                Part C - Environmental Issues for the Road Sector
Road Maintenance and Rehabiliiation Project     AppendiA I - Environmenia! Impact Assessment Checklists
3. Impact & the likely causes:
In this column of the checkiists the impact the activity could have upon the receptor is indicated.
The likely cause of this impact is annotated below the impact. In using the checklists it should be
remembered that these likely causes are not exhaustive and serve to inforrn and increase
environmental awareness of the user. They are specifically targeted at those using the checklist as
a means of increasing environmental awareness rather than at those who may use the checklist for
establishing the significance of an impact. However, it is expected that thev will provide useful
guidance for those people using the checklist for environmental assessment purposes.
4. Mitigation measures and stage of implementation:
This column of the checklist identifies mitigation measures that could be implemented to minimise
the significance of an identified impact. The measures suggested are not exhaustive but serve to
inform and guide the user in assessing the likely environmental impact. A sub-column is provided
in the checklists to identify the stage when the mitigation measure should be implemented: that is,
at the design (D), construction (C) and/or operation (0) stages. This forces the proponent to
consider the timing. and therefore the budgetarv implications, of the mitigation measure.
5. Timing and significance, assuming full mitigation measures are adopted:
This column in the checklist identifies the likely timing of the impact identified in the second
column upon the receptor identified in the first column. That is, whether the impact is likely to
extend over the Short Term (S) or Long Term (L). It provides four sub-columns, that permits the
assessment of the extent or significance of the impact upon the receptor assuming full
implementation measures are adopted. These are in four categories, namely; Negligible (Neg),
Minimal (Min). Moderate (Mod) and Major (Maj).
3.4 ADDRESSING COMMUNITY NEEDS [N THE ASSESSMENT PROCESS
Roads have the abilitv to dramatically transform the structure and operation of communities through
which they pass. Community participation in an environmental review can result in a project having
significantly lower impact both upon the environment, and upon those who live within it. The impact
may be directlv associated with construction works or be caused by the improved access and
increased vehicle movements, etc. The community therefore plays a central role in the success of a
road project.
The guidelines identify, for each likely activity required as a part of a project, the impact it may have
upon "human settlements and cultural heritage". This includes a range of direct and in-direct impacts
upon the community or communities, which may be affected by the project. The impact includes the
effects such as the loss of agricultural land and the loss of fishing stock through contamination of
water supplies, and impact on items of cultural significance. In using the guidelines, the project
proponent will be required to make an assessment of the likely impact each activity could have upon
any affected community.
The means by which the community can be actively involved in both the environmental impact
assessment process and the project itself are included in Annex 2.
3.5 CONSIDERING THE SIGNIFICANCE OF AN ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT
When assessing the impact an activity could have upon an environmental receptor even with
implementation of mitigation measures (its "net" impact), it is important to have consideration for the
following matters:
SMEC International                                                           Part C Page I - 7
Final Repon No. 58402



Part C - Environmental Issues for the Road Sector             Malawi Ministry of Works and Supplies
Appendix I -Environmental Impact Assessmen! Checkiists   Road Maintenance and Rehabilization Project
a) The character of the receiving environment
*  Is it, or is it likely to be, part of a conservation area?
*  Is it an existing or potentially environmentally sensitive area?
*  Is it vulnerable to major natural or induced hazards such as flooding, etc.?
*  Could the proposed activity impact on a non-renewable resource?
*  How extensive is the receiving environment? That is, could an impact, which is of minor
importance at the immediate activity site cause significant impacts such as flooding,
contamination, sedimentation or reduction in drinking water quality elsewhere?
b) Resilience of natural and human environments to cope with change
*  Can the receiving environment absorb the level of impact predicted without suffering
irreversible change?
*  What are the implications for biodiversitv?
*  Can existing land uses at and around the site be sustained once the activity has been carried
out?
*  Could the cumulative effects of a range of impacts, which individually will be of minor
significance. actually cause significant environmental harm?
c) Accuracy of impact prediction
*  What level of information do we have on the environment?
*  How resilient is the receiving environment to the likely impact of the activity?
*  Is the activity understood well enough to enable the impact to be established?
*  Is the level and nature of change to the human environment sufficiently understood to allow
the impact of the proposal to be predicted and managed?
*  Are present community values on land use and resource use known or likely to change?
d) Likely social and community impacts
*  Could the activity cause concern within the community?
*  Could the activity cause potential health problems?
*  Will the amenity, values or lifestyle of the community be adversely affected?
*  Will any people be directly affected (e.g., by loss of property)?
*  Could the activity physically divide the community?
*  Will the activity create inequities in the community?
*  Do social or cultural barriers to female participation and consultation exist in the community?
If so, how can these barriers be overcome to facilitate involvement?
*  Will pedestrians, bicycle use and traditional transport modes be adversely affected?
*  Will the activity require a construction camp? If so, what impact could this have upon the
community?
Further guidelines on public consultation are given in Annex 2 of this document.
Part C Page 1- 8                                                           SMEC International
Final Report No. 58402



Malawii Ministrv of Works and Supplies               Part C- Environmental issuesfor the Road Sector
Road Maintenance and Rehabilitation Project     AppendLx I - Environmental impact Assessment Checkiists
4. ENVrIRONMENTAL IMPACT ASSESSMENT OF A PROJECCT
The environmental impact assessment is final stage of the environmental impact assessment process.
This is when the impact of the combined activities to be carried out in the proposal is assessed. No
universally accepted means for accurate ranking of impact severity has been developed in the field of
environmental assessment. However, the overall impact should represent the net impact once all
environmental impact mitigation measures are in place. Thus, the adequacy of identified mitigation
measures in minimising overall impact is tested at this stage.
A key objective of the checklists (given in Annex 3 at the end of this document) is to fulfil an impact
screening role: that is, to determine whether or not a more thorough environmental investigation
should be completed prior to the commencement of the proposal. Completion of these checklists
provides an input into the environmental plan (refer to sub-section 3.2) that gives an approximation of
the net impact of the project as a whole.
4.1 USE OF ENVIRONMENTAL EFFECTS IMPACT ASSESSMENT CHECKLISTS
The environmental effects impact assessment checklists (at the end of this document) are designed to
be self-explanatory. Broadl,. they require the totalling of the number of environmental impacts that
have nmoderate or major significance, and the totalling of impacts that have or negligible moderate
significance. To guide assessment, where the number of impacts of moderate and major significance
exceeds those of negligible or minor significance, it is possible that a comprehensive EJA may be
required under the EMA.  Alternately, additional or different environmental impact mitigation
measures could be implemented. In these instances, the Environmental Management Unit (EMTJ) of
the NRA should be consulted for additional advice.
The procedure for environmental impact assessment for road projects requires that the NRA (via the
EMU) impact assessment completed checklists. This technical unit provides an important resource
for those agencies responsibie for completing the environmental impact assessment checklist as it has
access to a wide range of technical skills and enables the implementation of additional mitigation
measures.  Since the checklists are designed to impact assessment net impact, it is likely that
additional or different mitigation measures implemented for certain activities will reduce the net
impact, thereby avoiding the need to prepare a comprehensive EIA.
4.2 PREPARING ENVIRONMENTAL M-ANAGEMENT PLANNING CHECKLISTS
Once the net impact for the project as a whole have been identified, an environmental management
plan (EMPs) for each stage of the project (design, construction and operation) can then be developed
using the checklists as a guide. Form I (next page) is designed to facilitate the preparation of EMPs
for each stage in an uncomplicated way and to provide a documented record of the mitigation
measures required for each stage.  Once all the necessary Environmental Impact assessment
Checklists have been completed, the mitigation measures identified in the checklists for each activity
and environmental receptor can be entered into the EMP formn.
The EMPs, together with the environmental effects checklists, must form part of the completed
documentation for project consideration submitted to the NRA.. In themselves, the EMP forms
contain almost no information of direct use. They are completely reliant upon the environmental
effect checklists that identify mitigation measures proposed for each stage.
SMEC International                                                           Part C Page 1 - 9
Final Report No. 58402



Part C - Environmental Issues for the Road Sector                          Malawi Ministry of Works and Supplies
Appendix I -Environmental rnIpact Assessment Checklists               Road Maintenance and Rehabilitation Project
Form I Environmental Management Plan (EMP) Form
Project ................................................................................................................
Proponent ............................................................................................................
Stage of this project covered by this form ...............
This Environmental Management Plan form incorporates mitigation measures identified in
environmental effects impact assessment checklists attached.
ENVIRONMENTAL RECEPTORS                        |   RESPONSIBILITYr         |
ACTIVITIES                Soils,    Vegetation    Wetlands   Wildlife   Human         Action    Check  Audit
Water &         &                               Settlement
L-                          Air       Lanidscape
Formation of
carriageways &
drainage
jransportation &
storage of construction
materials
Hazardous materials
ResouTce utilisation
Site installation
Quarries and borrow
pits
Bridges
Asphalt and concrete
Note: this Environmental Management Plan must be read in conjunction with the completed
environmental checklist for each relevant activity. See attachments to this form, namely:
.........................................................................................................................
Signed ..                             Position ....                            Date: ..   .
Part C Page I - 10                                                                         SMEC International
Final Report No. 58402



Malawi Mznisr,- of WVorks and Supplies                Part C - Environmental Issuesfor the Road Sector
Road Maintenance and Rehabilztation Project      Appendix I - Environmental Impact Assessment Checklists
5. THE E1NVIRONMEN'TAL IMPACT ASSESSMENT CHECKLISTS
5.1 ACTIVITIES COVERED BY THE EN1IRONMENTAL IMPACT ASSESSMINT
CHECKLISTS
There are eight environmental impact assessment checklists as detailed below. They reflect the range
of works, likely to be carried out by the road sector. The checklists are included at the end of this
document.
The checklists that should to be completed depend upon the type of works proposed and the precise
activities proposed. Most of the activities required for the day to da) maintenance are included in one
Checklist I "Formation Of Detours. Carriagewavs And Drainage Works". The other checkiists cover
for specific activities required for certain projects.
Checklist 1. Formation Of Detours, Carriagewavs & Drainage Works
Checklist I covers the dav to dav maintenance activities and the core components of larger
maintenance and rehabilitation works. It includes:
* bitumen surface excavation and patching:
* shoulder maintenance work:,
* carriageway marking work;
* removal and disposal of bitumen material;
* cutting road surfaces,
* base preparation;
* sign work;
* guard rail work;
* vegetation control,
* maintenance and clearing of drains and culverts; and
* other local minor repair work;
Checklist 2 Transportation And Storage Of Construction Material
Checklist 2 addresses environmental issues relating to the transportation of construction materials and
the construction and use of stockpile areas and should be used for projects that involve the
transportation and storage of construction materials. The major activities in this work with potentially
significant environmental impact include vegetation clearing, top soil destruction, dust production,
noise generation and safety issues associated with vehicle use.
Checklist 2 does not cover fuels and other hazardous materials that are covered by checklist 3.
Checklist 3 Hazardous Materials
Checklist 3 covers any material, generally fluids, that, if spilt could cause environmental damage. In
roadwork, these materials include diesel, bitumen, paints and herbicides. This checklist should be
used for projects involving the use, transportation and storage of these materials. The environmental
issues of concem with hazardous materials include soil and water contamination, and the resultant
impact upon the biophvsical and social environments.
SMEC International                                                            Part C Page I - 11
Final Report No. 58402



Part C - Environmental Issues for the Road Sector              Malawi Minisrry of Uorks and Supplies
Appendix I -Environmental Impact Assessment Checklists     Road Maintenance and Rehabilitation Projecr
Checklist 4 Resource Utilization
Checklist 4 covers an' activity, which will create a demand for natural resources. It includes the
acquisition of electricity. gas, wood for fuel. charcoal, water, and other resource demands created by
the work force and project.  The major activities with potential to give rise to significant
environmental impact may include cutting down trees, and obtaining water for construction and
human consumption.
Checklist 5 Site Installation
Checklist 5 covers site installation work such as erecting buildings (garages, sheds, stores,
administration offices. and iabor camps) and the construction of vehicle fueling sites. The major
activities with potential to give rise to significant environmental impacts may include vegetation
clearing, construction of buildings and water abstraction.
Cbecklist 6 Quarries And Borrow-Pits
Checklist 6 covers the mining of rock and gravel, blasting, crushing rock, sieving and sorting rock and
gravel and the loading of material onto trucks. The major activities with the potential to give rise to
significant environmental impact may include vegetation clearing, topsoil digging to expose the rock,
blasting of the rock, sorting crushed rock, and loading material on trucks.
The Malawi National Environmental Impact Assessment Guidelines define "mining and quarry
projects" as "prescribed projects" in accordance with the Environment Management Act, 1996. It is
therefore likely that a comprehensive EJA wvill be required where a new quarry. gravel pit or major
borrow pit is required.
Check-list 7 Bridges, Culverts And Drifts
Checklist 7 covers the work required on any structure across a watercourse. Therefore, wherever a
new structure. or work on an existing structure traversing a watercourse is required, this checklist
should be used.
Checklist 8 Asphalt & concrete plants
Checklist 8 covers the installation and operation of an asphalt or concrete manufacturing plant. The
main activities with potential to have significant environmental impact may include vegetation
clearing, soil compaction, storage of asphalt materials, and the release of emissions and effluent from
the plant.
5.2 SYMBOLS ANTD ABBREIVIATIONS IN THE CHECKLISTS
The meaning of the abbreviations and svmbols used on the environmental impact assessment
checklists are explained in this sub-section.
STAGE - (D, C, O6)
D: Mitigation measures to be implemented or faciiitated at the design stage.
C: Mitigation measures to be implemented or facilitated at the construction stage.
0: Mitigation measures to be implemented or facilitated at the operational stage.
Par C Page 1- 12                                                             SMEC International
Final Report No. 58402



Malawi Ministry of Works and Supplies                   Part C - Environmental issues for the Road Sector
Road Maintenance and Rehabilitation Project       Appendix I - Environmental Impact Assessment Checklists
TIMING*
S: The environmental impact is likelx to occur during or shortly after construction.
L: The environmental impact is likeh, to occur during construction but many consequences may
appear during the operational phase and may last for long periods of time.
SIGNIFICANCE* *
NEG: If the suggested mitigation measures are implemented, the likely impact upon the
environmental receptor is negligible.
MIN:  If the suggested mitigation measures are implemented, the likeiy impact upon the
environmental receptor is minimal.
MOD:  Even with the implementation of mitigation measures, the likely impact upon the
environmental receptor is moderate.
MAJ:  Even with the implementation of mitigation measures, the likely impact upon the
environmental receptor is major.
6. GLOSSARY OF TERMS
Biodiversity is short for biological diversity, and refers to the wealthy of ecosvstems in the biosphere,
of species within ecosystems, and of genetic informnation within populations.
Biosphere is the part of the earth-atmosphere svstem that supports and is characterised by life,
encompassing all terrestrial and aquatic ecosystems.
Casual water refers to water that as a result of roadwork activities, or otherwise, is found in puddles,
old tires and barrels on or near construction sites. Casual water can serve as a breeding ground for
snails, flies and mosquitoes. which can contribute to disease problems in the area surrounding the
road site.
Central road agency is as defined in the National Road Authority Act.
Chain impacts are impacts that are themselves a result of other impacts, as opposed to being caused
directly by any particular event. Chain impacts are usually considered as part of a series of related
impacts having a cascade or ripple effect on the environment.
Community participation is the involvement of people in the community, affected or likely to be
affected bv a project.
Construction stage of a project is when work is undertaken on the project in the field.
Cultural significance relates to something that is important to the society.
Cultural heritage relates to the background of something that is culturally significant.
Cumulative effects are those effects, which result from the incremental impacts of individual events,
which added to other past, present and foreseeable future events. The individual impacts contributing
to the cumulative effects may each be minor on their own, but the impacts collectively may be
signlficant.
Design stage of a project is the period prior to construction and includes conceptualisation, planning,
detailed design. document and procurement of contractors.
SMEC International                                                              Part C Page I - 13
Final Report No. 58402



Part C - Environmental Issues for the Road Sector             Malawi Ministry of Works and Supplies
Appendix I -Environmenral Impact Assessment Checklists   Road Maintenance and Rehabilitation Project
Ecosvstem is the basic structural unit of the biosphere, ecosystems are characterised by
interdependent interaction between the component species and their physical surroundings. Each
ecosystem occupies a space in which macro-scale conditions and interactions are relatively
homogeneous.
Environment is the context in which something exists. For humans this means both the biophysical
world and society. Included in our environment are biophysical components such as flora, fauna,
water, air and landforms, and human societal constructs such as economic activity. community
interactions and buildings.
Environmental due diligence is undertaking full care for the environment as defined in the Malawi
Environmental Act.
Environmental impact assessment (ELA) is a systematic evaluation of a project to deternine its
impact on the environment and the conservation of natural resources;
Environmental impact assessment report means the environmental impact assessment report
required under section 25 (1): of the Malawi Environment Management Ac, 1996.
Environmental management plan (EMP) is an action plan for the management strategy for the
implementation of mitigation measures identified in an ELA or environmental impact assessment. It is
the svnthesis of all proposed mitigation and monitoring actions. set to a timeline with specific
responsibility assigned and follow-up actions defined. The EMP is one of the most important outputs
of the environmental assessment process.
Environmental self-assessment is the assessment of the potential environmental impacts of a project
by the proponent.
Environmental receptors are items in the environment that mav be affected by the project.
Executing maintenance and rehabilitation works is all activities involved in carrying out routine
maintenance, rehabilitation and related works on a road.
Full mitigation measures are undertaking the maximum amount of environmental impact mitigation
required to minimise the effect of a project on the environment.
Key stakeholders are those inhabitants of an area affected by a project who have the most to lose and
the most to gain from the completion of the project, and whose concem must be addressed in an
environmental assessment
Long term is something that will extend beyond the construction phase.
Landscape refers to the spatial organisation of an environment on a broad scale, and how those
organisation shapes, and is shaped by, the activities, which take place within it.
Major significance is when the work will permanently adversely affect the environment.
Minimal significance is when the work has a small perrnanent adverse affect the environment.
Moderate significance is when the work has a permanent adverse affect the environment between
that of major or minimal.
Mitigation measures are those measures used to reduce the environmental impact of a project.
Part C Page 1- 14                                                          SMEC International
Final Report No. 58402



Malawi Ministry of Works and Supplies                   Part C - Environmental Issues for the Road Sector
Road Marnienance and Rehabilitation Project        Appendzx I - Environmental impact Assessment Checklists
Negligible significance is when the work- does not permanently adversely affect the environment.
Net impact is the impact a project has on the environment after all mitigation measures are
completed.
Non-renewable resources are those that can not be renewed such as stone, oil and coal.
Operation Stage of a road is after construction is completed and the road is open to traffic.
Proponent is the agency, unit or individual who is proposing. and has responsibility for, a road
project.
Project is a development activity or proposal, which has or is likely to have an impact on the
environment.
Receiving environment is the environment in which the project will or is constructed.
Resilience is a measure of how quickly a system or environmental variable returns to its natural state
following cessation of a disturbance.
Screening is the process of determination if a project should be subjected to a detailed EIA. The main
considerations being the project type, size and the environmental sensitivity of project location.
Significance of environmental impact is measured in terrns of minor, moderate or major (see other
definitions).
Stage of implementation relates to the design, construction or operation stages of a project.
Stakebolders are any persons of groups having interest in or being directly or indirectly affected by a
proposed or past project.
Short term relates to an activity that is completed before the project is completed before the
operation stage.
Wetland includes swamps, river bank areas, lake shores and other areas where the water table is
likely to be at or near the surface for a substantial time.
Urban and district councils are as defined in the Malawi National Road Authority Act.
SMEC International                                                               Part C Page I -1 5
Final Report No. 58402



Part C - Environmental Issues for the Road Sector            Malawi Ministry of Works and Supplies
Appendix I -Environmental Impact Assessment Checklists  Road Maintenance and Rehabilitation Project
ANNEX 1- ENVIRONMENTAL TMPACT SCREENING CRITERIA
This Annex contains:
I. The list of the "prescribed projects' as gazetted in June 1998.
2. The screening process for determining those "prescribed projects" that may not require a full
Environmental Impact Assessment study and report (extracted from the Malawi Guidelines for
Environmental Impact Assessment. 1997).
1. PRESCRIBED PROJECTS
AGRICULTURE /AQUACULTURE PROJECTS
* Agricultural drainage projects of more than I ha.
* Irrigation schemes designed to serve more than 10 ha.
* Land development for the purposes of agriculture on greater than a 20 ha land holding.
* Agricultural projects necessitating their resettlement of 20 or more families.
i Any change form one agricultural land use to another on greater than a 20 ha land holding.
e Use of more than I tonne of fertiliser per hectare per annum on greater than a 20 ha landholding
except for lime applications.
* Use of the following concentrations of pesticides on greater than a 5 ha holding:
- more than 5 I/ha of ultra low volume pesticides per application;
- more than I 1/ha of aerial application of pesticides; or
- more than 20kg/ha for each application of granular pesticides.
e Construction of fish-farming or ornamental pond(s) where the capacitv is greater than 1 00 cubic
metres or where there is anm direct discharge from a fishpond to a receiving water body.
e An' proposal to introduce fish species in an area where they do not presently exist.
PROJECTS n TIE FOOD AND BEVERAGE PRODUCTION LNDUSTRY
* Construction of new abattoirs or slaughtering houses with a capacity of greater than 100
animals per day and expansions to existing abattoirs or slaughtering houses to a capacity of
greater than 100 animals per day.
* Construction of new canning and bottling operation with work space of greater than 5000
square metres or expansion to an existing canning or bottling operation to a work space of
greater than 5000 square metres.
* Construction of new breweries and distilleries with a production capacitry of greater than 25,000
litres per da'. or expansions lo existing breweries or distilleries to a production capacity of
greater than 25.000 litres per day.
* Construction of new sugar production operations or expansions to existing sugar production
operations by greater than 10%.
* Construction, or expansions to, tea or coffee processing industries.
MWATER RESOURCES DEVELOPMENT
* Construction, or expansion of. ground water utilisation projects where the utilisation will be
greater than 15 1 /s or where the well is 60 m or deeper.
* Construction of new water pipelines or canals longer than I kmn, or expansion to existing water
pipelines or canals by longer than I km, where the cross- sectional area is greater than 20
Part C Page I - 16                                                        SMEC International
Final Report No. 58402



Malwi Ministry of W orks and Supplies                   Part C - Environmental Issues for the Road Sector
Road Maintenance and Rehabilhtation Pro,ect        AppendLr I - Environmernal Impact Assessment Checklists
square metres and the volume of water to be carried will be greater than 50 cubic metres per
second.
* Water pumping stations adjacent to lakes, rivers, and reservoirs, which withdraw more than 2
cubic metres per second.
*  Drinking water supply schemes to serve a population of greater than 10.000 people, or
expansions of existing schemes to serve such a population, or water reticulation networks with
more than 10 kilometres of pipeline area of greater than 100 ha, or expansions of existing
reservoirs by greater than 500,000 1 or greater than 100 Ha.
* Construction or expansion of dams with a height of 4.5 m or higher.
INFRASTRUCTURE PROJECTS
*  Construction of new sanitar- sewerage works or expansion of existing sanitary sewerage works,
to serve a population of more than 5,000 people.
*  Construction of new stormn sewerage works, or expansion of existing storn sewerage works, to
drain an area of greater than 10 ha.
* Any new sewerage outfall to a receiving water body or location of sewerage systems or septic
tanks within I kmn of a water body.
*  Construction or expansion of septic tanks servicing more than 100 people or 20 homes or which
receive more than 100 cubic metres per day of waste water.
* Construction of new highways and feeder roads or expansion of existing highways and feeder
roads.
.  Construction of new  airport and airstrips or expansion of existing and airstrips and their
ancillary facilities.
* Construction of hospitals with a bed capacity of greater than 200 beds, or expansions of
existing hospitals to a capacity of greater than 200 beds.
* Construction of new, or expansions to existing, railway lines.
*  Construction of new, or expansions to existing port or harbour facilities.
* Establishment or expansion of industrial estates.
UWASTE MANAGEMENT PROJECTS
* Establishment, or expansion, of any of the following hazardous waste management facilities:
- incineration plant;
- off-site recovery plant;
- off-site waste disposal facility;
- off-site storage facility; and
- landfill site.
* Establishment. or expansion, of any of the following municipal solid waste management
facilities serving a population of greater than 1,000 people:
- landfill site;
- incineration facility;
- composting facility;
- recovery or recycling facility; and
- waste depots or transfer stations.
* Establishment, or expansion of, on-site waste treatment facilities.
SNIEC International                                                               Pan C Page I - 17
Final Repori No. 58402



Part C - Environmental Issues for the Road Sector            Malowi Ministr of Korks and Supplies
Appendix I -Environmental Impact Assessment Checklists  Road Maintenance and Rehabilitation Proiect
ENERGY GENERATION, TRANSMISSION AND STORAGE PROJECTS
* Construction or expansion of electrical generating facilities designed to operate at greater than
4 MW or, in the case of hydro-electric generating facilities, where the total head is greater than
20 m or where there is a firm flow of 100 cubic metres per second.
* Construction of electrical transmission facilities operating at a voltage of 132kV or greater.
* Construction or expansion of oil and gas pipelines longer than I km.
* Construction or expansion of storage facilities (excluding services station) for oil, gas. petrol or
diesel located within 3 kilometres of commercial, industrial or residential areas and with a
storage capacity of 500,000 litres or more.
* All activities associated with nuclear power development.
INDUSTRIAL PROJECTS
* Construction of, and expansions to, industries involving the use, manufacturing, handling
storage, transport or disposal of hazardous or toxic chemicals as rezulated under the hazardous
chemicals regulation under the Environment Management Act.
* Construction of, or expansion to, any of the following industrial operations:
- tanneries;
- pulp and paper mills;
- lime plants;
- cement plants;
- all types of smelters;
- soap and detergent plants; and
- fertiliser manufacturine operations.
* Construction of textile manufacturing operations (including carpet-making which consume
greater than 5,000 square metres of surface area, or expansions to existing textile
manufacturing operations to a capacity of more than 5000 square metres
MINING AND QUARRYING PROJECTS
* All mining and quarrying activity for which an exclusive prospecting licence. a mining claim
licence or a mining licence is required or any major amendments to any of the above licences.
* All extraction of sand, gravel, and clay or topsoil material - be it from the ground or from
bankls or beds of water bodies - where explosives or heavy machinery will be used.
* All explosives manufacturing and blasting operations.
FORESTRY PROJECTS
* Establishment or expansion of logging operations covering an area of greater than 50 ha.
• Establishment of, or expansions to existing, logging operations on hill sides with a slope of
greater than 1 0% covering an area of greater than 10 ha or anv conversion of forested land with
a slope of greater than 10% to another land use on greater than 10 ha.
. Establishment of logging or conversion of forested land to another land use within the
catchment area of reservoirs.
* Establishment of forest plantations of greater than 50 ha.
LAND DEVELOPMENT, HOUSING AND HUMAN SETTLEMENT PROJECTS
* Establishment of, or expansion to an existing ; housing development of a size greater than 5 ha
or where more than 500 people are intended to be housed.
PartC Page I - 18                                                         SMEC International
Final Report No. 58402



Malawi Ministrv of Works and Supplies                 Part C - Environmentai Issuesfor the Road Sector
Road Mainrenance and Rehabilitation Project      Appendkx I - Environmental Impact Assessment Checklists
* Resettlement programmes for 500 or more people or the creation of refugee camps intended to
shelter 500 or more people.
• Filling in water bodies for the purposes of land development where the surface area of gross
fill deposit is greater than 50 ha.
* Land reclamation projects greater than 100 ha.
REMEDIAL FLOOD AND EROSION CONTROL PROJECTS
* Construction of breakwaters, seawalls, jetties, dikes and groynes of greater than 2 metres in
height or I kn in length to remedy shoreline erosion or flooding.
* Construction of dams or weirs with a height of greater than 2 metres, or which divert more than
20 cubic metres per second. or any bvpass channels or channel realignments to remedv riverine
erosion or flooding,
*  Shoreline stabilisation projects where the shoreline involved is greater than 50m.
TOUJRISM DEVELOPMENT PROJECTS
* Construction of resort facilities and hotels with a capacity of more than 50 people. or
expansions to existing facilities by a factor of greater than 50 people.
* Construction of safari lodges and operations with a capacity of more than 50 people, or
expansions to existing facilities by factor of greater than 50 people.
* Construction of marine facilities with more than 10 boat slips, or expansion of existing marine
facilities bv more than 10 boat slips.
* Development of tourism master plans, which have several projects, associated with them.
OTHER PROJECTS
* Projects in proximitv to, or which have the potential to affect:
- areas of unique historical, cultural, scientific or geographical significance or which have
received some kind of world heritage designation;
n- ational parks, game reserves and protected areas;
- wetlands;
- water bodies:
- flood zones:
- major sources of drinking water, including communal wells;
- cemeteries or ancestral shrines; or
- residential, school and hospital areas, as designed in local planning documents.
MAJOR POLICY REFORMS
* For example:
- de-gazettment of Forestry Reserves;
- changes to Zoning Plans; and
- proposed introduction of exotic species.
SNMEC International                                                           Part C Page 1- 19
Final Repor No. 58402



Part C - Environmental Issuesfor the Road Sector              Maiai Minist-v of Works and Supplies
Appendix I -Environmental Impact Assessment Checklists   Road Maintenance and Rehabilitation Project
2. EXEMPTION OF "PRESCRIBED PROJECTS" FROM THE NEED FOR A FULL EIA
STUDY AND REPORT
Once a project brief is received and the potential impact is assessed by Director of Environmental
Affairs (DEA), a "prescribed project" may be exempted (by the DEA) from further compliance with
the full environmental impact assessment (EIA) requirements if a]l of the following conditions are
satisfied:
* The project will not substantiali) use a natural resource in a way that pre-empts the use, or
potential use, of that resource for any other purpose.
* Potential residual impacts on the environment are likely to be minor, of iittle significance
and easily mitigated.
* The type of project, it's environmental impacts and measures for managing them are well
understood in Malawi.
* Reliable means exist for ensuring that impact management measures can and will be
adequately planned and implemented.
* The project will not displace significant numbers of people, families or communities.
- The project is not located in. and will not affect, any environmentally sensitive areas such
as:
- national parks;
- wet-lands.
- productive agricultural land;
- important archaeological, historical and cultural sites;
- areas protected under legislation;
- areas containing rare or endangered flora or fauna:
- areas containing unique or outstanding scenery;
- mountains or developments on or near steep hill-slDpes;
- dry' tropical forests (e.g. Brachystegia woodlands);
- development near Lake Malawi or its beaches;
- development providing important resources for vulnerable groups such as fishing
communities along the lake-shore:
- developments near high population concentrations or industrial activities where
further development could create significant environmental problems; or
- prime ground-water re-charge areas or areas of importance for surface run off of
water.
* The project will not result in:
- policv initiatives which may affect the environment such as changes in agricultural
pricing subsidies or the tobacco liberalisation;
- major changes in land tenure; or
- changes in water use through irrigation, drainage promotion or dams, changes in
fishing practices.
* The project will not cause:
- adverse socio-economic impact;
- land degradation;
Part C Page 1-20                                                           SMEC International
Final Report No. 58402



Malawi Ministry oa Works and Supplies                    Par C - Environmental Issues for the Road Sector
Road Maintenance and Rehabilitation Project         Appendix I - Environmental Impact Assessment CheckiLsts
-  water pollution;
-  air pollution;
-  damage to wildlife and habitat;
-  adverse impact on climate and hydrological cycle;
-  air pollution; or
-  creation of by-products, residual or waste materials, which require handling and
disposal in a manner that, is not regulated by existing authorities.
*  The project will not cause significant public concern because of potential environrmental
changes. The following are guiding principles for this requirement:
-  Is the impact positive, mainly benign or harmful?
-  What is the scale of the impact in terms of area affected, numbers of people or
wildlife?
- What is the intensiry of the impact?
-  What will be the duration of the impact?
-  Will there be cumulative effects from the impact?
-  Are the effects politically controversial?
-  Have the main economic. ecological and social costs been quantified?
-  Will the impact vary by social group or gender?
-  Is there any international impact due to the proposed projects?
•  The project will not necessitate further development activity, which is likely to have a
significant impact on the environment.
SNIEC International                                                               Part C Page 1-21
Final Report No. 58402



Part C - Environmental Issues for the Road Sector             Malawi Minisirv of Works and Supplies
AppendLx I -Environmental imoact Assessment Checklists   Road Maintenance and Rehabilitation Project
ANNEX 2 - COMMIJITY CONSULTATION GUIDELINES
PUBLIC CONSULTATION
The EIA process usually involves consultations with members of the public including individuals,
community and business leaders, elected officials and non-governmental organisations. These people
are consulted because thev are "stakeholders" in the project; that is, in a number of ways, they can
have a "stake" in the project. For example, a project ma) provide opportunities for employment and
sales of goods and services, it may displace people from their homes, it may alienate farm land or it
may create noise and pollution.
\Who is consulted during ELA process, when, how and by whom will differ from project to project,
depends on project details. However, there are a number of reasons whv consultation is important
including the following:
* A project creates change. Irrespective of whether it is good or bad, change is usually upsetting.
When people are informned about a project. their anxiet, and concerns tend to be reduced and the
project developer finds that his proposals are more readily accepted by people and govemment
authorities.
* When people are informed, they are better able to appreciate the opportunities a project will have
for them such as a job or a market for their goods and services.
* People in a project area have a wealth of knowledge and informnation about iocal conditions, which
can be valuable to those carrving out an ELA or more general project planning.
* Consultations can help avoid EIA omissions and mistakes. Local people can point out issues of
concern to them, and what thex value most in their environment, so these can be incorporated into
an EIA.
* Local people can easily have suggestions not readily apparent to outsiders on ways to avoid or
minimise adverse impacts, to capture potential benefits, or to resettle displaced families humanely.
* In democratic societies like Malawi, people expect to be consulted about activities. which will
affect their families, livelihoods, communities or historical, cultural or favourite recreational sites.
Failure to consult them can result in problems for government and delays for project developers.
METHODS OF PUBLIC CONSULTATION
There are a number of distinct methods for consulting the public including:
* press conferences:
* information notices;
* brochures and fliers:
* interviews;
* questionnaires and polls;
* open houses;
* community meetings;
* advisorn committees; and
* public hearings.
Pan C Page 1 - 22                                                          SMEC International
Finai Report No. 58402



Malawi Minastry of Waorks and Supplies                  Part C - Environmental Issuesfor the Road Sector
Road Maintenance and Rehabilitation Project       Appendix I - Environmental Impact Assessment Checklists
Normaly no one method is sufficient by itself. An effective public consultation programme typically
incorporates two, three or more methods, that complement each other in ensuring adequate input to
the EIA process. The different processes are discussed in the following.
Press Conferences, Information Notices & Brochures And Fliers
Tvpical methods used to disseminate public information about a project. The sole objective of these
methods is to inform the public so, strictly speaking, they are not genuine consultation. They are one-
wav communication 'with" no attempt made to solicit people's views about the project. However,
using information programmes can plav the very useful purpose of letting people know what is going
on and of stemming the proliferation of incomplete and inaccurate informnation via rumours and false
reports. Public information methods are most useful if there is a series of information releases as a
project moves through the project cvcle, timed to coincide with major planning stages and decision
points.
Genuine public consultation goes bey'ond issuing information to using two-way communication
methods, that enable the public to be informed and to express their views about a project. Open
diaiogue is considered to be the best wav to share information and views and to resolve issues. in a
mutually satisfactorv manner. The full range of consultation methods should be considered in the
design of an appropriate public consultation programme.  These methods include interviews,
questionnaires, polls, open houses, community meetings, advisory committees and public hearings.
Generally, more complex or sensitive situations require a more thorough consultation effort.
Interviews, Questionnaires And Polls
Interviews, questionnaires and polls are useful for soliciting information about an environmental and
socio-economic setting for use in an EIA. They assist in gathering the views of the public about the
project proposal, its desirabilitv and how it might best fit into the local community.
Interviews
Conducting interviews individually with a selected group of people that represents the "stakeholders"
is usually beneficial. Such interviews tend to be unstructured conversations, guided by some general
questions, where the interviewer seeks key information about a project and responses to it.
Questionnaires And Polls
The questionnaire and poll methods seek specific information from a broad sample of people.
However they are not simple "instruments" to design and implement. The questions must be carefully
crafted to avoid ambiguity and "leading" the respondent to a particular reply. Both "closed" and
"open" questions can be asked: the first presenting a set range of replies for the respondent to choose
from, and the second allows the respondent to say anything. The two types of questions are often
used together to cover the same topic and provide the opportunity for unexpected answers.
Questionnaires and polls must be pre-tested before impiementation in the field to ensure that
difficulties in wording and presentation are eliminated. They should always be implemented with a
sample of the population large and diverse enough to get an accurate picture of the entire population;
that is. they are not a census. The design of questionnaires, polls and sampling strategies are a
complex subject. particularly if statistically valid results are desired.
Open Houses
Open houses are informal forums where project sketches, maps and other information are displayed,
handouts are available and representatives of the proponent are present to answer questions. Visitors
SMEC International                                                              Part C Page I - 23
Final Report No. 58402



Part C - Environmental Issues for the Road Sector             Malawi Ministry of Works and Supplies
,ippendLt I -Environmental Impact Assessment Checklists  Road Maintenance and Rehabilitanon Project
come and go as they please. Open house events can be scheduled for different days, time periods and
venues to be convenient to all stakeholders. It is often helpful to provide a questionnaire or comment
sheet to assist visitors in providing feedback.
Community Meetings
Community meetings are more structured gatherings where the proponent, stakeholders and, perhaps,
government representatives exchange information, views, concerns and suggestions. Open and
genuine dialogue can be very' beneficial for all concerned but it must be handled with great care to
avoid the meeting degenerating into open conflict and polarised positions. In particular, any hint that
the consultation is not genuine will undermine the effectiveness of a meeting.  Moreover, all
participants must be clearly aware of what their role is and the extent of their ability to influence the
project being discussed.
Advisorv Committees
Advisory committees normally comprise a cross-section of affected people, groups and organisations.
Thex are often employed in more complex project situations with a greater potential for conflict but
can also be very effective in simpler situations. Their purpose is to provide a forum for the ongoing
exchange of information and views between stakeholders and the proponent throughout the project
cycle and for the timely identification of problems and solutions as project planning and
implementation unfold. In establishing committee membership, a balance of interests should be
maintained to promote broad thinking and creative solutions. Terms-of-reference should clearly state
the committee's mandate and guide its work (for example, are recommendations to be made and to
whom. will the committee have any authority, to make binding decisions?). Advisory committees
require time, effort and money to be effective but can contribute substantially to achieving acceptable
results for all concerned. A proactive proponent may use this method early in the project cycle to
enhance the chances for smooth project planning, approval and implementation.
Public Hearings
Public hearings are formal meetings usually held to consider the official approval of an EIA or of an
entire project. They are structured proceedings, presided over by an administrative authority, in
which testimony is given and examined, arguments for and against approval are heard, and a decision
is made concerning approval or not. Depending on the jurisdiction, public groups may or mav not
have "standing" in the proceedings - that is, have the right to participate. Where possible, some
jLurisdictions provide "intervenor funding" so that public groups can participate meanin gfully when
lack of funds is a significant constraint. Public hearings provide an opportunity for stakeholders to
challenge a proposal but give little opportunity for the constructive exchange of information and ideas
which other forrns of public consultation' are intended to achieve. To ensure that public hearings are
efficient and effective, it is best if they are preceded bv other methods of public consultation.
GUIDELIES FOR PUBLIC CONSULTATION
When considering the extent of public consultation needed for a project, one must consider the
reasons why public consultation is important. Obviously, some consultation is desirable, if only' to
gather local informnation for project planning and to produce an acceptable ELA report. However, as
discussed above, public consultation can take many forms and range from a limited to a very
comprehensive and extended programme. Because project needs and local sensitivities will vary
widely, what will be desirable for a particular project cannot be generically specified.  Both
Government and developers will need to be adaptive, responsive and willing to learn from experience
before more prescriptive guidelines can be designed.
Part C Page 1 - 24                                                         SMEC International
Final Report No. 58402



Malawi Mtnzstr-v of Works and Supplies                  Part C - Environmental Issues for the Road Sector
Road Maintenance and Rehabilitation Project        Appendix I - Environmental lmpact Assessment Checklists
Most importantly though. public consultation should not be conceived as a "one-time" exercise but as
a programme extending throughout the project cycle. In general. the programme should:
* Start as early as possible in the project cycle to ensure that information is given and received in a
timely fashion to expedite the EIA and to dispel unfounded rumours and suspicions that may make
project planning and implementation more difficult.
* Continue throughout the project cycle as a sustained programme will contribute to better project
planning and enhance public confidence in the project as timely notice should help to dispel
difficulties with public acceptance of the project.
*  Have the major elements timed to coincide with significant planning and decision-making
activities in the project cycle. In terms of Malawi's EIA process, public consultation could be
undertaken during:
- the preparation of ELA, terms-of-reference;
- the carrying out of an EIA;
- government review of an EIA report; or
- the preparation of environmental terms and conditions of approval.
e Make substantial efforts to overcome evident constraints to public consultation such as poverty,
the dispersed nature of rural populations, illiteracy, cultural characteristics that might inhibit
participation by some people (for example. individuals and minority groups) and the dominance of
interest groups. Information and consultation approaches need to be appropriate to both the
project and its social setting.
* Ensure that public consultation reaches all important stakeholders in the project area infonning
them about the project and gathering their views on how best the effects can be managed.
In terms of informing the public. the proponent should, as a minimum, place advertisements in
national and project area newspapers, on local notice boards and on the radio. These should let
people know  when a project brief, and an EIA report has been submitted to the EAD.  The
advertisement should advise where people can review the document and whom they should contact if
then want further information.
The objectives, methods and results of consulting the public during an EIA must be documented in the
EIA report together with details of the individuals, groups and organisations consulted.
SMEC International                                                               Part C Page I - 25
Final Report No. 58402



Parr C - Environmental Issues for the Road Sector                Adalawi Ministry of Works and Supplies
Appendix I -Environmental Impact Assessment Checklists      Road Maintenance and Rehabilitation Project
ANNEX 3 - ENVIRONMEN'TAL IMrACT ASSESSMENT CHECKLISTS
This Annex 3 contains the environmental impact assessment and mitigation checklists for use when
considering proposed road projects.
The checklists are:
I. Formation of detours, carriageways and drainage works.
2. Transportation and storage of construction materials.
3. Hazardous materials.
4. Resource utilisation.
5. Site installation.
6. Quarries and borrow pits.
7. Bridges. culverts and drifts.
8. Asphalt and concrete plants.
Part C Page I - 26                                                             SMEC International
Final Report No. 58402



CIIECKLIST f: FORMATION OF DETOURS, CARRIAG;EWAYS AND DRAINAGE WORKS
na _                                                                         MlTl(;ATrION  MEASURES AND STAGE OF'                       TIMINC AND SIGNIFICANCE,
IMPLEMENTAT ION                              ASSUMING FULL MITIGATI'ON
RECEPTORS    IMPACi'S & LIKFLY CAUSES                                                                                       MEASURES ARE ADOPTED
IMPACT MITIGATION                   STAGE   IMNj                                                      ZsNIFICANCE 
C__                                                                                      MEASURES                    (D,C,O')    S         _      Neg      Min       od      Maj
I. SOILS,           A. contamination of soils, groundwater    A. Minimising contamination of soils,                                                                        r
WATER & AIR          and water courses cause(d by:            groundwater and water courses by      _
I  l)Dumping of stripped tar seals.      I.  Dumping of strippyed tar seals in
2  Spillage or inappropriate disposal of      approved sites.
excess cement and( other construction    2.  Clear definiton of contractor
materials.                                    responsibilitics an(d liahilities in
3. Spillage of fucis and chemicals and       relation lo disposal of tar seals and
oiils                                         cxcess Construction materials.
4. Inappropriate machinery operation and   3.  Appropriate handling of fuiels and
handling of hazardous materials               chemicals.                         _
4.  Avoiding importation of excessive
construction materials                                      _    _
B. tocalised air pollution caused by     B. Minimising localised air pollution by:  _
I. Cement and limc dust blown during     I.  Storage of cement an( lime inI main
mixing.                                       stockpile area which shall he properly
2. Emissions from heavy vehicles and          maintained
niachinery.                              2.  Rcgulayingofggavel roads                     -
1. Emissions during formation of asphalt    3.  Observation of appropriate specd
carriageway.                                  Il_its.
4. Dust raised during site preparation. And   4.  Covering of truck loads.
from gravel roads.
5. Dust blown from trucks dclivering                                                                                                                    a
materials.                                                                _                       _              ___i3
C. Soil cementation and chemical         C. Minimisingimpactof lime and dusto
changes caused by:                       "pon topsoil_
I. Settling of lime and cemcnt dust on   I.  Controlling lime and cement dust as
exposed topsoil..                             above.
2,  I'rotection of exposed areas with
t mulci or fabric.                  ________>
Cihecklist I I'agc I of S                                                                             (-50
fr'sO
. b 



n
MITIG;ATION MEAStJRES AND STACF. OF                       T'IMING AND) SIGNIFICANCE,
00~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~o
0o                                                                                 IMPLEMENTATION                                ASSUMING FUlIA MITIGATION
RECFPPTORS    IMPAC:TS & LIKELY CAUSES                                                   _                                  MEASURES ARE ADOPTED                             a (
IMPACT MITIGATION                   STAGE   TIMING*                  SIGNIFICANCE**
MEASURES                     (ID,C,OA)    S        L               Min    Mod    Maj
1. SOILS,           D. Erosion and sedimentation              D. Reducing soil erosion and
WA'I'ER & AIR       caused by:                                sedimentation by:
(contintued)         I. UJse of unformed accessways and        1. Clear definitio  of (Iriver and suhb-                                                                        8 
stockpiling areas by trueks.             contracItor responsibilities and
2. Erosion of top soil during                liabilities.
carriageway preparation.                 2. Appropriate route selection to
3. Erosion of construction materials         miinimise vegetation removal.
from stockpiles.                         3. Selection of appropriate accesses to                                                                          CZ
4. Stone aggregate falling from trucks.      stockpile site from constrtrction 
5. Increased water flows and poorly          area.
tnaintained drainage systems.             4. Competent carriageway preparation and
6. Undertaking construction works during     monitoring.      _
wet periods.                             5. P'rotectioni of expose(i areas with mulch
7. Removal of vegetation.                    or labric.
6. Site works associated with            6. Observation of appropriate speed limit.is,
construction of drainage lines and           (Check whether .speed limits exist  in                                                                       r°
detenition hasins.                           national parks etc.
9. D)estabilisation of sub-surface soil  7. Selecting work period wherever
profiles from excavations.               __possible to avoid peak wet periods.     ____
10. Inappropriate machinery operation.   8. Replanting of vegetatioit as sooni as
p_ ssible after removal.
9. Minimising work carried out on areas
which may be susceptible to erosion.  ____
1(0. Minimising extent of vegetation 
clearance.
o                                                                     It 1. I'rolection oltexposed areas with milchl.                                                                   nr
geotcxtiles, rip-rap or wooden barriers.                                                        -             0.
vgO,                                                                              C           I   2
o tS                                                          ( ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~hecklist I Page 2of 5                                                             n~ 



MITI;ATION MEASURESANTSTAGEOF                               TIMING AND SIGNIFICANCE,
IMl LFMENTATION                               ASSUMING FULL MITIGATION
RECEPTORS    IMPACTS & LIKELY CAUSES                                                                                         MEASURES ARE ADOPTED
oo00n                                                                         IMPACT MITIGATION                    STAGF        TIMIN(*              SIGNIFICANCE'r
C_                                                                                  MEASURES                      (D,C'O       _ S      L_            Neg  Min    Mod      M
1. SOII s,           A. Increased run-off and flood hazard     A. Control run-off and flooding by:                                     N3 M
WA1 ER & AIR           raulsetl by:                                                                                                                                               >r
(continied)          I. Increased impervious areas.            I.  Contruction and maintenance of
2. Removal of vegetation.                     adequate drainage systems inclitding
3. Alterationi of natural drainage systems    drains and detention basins.
2.  Water dissipation using engineering
structures ore    io                 __tion
3   Monitori,gqi o-drainage_system
B. Soil compution caused by:              A. Reduce-soil compaction by:           _
I. leavy machinery movement,
2. leavy machinery storage works
2. VEGETI-ATION    A Vegetation damage caused by:              A. Minimising damage to veation by:
& LANDSCAPE          I. Vegetation removal for detours and     I.  Implementing mitigation measures i)    See
drainage lines,                             accordance with those for soil, water  Receptor I
2. Inappropriate dumping of stripped tar      and air polltion
seals on vegetated areas.
4. Dust raised by road works settlinig on                                                                                                                       o
vegetation.
5 I.ime and cement dust settling on                                                                                                                            :t 1
vegetation.                                                                                                                                                 R 
6. Changes in soil chemistry.              _____  __3__
B. Reduction of visual amenity caused     B. M iiniising impacts On vegetation by:   _____3
by:                                       I.  Implementing mitigationi measures in    See
I. Removal and/or degradation of              accordance with those for soil, water    Receptor I
vegetation-                                and air polltion                                                                                                o  ,
2. Inappropriate dumnping of stripped tar
____                     seals in prominent areas.                                                        --------_    ___
e,ecklist I                                                                                            3'age 3 of  a
X                                                          ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~('ticktist I I'age 3 Orfs5 
_~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~a ' n
t.J                                                                                                                                                                                        _



n~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
MllICA'ION MEAStIRES ANi) STAGE OF                          TIMING AND SIGNIFICANCE,
IMPLEMENTATION                                ASSUMING FULL MITIGATION
RECEPT(RS    IMPACTS & LIKELY CAUSES                                                                                          MEASURES ARE ADOPTED
IMPACT MITIGATION                    STAGE   TIMING*                  SIGNIFICANCE**
_______ ___ _______ __  MEASUJRES                (D,C,OA)       S      L       Neg      M     | Mod    Maj
3. WETLANDS          A. Impairment of wetlandl biological      A. Minimising impacts upon wetl_nds by: ___ ____
processes and productivity caused         I   Implementing mitigationi mcasures in    See
by:                                           accordlance witih thosc tor soil, water.    Reccptor I
1. Contamination of soils, grounidwater       and air pollution.
and watercotirses .                                                                                                                                             Un
2. Inappropriatc (oilpinig of stripped tar
seals on wetlan(d arcas.
3. Dust raised by road works settling on
vegetation.
4. Lime and cement dust settling on
vegetation.                                                                                      .
4. WILDLIFE          A. Reduction in quantity and quality of   A. Minimising impact on wildlife habitats
habitat and forsge caused by:             by:
I l labilat damage and removal.           I.  Implementing mitigaitioni mcasures in    Sec
2. Impairment of wetland biological           accordance with those foir soil, water    Receptor I
processes.                                    and air pollutiont
D. Ilazard to wildlife due to roadkills   2   Implementinig mitigation mcasuires in    Scc
and poaching caused by:                       accordance wilh those for soil, water  Recrptor I
I. Incrcased vehicle movemetits,              and air pollution 
V3 t                      2. Improved access.                                                      .                               ._____
xy~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~a ~
0~
Checklist I I'age 4 of 5                                                                               '5



0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.
o3 _                                                            .         MITIGATION MEASURES ANI) STAGE OF                           lTIMING AND SIGNIFICANCE,
RE                                  A              EIMPLEMENTATION                                                                   ASSUMING FULL MITIGATION
o      RECEPTORS    IMPACTS & LIKEI,Y CAtlSES                                                                                      MEA SURES ARE ADOPTEDa
*                                     XIMPACT MITIGATION                                                         STAGE   TIM IN(*    SIGNIFICANCE**`__
_________________________                              MEASURES                      (I),C,O^)      S      L        eg     Min    Mod         Maj
5. tIUMAN            A. Contamination of drinking water        A. Minimising contamination of soils,                            -                         -
SETTLEMFNT    caused by:                                       groun(lwater and water courses by:
& CULTURAL           f. Contamitiation of soils, groundwater   1.  Implementing mitigatio  measures in
IIERITAGE            and watercourses.                              accordance with those for soil, water    See
.          ~~~and air pollution.                  Receptor I_ 
B. Redluction of food crop yields caused    B. Minimising impacts on crops by:
by:                                       1.  Implementing mitigation measures in    See
I. Contamination of soils, groundwater        accordance with those for soil, water  Receptor I
and watercourses.                             and air pollution
C. Damage to areas of cultural,           C. Minimising impact of hazardous
environmental and heritage significance    materials upon areas of cultural,
caused by:                                environmental or heritage siifcance hy
I. Contamination of soils, groundwater    I. Implementinig miligation measures in   See
and watetcourses.                            accordance with those for soil, water   Receptor I
and air pollution
D. Increasing disease risk by:            1). Controlling risk of increase disease by:  ___
1. Creating vector breeding environments   I. Installing and maintaining adequate   See
Siting of construction camps close to        drainage.                               Receptor I
villages                                  2   Selecting appropriate locations for
3. Sexual interaction between                 construction camps.
worker/machinery operators and local      3.  Edutcation of local communities on
population.                                   S IlDs.
4.  Implementing mitigation measures in
accordance with those for soil, water
and air pollution                     _
Checklist I Page 5 of 5
t: n
Uo~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~,,~



r)
__________C (IIECKLISI 2: TRANSPORTATION AND STORAGE OF CONSTRUCtION MATERIAL
MITIGATION MEASIURES ANI) STAGE OF                        TIMING AND SIGNIFICANCF OF
IMPlEMENTATION                            IMPACT ON RECEPTOR, ASSUMING
RECEPTORS   IMPACTS & LIKELY CAUSES                                                                                            FULL MIT lIGATION
IMPACT MIltlIGAT'ION                 STAGE       TIMING*             SIGNIFICANCE*o
MEASURES                       D,C,O        S   L   Neg  Min  Mod   Ma'
1. SOILS,           A. L.ocalisced air anti water pollution    A. Reducing dnst and soil erosion
WATER & AIR         cstused by:                             during transportation an1d storage
I. Dusl raised fronm gravel access road    A:____e 
by trucks.                              I .  Clear definition of drivcr and sub-                                                                     Z 
2. Dust blown from trucks carrying          contractor responsibilities and
load% of lateritcs, cenment and limie etc.  liahilitics. 
3. Dust raised (luring stockpile site  2.  Regular spraying ofgravel roads.      .             __   ___
preparation.                            3.  Observation of appropriatc speed
~~~~~~4. 4Duist raised durinig stockpilinig          _      limits. o
activities.                            4.  Covering of trck load.s._
5. D)ust blown from stockpiles.         5.  Spraying of stockpile site during
6. E.rosion of soils during tranisportation   __I erealaioll.
and storage                            6.  Spraying or covering of stock
7.  Protectioni of exposed areas with
rnulchi or fabric.                   .__                                                                7
B. Erosion and sedimentation cauised    B. Reducing soil erosion and                                                                                 o
by:                                  sedimentation by:
I . UJse of ulSforined accecss wavs and  If .  (.Iar definition ol drivcr andl stlh                                                                   . 
stockpiling areas by tnicks.              contractor responsibilities and(_
2. Erosion of top soil during stockpile     liabilities._                              __o
site preparation.                      2.  Selection ofan area requiring minimali)nal
3. EIrosion of constrmction materials       clearing and leveling.
2i                                   from stockpiles.                        3.  Selection of appropriate access
w d                       ~~~~~~~~~4. Stone aggregate fialling frotn    wavs to stockpile site.                                         ,i
rtrcks.                                4.  Competent site preparation stage
0  s                                                                             nionitoritg              .              __       _ ____
2tC,°                                                                        5.  Protection of exposed areas witho
°    mulch or fabric.
_1hecklist 2 iPage I of 6



CHIECKl,IS'1 2: TRANSPORTATION ANI) STORAGE OF CONSTRUCTION MATERIAL
MI'TIGA-TION MEASURES AND) STACE OF                      TIMING ANI) SIGNIFICANCE OF
IMPLEMENTATION                            IMP'ACT ON RECEPTOR, ASSUNIING
o =              RECEPTORS  IMPACTS & LIKELY CAUSES                                                                                           FULL MITIGATION
IMP'AC(T MITIGATION                 STAGE        IIMING*            SIGNIFICANCE'b
MEASURES                     (I),C,O)       S             eg    M         mod    maj
-°                                                                       6.  Spraying or covering of stoekpiles.
7.   Observation of appropriate spee(l
limits. C'heck whelher speed limits
exist .in national parks etc.       ____
8.  Protection of exposed areas with
mulch or fahric.
C. Wster ponding caused by:            C. Minimizing water ponding by:            ._o
1. Inappropriate site works.           1.  (Clear defiriiion of driver and sub-
2 Alterationis in natural drainage         contractot responsibilities and
patterns.                                  liabilitis 
3. I'oorly maintained drainage systems.   2.  I)esign, installation and maintenance
of adequate drainage works.
3.  Comnpetent site monitoring.
2. VEGETATION    A. Impediment of normal plant             A. Reducing duist and soil erosion
& LANDSCAPE           growth caused by:                    during transportation and storage by:
1. Dust raised front gravel access road  I.  Protectioni of exposed areas withl
by trucks.                                 mntilch or fabric.
2. Dust blown from trucks carrying     2.  Clear (letinition of driver and sub-
loads of laterites, cement and lime etc    contractor responsibilities and
3. Dust raised during stockpile site.      liabilities.   ___ ____
preparation.                           3   Regular spraying ofgravel roads.
4. Dust raised during stockpiling.     4   Observation of appropriate speed
Activities.                             limits.                                  _____3
5. I)ust blown from stockpiles.        5,  Covering Of truck loads.             ____
6. Erosion of soils during transportation   6.  Spraying of stockpile sile during
and storage.                               preparation.
7.  Spraying or covering of stockpiles.
('hecklist 2 I'age 2 of 6
pZ -



C)
__________                     CIIECKLIST 2: 'RANSPORTATION AND S'I'ORAGE OF CONSTRUCTICON MATERIAL
MIl'IGA-I-lON MEASUJRES ANI) STAGE OF                     TIMING. AND SIGNIFICANCE OF
IMPLEMENTATION                            IMPACT ON RECEPTOR, ASSUMING
RECEPTORS   IMPACI'S & LIKELY CAUSES                                                                                           FULL MITIGATION
IMPACT MITIGATION                    STAGE   TIMING*                 SIGNIFICANCE**
__ ___._.___,                                               MlASURES                      (D,C,OA)       S      L     Neg    Min    Mod    Maj                a
B. Destruction of vegetation caused     B. Retention ofvegetation by.                _t_ 
by:                                     I.  (lear delinition o(f driver and sub-
1. Inappropriate site works                 contractor responsibilities anid
2. Machinery storage/rc6rieling areas       liabilities.
3. Increased access road width.         2.  Machinerv storage/reflieling areas to
4. Stockpile site preparation where         be the minium u ccessary siae.
vegetation removal is reqiire(d.       3.  Selection of an area requ iring winimial
.                                            ~~~~~~~~~~~clearing arid leveling.                _ _  __it
4.  Selection of appropriateaccess ways
*to stockpile site.  o
5.  Conmpetent site preparation stage
monitoring.                               __      
C. Reduction nfvisual amenity in        C.  See number 2A above
loesrlity cauised by dust. (See
number 2A above)                     __..                                       __.-
3. WFEITLANDS       A. Impediment of normal                 Minimising impacts on wetland
biological processes cauised by:        biological processc s by:
1. Dust raised from gravel access road  I .  Clear definitiont of (Iriver and sub-
by trucks.                                  contractor responsibilities and
2. Dust blown from trucks carrying          liabilities.                                       ___
loads of laterites, cement and lime etc    -2.  Regula~_ raing ofgravel roads.
3. Dust trlised (tiring stockpile site  :3.  Observation of appropriate speed     .
preparation.                                limits.                               ________
_s- vt                               4. D)ust raised during stockpiling      4.  Covering of truck loads.               _____
activities                              5.  Spraying of stockpilesite diring
5. )ust blown from stockpiles.             preprationt
o                                                                            t6   Spra ingor covenring of slocs.       __         _
7.  IProtectioll of cxposc arleas Will
osmulch or fabric.
Cliccklist 2 lage .3 of 6



3'_____ _ .                     CIECKLIST 2: TRANSPORTATION AND STORAGE OF CONSTRUCTION MA ERIAL
,;e O                                                    ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~MITUIGATUION MF.ASlJRES ANI) STAGE. OF  TIIMINGt AND SIGNIFICANCE OF                       .
0                                                                                         IMPL EMENTATIO)N                         IMPAC'TON RECE FPTOR, ASStlMING;o 
0> aRECEPTORS                        IMPACT'S & LIKELY CAIJSIS                                                                                FULL MiTi GAT FIIN         
co°IMPACT MIIGATION                 STACE    TIMINCG,               SIGNIFICANCE'*
D s                                                               _                     MEASURES                     (D,C,OA)       S      1    Neg    Min    Mod    Maj
B. Impediment of normal biological     B. Reducing soil erosion and
processes due to erosion and           sedimentation by:                       _______
sedimentation caused by:               I .  Clear definition of driver and sub-
I. Use ol unforrned access ways and        contractor responsibilities and
stockpiling areas by trucks.               liabilities.                           _____
2. Irosion of top soil during stockpile    2.  Selection of an area requiring minimal
site prcparatipn.                          c               ng                      .__
3. Erosion of constrmction malerials   3.  Selection of appropriatc access ways
from stockpiles                            to slocktile site.                                 _
4. Stone aggregate falling from trmcks.    4.  Competent site preparation stage
nmonitoring.
5.  Protection of exposed areas vwith
mulch or fabric.
6.  Spraying or covering of stockpiles.  _              =     _=
7.  Observation of appropriate speed
limits.                             _                                                                   3
8.  Protection of exposed areas with                                                                        3
mulch or fabric.                          ___
4. WILDI IFF        A. Accidental killing of animals by    A. Reduce potential of animal injury
trucks.                                by:
I. Observation of appropriate speed                                                                        t 
limits.                                                                                                 S
B. Animal disturbance and health       R. Minimising disruptionjIJy.           __            ___3
impacts from noise, dust and exhaust   2.  Clear definition ofdriver and sub-
emission etc.                              contractor responsibilities and
liabilities in relation to standard of
machine  and o eralion_techniques.   _ _a
3.  Observation of appropriate speed
limits.
Checklist 2 Pagc 4 of 6
.,                                                                                                                                       -§~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~,.



rt ('~~~~~IIECKLISTI'2: TRtANSPO}RTA'TION AND STlORAGJE O)F CONSTIRUC.TION MATERIAI,
MITIG;ATION MEAStURES AND STAGCF OF                        l'IMING ANID SIGNIFICANCE OF
IMPLEMEN'T'ATION                           IMPAC (ON RECEPTOR, ASSUMING
RECEPTroRS   IMPACTS & LIKELY CAtJSES                                                                                            FULL MITIGATION
IMPACT MIl'TI'ATION                  STAGE   TIMING*                   SIGNIFICANCE**
MEASURES                      (I),C, O)      S      L      Neg    Min    Mod          Maj
C. loss hahitat. See "Vegetation"     4.  See "Vegetation" above. 
above
5. HUMAN             A. Ianduise conflicts with local       A. Minimising conflicts by;                _                                                                       ;'-
SETTLEMENT,  communities caused by:                           1   Community consultation and
& CULTURAL    I. New access roads.                                participation.
IIERITAGEF           2. Widening of existing access roads .  2.  Appropriate access road route
3. Siting ol stockpile areas,                selection.                            _     _      
4. Sitihg of machinery storage/refuieling    .  Appropriate stockpile and machiniery
areas                                        stora,e/refuelirvg site selection.    _             _              _     
B. Social disruption caused by:         R. Minimising disruption by:               _                                                                      o
1. Introduction of peopie with little   I.  Community consultation and
regard for host community.                   participaion                                           _
2. Sexual interaction of host community   2.  (lear definition of driver and sub-
with truick drivers and machinery            contractor responsihilitics and
operators.                                   liabilities in relation to slandard of
machinery and operation techniques_
3.  Awareness education for drivers, plant                                                                     0
operators am(l local commnitniiesti
about ST'I)s arid IIIV etc.  r_ 
C. Increased communicable and           C. Minimising diseate transmission by:    __;r;
sexually transmitted diseases in local    1I Community consultlation and
community caused by:                          artici atioi                                         _
I  Water ponding.                      2.  ensuring water ponding does riot
;1 n                                  2. Sexual interaction with tnick drivers     occur  rovisionofdra tiage) 7 
Po ttl                                and machinery operators.                3.  Awareness e(uication for drivers, plant 
fl ^)operators and local cominniticsniis
~a nabout S'l'ls and I IIV etc.
(Chccklist 2 I'age 5 of 6



OFS AsNISAG,FTM                                                                                                                                 AI G F              NE                 r O
to         ._______                         CIIECKLIST 2: I RANSPOtRTAI ION AN") STO)RAGE.O    OSR(T(iNMT,II                                                                           rj
_                                            ~~~~~~~~~MITIG;ATION MEASURES AND) STAGF. OF              TIMING, ANI) SIG;NIFICANCE OF                        o
IMPLEMENTATION                            IMPACT ON RECEPTOR, ASSUMING
RECEPTORS   IMPACT'S & LIKEIY CAUSES                                                                                          FULL MITIGATION
IMPACT MITIGATION                    STACE  3IMING*                  SIGNIFICANCE**
MEASURES                      (D,C,OA)      S      L      Neg    Min    Mod    Maj              o
D. Disturbance and health impacts      D. Minimising disrmption by:                 __ _
from noise, dust and exhaust emission   I.  Commtunity consultation and
etc. (See "Wildlife" above)                 participation._
2. ('lear dcfitnition of driver and sub-
contractor responsibilities and
liahilities in relation to standard of
macihinery and operatioon techniques.
3.  Observation ofappropriate speed
limits.
E. General degradation orsites withs
cultural heritsge significance                                                                                                                        Z
cnused by:
1. Dust, noise and vehicle emissions.
2. Inappropriate site works.
o R,
it
c 2  6
a 4                                                         ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Chhecklist 2 Page 6. u.r6                                                            t
t                                                                                                                                        k o~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-f



IIAZARDOUS_ MATERIALS                             __
MI'lTIGA'T'ION MEASURES AND STAG;E OF    IMPACT 'TIMING AND SIG;NIFICANCE.                                 r:
IMP'LEMENTATION                              ASSUMING FULI MITICAT'ION
RECEPTORS   IMPACTS & LIKELY CAtJSES   _____                                                                              MEASUItES ARE ADOPTED
IMPACT MITIGATION                   STAGE  TIMING*                   SICNIFICANCE**
MEAStURES                    (D,C,OA)    S         L     Neg    Mi         Mod    Maj           a
1. Soil.s            A. contamination of soils, ground       A. Mininising contaninat ion of soils,
WA'I'ER &               watcr and water courses caused by:  _gouudwater an(l water course_by3____a
AIR                  I Spillage offueils, oils and chemicals  I.  Approlpriate selection of hwaardouis
etc.                                         material storage areas.
2. Improper disposal oftused oils.                             _..__
chermicals, oil and chemical conitainers  2.  (lear definiition of driver ai(d sub-
3. Infiltration of spilt or improperly       conitractor responsibilities and
disposed of fltids through soils lo.          liailities.
groundwater table.                       3.  I'rovision of drip pans at all
_d1ispenising points.lU 
4.  t tse of'appropriate (lispensinig                                                                          o
e(luipmenlt such as fiel funinlels and
dispensingt nozels.
5.  Ilulk storage areas shall have
adeqiate bundwall to ensure any
spills are contained.
6.  All fill points shall have hard scal
bases and perimeter spoon drains._
7.  UIsed containers shall be re-used,
recycled or incinerated.
B. Air polliution caused by:             B. Minimising air pollution by:_____
I. Vapours from fuel storage areas       I.  Appropriate selection of ha7ardous                                                                          '
whether or not properly handled.             material storage areas.    __          ___2_
2. Vapours from spilt or improperly      2.  Clear definition of driver and sub-
handled materials.                           contractor responsibilities and
3. Fuel or chemical fires.                   liabilities. _.____
xs ^                                                     ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~3.  S illages to be mininiised.l  .___ .____
oa -9                                                                     .  4.  1lsc( containers lo he incirierate(d at
> rn                                                      30~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~prpriate facilifies_   __________
5.  Road side burning of containcrs or
S. ¢                                                                            old fuiels/oils shall not be carried otit.                                                              O -
Checklist 3 Page I of                                                                                   _



o s
0°                                                                             lMITIGATION MEASIIRES ANI1                                   IMPACT 1 IMING ANI)
RECEPTORS            IMPACI'S & LIKELY CAUSES                                                                          MITIGIATION  MEASURES ARF,JLL
ADOPTED
IMPACT MITIGATION                   STAGE  TIMING                 SIGNIFICANCE`*
MEASURES                     (D,C,O')    S        L   Ne        Mi    Mod    M               b 
2. VPGEFATION    A. Vegetation damage caused by:              A. Minimise vegetation impacts by:
& LANDSCAPE          1. Pouring of used or excess oils and    1.  Implementing mitigation measures in    See no. I
chemicals on vegetation.                     accor(lance with those for soil, water
2. Soil contamination and water              and air polliti(on.
pollution.                              _                                                                    __
B. Visual impacts caused by:             B. Minimise visual impacts by:
I. Removal and/or degradation of         I .  Implementing mitigation measures in    Sce no. I
vegetation cover resulting from fuiel, oil or  accordancc with those for soil, water
chemical spills.                             and air pollution.                   .
2. Inappropriate location of storage sites    2.  Screening landscaping of storage and
in prominent areas.                          dispensing areas.
3. WETI'LANDS        A. Impairment of wetland biological      A. Minimising impacts of hazardois                                                                           - b
processes and productivity caused        materials upon wetlands by:                 __ _
by:                                      1.  Implemeniting mitigation measures in    See no. I                                                     t q
I. (onlamination of soils, groundwater       accordance with thiose for soil, water                                                                . .
and watercotirses resulting from fuel and    and air pollution.
oil spills and inappropriate hanidling.  .       _        _       _o
4. WILDLIFE          A. Reduction in quantity and quality of  A. Minimising impact on wildlife habitats      -                                _ -     -
habitat and forage caused by:            by:
1. Ilabitiat damage and removal.         I   Implemeinting mitigatiotn measures in    See no. I
2. Itpairmnent of wetland biological         accordance wilh those for soil, water
I processes                                    and air pollution.                                  -              -
_______                                                      .Cc 3                                                                  _ _ _ 2
w                                                          ('~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ h e c k list  .1  I'a g e   2  o f  3                                           j 
L..J' 



MITI(.ATION  MEASlRES AND SlA(E OF    IMI ACT TI-IMIN(; ANI) Sl(;NIFICAN(1F ,,
IMPLEMENTATION                             ASSUMING FULL MITIGATION
RECEPTORS    IMPACTS & LIKELY CAUSES                                                                         _          MEASURES ARE ADOPTEI)
IMPAC -I- MlIlJl(.ATION            STAGE    Tlr]MIN(G*             SIGNIFICANCE**
MEASURES                    (D C,OA)    S        L     Neg    Min    Mod    Maj
5. HUMAN            A. Contamination of drinking water      A. Minimising contamination of soils, 
SETTLEMENT   caused by:                                     groundwater snd water courses by:                                                                           o
& CULTURAL    I Contaminatioa of soils, groundwater    I.  Implementtig mitigation measires in   See no I                                                             ?
IIERIlfAGE          and watercourses resulting fromil fuel and  accordanice wilh those for soil, water
oil spills and inappropriate handling,      and air potititio. __ ._ _                             |  -   -_-_-__                -                  0
B. Reduction of food crop yeilds        B. Minimising impacts on crops by:
caused
by:                                     I.  Implementrrig mitigation measures in  See no.1
1. Contamination of soils, groundwater      accordance with those for soil, water
and watercourses resulling from fuel and    and air pollution.
oil spills and inappropriate handling.
C. I)amage to areas of cultural,        C. Minimising impact of hazardous
environmental and heritage              materials upon areas of cultiural,
signiicance caused by:                 environmental or heritage signiricance
by
I. Contamination of soils, groundwater    I .  Implementing mitigalion measures in  See no.1
and watercotirses resulting Irom fuel and   accordance with thIose for soil, water
E_                                r  oil spills and inappropriate handling.    and air pollution.                  _a___._._o_
r~)
Z °-o 
00-
Checklist 3 Ilage 3 of 3



____________                            (JCH ECKLIS'T 4: RESOURCE UTILISATI< ON
n )                                                                          Ml'NITIGATION MEASURES AND STAGE OF                          TIMINC AND SIGNIFICANCE,
IMPLEMENTATION                                 ASSUMING FULI MITIGATION
RECEPTORS    IMPACTI'S & LIKELY CAUSES                                                                                        MEASURES ARE ADOPTED
LA                                                                             IMPAC't MITIGATION                   ST'AGE       TIMING*              SIGNIFICANCE**
_____tD__._                                                                   MEASURFS                     (D,C,O8)       S      L       Neg      Min    Mod        Maj
1. SOILS,            A. Soil Frosion caused by:                A. Reduce deforestation by:                                                                                      a-___
WATER & AIR          I 1'ree cutting for fueiwood.                  I'roviding alternalive energy sourcees                                                                       z 
c by ontractors for their work force.                                                                      _. 
B. Decline in water yields in local       B. Maintain minimum flow and yield of                                                                             .
streams caused by:                        water in local streams by:
I. Tree cutting in the catchment areas for    I.  Obtaining permnits from water Board to
local streams.                                abstract given quantities of water.
2. Abstraction of water in large quantities.   2.  No culting of trees for fuelwood in
catchrnent areas by the work tbre.
C. Localised deforestation caused by:     C. Reduce localised derorestation by:
I. Increase demand for ftuetwood by labour   1.  Providing allernative energy soirces
force.                                        by contractors for their work force.
D. Localised air pollution caused by:     D. Reduce localised air pollution by_
1. Charcoal bumring.                      1.  Controlled charcoal burning on)y with
licence from the Forestry Dcpartnient.
2.  Providing alternative energy sources
by contractors for their work force.                       _       _
E. Contamination of Surface water         E. Minimise petroleum leakages from
caused by:                                bulzers by:                                                                                                     tn l
1. I'etroleum prodiuict leakages from water    1.  Installing water rigs at water drawing                                                                    t"
bulzer during water abstraction.               pumps                                ___
2.  Regular mainltenanice of water bulzers.
2. VEGE'I'ATION    A. Localised deforestation caused by:       A. Reduce localised deforeststion by:      _____
& LANI)SCAPE         1. Increase demand for fuelwoodl by labour   I .  I'roviding alternative energy sources
force                                          by contractors for their work force.
2.  No cuttinf of trees for fuelwood by the
-V                                                                          labour force
Checklist 4 Page I of 2
f                                                                                                                                         h n~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~,-



qq____________                                               CIIE(KIISI 4: RESOURCEI  UTl ILISATlION                    _
MITIGATION MEASURES AND STAGE OF                              TIMIN( ANI)GSI(NIFICANCE,                       Im 
IMI'LllMENTATION                               ASSUMING FULL MIlTlIGATION
RECEPTORS    IMPACTS & LIKELY CAUSES                                                                                             MEASURES ARE ADOPTFI)
IMPAC T MITICGATION                   STA(GF.    TIMIN;*_               SIGNIFICANC'E'*
_________________ __  MEASURES                 (D,C O^)       S       L      Neg       Min    Mod        Maj
B Vegradation of tihe scenic site caused   D. Msaintain Landscape value by-
by:                                        I   Avoiding over abstraction of watcr
I Charcoal bunitig.                            from the scenic sites.
2. D)epletion of water.                    2.  IPreventing charcoal burining in areas
.________________.___________          __     .    . of  scenic  beauty.               _               -               -
3. WET LANI)S        A. Impairrnent of wetlind biological        A. Maintain the normal 'functioning of
processes and productivity caused by:      wetlands by:o
I. Sedimetitation of wetlandls from soil   1.  Avoiding fuielwood collection near
erosion.                                        wetland(s.
2. Over abstraction of water.              2.  No abstraction of water in wetlanis                                                                             o
unless with approval Irom agency
responsible for wetland mcanagemen_t.
4. WILDLIFE          A ltabitat loss causedl by:                 A. Avoid habitat loss by:.                  _._       -
I. Excessive exploitation of fuielwood.    I.  Avoiding tree cutting in wildlife areas.   _
2. Only collecting dead wood from
habitat areas.
B Aquatic wildlife loss caused by:         D. Minimise wildlife loss by:                                                                                    >
1. Over abstraction of water from habitats    1.  Abstracting water fromn wil(dlife                                                                         0
leading to depletion of water                  habitats only vith permission fron
from agency responsible for hahitat
mtanagemenct. .: 
5. HiUMAN            A Reduction in available energy             A. Reduce demand for energy by:
SETTLEMENT            I. Increased demand for fuclwood           I.  Provision of alterriative encrgy sources
rz   & CULTURAL,    h________________________________                by contractor to its work force.                              _
HERITAGE             B Depletion of water available for          B. Avoid depletion of water for
commtinity life caused by:                 colmuntylife by:                           ._____
0                                 1. Abstractionl of largc voltUmCs of water    .  (ietting approval from tive local
,                                                                                coiunitcmnity or auithority for abstraction                                                                  o
of large (quaitities of water.         .                                                           ...e
Checklist 41 Page 2 of 2



('FECKIST5 SITE INS.IALLATION                                                                                 r
o^ -NB: GENERALLYASSOCL'-I1'D F'JiI LARGESCALElP'ORKS. PREPIRATIONOFFUJLLEIAISLIKELIY
MITIGA'TION MEASURES AND STAGE OF                          TIMING AND SIGNIFICANCF,,
IMPLEMENTATION                                ASSUMING FULL MITIGATION
RECEPTORS    IMPACTS & LIKELY CAUSES                                                                                        MEASURES ARE ADOPTED
IMPACT MITIGIATION                  STA(.E  IIM ING*                  SINFICANCE** __
MEASURES                     (I)C,OA)       S      L      Neg      Mi       Mod      Maj
1. SOII,S,          A. I,ocalised air and water pollution     A. Minimise Localised Air and Water                       -                                                      Z-
WATER & AIR          caused by:                             Pollution by
1. I)ust raised form installation works.  I.  Regular spraying of site                                                                                 o 4
2. Irosion of soils duriig installation
works.                                                                                                     _                                         Q.
B. Erosion caused by:                    B. Reduce erosion by:
I. Removal of vegetation.                I.  Selection ofan area requiring minimal
clearing.
2.  Competent site preparation stage
monitoring.
3.  Avoid peak wet season for site works.                _                .
C. Localised surface and ground water    C. Minimise surface and ground water
depletion caused by:                     depletion by:                             __ .__
I. Water abstraction for site works.     I.  Avoiding excessive water extraction
from areas with very low surfacc and
ground water levels.
2.  Provide for transportation of water
from areas with adequate water.
3.  IProvide alternative sources of water to                                                                  >, t,,
the labour force eg. boreholes.                                      .3 :
2. VEGETATION    A. Destruction of vegetation caused by:   A. Retention of vegetation by:
& LANDSCAPE          1. Clearing of iistallation site.         I.  Clear definition of subcontractor
responsibility anld liabilities.                                                                          b  -
2.  Machinery storage and refuielling areas
to be the minimum necessary sure.
3.  Select area requiritig ininiminial
clearing.
Checklist 5 Page I of 3
J                                                             .> 



n
.CIIECKLIS;r 5 SITF INSTALLATIION
_ __________    NB: GENERALLYA.SWVVOI.4 7ED) U171 LARGE SCALE WORKS. PREPARATION Oi FULL FA IS LIKELY
MITIGATl ON Ml.ASURES AND STAGF OF                           TIMING AND SIGNIFICANCE,
IMPlEFMENTAFION                                ASSUMING FULI MITIGATION
RECEPT.rORS    IMPACTS & LIKELY CAUSES                                                              E_    _                    MEASURES ARE ADOPTFI)
IMPACT MITIGATION                    STA F; I MING*                    SIGNIFICANCEa
MEASURES                      (D)C. OA)     S       L      Neg      Min    Mod    Maj
B. Reduction in Visual amenity caused     B. Maintain visual amenity by:
by:                                       I .  select area requiring minimal clearin >g
I. Removal of vegetation.                 2.  Regular spraying.
2. Dust.                                  3.  I'lanting dense screening landscapilig.   ______
3. Consiruiction structures,              4.  Design sinitucres so that tliey confooni*
with landscape.                        _____
5.  clear defirnition of subcontractor
responsibility anld_liabilities.    _____
6.  Machinery slorage /refucling areas to
-_______._______.__                be the minimum necessary size.                 .  ..
3. WETLANDS          A. Wetland loss and caused by:             A. Avoiding reclaiming wetlands for site
1. Iand reclamation for site installation  installation.
I   Avoidling wellands of national and
international imnortance.
2.  Obtain permission from agency
responsible for wetland managernent
befire reclaiming wetland for site
installation.
B. Impairment of wetland biiological      B. Minimising impacts upon wetlands by:                      ___   . __          _       
processes and productivity caused by:     I .  Clear definition of subcontraclor
1. Contamination of soil. groundwater, and    responsibility and liabilities.
water courses.                            2.  Choose an area requiring minimum
-0                              2. Deposition of fuels.                        clearing.                             _                                       _.____
:i' CA                          3. Frosion of construction materials.      3.  Implement mitigation measures in
4. Erosion of top soil during site             accordance with those for soil, water
__________.____. ___    preparation                                  and air pollution.                    ._____
4. WILDLIFE          A habitat destruction caused by:           A. Minimising habitat destruction by:     ___r
O                               I, Vegetation clearing.                    I.  Implement mitigation measures in                                                                               o
accordance with those for soil. water
4oo                                                                            and air pollution.
Checklist 5 Page 2 of 3



CF1FCKLIST 5 SITE INSTAI LATION
NB: GLNERA4LL Y ASSOCIA TED WITI LARGE SCALE WORKS. PREPARAION OF FULL EI IS LIKEL Y
r:                                                                          MITIGATION MEASURES AND STAGE OF                            TIMING AND SIGNIFICANCE,
RECEPTORS    IMPACTS & LIKELY CAUSES                                        IMPLEMENTATION                                ASSUMING FIJLL MITIGATI ION
o, e         REPTORS    IMPACTS& IAKELY CAUSES                                                                                            MEASURES ARE ADOPTED
L00                                                                                                                                                                                     r3
4' 10                                                                           IMPACT MITIGATION                    STAGE   TIMING*                   SIGNIFICANCE**_o__
___________                                                                 MEASURES                      (D,C,O^)   S    L   Neg   Min  Mod   Maj
B. Animal disturbance and health         B. Minimise disturbance to animals by:
impacts caused by:                       2.  Clear detinition of subcontractor                                                                         _.
I. Noise.,                                   responsibility and liabilities
2. Dust                                        ._o_                       _
5. IIUMAN            A. Land use conflicts with local         A. Minimise conflicts by:                                                                                     o
SETTLEMENT    communities caused by:                           1.  Community consultation and
& CULTURAL           I. Choice of installation site.               participation in choice of installation
HERITAGE                                                           site.
B Social disruption caused by:           B. Minimise disruption by:
1. Introduction of people with little regard   I.  Commilnity consultation and
for local social set up                       participation.
2. Sexual interaction.                   2.  Clear definition of employee and
subcontractor responsibility and
liabilities in relation to standard of
machinery and operation technitiyes.                                      __._____
3.  Awareness sex education for the work
force and the local community.                    _
C. Increased sexually transmitted        C. Control risk of increase in disease by:
diseases caused by:                       I.  Awareness sex education for the work
1. Sexual interaction.                       forec and the local community.       _ ,
D. Degradation of sites of etiltural     D. Minimise impact of site installation on
heritage caused by:                    areas of cultural heritage by:                          
1. Dust and noise.                       1.  Implementing mitigation mcasures in                                                                          i3
2. Inappropriate site works.                  accordance with those for soil, water
and air.                             _     __
2.  Clear definition of subcontractor
_________________    _____________________________________         responsresponsibility    and    liabilities  __ _
n(                                                                              Checklist 5 I'age 3 of3 35
h                                                                                                                                       ' ob~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.
.0.                                                                                                                                                                                     0



SQ
CIfECKILIST 6: QIIARRY ANI BORROW  l'ITS
ON     ______________           NB: GENLR ALl.YAVASS(C'U1I7ED IJ17'11LARC?GESCALE WfORKS. PREPARAHlONOF FULL EMA ISLIKELY
MITIGATION MEASURES AND STAGE OF                            TIMING AND SIGNIFICANCE,
IMP'LEMENTATION                               ASSUMING FtJLI MITIGATION                        : 
RECEPTORS    IMPACTS & LIKELY  CAUSES                                                                            _           MEASURES ARE ADOI'TED
IMI'ACT MITIGATION                  STAGE   TIMING*                   SIGNIFICANCE**' b_
.____________________________                           MEASURES                     (I),C,OA)      S      L      Neg       Min    Mod    Maj              Z
1. StlLS,            A. Interaction of overland flows and    A. Minimising impacts on soils,
WATI'ER & AIR          depletion of ground water caused    groundwater an(t water courses by-
by:                                       I.  (lear definition of contractor
I Alterations to the surface flow regimes     responsibilities and liabilities in
(lurinig quarry pteparation.                  relation to disposal of lar seals and
2, Creation of large pits which interact      excess constructioni materials.
withi the water table.                    2.  Appropriatc halidlinig of fulcis and
3. Unidertakitig construction works           chemicals.
during wet perio(ds.                      3.  Appropriate rouite selection to
4. RIemoval of vegetation.                    minimise vegetation removal.
5. iadeate drainagesysems                                                        _ 
B. Frosion and sedimentalion              B. Reducing soil erosion and
caused by:                              sedimentation by:
1. Alteration to water courses as above.  1.  (Clear dcfinition of driver and sub-
2. Alterations to the geological Frmnations   contractor responsibilities and
which can lead to landslides.                 liabilities.__                        _____
3. Destabilisation of sub-surface soil    2.  Selection of appropriate accessvavs                                                                       _
profiles from excavations.                    quarry to stockpile site.
4. Inadequate soil erosion mad            3.  Protection of exposed areas with                                                                             a
sedimentation controls.                       mtilch. geotextiles, rip-rap or wvooden
a (A                                                                          barriers.
4.  Observation of appropriatc speed
liniits.                                 __                                                               . 
:3 o                                                                      5.  Selectiing work period wherever                                                                           i7 Cn
Z s                                                                           possildc to avo   ewet eriods. _         _      .__                                                       o  r
6.  Replanting of vegetation as soon as
ooo                                                                         piossib1c aller removal.
o X                                                                                                                                                                                     n~ C
( hecklist 6 Rage I (if 4



CIIECKIAlST 6: QUARRY AND BORROW PITS
________ .__             /VNB: GENERALLYASSOCA7E'L') !T'I7HL,4RGE SCALEffORKS. PREPARA IONOF FULLEIfISLIKLE LY
-b _                                                                        MITIGATION MEASURES AND STAGE OF                              TIMING ANI) SIGNIFICANCE,
IMPLEMENTATION                                 ASSUMING FULL MITIGATION
RECEPTORS   IMPACTS & LIKELY CAUSES                                                                                              MEASURES ARE ADOPTED
IMPACT MITI(ATION                     STAGE   TIMING*                   SIGNIFICANCE**
r-                                                                                       MEASURES                       (D,C,OA    S    L    Ne    Mi   Mod   Mnj
7.  Mmimising work carried out on areas
which may be susceptible to erosion.
8   Minimnising extent of vegetation
clearance.                            __                           _        . o-_
C. Contamination of soils, groundwater    C. Minimising contamination of soils,
and water courses caused by:               groundwater and water courses by_          ___Q
I. Spillage of fuels and chemicals        I.  Clear definition of contractor
Dunmping of stripped tar seals.                responsibilities and( liabilities in
2. Inappropriate mtachinery operation and      relation to disposal of tar seals and
handling of ha7ardous materials.               excess construction materials.
2.  Appropriate handling of fuels and
chemicals.
D. Localised air pollution caused by       D. Mininiising localised air pollution by:    _     -
I. Noise and emissions from heavy          I.  Regular sprayirg of gravel roads.
vehicles and machinery.                    2.  Observation of appropriate speed
2. Dust raised during quarry preparation.      liits.                                        __
3. Dust blown from trucks transporting     3.  Covering of truck loads.                                                                                       . r
extracted materials.                                                      _____
2. VEGETATION    A Vegetattion damage caused by:                A. Minimising daage to vegetation by:                                                                              t
& LANDSCAPE          1. Vegetation removal for the               I.  Implementintg mitigation measures in
quarry/borrow pit and drainage lines.           accordance with those for soil, water
2. Dust raised by road works settling on       and air pollution.                       n_     _
vegetation.                                2.  Locate borrow pits in preferably less
3. Alterations to drainage characteristics.     vegetated areas.3
3.  Re-vegetate quarry/borrow pit areas.
4.  Surrotin(ling the quarry /borrow pit
site by a boundary perimeter drain.
r)                                                                                                                                           n~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~, vo
Checklist 6 Page 2 of 4
A;                                                                                                                                          X,, _~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~E



('IIF('KLIST 6: QIJARRY AND BORROW  PIT'S                                                                          si
_____________            NB: GENI,RALL'A VASO(iA7HIDWITH LARGES( 4ILEJ'ORAS. I'REPARA lION OF FLLL-IAIS LIKELY 
MrTICATION MEASURES ANI) STAGE OF                           TIMING AND SIGNIFICANCE,
IMI'LEMENTA'I'ION                             ASSUMING FUIA, MITIGATION
RE(F.PTORS    IMI'ACTS & LIKELY CAUSES                                                                                       MEASURES ARE ADOPTEI)
IMPACT MITI(GATION                  STAGE   TIMING*                   SIGNIFICANCE'*
B_ Reduction of visual amenity caused  B.   MEASURES               (D,C,OA)       S      L      Neg      Min    Mod    Maj -            Z
B. Reduoction of visual amenity caused   B. Minimising impacts on vegetition by:   __o__
by:                                       I.  Implementing mitigationi measures in
I. Removal and/or degradafion of              accordance withi those for soil, water
vegetation,                                   and air pollution                     _ ______
2. Selectioni of visually prominent sites.  2.  Rcstore borrowpit ao(i quarry areas
3. Inappropriate work practices..             after completion of road work.
3.  Backfill quarry and boirows pit sitcs
and re-vegetated.                    ____
3. WEILANDS          A. Wetlnnd toss caused by:                A. Minimise wetland loss by:                ________
1. Alleration in hydrological regimes due    1.  Locating quarries an(l borrow pits                                                                       o
to quarrying near wetlands,                 away 1rom  wetlan(ts.
2. Location of borrow pits near wetlanids.                                                                _
4. WlIlDl.IFF        A. LOss of wildlife caused by:            A. Avoid loss and disturbance of wildlife
I. Quarrying in wildlife habitat areas.  by:
2. Flying stonies and other accidents.    I .  Not quarrying in wildlife habitats.         ...
2.  Clear definition of sub-contractor
responsibility and liabilities.      ___._
B. Disturbance to wildlife caused by:     B. Minimise disturbance to wildlife by:
I. Noise from quarrying.                  I.  Clear definilion of sub-contractor
2. Quarrying on wildlife routes and /or       responsibility and liabilities.
corridors.                                                                                  .____.______
5. IIUMAN            A. Loss or injury to human life and       A. Avoid injury to human life and
SETTLIEMENT            property caused by:                     property by:
& CULTtJRAL          1. Flying stones from blasting.           1.  Quarrying away from human
HERITAGE             2. Blasting vibrations.                       settlements.
o                               B. Disturbance to the local communities    B. Minimise disturbance to the local
z: g                              in nearby sreas caused by:              communities by:
o  c                            I. Noise from blasting vibrations.        Maiitainiitig blasting noise at acceplable
00c                             2. Equipimenit operations and processing.    levels.
Cliecklist 6 Page 3 of 4



CIIECKLIST 6: QUARRV AND) BORROW PITS                                                                                       w  
NBX: GENL-RALLYASSOCIA7LD)WITWIIARGESCALEI'ORKS. PREPARAIIONOFFULLELMISLIKELY                                                                                 o
_   _                                             ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~MITICIATION MEASURES AND} STAGE O}F                 TIMING, AND SIGNIFICANCE,                       
IMPLEMENTAI110N                                  ASSUMINC. FULL MITIG.ATIONQ
RECEPT'ORS    IMPACTS & I,IKELY CAIJSF.S                                                         _MEA SURES ARE ADOPTED 
IMPACT MITIGATIO:N                     STACIE   TIMINC* I                 SICNIFICANC*
ME,ASURES                      (D,C,OA)        S       L      Nieg      Min      Mo         Ma
C. lcalth hazard to locail communities in   ('. Minimise health hazarrts by:
nearby areas caused by:   -1.  Quatrrying away from human
I . Dust raised from quarrying activities.       settlements.
D. I.oss of culitural heritage caused by:   D. Avoid loss of cuiltural heritaige sites by:.
I . Quarrying on or near cultural heritage  I1.  Quatrying away from. cultural heritage
siles-                                           sites,
2. I)ust generatedI duiring blasting and                                                                                                                          r, IV
crushing near cuittiral heritage sites_ 
making site unattractive._                                                                                                                                     
Checklist16 Pe      `
- ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~   ~       ~        ~       ~       ~       ~       ~      ~       ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ a
00 



CIIECKLISi' 7: BRIDGES                                                             _ .                  ; 
MITIGA'I'ION MEASURFS AND STAGE OF                          TIMING AND) SIGNIFICANCE,
IMPLEMENTATION                                ASSUMING FIJLL MITIGATION
RECEPTORS    IMI'AC'1'S & LIKELY CAUSES                                                                        . _          MEASURES ARE ADOPTED
IMPACT MITIGATION                   STAGE   TIMING4                   SIGNIFICANCE* _._
MEASURES                     (D,C,OA)       S      1      Neg     Min    Mod    Maj
1. SOILS,            A. Increased soil erosion and            A. Reduce soil erosion and sedimentation
WATER & AIR   sedimentation around bridge caused by: by:                         __._-_____
I. Change of'river cross section.         I.  Choose site with soils which are less
2. Access road construction at both ends of   prone to erosion.
the bridge.                              __                       __                 _       _ 
D. Reduced water quality caused by:      B. Minimise impacts on water gualiy b          ____o
1. Soil erosion.                         1   Re-vegetating access roads at hoth
2. Suspended clays due to drilling and        ends of the bridge.          _____
dredging.                                2.  Scrcening the work area witll a Fabric
3.Fuel and oil spillage.                      to contain suspended solids.                                                                                o
3.  Minimise spillages througih clear
definition of subcontractor
responsibilities.
C. Reduced water now caused by:          C. Minimise impact on water flow by:
I. Scdimentation and erosion.            I.  Choose site with soils whichi are less
2. Clhange of river cross section.            prone to erosion.
2. VEGETATION    A. Localised vegetation loss cauised by:    A. Mimimise impact on vegelalion by:
& LANDSCAPE          I. Bank cut due to access road construction   I.  Re-vegetating access ronds at both
at both ends of the bridge.                   ends of the bridge.                                               ______
B. I)egradation of scenic site caused by:   B. Reduce impact on areas of scenic
I. Visible turbidity or discoloring of water.  beauty by:
2. Bridge construction.                   1.  Screeninig the work area with a fa.hric
ITI                                                                           to contain suspended solids.                                                                              El
& 3                                                                    2.  C:onstruct the bridge so that it
;0 .ti                                                                        conforms with natural landscape.      _
3. WETLANDS          A Welland loss caused by:                 A. Minimise impacts on wetlands by:      _      _    _           _-
21 ;:     _______________      1. Bridge construction across wetlands.
oo                                                                                                                                                                                      a  
4                                                                                          7_
C)
Checklist 7 Plage I of 3                                      ~ 



-" W:                                                                          CHIECH KLIST 7: BRIDCES                                                                                  o
IMPACTS                      MIrIGATION MEASUJRF.S AND STAGE OF                          TIMING AND SIGNIFICANCE,
0 _                                                                                     IMPLEMENTATION                                ASSUMING FULL MITIGATION
RECEPT'ORS   IMPACTS & LIKELY CAUSES                                                                                        MEASURES ARE ADOPTED
o', ~                                                                        IMPACT MITIGATION                    STAGE   TIM NG;                  SIGNIFICANCEA                      n2
v       __                                                                          MEASURES                     (D,C,OA)   S    L   Neg   Mi   Mod   Ma
4. WIlDlIFF.        A. Disturbance to aquatic wildlife       A. Reduce disturbance to wrildlife by:
catused by:                              I.  Keeping the nnise levels oftnacilines
1. Noise from machines.                      to acceptable levels.
B. Loss of aquatic wildlife habitat      B. Minimise impacts on aquatic wildflife
caused by:                                   _       _        ___                   o_ _
L. Uocation of bridge in habitat area.   1.  Avoid habitat areas
1. Contarnination of water by fuel and oil   2.  Clear definition of subcontractor
spills.                                       responsibility and liabilities. in
3, Accidental killings from drilling and     relation to handling of fuels and oils.
dredging activities.                                      .                                                    .___
C Loss of breeding grounds for fish      C. Protect breeding grounds for fish by:
caused by:                              I  Avoid habitat areas.
I. Location of bridge in fish reproduction    2.  Clear definition of subcontractor
area.                                         responsibility and liabilities, in
2. Fuel and oil spillage into breeding areas.  relation to handling of fuels and oils.   _ _
3. Increase in turbidity of the water.   3.  Screcning the work area with a fabric
to contain suspended solids.                 .
5. HUMAN            A. Depreciation of recreation areas by:    A. Maintain value of recreation areas by:                               -
SETTLEMENT           I. Visible tirbidity of water.           1.  Screening the work area with a fabric
& CULTURAL          2. Fuel and oil spills into the water,        to contain suspended solids.
IIERITAGE           3. Location of bridge too close to        2.  C(lcar definition of subcontractor
recreational areas.                           responsibility and liabilities, in
relation to hanIling of fuels and oils.           _                                                         3
B. Risk to people's lives caused by:     B. Minimise risk to the local population
I. Disturbed animals like crocodiles     b
attacking local people.                   I.  Involve the l)cpartment of national
Parks and Wildlife. In site selection to
avoid aeas with animals which may                                                                         t,
r)                                                                         pause potential danger.                                                                                    3
Checklist 7 P'age 2 of 3
b                    .                                                                                                                  Uo~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~- .



r)
1'.)~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~C
CIIECKLIST 7: BRIDGES                                              o__
MITIGATION MEASURES AND STAGE OF                               TIMING AND SIGNIFICANCE,
IMPLEMENTATION                                  ASSUMING FULL MITIGATION
RECFPTORS   IMPACTS & LIKELY CAUSES                                                                                                MEAStURFS ARE ADOPTED
IMPACT MITIGATION                     STA(GE   TIMING*                   SIGNIFICANCE*`%
MEASURES                       (D,C,OA)   SIL    Neg   Min   Mod    Maj
(C. (onlicts with local community           U. Minimise conflicts with the locnl
caused hy:                                  people by:
1. Location of bridge in cultivaled areas.  1.  Involve the local people in site
2. ILoss of agricultural areas.                 selection tor the bridge.
2.  Coompensationi for lost land.
D. Displacement of local people caused      D. Minimise dispilcement of the local
by:                                         people by
I. Location of bridge in cultivated areas.  I,  Compensation for lost land.
E. Disruption of local economy caused       E. Minimise disruption to the local
by:                                         economy by:                                                                                                       o
1. Loss of fish industry.                   I   1-Iinding alternative income sources in
2. loss of agricultural land.                   conjunction with local NG(ls and 
business organisations.               ______
2.  Compensation for lost land._ 
T~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
zt-
C
Checklist 7 l'age 3 of 3



2  I                                                                                                                                                                                     |s -
6 "                                         CIIECKLIS'T 8: ASPHALT ANI) CONCRETE PLANT INSTALLATION AND OPERATIONS
____g_______   NB: GENERALLYASSOCIATED IfJIT'l LARGE SCALE WORKV. PREPARATIONOFFULL EIA ISILIKELY
MITIGATION MEASURES AND STACE OF   IMPACT TIMING. AND SIGNIFICANCE,                                             o
IMPLEMENTATION                                ASSUMING FULL MITIGATION
RECEPTORS    IMPACTS & LIKELY CAUSES                                                                                          MEASURES ARE ADOPTED
IMi'AC T MITIGATION                  STAGE   TIMING*                   SIGNIFICANCE' 
__________  _____MEASURES     (v,C,OA)      S       L      Neg      Min    Mod         Maj
1. SOILS,            A. Contamination of soils, groundwater   A. Minimising contamination of soils,
WAT'ER & AIR         and water courses caused by spillage of   _goundwater and water courses by:                                                                               2
contaminants during operation of the      I .  Appropriate site selection lur asphalt
plant.                                         p__n_
2. Clear detinition of contractor
responsibilities and liabilities in
relation to contamination and
pollution.
3.  Regular maititenance of the planl.
4. Construction of bhindwall to ensure
_    any spillsar contained.
5.  I'lant to be located on hard seal base
with perimeter spoon drains.
B. Air pollution caused by emissions      B. Minimising air pollution by:
from the plant.                           1.  Appropriate site selectioni for asphalt
plant.
2.  Clear definition of contractor
responsibilities and liabilities in
relation to contamination and
pollution.3 
3.  Regular maintenance of the plant.    ._o__
4.  Emissions to be of a high standard.          .        -      -                 -        -
S                                                                                                                                          2 o~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~,,'.
IV
Checklist 8 Page I of3
UY



n
ej~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~r
MITIGATION MEASURES AND STAGE OF   IMPACr TIMING AND SIGNIFICANCE,
IMPLEMENTATION                                ASSUMING FULIL MITIGATION
RECEPTORS    IMPACTS & LIKELY CAUSES                                                                                          MEASURES ARE ADOPTIrD
IMPACT MITIGATION                    STAGE   tIMINGS                   SIGNIFICANCE'*
MEASURES                      (I),C, ()    S        L      Neg      Mi       Mod       Maj
2. VE(;EEI A1 ION    A. Vegetation damage cause(d by:           A. Minimise vegetation impacts b
& LANDSCAPE          I. Contamination of soil, groundwater and    I.  Implementitig mitigation mcasures in    See No. I
water courses.                                 accordance with those for soil, water
2. Inappropriate locationt of asphall plants   anid air pollution.
in areas in close proximity to sensitive                                                                                                                  . t
vegetation.
3. Deposition of noxious gas particles.                                  _           .           .                                                _o
B. Visual impacts caused by:              B. Minimise visual iacts by:
I. Ilappropriate location of asphall plant in  I.  Implenting mitigation measures in  See No.I
areas of visual prominence such as near        accordance wih Ithose for soil, water
villages or major roads.                       and air pollution.
2. Degradation of vegetation caused by    2.  Planting dense screening landscaping.
operation of the plant.
3. WETLANI)S         A. Impairment of wetland biological        A. Minimising impacts upon wetland        ___
processes and productivity caused by:    1.  Implementing mitigation measures tn    See No I
I. Contamitiation of soil, grounidwater and   accordance with those for soil, water                                                                      >Z
water courses.                                 and air pollution.                                                                                         Z
2. Deposition of noxious gas particles.-
4. WILDLIFE          A. Reduction in quantity and quainlity of   A. Minimising impacts on wildlife by--
habitat and forage caused by:             1.  Implementing mitigation measures in    See No. I                    
j: va                            1. Habitat damage and removal.                 accordanec with those for soil, water
;V te                            2. Impairment of wetland biological            and air pollution.
________________  processes.                                        ___.__ _ _
-,,
00
Chiecklist 8 Page 2 of 3



MITIGATION MFEASUJRES ANI) STAGE OF   IMPACT TIMING AND SIGNIFICANCE,
.,IMPLE.MENTAvTIONE                            ASSUMING FULt, MITIGATION
o -          RECEPFORS    IMPACTS& LIKELY CAUSES                                                                                         MEASURES ARE AD)OPTED
IMPACT MITIGA,l ION                 STAGE   TIMINC*                   SIGNIFICANCE'*
____________   __________________________                  MEASURES                      (D ,( )    S          L      Neg      Mi       Mod      Maj
5. HUMAN            A. Noise impacts on settlements caused    A- Minimising noise impacts by:                                                                                ra_
SETTLFMENT    by:                                              I   Appropri;te site selection for asphalt
& CULTURAI,    1. Delivery of raw materials to the plant           plant.
HIFRII'AGCE          I. Operation of thie plant.              2.  Clear definitionr of contractor
2. Inappropriate location of plant and raw    responsihilitics and liahilitics in
material storage area                         relation to noise impacts. 
3.  Regular maintenance of thep latit             _         _      _    __                     _     _
B. Increased llealth risks caused by:    B. Minimising human health risks by:       _
I. Emission of gases from the plant.     I.  Implementinig mitigation measures in    See No 1
2. (ontamination of grotindwater and          accordance wilih those for soil, water
water courses relied upon for supply of       and air pollution.
water to settlements.
C. Reduction of rood crop yields caused   C Minimising impact on crops by:
by:                                      I.  Implemcenting miligation measures in    See No I
1. Contamination of soils, groundwaler        accordance with those for soil, water
and waterceourses.                            and air poltitio_n
D. Damage to areas of cultural,          D. Minimising impact of asphalt and
environmental and heritage significance   concrete pisnts upon arcas of cultiural,
caused by:                                environmental or heritagesignificanceb   __3_o
I. Emission of gases from the plant.      I.  Implementing mitigatiol measures in    See No I                                                           13
2. Contamination of groundwater and           accordance with those for soil, water
water courses relied upon for supply of       and air pollution.
water to settlements.
r)
Chiecklist 8 Page 3 ofr3



