                                 Document of
                            The World Bank




                                                      Report No:ICR0000252




           IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT
                     (IDA-32390 IDA-3239A JPN-27009)




                                   ON A

                                 CREDIT

       IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 22.2 MILLION (US$30 MILLION EQUIVALENT)

                                 TO THE

                          REPUBLIC OF MALAWI

                                  FOR A

             ROAD MAINTENANCE AND REHABILITATION PROJECT




                               March 29, 2007




Transport
Africa Region

                            CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                                (as of November 30, 2006 )
                               Currency Unit = Malawi Kwacha (MK)
                                     MK 1.00 = US$ 0.00716
                                    US$ 1.00 = MK 138.9686


                                        Fiscal Year
                                      July 1 -- June 30

                      ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

CAS              Country Assistance Strategy
DDLGA            Department of District and Local Government Administration (Office of President
                 and Cabinet (OPC)
DFlD             Department for International Development (UK)
EMU              Environmental Management Unit
ERR              Economic Rate of Return
EU               European Union
GDP              Gross Domestic Product
GoM              Government of Malawi
ICB              International Competitive Bidding
ICR              Implementation Completion Report
IDA              International Development Association
IMT              Intermediate Means of Transport
IRAP             Integrated Rural Access Planning
KfW              Kreditanstalt fur Wiederaufbau
MLGRD            Ministry of Local Government and Rural Development
MoTPW            Ministry of Transport and Public Works
MRTTP            Malawi Rural Travel and Transport Program
NCIC             National Construction Industry Council
NDF              Nordic Development Fund
NRA              National Road Authority
NRSC             National Road Safety Commission
PDOs             Project Development Objectives
PVHO             Plant and Vehicle Hire Organizations (PHVO)
RA               Road Authority
RAMPA            Rural Accessibility and Mobility Pilot Activity
RF               Road Fund
RMTI             Road Management Transport Initiative
SATCC            Southern Africa Transport and Communications Commission
SIDA             Swedish International Development Corporation Agency
TA               Technical Assistance

        Vice President: Hartwig Schafer

      Country Director: Michael Baxter

       Sector Manager: C. Sanjivi Rajasingham

   Project Team Leader: Tawia Addo-Ashong
     ICR Team Leader: Tawia Addo-Ashong

                                                             Malawi
                    MW-Road Maintenace & Rehabilitation Project (FY99)




                                                         CONTENTS




Data Sheet
   A. Basic Information
   B. Key Dates
   C. Ratings Summary
   D. Sector and Theme Codes
   E. Bank Staff
   F. Results Framework Analysis
   G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs
   H. Restructuring
   I. Disbursement Graph

  1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design............................................... 7
  2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes ............................................ 10
  3. Assessment of Outcomes.......................................................................................... 14
  4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome......................................................... 19
  5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance ..................................................... 19
  6. Lessons Learned ....................................................................................................... 22
  7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners .......... 23
  Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing.......................................................................... 24
  Annex 2. Outputs by Component ................................................................................. 25
  Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis................................................................. 30
  Annex 5. Economic and Financial Analysis (including assumptions in the analysis) . 30
  Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes ............ 35
  Annex 6. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes..............39
  Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results........................................................................... 38
  Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results................................................... 39
  Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR..................... 40
1.              Carrying out a program of rehabilitation and reconstruction of main,
secondary, tertiary, urban and district roads;.................................................................... 42
2.              Carrying out a program of upgrading of selected main, secondary, tertiary,
urban and district roads; and............................................................................................. 42
3.              Provision of engineering and supervision services for the above-mentioned
roads.................................................................................................................................. 42
4.              ASSESSMENT OF PROJECT OBJECTIVES ............................................ 43
5.              ACHIEVEMENT OF PROJECT OBJECTIVES AND OUTPUTS ............ 43
6.              MAJOR FACTORS AFFECTING IMPLEMENTATION AND OUTCOME4

6.1     Factors outside the control of Government or the implementing agency: ...... 45
7.         SUSTAINABILITY...................................................................................... 46
8.         BANK AND BORROWER PERFORMANCE ........................................... 47
  8.1.    BANK ............................................................................................................. 47
  8.2.    BORROWER.................................................................................................. 48
9.         PERFORMANCE OF CONTRACTORS AND CONSULTING FIRMS ... 49
  9.1   Contractors ...................................................................................................... 49
  9.2   Suppliers .......................................................................................................... 49
  10.   LESSONS LEARNT ....................................................................................... 49
  Annex 8. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders....................... 50
  Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents ...................................................................... 51
  MAP

A. Basic Information

                                                                       MW-Road Maintenace
Country:                Malawi                  Project Name:
                                                                       & Rehab (FY99)
                                                                       IDA-32390,IDA-
Project ID:             P001666                 L/C/TF Number(s):
                                                                       3239A,JPN-27009
ICR Date:               04/30/2007              ICR Type:              Core ICR
                                                                       GOVERNMENTOF
Lending Instrument:     SIL                     Borrower:
                                                                       MALAWI
Original Total
                        XDR 22.2M               Disbursed Amount:      XDR 22.0M
Commitment:
Environmental Category: B
Implementing Agencies:
Ministry of Transport and Public Works
National Construction Industry Council
National Roads Authority
Cofinanciers and Other External Partners:
Nordic Developmen Fund


B. Key Dates

     Process              Date             Process          Original Date    Revised / Actual
                                                                                  Date(s)
Concept Review:        02/06/1997    Effectiveness:         11/19/1999          11/19/1999
Appraisal:             09/21/1998    Restructuring(s):
Approval:              06/10/1999    Mid-term Review:                           03/08/2003
                                     Closing:               03/31/2005          06/30/2006


C. Ratings Summary
C.1 Performance Rating by ICR
Outcomes:                                       Moderately Satisfactory
Risk to Development Outcome:                    Moderate
Bank Performance:                               Satisfactory
Borrower Performance:                           Satisfactory


C.2 Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance (by ICR)
         Bank                   Ratings                Borrower                Ratings
Quality at Entry:       Moderately Satisfactory Government:            Moderately Satisfactory

Quality of Supervision: Satisfactory            Implementing
                                                Agency/Agencies:       Satisfactory

Overall Bank                                    Overall Borrower
Performance:            Satisfactory            Performance:           Satisfactory




                                               i

C.3 Quality at Entry and Implementation Performance Indicators
    Implementation                              QAG Assessments
      Performance               Indicators           (if any)                Rating

Potential Problem Project Yes                  Quality at Entry
                                                                     None
at any time (Yes/No):                          (QEA):
Problem Project at any                         Quality of
                          Yes                                        None
time (Yes/No):                                 Supervision (QSA):
DO rating before
                          Satisfactory
Closing/Inactive status:


D. Sector and Theme Codes
                                                              Original          Actual
Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Central government administration                                9                 6
Other industry                                                   5                14
Roads and highways                                              86                80


Theme Code (Primary/Secondary)
Other urban development                                        Primary         Secondary
Rural services and infrastructure                              Primary          Primary
Small and medium enterprise support                           Secondary        Secondary


E. Bank Staff
         Positions                     At ICR                          At Approval
Vice President:           Hartwig Schafer                   Callisto E. Madavo
Country Director:         Michael Baxter                    Barbara Kafka
Sector Manager:           C. Sanjivi Rajasingham            Yusupha B. Crookes
Project Team Leader:      Tawia Addo-Ashong                Stephen J. Brushett
ICR Team Leader:          Tawia Addo-Ashong
ICR Primary Author:       Ephrem Asebe
                          Tawia Addo-Ashong
                          Farida Khan



F. Results Framework Analysis

Project Development Objectives (from Project Appraisal Document)
The Project's goal was to bring about sustainable improvements in the quality of
Malawi's road infrastructure through




                                              ii

  (a) Strengthening and restructuring of the road sector institutional framework with a
view to improving the effectiveness of sector management and enhancing planning and
programming of road works

  (b) Reform of road sector financing to put the funding of future road maintenance onto
a firm, sustainable footing, and

  (c) Addressing the backlog of road maintenance and rehabilitation through the
financing of economically viable, but currently unfunded, subprojects in line with
implementation and financing capacity.

Revised Project Development Objectives (as approved by original approving authority)
There were no changes in the project goal, objectives or key performance indicators.

(a) PDO Indicator(s)

                                            Original Target     Formally       Actual Value

   Indicator         Baseline Value          Values (from       Revised         Achieved at
                                               approval          Target       Completion or
                                              documents)         Values        Target Years

Indicator 1 :   By end of 2004, for the public roads network, the road network condition will
                have improved

                (a) 25% in good condition(a)                                (a) 31% good
Value                                         50% good (b)                  condition; (b) 39%
quantitative or (b) 35% in fair condition  30% fair (c) 20%                 in fair condition;
Qualitative)    and c) 40% in poor
                condition                  poor                             and (c) 30% in poor
                                                                            condition.
Date achieved 04/30/1999                   03/31/2005                       06/30/2006
Comments
(incl. %        Modest achievement, condiditon of good and fair roads rose from 60% to 70% of

achievement)    entire network

Indicator 2 :   Road user revenues deposited into the Road Fund annually.
Value
quantitative or $9.5million                $15.3 million                    $13.8million
Qualitative)
Date achieved 04/30/1999                   03/31/2005                       06/30/2006
Comments        90% achievement. Depreciation of value of local currency over life of project
(incl. %        had an impact on this target. Appraisal US$1 = 44.20 MK at completion
achievement)    138.96 MK
                Operational functions of the Ministry of Transport and Public Works to be
Indicator 3 :   transferred to the National Roads Authority (NRA) and training centers to be
                transferred to National Construction Industry Council (NCIC)

Value           Ministry responsible for

quantitative or all operational issues and                                  achieved
Qualitative)    in charge of training
                centers
Date achieved 04/30/1999                                                    04/30/2001
Comments        All transfers completed as envisaged



                                               iii

(incl. %
achievement)

(b) Intermediate Outcome Indicator(s)

                                          Original Target     Formally      Actual Value

   Indicator       Baseline Value          Values (from                      Achieved at
                                             approval         Revised       Completion or
                                            documents)      Target Values   Target Years
Indicator 1 :  Adminstrative costs as a percentage of Road Fund revenue decreases by 50%
                                         5




Value
(quantitative  10%                                                       7%
or Qualitative)




                                         5%


Date achieved 04/30/1999                 03/31/2005                      06/30/2006
Comments
(incl. %       60% achievement
achievement)
Indicator 2 :  900 km of roads periodically maintained over project life
Value
(quantitative  0                         900km                           803km
or Qualitative)
Date achieved 04/03/1999                 03/30/2005                      06/30/2006
Comments
(incl. %       90% achievement
achievement)
Indicator 3 :  450 km of roads resealed with Credit financing
Value
(quantitative  0                         450 km                          450 km
or Qualitative)
Date achieved 04/30/1999                 03/30/2005                      06/30/2006
Comments
(incl. %       100% achievement
achievement)



                                             iv

Indicator 4 :  230km of roads rehabilitated with Credit financing
Value
(quantitative  0                          230km                           38 km
or Qualitative)
Date achieved 04/30/1999                  03/30/2005                      06/30/2006
Comments
(incl. %       13% achievement.
achievement)
Indicator 5 :  60 local maintenance contractors trained by end of project
Value
(quantitative  0                          60                              38
or Qualitative)
Date achieved 04/30/1999                  03/30/2005                      06/30/2006
Comments
(incl. %       63% achievement
achievement)
Indicator 6 :  10 Medium scale contractors upgraded by end of project
Value
(quantitative  0                          10                              0
or Qualitative)
Date achieved 04/30/1999                  03/30/2005                      06/30/2006
Comments
(incl. %       Not achieved.
achievement)
Indicator 7 :  10 local consultants trained annually
Value
(quantitative  0                          30                              4
or Qualitative)
Date achieved 04/30/1999                  03/30/2005                      06/30/2006
Comments
(incl. %       Not achieved. Focus on consultant training did not commence until the final year

achievement)   of the project


G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs

                                                                              Actual
 No.     Date ISR
         Archived               DO                         IP             Disbursements
                                                                          (USD millions)
  1     07/02/1999           Satisfactory             Satisfactory                     0.49
  2     11/19/1999           Satisfactory             Satisfactory                     0.49
  3     06/05/2000           Satisfactory             Satisfactory                     2.63
  4     06/28/2000           Satisfactory            Unsatisfactory                    2.76
  5     11/29/2000           Satisfactory             Satisfactory                     3.67
  6     05/04/2001           Satisfactory             Satisfactory                     6.14
  7     06/27/2001           Satisfactory             Satisfactory                     6.14
  8     12/20/2001           Satisfactory             Satisfactory                    10.94
  9     04/26/2002           Satisfactory             Satisfactory                    14.42



                                               v

  10  08/15/2002        Satisfactory         Satisfactory    15.51
  11  10/01/2002        Satisfactory         Satisfactory    15.78
  12  04/22/2003        Satisfactory         Satisfactory    15.85
  13  11/05/2003        Satisfactory         Satisfactory    16.38
  14  02/25/2004        Satisfactory         Satisfactory    16.38
  15  07/31/2004        Satisfactory         Satisfactory    16.74
  16  11/12/2004        Satisfactory         Satisfactory    18.40
  17  06/15/2005   Moderately Satisfactory   Satisfactory    22.84
  18  07/30/2005   Moderately Satisfactory   Satisfactory    23.44
  19  03/14/2006        Satisfactory         Satisfactory    28.33



H. Restructuring (if any)
Not Applicable




I. Disbursement Profile




                                         vi

1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design

1.1 Context at Appraisal


Sustained poverty reduction was central to Government's development objectives and was the
ultimate objective of the Bank's assistance. The CAS document of 1998 set out four main themes:
creating broad-based, labor-intensive growth; fostering environmental sustainability and human
development; improving public sector management and capacity; and strengthening policy
dialogue and implementation and donor coordination. The CAS underlined the need for structural
change in key sectors to complement the macroeconomic policy reforms undertaken to date.
More specifically the CAS made mention of the deteriorating quality of economic infrastructure
as an impediment to growth and put this down to delayed reforms and inadequate expenditure
prioritization. The Bank's report "Accelerating Malawi's Growth: Long Term Prospects and
Transitional Problems" outlined the main challenges faced by the Government in the realization
of its objectives in the near and medium term and, in particular, set out detailed strategic
considerations for raising the sustainable rate of economic growth to 6% per annum. The report
established that one of the main threats to Malawi's ability to generate new domestic and foreign
investment was the internal transport constraint (high cost and poor access). The report also
indicated that the infrastructure maintenance needs, including roads, exceeded likely available
domestic resources over the medium term, placing a premium on the need for both better
expenditure prioritization and enhancing domestic resource mobilization in the road sector.

The Road Maintenance and Rehabilitation Project (ROMARP) was designed to meet the
requirements for the full sector investment approach. Malawi had already gone a considerable
way towards putting in place a strategy in the road sector to address these economy wide
concerns. The project design took advantage of a series of reforms already in place. These related
to the Road Maintenance Initiative (RMI) since 1995, the Rural Travel and Transport Program
(RTTP), the establishment of National Road Authority (NRA) and Road Fund (RF) in 1997. The
design also took into account the series of priority road sector issues addressed in workshops
including: institutional development, financing mechanisms, axle load control, private public
partnerships, staff training, alternatives for the Plant and Vehicle Hire Organization (PVHO) and
road safety. The major issues at project inception were:

High Transport Costs: transport costs were very high. Average domestic transport costs by road
were 2-3 times higher than in Zimbabwe or South Africa.

Weak Management of Road Sector Agencies: The Government's ability to carry out effective
management of the road sector was hampered by limited financial resources and capacity
constraints.

Inadequate Local Financing for the Road Sector: Up until 1995/96, resources allocated to road
maintenance expenditure were well below what was needed to assure the quality of the network,
e.g. in 1994/95 MK24 million (US$3.2 million) was allocated, less than 15% of requirements.

Sustainability of the Existing Road Network: Malawi's total designated road network amounts to
about 15,100. Quality had deteriorated over the last ten years such that over 50% of the network
was believed to be in poor condition.

Lack of Development of the Local Construction Industry: Although progress had been made in

this area through the establishment of a National Construction Industry Council in 1997, the level
of participation and performance of local firms continued to be poor.

Poor Accessibility in Rural Areas: Malawi's economic growth prospects depend largely on the
smallholder agricultural sector. Over the years, rural roads and bridges had been allowed to
deteriorate, reducing accessibility and increasing costs for farmers.

Weak Traffic Management and Poor Road Safety Record: Malawi had one of the worst road
safety records in the world and the highest road accident rate among the countries in the Southern
African Regions.

This road sector agenda was fully endorsed by the government in its sector policy letter at the
time of decision to undertake the project. The Bank's assistance of US$30 million was designed
to address these sectoral issues through support to the Ministry of Transport and Public Works
(MoTPW) and National Road Authority (NRA).

The Nordic Development Fund (NDF) provided an additional US$6.8 million equivalent and the
GoM another US$2.7 million bringing the total project cost at appraisal to US$39.5 million. The
implementing agencies were the NRA, MoTPW and the National Construction Industry Council
(NCIC). The project was approved by International Development Association (IDA) Board June
10, 1999 and was signed September 16, 1999. A Mid-term Review mission was held from March
3-11, 2003. The project's original closing was March 31, 2005 and final closing date was June 30,
2006, an extension of one year and quarter.


1.2 Original Project Development Objectives (PDO) and Key Indicators (as approved)


As stated in the Credit Agreement, the Project's goal was to bring about sustainable
improvements to the quality of Malawi's road infrastructure through (i) the strengthening and
restructuring of the institutional framework for the road sector, with a view to improving the
effectiveness of sector management and enhancing planning and programming of works; (ii)
supporting the reforms of road sector financing to ensure sustainability, and (iii) addressing the
backlog of road maintenance and rehabilitation. These goals were measured by the following
indicators:


(i) Transfer of operations from MoTPW to NRA; transfer policy and regulatory functions from
Ministry of Works to Ministry of Transport; transfer of training centers to NCIC; and transfer of
axle load control from MoTPW to NRA; training of local contractors and consultants.


(ii) Measured by: Road Fund (RF) allocation of US$15.3 million in FY 03/04; administrative
cost reduced from 10% to 5% of RF revenues; increase in funding of routine maintenance from
RF to 100% of the public network.


(iii) Measured by: quality of road network improved to 50% good, 30% fair; and poor 20% from
25% good; 35% fair and 40% poor condition; 450km of roads resealed and 900km rehabilitated
with Credit fund and; 900km of road periodically maintained and 800km of road rehabilitated
over the life of the project.



                                                  8

1.3 Revised PDO and Key Indicators (as approved by original approving authority), and
reasons/justification

There were no changes in the project goals, objectives or key performance indicators.

1.4 Main Beneficiaries, original and revised

The PAD envisaged the following beneficiaries:

      Road users, producers of goods, and local communities; These were the wider
        beneficiaries of the outputs of the maintenance and rehabilitation components. More
        efficient maintenance was expected to reduce vehicle operating costs, travel time and
        accidents.

      The local consulting/contracting industries; the training component instituted by
        NCIC was specifically focused on building the capacity of the local industry.

      The District Assembly technical staff were later beneficiaries of training in
        procurement and contract management as well as the development of planning tools to
        assist in the development of district plans

      The Ministry of Transport, NRA and the people of Malawi, were to be beneficiaries
        of the policy reform, the creation of a more efficient road management system and
        strengthening of regulations for management and financing of the sector.

1.5 Original Components (as approved)


The total project cost was US$39.5 million including counterpart funding and co-financing. The
project consisted of four components and subcomponents as presented in the Project Appraisal
Document (PAD) as follows:


(i) Strengthening the Road Sector Institutional Framework. This component was focused on
achieving the first objective of the project and had five subcomponents: (a) road sector policy
development; (b) sector institutional reform and development; (c) framework for management
and financing of rural roads; (d) establishment of NRA; and (e) framework for policy and
regulation;


(ii) Development of the Construction and Consulting Industries. This component supported
the establishment of the NCIC as the principal stakeholder representative body responsible for
the development of the local industry and supported the development and implementation of the
actions and plans to address the constraints still faced by the industry. The component had three
subcomponents as follows: (a) Establishment of NCIC; (b) Contractor and consultant training; (c)
Equipment and financing provision for contractors;


(iii) Support to Sustainable Periodic Maintenance. This component covered priority



                                                   9

maintenance requirements of the core network to assure no further deterioration in the quality of
road infrastructure. The periodic maintenance program covered 450 km of roads;


(iv) Support to Selective Rehabilitation and Upgrading of Roads. This component was to
cover from the second year of the project onwards, a limited amount of rehabilitation of the
paved road network and limited earth to gravel or gravel to paved road upgrading.

1.6 Revised Components


All four components of the project remained through out the project cycle. However, in the
course of implementation two changes were made. Following a Quality Supervision of Risky
Projects (QSR) in FY2000, the project was rated satisfactory. However it was agreed to amend
the scope of component 4, (Support to selective rehabilitation and upgrading of roads). This was
reduced by removing all sections which dealt with main roads and focused on township, urban
and class D roads. The Borrower upon advice from IDA revised the procurement implementation
schedules of ROMARP on May 31, 2001. Subsequent to the mid-term review in 2003, and upon
the recommendation of the needs assessment study for rural transport services, the sub-
components (i) Rural Accessibility and Mobility Pilot Activity (RAMPA) and (ii) Capacity
Building for District Technical Staff were included under component 1 (Strengthening of the
road sector institutional framework).

1.7 Other significant changes
(in design, scope and scale, implementation arrangements and schedule, and funding
allocations)

No other significant changes took place.



2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes

2.1 Project Preparation, Design and Quality at Entry

The preparation of the project was based on extensive background analysis and a detailed review
of the constraints caused by transport to the sustainable development of Malawi's economy. It
also incorporated some of the lessons learned from previous Bank financed projects, in
particular, institutional reforms preceding project preparation and the design of the project
focusing on effective institutional capacity building and financial sustainability through the
enhanced road fund. The lessons learned and reflected in the design of the project.


The design of the project components was well linked to achieving the project objectives. The
procurement and disbursement procedures as well as the project monitoring, supervision and
financial reporting requirements, were presented in workshops at the start of the project, and
were at the time, deemed to be of high quality.




                                                 10

The project supported the CAS in three areas: environmental sustainability - supporting
improvements in environmental review and management in the road sector; sustaining dialogue
with local stakeholder interests on road sector reform, and donor coordination through close
collaboration with the donor community, notably with the Nordic Development Fund (NDF),
European Union (EU) and Kreditanstalt fur Wiederaufbau (KfW).


Project risks due to institutional capacity were realistically assessed and appropriate mitigation
measures proposed. The list of possible risks, ratings and mitigation as set out in the appraisal
document reflects most of the implementation issues raised later on. However, the underlying
assumptions regarding the future macroeconomic performance of Malawi on which the
performance of the Road Fund and Government contribution to the project financing were based,
was, in retrospect, too optimistic.


The expectation of the amount of rehabilitation (230 km) that could be completed under the
Credit was also an over-estimation, given the amount of available funds.


Project appraisal was delayed for almost a year as the Bank team waited for the outcome of EU
initiated studies.


2.2 Implementation

    Most beneficiary agencies had been created only shortly before appraisal, so there was
    initially a weak capacity and lack of familiarity with Bank guidelines. The project therefore
    suffered from a reduced implementation pace at the early stages, resulting in an extension of
    the closing date by a year and a half.
    Adjustments in project activities were made in response to a host of interrelated factors which
    arose during implementation noted below:

Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:

        Drought shock. Malawi, a landlocked country with undiversified agricultural economy
        experienced shocks related to drought. Its exports and imports were seriously affected
        leading to inflation and fluctuation in the exchange rate. This adversely impacted the
        funding available for road maintenance as the increase in fuel levy did not match the rate
        of growth of inflation. It also affected the cost of the civil works projects as there were
        high increases in the price of bituminous products and fuel, major components of the cost
        of the works.

     Low capacity/institutional weakness. Nascent institutions formed in the late 1990s such
         as NCIC and NRA took more time than anticipated to be fully operational. Delays in
         startup caused by problems in establishing a well functioning management structure for
         NRA, poorly prepared tender documents for the first year implementation and in
         developing the financial management for Project Management Report (PMR)
         disbursement meant that NRA's first year projects were not started until a year later.
         There were also associated delays in disbursement. Execution of procurement and
         disbursement functions improved over time.



                                                  11

     Local contractors had limited capacity and struggled to deliver quality projects in a
       timely manner.

Factors generally subject to government control:

     Government commitment. Despite institutional weaknesses, adverse macroeconomic
       situation and delayed execution, in the big picture, the Government remained committed
       to the reforms and development of the institutions created.

     Relocation of Utilities in Urban Areas. The extensive time taken by the service utilities
       companies to relocate services from the right of way was a serious cause of delay. This
       inhibited the timely execution of the rehabilitation of urban roads in Lilongwe and
       Blantyre and the construction of Likuni bride in Lilongwe.

    Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:

     Road sector institutions: The significant institutional and policy reforms were possible
       due the strong leadership of the participating agencies. The forward looking plans of the
       road sector institutions are examples of the changing environment which led to the
       achievements under adverse condition.

     Dispute with international consultant. The delay in receipt of detailed engineering
       designs for the inter-urban roads contracted to an international consultant, due to a
       dispute over the consultant's outputs, did not allow enough time for the designs to be
       implemented.

     Under estimation of construction cost and period. The appraisal over-estimated the
       amount of rehabilitation that could be feasibly funded out of the credit proceeds
       available, making the output target unachievable. The agency also under-estimated the
       amount of time required to complete the urban road contracts, which had major issues
       due to slow relocation of utilities. The contractors took advantage of this lapse and
       completion of works was delayed, leading to the extension of project.

     Timely submission of Project Management Repor. Financial Management Report based
       disbursement was agreed on January 26, 2001 Audited Accounts for 1998/99 and
       1999/00 were not submitted until April 19, 2001. Reporting initially had shortcomings
       but progressively was improved. The poor quality of reporting, monitoring and
       evaluation has been rated unsatisfactory and was remedied only through the capacity
       building activities in the NRA and the Ministry.

     Inadequate, monitoring and evaluation. The initial poor quality reporting, monitoring
       and evaluation was rated unsatisfactory and was remedied only through the capacity
       building activities for the NRA and the Ministry.

2.3 Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Design, Implementation and Utilization


       M& E Design: The indicators as defined in the PAD were adequately linked to the main
       components of the project. Targets for the indicators, with the exception of the indicator
       relating to rehabilitation under Bank financing, were realistically set. The monitoring



                                               12

        framework was adequate and should have enabled the Bank to monitor and track
        implementation progress and achievement of the project objectives. The indicators
        would also have assisted the Borrower in monitoring its sector performance and making
        adjustments in planning and programming.


        M& E implementation: There were initial difficulties in reporting of data in the first
        years of the project. Compliance with DO and output targets were not systematically
        recorded in PSR/ISR until after the mid-term review.


        M & E Utilization: The physical indicators were a useful tool to assess implementation
        progress and the achievement of objectives.


2.4 Safeguard and Fiduciary Compliance

    In general, disbursements were in line with Bank procedures and the management of the
    Special Account was satisfactory. Apart from the first two years, annual reports were
    submitted on time and were satisfactory. Procurement procedures were in general handled
    satisfactorily throughout project implementation. No major procurement problems occurred;
    however, some contracts had to be re-bid due to unsatisfactory preparation of bidding
    documents. NRA strengthened their procurement capacity through training and recruitment
    of staff, and was able to assist the other agencies in carrying out their procurement functions.
    Some issues were raised by supervision staff during project implementation. These were
    flagged and corrective action was taken by the responsible implementing agencies for
    subsequent resolution of the issues. These included:

     Timely submission of PMR. Report-based disbursements were agreed on January 26,
        2001. However, Audited Accounts for 1998/99 and 1999/00 were not submitted until
        April 19, 2001. Reporting initially had shortcomings but progressively improved.

     Entity Audit report. Whilst audit report of the project was always satisfactory, earlier
        NRA audit reports indicated weakness in their internal audit management systems. The
        issues included a negative balance and non-adherence to procurement guidelines. These
        ceased after the change of government in 2004, where there were more robust internal
        checks instituted.

The project was rated as a category B environmental project. The NRA set up an environmental
department with competent staff and prepared and implemented environmental management
plans for its rehabilitation projects in line with Bank and national safeguard policies. Under the
project, the Unit prepared Environmental Review and Best Practice Guidelines and a
Resettlement Policy Framework for the Malawi Road Sector. These have served as the basis for
the environmental and social safeguards component of the new Infrastructure Services Project
and the Road Sector Programme currently under preparation by the Government. This also
served as good practice examples to be replicated in other projects in Malawi.

2.5 Post-completion Operation/Next Phase
(including transition arrangement to post-completion operation of investments financed by



                                                   13

present operation, Operation & Maintenance arrangements, sustaining reforms and institutional
capacity, and next phase/follow-up operation, if applicable)

Substantial institutional reforms and capacity building efforts have been undertaken under the
project and are at early stages. This needs follow up. By the end of the project, parliamentary
approval for the separation of the Road Fund from the Roads Authority was given. Lessons
learned from earlier projects indicate the necessity of investments as a follow up to institutional
reforms as undertaken in this project and adequacy of funding as a critical factor for
sustainability. A delay in follow-up project could risk reversal of the achievements. The
Government has competing demands and limited budgetary resources. However, they have
committed themselves to and are leading the preparation of a sectoral program, inclusive of all
transport sub-sectors and key development partners. A consultative transport forum has been
formed, ensuring government led coordination of the sector and communication between all
major stakeholders. A draft road sector program document is under discussion. This is also a
challenge for the Bank, given the competing demands and the limited budget. In light of the
Bank's commitment to sustainability, a follow-on project in the road sector should be a priority
and sectoral dialogue must be sustained. The new grant approved for the Infrastructure Services
Project will meet some of the investment need and continue the capacity building effort at the
district assembly level.



3. Assessment of Outcomes
3.1 Relevance of Objectives, Design and Implementation

The project objectives, design and implementation are fully consistent with current priorities as
expressed by both the Government of Malawi and the Bank.

The Malawi's current Growth and Development Strategy, describes infrastructure as critical to
achieving the growth and social objectives of the government. The government's goal for
transport is to provide an environment that fosters a safe and competitive operation of transport
services that are viable, sustainable and environmentally friendly. Its key strategies as outlined
included the provision of an adequate network, undertaking of road maintenance, building of the
local capacity participate in provision of services.

The Bank's CAS (2004-2006) presents a transitional program that aims to assist the Government
to address the urgent development issues that presently confront Malawi. Of the three pillars of
the Bank CAS, infrastructure service financing, under the second pillar, is aimed at establishing a
platform for sustainable poverty reducing growth through the provision of infrastructure.

The project design and implementation allowed for substantial institutional reform and
strengthening to be achieved. The project made significant progress in the development of the
Road Agency, the Road Fund and the local construction industry. Their ability to plan,
implement and monitor increased.



3.2 Achievement of Project Development Objectives



                                                 14

This project has contributed significantly towards advancing the government agenda expressed in
its sector policy of including private sector participation. The project put in place most of the
road sector institutional and policy reforms, significantly strengthened and restructured sector
institutions and the road fund necessary for a full road sector investment approach in Malawi.
The project's overall outcome/impact in relation to each of the project objectives is substantiated
below.


(a) Achievement of the objective of strengthening and restructuring of the road sector
institutional framework with the view of improving the effectiveness of the sector management
and enhancing planning and programming of road works is rated Satisfactory.
This was an ambitious agenda for significant institutional reform in the sector. Substantial
progress was made in the development of the road sector institutions and in the development of a
framework for institutional strengthening. The nascent sectoral institutions established in the
latter half of 1990s including NRA, NCIC, NRSC and MRTTP have been strengthened and
nurtured during the project implementation period. They have now forward looking business
plans and qualified staff in key positions. The staff, who participated in the project design and
implementation, gained deeper awareness of the opportunities and obstacles facing their
respective institutions. A paradigm shift in thinking about issues in the road sector appears to
have gained acceptance. This has led to rethinking of old assumptions and wider awareness of
new approaches in several aspects of road sector, particularly related to maintenance of existing
assets as a priority. The series of studies completed under the project have impacted the
participants to change their views regarding: the importance of road safety and road maintenance;
the key issues leading to high transport costs in Malawi, the high benefits of investment in
accident control; the importance of strong institutional capacity in timely execution of projects,
effective control of vehicle loading to minimize road damages; etc. In addition, progress in the
development of local capacity for the construction sector has been achieved; options for future of
Plant and Vehicle Hire Organizations (PHVO) have been considered. The new sector program
under preparation encompasses the lessons learned during this period.


With the approval of the legislation for the sector reform and creation of a new Road Fund
Agency (RFA) and Road Authority (RA) by Parliament, conditions have opened up for a
sustainable road sector. The road reclassification has been completed and Malawi's road network
stands at 28,000 km. A road data management system of the road inventory has been established
at NRA which has the capacity of generating reports with direct interface to HDM allowing for
proper analysis and planning for the maintenance and development of the network.


The data management system (Road Data Management) is a tool which manages Malawi's
network data, on which sound decisions can be made on road maintenance intervention levels.
The system was set up with the assistance of external consultants and stores data on road
inventory, network condition, network classification and traffic counts. A new unit was set up
within NRA, to manage and analyze the data collection and is now supplying the planning
department with criteria for their annual maintenance plans and budgets.




                                                  15

Available data shows that accident losses appear to have declined from 3.3% to 1.6% of GDP or
by 47% over a three year period from an estimated US$469.7 million in 2002 to US$ 247.7 in
2004. The base line of accident data developed focuses on accident components (over speeding,
drunk and driving, geometric function of the road), legislation component, and cost of damages.
Strengthening the Road Safety Commission, through the baseline survey and road safety database
developed under the project has led to identification of black spots and resulted in timely
interventions to minimize road accidents. The statistics collected in the last four years had helped
identified interventions with high economic rate of return. Road safety initiatives through public
information and education enforcement and control and physical improvement to the road
environment have been made, resulting in a reduction of 47% in road accident costs over a three
year period.


In the rural transport infrastructure sector, the road selection criteria for low cost roads has
helped refocus on the preservation and upkeep of a core network of existing roads rather than the
construction of new ones. The new approach has produced a shift from a narrow focus on
technical issues to a much broader approach in which all dimensions of sustainability are
addressed at the planning stage of Road Management Transport Initiative (RMTI). Training of
district technical staff in contract management and basic road design and pilot activity in the
Ntchisi district which set up the GIS database for the planning of infrastructure development and
also set up and trained community level contractors was commendable and is easily replicable.
Of the seven small firms set up, 4 are continuing to work with the Ntchisi District Assembly
under other contracts. The GIS database is being expanded under the new Infrastructure Services
Project approved by the Bank in July 2006.


Training programs under the NCIC achieved modest successes with fewer numbers of
contractors and consultants being trained than anticipated at project preparation. In retrospect,
these targets were overambitious given the fact that NCIC was a new institution and the first
years of project implementation were used in establishing the secretariat, preparation of a
business plan and design of the appropriate training programs. However, NCIC has become self
춖ustaining, (support from the project to the secretariat was provided on a declining basis)
through fees and levies and is expected to build on its achievements.


An Environmental Monitoring Unit has been established with responsibility for environmental
and social management of all NRA executed projects. Sectoral Guidelines have been completed.


Through the project, the sectoral HIV/AIDS policy and strategy documents were prepared.
Continued activities under the strategy are expected to be funded under the national MAP project.
NRA has a coordinator who works in conjunction with the Ministry. HIV/AIDS prevention
strategies were mainstreamed into transport investments. Clauses for HIV/AIDS activities are
now part of tender documents for major development partner funded projects and are to be
included in their term maintenance contracts in the near future.


(b) The achievement of objective of putting the funding of future road maintenance on to a firm,


                                                  16

sustainable footing is rated Moderately Unsatisfactory. The Act for the separation of the Road
Fund administration from NRA has been prepared and enacted resulting in their separate
administration. An independent RF will lead to greater efficiency in the sector. The road users'
revenue deposited into the road fund annually was US$9.5 million at the start of the project
(4/30/1999). It grew to US$13.8 million by 03/31/2004 and was expected to be US$15.3 million
by the closing date. However, adverse macroeconomic conditions prevented the government
from reaching the agreed targets. The exchange rate for the Malawi Kwacha to the US dollar
went from 44.5MK at the start of project, to 138MK at project closure. Levy increases were
consistent, but inadequate to reach the projected targets. The other indicator relevant to this
objective was a 50% reduction of administrative costs as a percentage of total Road Fund
revenue. With the Road Fund not bringing in the projected revenue, this target was also not
achieved. Government is looking to other sources for augmenting the RF through user charges,
but this has not yet been implemented.


(c) The objective of addressing the backlog of road maintenance and rehabilitation through the
financing of economically viable, but unfunded subprojects, in line with implementation and
financing capacity, is rated Moderately Satisfactory. The backlog of road maintenance needs
estimated at appraisal have been addressed, with funding from IDA, EU and KfW and GoM. By
the end of the project implementation period, there was a modest increase in access and quality of
the national road network. The road condition which stood at 25% good; 35% fair, and 40% poor
on 4/30/1999 was improved to 31% good, 39% fair and 30% poor by the closing date of
6/30/2006. The share of good and fair roads increased from 60% to 70%. Targets for periodic
maintenance activities were substantially achieved. Targets for rehabilitation were not met
largely for two reasons. Costs for rehabilitation were under-estimated at the project preparation
stage, the funds available in the credit were not sufficient to achieve the targets set. The high
prevailing inflationary situation in Malawi during project implementation also led to escalating
costs of materials especially bitumen and fuel, all imported from South Africa, where there was a
strong Rand. The designs for the highway network were significantly delayed due to a dispute
between the design consultant and the Road Agency. The eventual resolution, with the assistance
of an international arbitrator did not leave sufficient time to procure the contracts. However, the
post construction economic analysis undertaken clearly shows the viability of the projects,
completed with the highest rates of return coming from the rehabilitation of the urban road
network.

3.3 Efficiency

The post-construction economic analysis shows that the return on investments for both the
periodic maintenance and rehabilitation component is robust and much higher than the estimate
at appraisal despite cost increases, because of the significant rise in traffic volumes and higher
savings in vehicle operating costs. The post-construction ERR aggregate is estimated 103% and
NPV is US$114.6 million. A sensitivity analysis carried out with no traffic growth after 2006,
demonstrated a robust Economic Rate of Return at 96% and NPV US$100.5 million. The
periodic maintenance ERR estimate provided in the PAD was 33.9% which is much lower than
the calculated post-construction ERR of 113%. The post-construction high ERR is attributed due



                                                  17

to traffic diversion and significant VOCs savings resulting from anticipated higher fuel prices.

3.4 Justification of Overall Outcome Rating

Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

The overall outcome rating based on the combined assessment of relevance, achievement of
PDOs and efficiency is rated Moderately Satisfactory. This assessment is based on the outcomes
as stated above.

ROMARP remains relevant to Malawi's current objective of achieving economic growth.
Infrastructure, especially roads is one of the key factors. This project has played a role in
supporting Government's effort to improve sectoral performance and institutional capacity is
now strong enough to develop and manage a sectoral program. Government showed clear
commitment to institutional reform and strengthening, maintenance funding and sectoral plans
and implemented these adequately. The outcome of this component is substantial. The capacity
of the local industry has been developed. Although some physical targets were not met, the high
rates of return and increased traffic on completed projects are justification to the soundness of
investments made. The moderately satisfactory rating is attributed to the pending reforms in the
sector and the less than expected increase in maintenance funding through the fuel levy. The
financial status of the sector will need careful monitoring. Clear commitments to increase the fuel
levy and/or budgetary allocations to maintenance funding will ensure sustainability.

3.5 Overarching Themes, Other Outcomes and Impacts
(if any, where not previously covered or to amplify discussion above)
(a) Poverty Impacts, Gender Aspects, and Social Development

The National Transport Policy prepared under the project includes a statement on gender issues,
reporting that most of the rural transport burden is borne by women and gender imbalance
remains a problem in the rural transport sector. Despite the training of some female contractors
during the RAMPA pilot, the construction industry continues to be male dominated and
improvements will only result from changing attitudes and culture. The NRA are developing
gender sensitive strategies. Under consideration are appropriate clauses that can be inserted into
tender documents in support of the National Gender Policy.


(b) Institutional Change/Strengthening
(particularly with reference to impacts on longer-term capacity and institutional development)

The probability that the project will maintain the institutional and physical achievement
generated in relation to its objectives over the economic life of the project is likely. The main
factors favoring such an outcome include: government commitment, enhanced institutional
capacity, the progress made in establishing increased fuel levy for road maintenance, and
transparency and accountability of the administration of the road fund.

The formation and strengthening of the road sector institutions such as the NRA is a positive
achievement of the project. Staff have remained in place and their capacity to plan, implement
and monitor have been strengthened. The legal approval for the establishment of a separate Road
Fund and Road Agency at closing of the project is also expected to strengthen the road
maintenance program through the dedicated maintenance fund and a separate implementing



                                                  18

agency, creating greater accountability for funds spent.

Training programs established by the NCIC, for the local constructing and consulting industry,
with support from the project, are now self-sustaining. The NCIC secretariat is being supported
from local resources. District Assemblies have been strengthened in the areas of contract
management and procurement and will be playing a greater role in these areas in the newly
approved Infrastructure Services Project. Under the Rural Accessibility Pilot Program, four of
the seven community contractors trained are now registered with the NCIC and have been given
additional works by the Ntchisi District Assembly.

On the other side, poor performance of Malawi's economy could still seriously affect the
financing of the road maintenance fund endangering the size of the road fund and thereby the
sustainability of the benefits of the project.


(c) Other Unintended Outcomes and Impacts (positive or negative, if any)
Not applicable

3.6 Summary of Findings of Beneficiary Survey and/or Stakeholder Workshops
(optional for Core ICR, required for ILI, details in annexes)

Not applicable.


4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome
Rating: Moderate


The main risks to development outcome depend on the effective use of the road fund and
strengthening of the institutional changes that the project has effected. The adequacy of the road
maintenance funding depends as much on the macroeconomic sector performance as the policy
stance of the Government of Malawi. The strengthening of the institutions will depend on the
commitment of the government to follow through on the substantial reforms undertaken, and to
the establishment of an incentive regime with respect to key staff in these institutions. The
economy of Malawi will play a role in the continued development of the local industry. The
economy being agrarian is subject to seasonal shocks such as drought and flood which affects
both economic growth and the basic infrastructure such as roads, bridges, etc. For all these
reasons, the risk to development outcome is assessed as moderate. Furthermore, recent
developments indicate an urgent need for an overall economically justified priority program of
investments in the transport sector to be put together by Government to the satisfaction of
stakeholders and Development Partners. The tradeoffs among various modes of transport (road,
rail and inland water) will need to be carefully examined in light of Malawi's landlocked
situation. An undue overemphasis on any one particular mode will needlessly divert scarce
resources to a suboptimal program.

5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance
(relating to design, implementation and outcome issues)
5.1 Bank
(a) Bank Performance in Ensuring Quality at Entry


                                                 19

(i.e., performance through lending phase)
Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

Overall, IDA's lending performance is assessed as Moderately Satisfactory. The IDA staff
helped the GoM in a diagnostic evaluation of the transport sector issues facing Malawi through a
series of road sector and macroeconomic reviews. Assumptions made for future macroeconomic
performance, although overly optimistic, led to sector institutional and policy reforms consistent
with the government strategy/priority. These were also consistent with the Bank CAS as well as
the lessons of experience of previous Bank financed road sector projects. The Bank helped
ensure that reforms were further developed and supported by the project. The Bank paid special
attention to its donor coordination effort to ensure a balanced and an optimal size of investment
program. Based on sector study, attention was given to: (i) selecting priority projects for the first
five years of the program from among the paved roads indicated for periodic maintenance; (ii)
developing packages for consultancy services for the paved and unpaved roads identified for
rehabilitation and upgrading; and (iii) establishing broad targets (both physical and financial) on
an annual basis for the next five year period for road maintenance and rehabilitation.


Much attention was also given to procurement including simplified documents for carrying out
routine maintenance for works up to a contract value of US$200,000 equivalent. The preparation
of the physical investment program for 450 km of paved road maintenance were well advanced at
the time of presentation of the project to the IDA Board. At appraisal, institutional start-up
problems were identified as potentially risky. The overall risk of the project was correctly
assessed as moderate or low at entry. The only exception rated high risk was the one related to
local consulting and construction industry capacity development. Subsequent implementation
outcomes have validated most of the assessment of risks.


However, assumptions made for future macroeconomic performance, the output from relatively
newly formed institutions and targets for rehabilitation from project funds was probably too
optimistic.

(b) Quality of Supervision
(including of fiduciary and safeguards policies)
Rating: Satisfactory

Bank supervision was Satisfactory. The skill-mix of the Bank supervision team was well
balanced. The team followed appropriate strategy throughout the project implementation phase.
Recognizing that the goal of the project was to bring about sustainable improvements in the
quality of Malawi's road infrastructure, the project team was rightly focused on monitoring the
performance of the Road Fund resources. The supervision team identified problems early as they
emerge and took appropriate measures. The project team helped facilitate client resolutions of
initial start-up problems related to management structure of NRA, re-bidding of five contracts,
accelerating the financial management system of PMR disbursement increases in road fund
revenues for the complex project. The team throughout project implementation provided timely



                                                  20

advice and follow-up action on procurement, financial management, disbursement, legal and
environmental aspects and risk assessment. The project implementation progress reports were
detailed and had timely and realistic performance ratings in the PSRs/ISRs. The project also had
the advantage of having only two task team leaders throughout its lifetime, allowing for
continuity of dialogue and smooth implementation.


The project team was focused on sustainability, development effectiveness, taking action and
follow up. During implementation there was sufficient and regular dialogue between the project
team and the government counterparts. Advice was provided on technical and institutional issues
and ensured the coordination between the differing implementing agencies was adequate.


The Midterm review mission was substantive and the team used the opportunity to refocus the
government on the project objectives. Financial monitoring reports for the project being
submitted regularly were reviewed by the supervision team. The supervision team also effectively
monitored the implementation of the policy measures proposed. Field supervision of civil works
and detailed review of the actions agreed on the institutional front were undertaken in relation to
NRA, NCIC and road safety.

Bank relations with other development partners were collaborative and led to the encouragement
of the GoM taking the lead in preparation of a sector program for the next five years. The project
team also benefited from the critical input provided by Bank senior staff in addressing key issues
raised in the course of project implementation. Such concerted effort of the project supervision
team has helped to achieve the project objectives.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Bank Performance
Rating: Satisfactory

The Bank overall performance is also rated satisfactory. Both lending and implementation phase
were executed with due diligence as noted above.

5.2 Borrower
(a) Government Performance
Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

Government performance in the preparation phase was satisfactory. The Borrower had
demonstrated strong commitment in the preparation phase including the establishment of
institutions that would be called on to implement the project and the policy framework for the
sector development. The design of the project was reflective of the government road sector
policy. GoM, with the assistance of the Bank, put in place macroeconomic reform creating a
favorable environment to enhance its outcome. The reforms undertaken by the government in line
with its Letter of Sector Policy were fully supported by its development partners for addressing
key institutional issues facing the road sector. During implementation phase, the government
performance was moderately satisfactory. They worked to strengthen the institutions established
and subsequently passed the laws enabling the separation of the road sector, financing and



                                                 21

management functions. Although not always sufficient, the fuel levy was consistently applied to
the Road Fund, providing available resources for the maintenance of the network. The National
Transport Policy and other key sectoral studies were prepared, dialogue with development
partners and other stake holders was government led.


(b) Implementing Agency or Agencies Performance
Rating: Satisfactory

Implementing
Agency             Performance



                   The performance of the Implementing Agencies is rated as satisfactory. The
                   staff of NRA exclusively managed project coordination through a steering
                   group consisting of agencies such as the Ministry, NCIC and MRTTP. There
                   were neither consultants nor a project implementing unit. NRA managed areas
Ministry of        of planning, procurement, work and contract execution, payments and
Transport and      environmental management on behalf of the steering committee. NRA ensured
Public Works       environmental compliance through the preparation of the relevant assessments,
                   obtaining of licenses and adequately supervising work implementation. NRA
National Roads     was the main implementer of the physical components of the project. The
Authority          Ministry managed aspects dealing with overall policy direction, institutional
                   change and strengthening. NCIC managed well the local industry training
                   programs and led dialogue on the strengthening of contractor capacity.


                   Fiduciary aspects of the project were adequately managed. Except for the
                   initial slow bidding process, there were no major procurement problems.
National
                   Communication with and between the agencies and Bank was timely and
Construction
                   adequate.
Industry Council



(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Borrower Performance
Rating: Satisfactory. This is in consideration of the overall ratings for government and agency
performance as outlined above.

6. Lessons Learned
(both project-specific and of wide general application)

     With upfront agreement of core policy and regulatory reforms, sector institutional
        development can be successfully carried out, even in a weak country environment
        provided there is a long term support to implementation of second order reforms
        generated through project activities. There were substantial institutional impacts within
        this project. The government commitment and the general consensus at project



                                                 22

       preparation stages for reform was evident in the steps that had already been taken to set
       up the road sector institutions. This was maintained throughout the project leading to the
       final step of the parliamentary approval of the separation of the functions of finance and
       management.

     With newly established institutions, caution needs to be exercised in estimation of
       implementation capacity and there needs to be greater pro-activity on part of the Bank
       and the Borrower to adjust to the realities on the ground.

     Effective government ownership and support from the development partners, can lead to
       initially weak institutions being challenged to deliver more than average results even
       under adverse macroeconomic environment.


     Continuity of task team leadership and ensuring an adequate skill mix, contributes
       positively to the outcomes of a project.


     For successful monitoring and use of indicators, there needs to be a periodic review of
       indicators to reflect current country and Bank objectives. This is critical for projects such
       as this where there is a long period (10 years) between appraisal and project closing.


7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners
(a) Borrower/implementing agencies


The Borrower informed the Bank team that aside from their contribution, they had no comments
on the Bank's Implementation and Completion Report.


(b) Co financiers


The Bank team did not receive any comments from the co financiers.


(c) Other partners and stakeholders
(e.g. NGOs/private sector/civil society)
Not applicable




                                                23

Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing

(a) Project Cost by Component (in USD Million equivalent)
                                     Appraisal
           Components             Estimate (USD       Actual/Latest     Percentage of

                                       M)          Estimate (USD M)      Appraisal

STRENGTHENING INST.
FRAMEWORK                                    5.70                7.01          19.12

DEV. CONSULTING & CONSTR.
INDUSTRIES                                   4.70                7.43         278.09

PERIODIC MAINTENANCE                         8.30               13.63         164.22
SELECTIVE REHABILITATION
AND UPGRADING                               14.70                9.22          62.72

PPF REFINANCING                              1.50                1.08          72.00
             Total Baseline Cost            34.90               38.37
Physical Contingencies                       0.00
Price Contingencies                          0.00
              Total Project Costs           34.90
                                             0.00                0.00           0.00
                                             0.00                0.00           0.00
       Total Financing Required             34.90               38.37


(b) Financing
                                            Appraisal    Actual/Latest
      Source of Funds           Type of                                  Percentage of
                             Cofinancing    Estimate     Estimate (USD
                                            (USD M)           M)          Appraisal

BORROWER                                           2.70              1.43       52.96
 INTERNATIONAL
DEVELOPMENT                                      30.00             31.64      105.47
ASSOCIATION
 NORDIC DEVELOPMENT
                                                  6.80              5.30       77.94
FUND




                                          24

Annex 2. Outputs by Component

Component 1: Strengthening the Road Sector Institutional Framework

Initial progress of the institutional reform component was slow, but by the end of the project, it
had substantially achieved all its projected outputs. A series of studies were undertaken as part of
this component to guide the Ministry in

    (a) Road Sector Policy Development (Ministry of Transport and Ministry Public Works)

     Preparation of the National Transport Policy. The National Transport Policy Document
         was supported under the project and prepared through a consultative process that was
         validated by Cabinet in 2006. Key legislation designed for the separation of the
         management and financing activities in the road sector received parliament approval in
         April 2006 and the Presidential Approval in May 2006.

     Road Reclassification Study. This study examined the extent of the Malawi road network
         and recommended responsibility for maintenance for the different classes of roads be
         divided between the Roads Authority and the District/City Assemblies. The total
         network increased from 15,000 to about 25,000.

     Transport Cost Study. The study was completed. The finding of the study informed that
         Malawi's transport costs were the highest in Southern Africa and well above the average
         for Africa. This was mainly due to lack of competition from other sectors apart from
         roads, poor road condition and the need to improve regulatory instruments and
         procedures.

     Development of Selection Criteria for Low Volume Roads. A well documented selection
         criterion for low volume roads was completed in July 2003. DfID, NDF and SIDA
         provided TA for the development. These are done at the regional level and are adopted
         locally. The standards were designed to meet current local conditions where traffic is low.

     Road Reclassification Study. The completed road classification study put Malawi's road
         network at an estimated 28,000 km. The majority of these roads are district and
         community roads and the responsibility for the management rests with MLGRD and the
         communities themselves. NRA will continue to manage the core network and provide the
         necessary technical assistance to the district assemblies as their capacity levels are still
         fairly low.

     Rural Accessibility and Mobility Pilot Activity (RAMPA). The RAMPA was conceived
         during the Mid-term review in 2003 after rural transport service needs assessment was
         undertaken. Malawi Rural Travel and Transport Program (MRTTP), operating with three
         professional staff prepared a socio-economic profile, district development plan (with
         data base organized around accessibility) and transport needs/gap, intervention plans and
         a monitoring system assessment for the Ntichsi district assembly. Discussions with the
         district assembly executives indicate that this plan has been invaluable in assisting the
         district to prioritize infrastructure development and was the basis for identifying new
         health infrastructure to be provided by the Red Cross._ The experiment undertaken to



                                                    25

      open up Ntichsi, a small district in Malawi with an area of 1,555 sq. km and population of
      212,000 under a labor based rural maintenance rehabilitation program was exemplary.
      The district has seven traditional authorities and twenty six wards. The access roads were
      constructed through the participation of local community contractors who received both
      theoretical and practical training. Out of the total local contractors trained, 8 were
      women and 11 men. To ensure sustainability of RAMPA unit, improved transport related
      statistics, and holding sensitization workshop for senior management in the sector was
      undertaken. Plans for the pilot Intermediate Means of Transport (IMT) lagged behind the
      rest of the component. The delay was caused by slow process of import arrangements for
      donkeys from Mozambique.

    Road Fund: The annual inflows into the Road Fund are summarized in the table below.
      During 1999, 2001 and 2005 the funds available in the road fund was higher than the
      programmed annual maintenance expenditure. The fuel levy allowed for depositing of
      US$12.36 million into the road fund for 2004/2005. This figure was lower than
      anticipated at appraisal due to the devaluation of the Malawi Kawcha over the years. The
      Road Fund and Policies and Procedure study focused on potential resources to be tapped
      to augment the RF and on proposals on adjustments to be made on fuel charges taking
      into account of road maintenance, sustainability and inflation and currency adjustments.
      The sources of revenue proposed were춓oad user charges fuel levy, road license fee based
      on the weight of the vehicle. Commercial permit fee for domestic commerce and for
      foreign registered vehicles transit fees of US$10 per vehicle km. The implementation of
      recommendations is to be done alongside the process of separation of the fund from the
      Roads Authority.

Annual Road Fund Inflows
              1999/00       2000/01         2001/02        2002/03        2003/04        2004/05
Target        9.5           12.0            12.9           13.8           15.3
(US$m)
Actual        10.2          9.8             14.5           12.5           13.4           12.36
(US$m)

    Road Safety. The National Road Safety Commission (NRSC) functioned as a partnership
      of consultants, recruits, and traffic police. Malawi has about 105,000 vehicles and its
      estimated annual losses due to road accidents are between 1.6 to 3.3 % of its GDP. The
      commission was supported by a consultant who assisted them in establishing baseline
      data of the road safety situation in Malawi. Training was undertaken for both the
      Commission and the Traffic Police in data collection and analysis. Since January 2005,
      upon departure of the consultant team, NRSC continued to maintain a complete set of
      records of accidents, quarterly, bi-annually and annually based at Malawi police service.
      From the statistics gathered, it has been established that 61% of accidents were caused by
      over speeding and 24% by driving under the influence of alcohol. NRSC has targeted
      these two areas. It has purchased speed traps, breath analyzers and a highway patrol
      vehicle for Malawi Traffic Police. The data has also helped to identify black spots and to
      make interventions. NRSC appear to be on a sustainable path. It has developed a business
      plan estimated to cost US$1.45 million. The RF has earmarked 2% of its revenue for
      activities aimed at enhancing safety, and local insurance companies contribute 0.75% of
      their premium, an amount of about MK4.5 million. The insurance companies, after
      dialogue with the NRSC agreed to raise their contribution to 1% and this agreement has
      been gazetted at the Ministry of Justice. With the support of the European Union, a



                                                26

        consultant has been engaged to explore the feasibility of setting up of a Road Traffic
        Authority which would comprise NRSC and the Road Traffic Directorate. Draft
        legislation is under preparation.

(b) Sector Institutional Development (Ministry of Transport and Public Works):

        Establishment of the National Road Authority (NRA). With the support of the project,
        NRA has transformed itself into a viable road authority (see Annex for Training and
        HIV/ADS mainstreaming Report). NRA was established in 1997 covering road authority
        and road fund activities. Following the transfer of operational functions and axle control
        from MoTPW to NRA, significant institutional capacity building activities had been built
        under the project in NRA. NRA with its key officers in place have corrected its start-up
        problems, re-tender documents which necessitated re-bidding of five contracts,
        established financial management system for PMR disbursements, etc, Project design,
        periodic, rehabilitation works were contracted out although routine maintenance works
        are still mostly implemented under force accounts.

        It has enhanced its capacity by updating its financial management and accounting
        systems; improving its procurement management and monitoring systems; building
        environmental management capacity; elaborating of policies and procedures for the
        management of the RF, (including collections, allocation and disbursement of road user
        revenues; instituting monitoring and evaluation systems. Despite initial shortcomings,
        the Five Year Strategic Planning Framework it put in place, RF was useful in addressing
        issues of effective utilization of road fund resources. A study of options for private sector
        in contract management was accepted.

     NRA undertook studies on road user charges, review and adjustment and on development
        of tools for operations and human resource management. They developed an
        Environmental Monitoring Unit (EMU), responsible for all environmental and social
        management of NRA executed projects. The Sectoral Environmental Guidelines were
        finalized. This document serves as a basis for monitoring and creating awareness for all
        involved in the sector. Over 600 copies have been distributed and training programs for
        contractors and consultants working with the Authority have been carried out. An
        Environmental Management Task Force has been set up. This oversees the work of the
        EMU. NRA also undertook data collection on HIV/AIDS and transport related statistics,
        and held a sensitization workshop for senior management in the sector. The transport
        policy, after review incorporated poverty, gender and HIV/AIDS into its final document.
        Special attention was given particularly in creating awareness of HIV/AIDS. Two
        workshops were organized for focal points and transport sector senior officials on
        mainstreaming the HIV/AIDS agenda.

     Development of a medium term framework for road sector management, including the
        role of a Central Roads Authority and other road agencies was completed. The relevant
        legislation was provided through the passing of the Roads Authority Act and the Road
        Fund Administration Act in 2006. This is a modern legislation taking care of many of the
        concerns of previous legislation. However, the Board may still have less power than
        desired, and may be somewhat vulnerable to the attitude of the Ministers. Much of the
        success of the legislation will rest with the design of procedures and guidelines. So far,
        the legislation itself is considered one of the most clear in terms of avoiding overlapping
        responsibilities between the Authority and the Fund. The risk with a legislation that is



                                                  27

        relatively open whose level or autonomy will be to some extent be defined later is that
        much will depend on the intention and attitude of the Boards and the Ministers involved.

     Sector Institutional Development related to periodic assessment of impact of institutional
        reforms were carried out; development of a medium term framework was limited.
        Assessment of institutional requirements for rural roads management has been completed.

     Study of options for private sector participation in contract management was completed.
        However, little implementation was achieved.

(c) Framework for management and financing of rural roads (Ministry of Transport and
Department of District and Local Government Administration)

Through RAMPA, pilot support to one District Administration's (DA) efforts in planning and
managing rural transport issues have been carried out. Capacity building at district assembly
level was undertaken through the MRTTP. MRTTP conducted training exercises for district staff
focusing on contract management and basic road design. It also conducted workshop to
disseminate and finalize the transport policy document. Manuals for planning, construction
management of rural roads were produced and finalized after a stakeholders' workshop.

(d) Framework for policy and regulation
     Support for restructuring and down sizing of Roads Department was successful.

     Support to Capacity building for sector policy development and regulation and oversight
        of road sector institutions including NRA were completed.


Project Component 2- Development of the Construction and Consulting Industries

This component has satisfactorily contributed to the achievement of the project objectives,
particularly objectives 1&3. The implementation of the project helped strengthen the NCIC as the
principal stake holder body responsible for the development of the local construction industry and
addressed some of the constraints faced by the industry. The outputs of the three subcomponents
are as follows:

     National Construction Industry Council (NCIC): The Act establishing NCIC was passed
        in 1996. It was not, however, that until December 2000 a full time executive secretary
        was established with fund provided by the Credit. NCIC also received financial support
        from the Government, and NDF. IDA assistance to the NCIC Secretariat came to an end
        in November 2004 and NCIC is now being supported under NCIC's own budget, mainly
        from registration fees of member contractors and consultants; construction levies
        collected from treasury on government contracts; and training fees- a good sign of
        sustainability. NCIC has formulated a business plan which expected to enhance
        coordination of all NCIC management parties and aids in sourcing external funding.
        NCIC has gained from the project acquiring training equipment, computers, vehicles, and
        refurbished classroom facilities. The international training experts assisted NCIC in
        planning and implementing training programs which have continued after their departure.
        NCIC has been able to retain the highly skilled staff hired.




                                                 28

     Contractor and consultant training: Training programs at the NCIC were slow to
         commence, as it took time to hire the appropriate staff. The project implementation
         period was mostly focused on building institutional capacity. NCIC staff visited SADC
         countries to observe how contractors and consultant registration and survey functions are
         being carried out. Approximately 1000 road, building, water contractors and consultants
         and material suppliers and electrical contractors have been registered. Some 38 local
         maintenance contractors were trained by the end of the project compared to the target of
         60. However, none of the medium contractors were qualified to be upgraded to unlimited
         category by 2004. Four local consultants were trained out of target of ten consultants. The
         survey function was completed. Training material has been prepared for use by the
         Council and it is expected that the training programs will grow in the coming years.

     Equipment and financing requirements: Local contractor faces difficulties in hiring
         equipment needs equipment pool. A budget of US$2.4 million was allocated of which
         US$2.2 was for training and the balance for equipment. The limited resources available
         are used in refurbishing class rooms to entice users; developing curriculum etc. Because
         procurement issues were raised by the Bank most procurement were completed towards
         the closing of the project. Study for setting up of plant and equipment pool was
         completed. The level of knowledge is limited. Study of outstanding constrains with
         regard to access to finance and light equipment and transport. The NDF financed study
         on equipment need assessment and setting up of plant and equipment pool was completed.
         However, given that MoTPW was in the process of procuring consultancy services for
         the commercialization of the governments plant and vehicle hire department, NCIC
         agreed to drop the proposal for setting up of a plant pool.


Project Component 3- Support to Sustainable Periodic Maintenance

This component, within the limit of the funding available, has satisfactorily contributed to the
achievement of objective three of the project. All periodic maintenance projects included in the
PAD were completed. This involved the resealing of 450 km of main roads including shoulder
rectification, patching of potholes and edge breaks, crack repairs surface reshaping and
restitutions or improving of the road markings and road signs at a total cost of US$ 12.8 million.
The roads included: (i) M1-Lionguwe쵡irport쵢unda T/O (35.8 km); (ii) M3-Mangochi-Mbalula
(11.9 km); (iii) M5-Nkhotakhota-Salima (114.2 km); (iv) M12-Lilongwe-Mchinji (119.3 km); (v)
M14-Lilongwe-Salima (114.2 km); (vi) M30-Lilongwe Airport Access (3.9 km); (vii) S122-
Salima-Grand Beach (23.8 km); (viii) S125-Lilongwe-Bunda (16.4 km); (ix) S131-Liwonde-
Naminga (24.3 km); (x) S143-Zomba-Ndege (3.6 km); (xi) S146-Limbe-Chiradzulu (0.14 km).
All works have been certified including the M5-Nkhotakota-Salima road which was repaired for
defect. About 803 km of roads were periodically maintained. This was slightly lower of the
anticipated target of 900 km.

Project Component 4- Support to selective Rehabilitation and Upgrading

A tentative list of projects for financing from IDA funds in the second and third year of the
program were identified in the project. These included selected urban roads in Blantyre (total 10.9
km) and Lilongwe (total 7.1 km) and three inter-urban roads with a total length of 187 km: (i)
Zomba-Blantyre (57 km); .(ii) Jenda-Chingawa (83 km); and (iii) Mzuzu-Nkhata Bay (47 km).
The implemented urban road works included: (i) Industrial roads in Blantyre (4.6 km) ; (ii)
Kenyatta Drive in Blantyre (4.5 km); (iii) Chilambula road in Lilongwe (3.6 km); and (iv) Likuni
bridge in Lilongwe; (v) Mahatma Gandhi ( 2.2 km); and (vi) Churchill road (2.4 km) in Blantyre.


                                                  29

All the above civil works were completed as designed except Mahatma Gandhi Road where
heavy patch works was undertaken due to limited available credit balance. The inter-urban roads
design was not completed on time as a result of dispute with consultants. Meanwhile the
government and the Bank agreed to reallocate the funds to other components. The dispute,
however, was finally settled by an international arbitrator. Work was undertaken by a mix of
local and foreign contractors. The urban contracts were completed over longer periods than
initially proposed, due to delays in relocation of utilities. NRA with hindsight, should have
allowed for longer contract periods due to the complexity of working in an urban environment.
However, the quality of all work undertaken was deemed satisfactory.

Environmental and social management of ROMARP: Implementation of Environmental and
social management of ROMARP was satisfactory. An Environmental management capacity study
was completed. With the hiring of an environmental planner at EMU the borrower carried out the
projection conformity with the environmental and social safeguard policy. During the
construction, the EMU provided monthly progress reports to NRA to ensure timely effective
intervention by NRA. EMU has been both proactive and effective in bringing environmental and
social issues to the table. The Malawi example has been considered good practice and the Unit is
sharing its experiences with counterparts in neighboring countries.

HIV/AIDS . Considerable work has been done under the project to assist the government and
implementing agencies to develop appropriate workplace policies. Focal points in the Ministry
and NRA were identified, trained and worked together with counterparts in other countries to
exchange experiences. Through the project, the sectoral HIV/AIDS policy and strategy
documents were prepared. A series of workshops were held to create awareness for the new
policy guidelines. HIV/AIDS prevention strategies were mainstreamed into transport investments.
Clauses for HIV/AIDS activities are now part of tender documents for major development partner
funded projects and are to be included in their term maintenance contracts in the near future.
Continued activities under the strategy are expected to be funded under the national MAP project.


Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis

Economic and Financial Analysis (including assumptions in the analysis)
Economic Analysis

1.       This Annex is comprised of two Parts. Part I deals with the economic evaluation of the periodic
maintenance and rehabilitation; and Part II with the sensitivity analysis.

Part I:

2.       The Economic evaluation of the periodic maintenance covers a total of 416 km, while the
rehabilitation covers 16 km (see below).

Approach

3.       The economic analysis is based on the re-evaluation of the traffic data , operation performance,
costs and benefits of the project components. The methodology used was similar to that employed by the
PAD and is summarized as follows:



                                                 30

    (a) Capital investment and maintenance costs were revised to reflect June 30, 2006 and are included
        in the cost stream;

    (b) The benefit streams (June 30, 2006) were included, and consist of savings in vehicle operating
        costs. To be consistent with the PAD, benefits from travel time savings, reduced traffic
        congestion on existing roads, enhanced road safety (although major benefits have been achieved
        in accident reduction due to the project) are not included. The estimated ERR and NPV are
        therefore conservative estimates;

    (c) The economic life of periodic maintenance and rehabilitation sub-projects (measured in variation
        of IRI, poor to good) is respectively 6 and 15 years.

4.      The economic analysis reflects the costs and benefits at end of the project economic life of the
incremental investments.


5.      The periodic maintenance sub-projects were open to traffic between 2001 and 2004; while the
rehabilitated roads were open to traffic mainly in the 2005-06.

Traffic projections

6.      The normal average traffic growth is 5.2% per year. The figure for the coming several years is
        assumed to be reasonable despite lower GDP growth during the period of implementation. The
        relatively high average traffic growth was probably due to diversion of heavy traffic and its
        relative high contribution to the overall benefits.

Economic costs

7.       Financial VOC have been converted to economic costs excluding taxes and subsidies.




Vehicle Operating Costs Estimates (Cost per Km (USD))
                         Without
  Vehicle class          Project             With Project               Savings
  Cars & Pick-up         0.27                0.16                       0.11
  Minibuses              0.60                0.37                       0.23
  Light Trucks           0.47                0.23                       0.24
  Buses                  0.74                0.55                       0.19
  Medium Tracts          0.74                0.55                       0.19
  Heavy Trucks           1.23                0.86                       0.37
  Heavy Trucks
  Articulated            1.23                0.86                       0.37


Economic Evaluation

8.      The aggregate economic rate of return (ERR) of the periodic maintenance is estimated to be



                                                 31

113% which is significantly better than the appraisal average estimate of 33.9 %. The Post 
implementation NPV is estimated at US$72.0 million. The PAD did not estimate the NPV. The increase
in traffic due to traffic divergence and the high cost of fuel has led to corresponding high savings in
VOCs. As a result the resealing of the roads have led to much higher return than was estimated at
appraisal.

9.       The Rehabilitation sub-component has an estimated ERR of 62% and the NPV is US$ 33.7
million. The same factors - traffic divergence and high saving in VOCs due to higher fuel costs - that
affected the periodic maintenance component also explains the significantly high return.




                                                  32

                                                                           Basic with Traffic  With no Traffic
                                                                           growth              growth from 06 on


                                          Completed
Periodic Maintenance                      Length                 Type of
component                      Contract # (km)      Cost (US $)  Treatment ERR     NPV (US$)   ERR      NPV (US$)
Lilongwe -- Chinju (M12)       25/98      120       2,150,292    Periodic  184%    30,681,723  184%     27,119,161


Lambadi -- Chitsome (M1) ;
Lilongwe airport road (M30),
Chitsime -- Bunda (S125)       26/98      58        2,626,233    Periodic  221%    35,398,668  207%     31,242,153
Lilongwe  Salima (M14, M5) -
- Grand Beach (S122) Senga
Bay                            30/98      88        1,994,194    Periodic  114%    11,031,181  110%     9,616,908
Salima -- Nkhotakota (M5)      27/98      106       2,375,222    Periodic  66%     7,468,233   62%      6,350,184
Mangochi -- Mbalula (M3)       28/98      1.7       112,808      Periodic  11%     -3,362      7%       14,840
Liwonde -- Naminga (S131)      28/98      24.4      1,619,130    Periodic  114%    1,126,808   107%     568,798
Zomba -- Airwing Road (S143)   28/98      3.9       258,795      Periodic  4%      -64543      -10%     -119218
Limbe -- Chiradzulu (S146)     28/98      14        2,919,741    Periodic  26%     430625      18%      158958
Total                                     416       12,065,683   Total     118%    82,782,006  113%     72,016,478
Rehabilitation Component
                               NRA/002/0
Industrial Roads in Blantyre   2          2.2       1,125,964    Rehab.    72%     7,229,830   70%      6,056,337
                               NRA/001/0
Kenyatta Drive in Blantyre     2          4.5       1,865,384    Rehab.    55%     7,045,714   54%      5,659,435
                               NRA/003/0
Chilambula Road in Lilongwe    2          3.6       2,267,233    Rehab.    62%     9,344,633   61%      9,097,874
Mahatma Gandhi & Churchill     NRA/005/0
Roads in Blantyre              2          4.6       1,533,053    Rehab.    77%     7,598,233   74%      5,831,499
                               NRA/006/0
Mzimba -- Lubani Street        2          1.4       1,067,672    Rehab.    60%     5293041     58%      4123055
Total                                     16.3      7,859,306    Rehab.    62%     33,718,025  61%      28494887
Grand Total                                                                103%    114624464   96%      100511366




                                                                     33

Part II Risk and Sensitivity Analysis

Sensitivity analysis was carried out. The base case represents average traffic growth of 5.2% during the
economic life of the project which is 6 years for periodic maintenance and 15-years for rehabilitation with
periodic maintenance at 6-year interval. The alternative was based on no traffic growth after 2006. Both the
post-construction ERR and NPV estimates appear to be somewhat sensitive to such changes in traffic and
yet robust.




                                                      34

Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes


(a) Task Team members




         Names                 Title                 Unit     Responsibility/Specialty
Lending


Stephen Brushett     Lead Transport Specialist LCSFT         Team Leader
Farida Khan          Operations Analyst        AFTTR         Operational Aspects
Sally Burningham     Sr. Transport Specialist  EASTE         Infrastructure
                     Sr. Environmental
Nina Chee                                     AFTS3          Environment
                     Specialist
Subhash Seth         Sr. Highway Engineer     AFTTR          Technical Aspects
George Banjo         Sr. Transport Specialist  AFTTR         Rural Transport
                     Consultant, Transport
Thor Wetteland                                 AFTFM         Technical Aspects
                     Specialist
Ajay Kumar           Sr. Transport Economist   AFTTR         Economist
Anna Ternell         Transport Economist       AFTTR         Economist
Subhash Dingra       Sr. Procurement Spec.     AFTPC         Procurement
                     Financial Management
Brian Facolner                                AFTFM          Financial Management
                     Specialist
Elizabeth Adu        Principal Legal Counsel LEGAF           Legal
Supervision/ICR
Stephen Brushett     Lead Transport Specialist LCSTR         Team Leader up to 10/03
Tawia Addo-Ashong    Sr. Transport Specialist  AFTTR         Team Leader
                                                             Economic Analysis and
Ephrem Asebe         Consultant               AFTU1
                                                             ICR
Farida Khan          Operations Analyst       AFTTR          Operational Aspects
Nina Chee            Sr. Environmental Spec. AFTS3           Environmental Aspects
Davies Bwalya Makasa Transport. Spec.         AFTTR          Technical Aspects
Donald Herrings      Sr. Financial
                                              AFTFM          Financial Management
Mphande              Management Specialist
                     Sr. Procurement
Kofi Awanyo                                   AFTPC          Procurement
                     Specialist



                                              35

                         Sr. Rural Transport
Elias Teggai                                      AFTTR                Rural Transport
                         Specialist
                                                                       Technical Aspects/
Subhash C. Seth          Sr. Highway Engineer     AFTTR
                                                                       Institutional/ Road Safety
                                                                       Support and supervision
Esther Lozo              Program Assistant        AFMMW
                                                                       processes
Jocelyne Do Sacramento Operations Analyst         AFTTR                HIV/Aids
                                                                       Support and supervision
Ntombie Z. Siwale        Program Assistant        AFTTR
                                                                       processes
                         Sr. Procurement
Pascal Tegwa                                      AFTPC                Procurement
                         Specialist

(b) Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs

No. Date ISR Archived               DO                   IP       Actual Disbursements (USD M)
1   07/02/1999             Satisfactory             Satisfactory                              0.49
2   11/19/1999             Satisfactory             Satisfactory                              0.49
3   06/05/2000             Satisfactory             Satisfactory                              2.63
4* 06/28/2000              Satisfactory             Unsatisfactory                            2.76
5   11/29/2000             Satisfactory             Satisfactory                              3.67
6   05/04/2001             Satisfactory             Satisfactory                              6.14
7   06/27/2001             Satisfactory             Satisfactory                              6.14
8   12/20/2001             Satisfactory             Satisfactory                            10.94
9   04/26/2002             Satisfactory             Satisfactory                            14.42
10 08/15/2002              Satisfactory             Satisfactory                            15.51
11 10/01/2002              Satisfactory             Satisfactory                            15.78
12 04/22/2003              Satisfactory             Satisfactory                            15.85
13 11/05/2003              Satisfactory             Satisfactory                            16.38
14 02/25/2004              Satisfactory             Satisfactory                            16.38
15 07/31/2004              Satisfactory             Satisfactory                            16.74
16 11/12/2004              Satisfactory             Satisfactory                            18.40
17 06/15/2005              Moderately Satisfactory  Satisfactory                            22.84
18 07/30/2005              Moderately Satisfactory  Satisfactory                            23.44
19 03/14/2006              Satisfactory             Satisfactory                            28.33
See comment on the above table




                                                  36

(c) Staff Time and Cost
                                               Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)

              Stage of Project Cycle                                  USD Thousands
                                              No. of staff weeks    (including travel and
                                                                      consultant costs)
Lending
                      FY95                                                          17.39
                      FY96                                                          51.13
                      FY97                                                         123.02
                      FY98                                                         157.63
                      FY99                                                         126.26
                      FY00                                       4                  17.01
                      FY01                                                            0.00
                      FY02                                                            0.00
                      FY03                                       5                  12.77
                      FY04                                                            0.00
                      FY05                                                            0.00
                      FY06                                                            0.00
                      FY07                                                            0.00
                                       Total:                    9                 505.21
Supervision/ICR
                      FY95                                                            0.00
                      FY96                                                            0.00
                      FY97                                                            0.00
                      FY98                                                            0.00
                      FY99                                                            0.00
                      FY00                                      40                 106.61
                      FY01                                      32                  95.42
                      FY02                                      14                  99.98
                      FY03                                      15                  91.23
                      FY04                                      29                 118.47
                      FY05                                      32                 121.90
                      FY06                                      32                 133.21
                      FY07                                                            2.04
                                       Total:                 194                  768.86




                                           37

Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results
(if any)




                                      38

Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results




                                       39

Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR


                     ROAD MAINTENANCE AND REHABILITATION PROJECT
                                              IDA Credit 3239

                             IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT


1.            INTRODUCTION

The Republic of Malawi is small agricultural and landlocked country with 118,140 Km2 land area of which
20% is water. Being a landlocked country, the government's development policies have reflected the need
to develop and maintain a road network that keeps all routes to the sea including the local road network
open for the ease of movement of goods and services into and out of Malawi. As a follow up to this policy
the government of Malawi developed a Road maintenance and Rehabilitation Project to address issues of
improving the road network by undertaking a number of periodic, rehabilitation and upgrading of main,
secondary and urban roads. The project also included capacity building for the various institutions in the
transport sector.

In 1997/98, the Bank financed feasibility and preliminary engineering design of the project. This was
followed by signing a credit agreement in 1999, of about US$30 million to fund ROMARP project
activities.

This Implementation Completion Report (ICR) is based on project appraisal report, project files, progress
reports, mid-term review and discussions with the various stakeholders and implementing agents. This
report will finally be the Borrower's contribution to the final ICR to be produced by the Bank.


2.            ASSESSMENT OF DEVELOPMENT OBJECTIVES AT BEGINNING OF THE
PROJECT

2.1        Original Objectives

The project objectives as stated in Project Appraisal Document (PAD) were to bring about sustainable
improvements in the quality of Malawi's road infrastructure, which would help economic growth and
diversify the Malawian economy by reducing transport costs and improving access. This goal translated
into three interrelated objectives. The project would support:

(a) Strengthening and restructuring of the road sector institutional framework with a view to improving the
effectiveness of sector management and enhancing planning and programming of road works;

(b) Reform of road sector financing to put the funding of future road maintenance expenditure onto a firm,
sustainable footing; and

(c) Process of addressing the backlog of road maintenance and rehabilitation through financing of
economically viable, but currently un funded, subprojects in line with implementation and financing
capacity. More generally, the project was expected to contribute towards putting in place the conditions for
a full sector program approach for roads.




                                                      40

2.2        Revised Project Objectives

The project objectives remained the same throughout the life of its implementation, but there were changes
in scope that occurred which will be discussed in each component. The scope of the project was revised
during the mid-term review, which took place in 2003, to include Rural Accessibility and Mobility Pilot
Activity (RAMPA).

3.       ORIGINAL PROJECT COMPONENTS

The project components as given in the Development Credit Agreement (DCA) were as follows:

Component 1. Strengthening the Road Sector Institutional Framework.

1.        Strengthening the capacity of NRA, DDLGA and selected local authorities to undertake road
sector activities through the provision of training, technical advisory services and the acquisition of
equipment;

2.        Development of financial management systems, procurement systems, monitoring and evaluation
procedures and development of environmental review and management capacity in NRA, DDLGA and
selected local authorities through the provision of technical advisory services and training;

3.        Formulation of appropriate road sector policies, including updating the national transport policy
framework, carrying out a study on vehicle operating costs, carrying out a study on reclassification of roads
and carrying out an analysis of sources of revenue for Road Fund, adjustment formulae and collection and
accounting procedures;

4.        Development of the road sector institutional framework, including the carrying out of periodic
assessments of the impact of institutional reforms, development of a medium-term framework for road
sector management and options for private sector participation in contract management, through the
provision of technical advisory services;

5.        Development of a framework for the management and financing of rural roads, including an
assessment of the institutional requirements for the management of rural roads, development of cost sharing
and financing options for rural road maintenance and a rural transport needs assessment, through the
provision of technical advisory services; and

6.        Restructuring MOWS and MOT and the development of their capacity for regulation and policy
making in the road sector through the provision of technical advisory services and training.

Component 2. Development of the Construction and Consulting Industries

1.        Strengthening the capacity of NCIC to develop local contractors and consultants through the
provision of technical advisory services and training, and acquisition of equipment;

2.        Carrying out training of local constructors and consultants, including the acquisition of
equipment and refurbishment of facilities for training activities, development of training materials and
curricula, and the provision of technical advisory services for training needs assessments and carrying out
the training activities; and

3.        Carrying out studies into the financing and equipment constraints faced by local contractors, and



                                                       41

the development of options and pilot schemes to address these constraints.

Component 3. Carry out Periodic Maintenance of Roads.

1.         Carrying out a program of periodic maintenance of selected main, secondary, tertiary, urban and
district roads, including resealing and resurfacing of paved roads and re-gravelling of gravel roads and
minor spot repairs; and

2.         Provision of engineering and supervision services for the above-mentioned roads.

Component 4. Carry out Rehabilitation and Upgrading of Roads.

    1.            Carrying out a program of rehabilitation and reconstruction of main, secondary, tertiary,
             urban and district roads;
    2.            Carrying out a program of upgrading of selected main, secondary, tertiary, urban and
             district roads; and
    3.            Provision of engineering and supervision services for the above-mentioned roads.

3.1        Revised Project Components

3.1.1            Component 1

No major changes were made to the original project component. All projects planned under this component
were implemented.

3.1.2            Component 2

No major changes were made to the original project component except that phase II of the refurbishment of
training center has not been carried out due to non-availability of funds.

3.1.3            Component 3: Periodic Maintenance
No major changes were made in the project component only that no re-gravelling of gravel roads was
carried out under this component, as all the project activities were concentrated on paved roads.

3.1.4            Component 4: Rehabilitation, Upgrading and Construction of Roads

Changes were made to the original project component; the project was delayed and extended twice for a
number of reasons. The first was poor performance an engineering consulting firm that led to delays in
finalizing the detailed engineering designs for four road projects such as the Zomba  Blantyre, Mzuzu 
Nkhata Bay, Jenda  Chikangawa, and the Dwangwa  Nkhotakota. The second was the engineering
estimates for the rehabilitation projects, which were over and above the initial projects estimates. This
resulted in most of the main road rehabilitation projects having no funding. Moreover, the cost of design
projects for the urban areas of Lilongwe and Blantyre were also way above the original cost estimates,
hence a number of projects were left and only a few were selected for implementation.

3.1.5            Component 5: Rural Accessibility and Mobility Pilot Activity (RAMPA) and Capacity
Building for District Assembly Technical Staff

The RAMPA was conceived during the mid-term review, which took place in 2003. This activity was a
recommendation of the needs assessment study for rural transport service. The aim was to institutionalize
integrated rural access planning (IRAP) into the district planning system, increase mobility through access


                                                      42

to intermediate means of transport and also pilot community contractors for sustainable improvement of
local transport infrastructure. With respect to capacity building for Local Assemblies (LA) the main
objectives were to carry out training for technical staff concerned with management of roads under the
local assemblies. The Malawi Rural Travel and Transport Programme under the Ministry of Local
Government and Rural Development implemented this component.

4.           ASSESSMENT OF PROJECT OBJECTIVES

Major developments that have taken place are: (a) Malawi rail network was concessioned in 1999 for a
period of twenty years and is now managed by a private operator, the Central East African Railways
Company Ltd. (CEAR): (b) the commercial activities on Lake Malawi including the provision of ship
services have been concessioned in 2002; (c) private operator provides regular passenger and freight
services on Lake Malawi connecting with rail at Chipoka, about 26 km south of Salima. In the road sector,
the Ministries of Transport & Communications and that for Works and Supplies have been merged into one
ministry of Transport and Public Works. The Roads Department had been down sized and road
management services have been conferred on a commercially oriented National Roads Authority (NRA),
and a Road Fund (financed by a fuel levy) has been established to fund a comprehensive road maintenance
programs.

These important achievements do not reduce the continued relevance of the project interventions, nor have
eliminated the need to address some outstanding issues. The main sector issues led to the preparation of the
project were: (a) high transport costs; (b) weak management of road sector agencies; (c) inadequate local
financing for the road sector; (d) sustainability of existing road network; (e) lack of development of the
local construction industry; (f) poor accessibility in rural areas; and (g) weak traffic management and lack
of road safety reflect essential priorities for improvements in economic infrastructure in the roads sector in
order to reduce transport costs and inefficiencies. The project supported reforms in the institutional
framework for the management and financing of roads, which in turn supported the CAS objectives of
improving public sector management and capacity. Commercialization of the sector management
supported by the project was also critical in reducing rehabilitation and maintenance backlogs in the sector.

5.           ACHIEVEMENT OF PROJECT OBJECTIVES AND OUTPUTS

5.1        Overall Assessment
The Credit covenant/ conditions were reasonable and appropriate and proved valuable to the execution of
the project. The success of the project itself is evidence that the credit conditions were sensible and no
more additional conditions were necessary. The government had not difficulty in fulfilling the stipulated
conditions for the credit to be effective.

5.2         Strengthening of road sector institutional framework.
Substantial progress has been made with the effective establishment of the NRA, that has also achieved the
original objective of separating operations from funding through the creation of the Road Fund
Administration (RFA) separate from the Road Authority (RA) in June 2006 when parliament
passed legislation creating the two organizations. Furthermore, reforms have taken place supported by the
restructuring of the core ministry responsibilities for road policy and programming as well as the concrete
progress made on decentralization and the reestablishment of effective capacity at urban and district level.
However, there is still need for capacity building issues that need to be addressed in the various
implementing agencies such as the MoTPW, MLGRD, RA, RFA, and NCIC and most especially at Local
Assembly level. Road sector programming has been improved, but it is still not comprehensive at various
organizational levels. However the prioritization of maintenance has been evident since the establishment
of the National Roads Authority in 1997. There is now a better balance between routine maintenance,
periodic maintenance, rehabilitation and construction.


                                                       43

More specifically, a number of subcomponents as envisaged at planning stages have been achieved. The
studies that were carried out by various consultants have addressed the various issues such as Road sector
Policy development, sector institutional development i.e. reform of NRA separating funding from
operations, framework for management and financing of rural roads, and establishment of a framework for
policy formulation and regulation such as separation of policy formulation by MOTPW and MLGRD and
management of the road network operational issues by NCIC, NRA, City Assemblies and District
Assemblies.

5.3         Reform of Road Sector Financing.

The National Roads Authority and a Road Fund were set up with the objectives of financing the cost of
maintaining public roads, sharing in the cost of maintaining other roads, contributing to the cost of donor-
funded periodic, rehabilitation and construction programmes and administering the NRA Secretariat. The
main resource for the Road Fund is the fuel levy through which routine maintenance is funded. Periodic
maintenance, rehabilitation and new construction are funded mainly by donors. Road maintenance has
been contracted out to the private sector since 1995/96 on a road-by-road yearly contract basis. Domestic
resources in the Road Fund are approaching the level at which most core network routine maintenance
needs were reasonably being met between 2001 and 2003. However, in the years between 2003 and 2006
the Road Fund has been unable to meet the target revenues in US Dollar terms because of poor
performance of macroeconomic fundamentals such as the exchange rates which have been unstable and
have continued to deteriorate, and fuel prices on the world market that have tripled over the last three years
and have reached levels beyond projections at project conception in late 1990's. Furthermore, GoM has
still not approved the inclusion of other road user charges into the Road Fund. It is expected that with the
further reforms that have seen the separation of functions of the NRA, that government would reconsider its
decision and might increase the road levy on fuel to more acceptable levels of at least US $0.10 per liter;
and also release some road user charges to be part of the Road Fund.

5.4         Support to selective Periodic Maintenance

Under this programme it was intended to cover about 450 Km for resealing works for five projects that
were identified during project preparation. Minor delays were experienced in starting work for periodic
maintenance of the identified projects due to a number of reasons that included the relatively new NRA
organization, which was in its formative years and was busy building capacity. But once the contracts were
awarded in 2001 work started and was completed by end 2002. These projects included resealing works
for Lilongwe  Mchinji, Lumbadzi  Chistime, Chitsime  Bunda, Linthipe  Nkhotakota, Mangochi 
Mbalula, Liwonde  Naminga, Limbe  Chiradzulu, Zomba Airwing Lilongwe  Salima, and Salima 
Grand Beach roads.

5.5         Support to selective Rehabilitation and Upgrading

This programme was designed to limited amounts of rehabilitation of the paved road networks and also
limited amounts of earth to gravel and from gravel to paved upgrading commensurate with implementation
capacity, economic viability of projects and adequate financial resources. These were programmed for
implementation as second year projects following the periodic maintenance projects. These projects were
identified through a preliminary economic feasibility and design study financed through a Project
Preparatory Facility (PPF). The projects (total of about 200 Km) were subjected to further detailed
economic analysis and design during the first year.

The detailed engineering designs were done by two separate consulting firms i.e. the highways of Zomba 



                                                      44

Bantyre, Jenda  Chikangawa, Mzuzu  Nkhata Bay and Nkhotakota were awarded to Delcan International
in association with Bua Consulting Engineers a Canadian and Malawi firm respectively, whereas the
Designs for the Urban roads of Lilongwe and Blantyre including the Likuni bridge were awarded to BKS
Group a South African company. The contract for designs of main selected roads conducted by Delcan
International were not completed on time and a dispute arose which was finally sorted out by an
international arbitrator. This lead to delays in finalizing the design work and with the passage of time
financial resources originally allocated to these projects were re-allocated to other projects. Not all projects
for rehabilitation of urban roads in Lilongwe and Blantyre were implemented, as the costs for the projects
at design and at submission of bids were much higher than originally estimated. Furthermore, the works
were delayed in completion due to a number of reasons that arose during implementation.

5.6       Rural Accessibility and Mobility Pilot Activity (RAMPA) and Capacity Building for District
Assembly Technical Staff

The RAMPA was a success in that it has assisted to establish a multi-sector database, which has been
instrumental in improving the district planning system. Under this the GIS has been established for
physical location of socio economic services. The project has also established mechanisms for increase
access to intermediate means of transport (IMT) and sustainable provision of local level transport
infrastructure.

6.            MAJOR FACTORS AFFECTING IMPLEMENTATION AND OUTCOME

    6.1         Factors outside the control of Government or the implementing agency:
Exchange rate. The project was signed in 1999 at a point when the exchange rate between the SDR and
the US Dollar was SDR 1=US$1.35 (January 1, 1999). At the closure of the project the SDR had gained in
value as the Dollar lost value and exchange rates were SDR 1=US$1.4613 on April 4, 2006. The original
credit was worth SDR22.2 million equivalent to US$30 million, however near the end of the project the
government had lost about US1.67 million dollars due to exchange losses. Thus the exchange losses
contributed to the low funding levels available under the credit for project implementation.

6.2          Factors generally subject to government control:

Orderly completion of civil works. The project was originally scheduled to be completed by September
2004, but was extended twice to December 2005 then to June 2006. Some projects under the credit were
extended for completion from March 31, to June 30, 2006. This had been for a limited number of specific
projects implemented by Fargo Limited who delayed to undertake the projects within the stipulated time
periods. The other project is the Mzimba 쵰ali Rubani road, which is under construction by Malbro/Forita
Joint Venture, was also extended from March 31, to June 30, 2006. This would lead to somewhat
disorderly completion of the project as all other sub-projects will be completed on one date whereas on
these two projects will be completed on a different date. This has implications with regard to maintenance
liability periods and payment of retention and closure of the credit.

Traffic Management and Road Safety. The government passed in 1997 a new Road Traffic Act which
provided for appropriate regulation and management of road traffic, including: registration and licensing of
vehicles and drivers; requirements on fitness of vehicles; road traffic signs; control of speed limits and
other rules of the road. The government undertook to put in place an action plan and a pilot programme on
how traffic safety might have been improved to reach Sub-Saharan African levels and later SADC levels.
To this end a monitoring and evaluation system would have been established in the Ministry of Transport.
It might be noted that not all the action plans and pilot road safety programmes have materialized,
nevertheless speed traps and breathalyzers have been bought and were introduced for the first time on July
1, 2006.


                                                       45

The government also agreed to handover the responsibility for axle load management to NRA. The transfer
was to take place by December 2000. Management of axle load control eventually was transferred to NRA
on October 1, 2003. How ever, with the separation of functions whose acts were passed in May 2006, the
management of axle load control is planned to be handed over back to Road Traffic Directorate contrary to
the agreed principle under the project.

6.3         Factors generally subject to control of implementing agency

Assumptions for traffic forecast studies. The feasibility study made very optimistic traffic forecasts
especially for the roads plying rural areas. Traffic counts conducted in April 2006 have revealed that in
general traffic growth in rural areas has in fact gone down in most cases due to poor economic
performance. However, the economic evaluation results are still very good and are over and above those
worked out during the feasibility stage. The main cause of this apparent contraction is due to changes in
the composition of traffic that has seen a rise in the number of heavy vehicles using the public road
network. VOC's savings from heavy vehicles are much larger compared to those of lighter vehicles, hence
the increase in the EIRR for economic evaluation after project completion.

On the other hand traffic on urban roads has grown much more than was predicted at feasibility stage.
Even though the macroeconomic environment has been less ideal, vehicle population and the number of
trips made within urban areas has increased tremendously. This has lead to increase EIRR's for urban
roads that have been rehabilitated under the project.

Project selection criteria. One of the objectives was for the NRA to establish a basis for appropriate
project selection criteria as well as road design specifications and maintenance standards are used to ensure
scarce financial resources are applied to the highest priority projects. Priorities would be established on the
basis of economic rates of return for main and secondary roads and for other high traffic volume roads; and
a multi-criteria analysis for district and other low volume roads. The acquisition of HDM IV and other
analytical tools for evaluation of alternatives for road rehabilitation and maintenance, training of staff in the
use of tools would be done. A system of carrying out regular road inspections and traffic surveys for data
input and eventual development/ adoption of road and bridge management system would be established.
The NRA and government have carried out some of these requirements and are partially using them for the
management of roads. However, very few copies of HDM IV have been purchased and very little training
in its use and other tools has been done, hence there is great need for intensive training in use of HDM IV,
which would also need to be calibrated for Malawi. The establishment of a Road and Bridge management
tool is under way and making some progress. Under the RAMPA the IRAP was used for selection and
prioritization of low volume roads however, it is not an appropriate tool.

6.4         Costs and Financing

     The estimated cost of the project at appraisal was US$30 million, comprising a total baseline cost of
     US$26.1 million, a physical contingency of US$2.0 million and price contingency of US$1.9
     million. However, at project completion the cost of the project had deteriorated by US$1.67 million
     because of foreign exchange losses due to the weak US Dollar (Appraisal (October 1999)
     SDR1=US$1.35 and SDR1.00=US$1.45 at completion (April 2006). This meant that the project lost
     almost all its price contingency due to low Dollar value in the intervening period. Furthermore, prices
     quoted for works were much higher than those envisaged at feasibility, which resulted in a number of
     projects, being left out mainly those for rehabilitation and upgrading.

7.           SUSTAINABILITY



                                                        46

The completion of the project and its sub-projects has lead to improved road condition for the main road
network and most especially for urban areas where problems of congestion of traffic have been relieved
and had improved the efficiency of road transport system.

The outputs of the project are likely to be sustainable on the following grounds:

    1. The economic re-evaluation has demonstrated the robustness of the economic returns which are
        much higher than at appraisal stages;

    2. At institutional level the Ministry of Transport and Public Works has been formed out of the
        former Ministries of Transport & Communications and Works & Supplies; making it more efficient
        in dealing will issues on transport;

    3. All implementation issues for road maintenance, rehabilitation and upgrading have been transferred
        from the Roads Department to the National Roads Authority. The Ministry of transport and Public
        works is now left with policy formulation, enforcement of standards and overall supervision of
        NRA activities;

    4. The NRA Board have taken over implementation of road programmes and is much more efficient
        than the former Roads Department because its management decisions are made easily taking into
        account commercial and financial effectiveness and accountability;

    5. The establishment of the Road Fund has assured the NRA of dedicated funds for road maintenance
        and rehabilitation;

    6. The operations of the NRA Board are taken by road users who also decide on the use of funds for
        road programmes, thereby enhancing effectiveness in management of road programmes;

    7. The local construction industry is also on a right footing and has somewhat improved and expanded
        in order to meet the needs of the construction industry; and

    8. Activities under RAMPA will be sustained at local assembly level through the Decentralization
        program, which is under way.

8.          BANK AND BORROWER PERFORMANCE

    8.1.     BANK
        8.1.1. Lending

    Identification of the project was satisfactory. The project team focused on relevance, making sure that
    the project objectives were in line with the Bank's Country Assistance Strategy and met the
    Government's priorities.

Bank assistance to project preparation was highly satisfactory. The Bank assigned a highly qualified team
with appropriate skill mix in the areas of engineering, planning, highway maintenance, institutional
development and training, contributing to the soundness of the design.

Performance at appraisal was satisfactory, with focus on clarification of outcomes and agreement on
performance indicators. Special attention was paid on identifying and assessing key risks such as
implementation delays, counterpart funding and institutional capacity to deal with fiduciary and safeguard



                                                      47

aspects. Reviews of technical designs by international consultants were undertaken, and implementation
arrangements were duly refined.

        8.1.2. Supervision

    Bank performance in supervision was overall satisfactory. The quality of supervision was also
    satisfactory and highlighted the good approach in the identification of problems and the constructive
    advice offered to the borrower.

Over the life of the project two task team managers were assigned on supervision of the project. There was
adequate overlap and no major issues arose due to lack of continuity. Key contributions from the Bank
supervision team were in the areas of promoting quality of civil works, attention to proper operation and
maintenance of completed infrastructure, staff training, and critical review of studies that significantly
enhanced the transfer of knowledge and capacity building.

        8.1.3. Overall Performance

    Overall the Bank's performance was satisfactory. The assistance provided by the Bank ensured quality
    at entry, supported implementation through responsive supervision, and ensured adequate transition
    arrangements for regular operation of the project.

    8.2.       BORROWER
        8.2.1. Preparation

    Borrower commitment was satisfactory. It assigned a dedicated team to prepare the project, with
    experience gained from involvement from previous projects. At an early stage of the project it
    submitted feasibility studies to the Bank, allowing for ample time to discuss and refine the designs. As
    a result, the project was ready for implementation within the stipulated three months after Board
    approval.

        8.2.2. Government Implementation Performance

    Government performance was overall satisfactory. The government was also supportive of the
    institutional development objectives that have seen the establishment and growth of the NCIC and the
    NRA. The government also urged the two institutions to work together by improving their
    coordination for better attainment of their objectives of improving the performance of contractors and
    consultants in the management of road programmes.

        8.2.3. Implementing Agency

    At appraisal the Government through the Ministry of Works was both the implementing and policy
    formulating agency. The NRA, which was created in 1997, was still in the process of building up
    capacity to take over the implementation of road programmes from the Roads Department. At project
    completion the NRA was fully established and had effectively taken over all responsibilities for the
    management of the public road network. In addition to managing urban and district roads, the NRA
    also support capacity building at local assembly level for eventual devolution of the management of
    urban and district roads to local assemblies.

The performance of the NRA and NCIC was satisfactory. Management of the project was flexible and
relatively quick to adapt to new conditions and take appropriate measures. With regard to the
implementation of periodic maintenance, rehabilitation and upgrading, it was indeed the commitment of the


                                                      48

NRA that this component became a success story with lasting effects.

         8.2.4. Overall Borrower Performance

Overall borrower performance may be rated as satisfactory. The borrower assumed ownership and
responsibility to ensure quality of preparation and implementation, and complied overall with covenants
and agreements. It demonstrated commitment towards the achievement of all development objectives and
sustainability.

    9.           PERFORMANCE OF CONTRACTORS AND CONSULTING FIRMS

    9.1 Contractors

    The ROMARP was procured using both ICB and NCB. Most contractors performed their duties to the
    satisfaction of the donor and the borrower. However, some contractors did not perform to the
    satisfaction of the clients; which led to a number of problems including delayed completion and cost
    escalation of the particular projects.

    9.2 Suppliers

    The performance of suppliers was satisfactory. Most of the suppliers performed to the satisfaction of
    the clients.

    9.3        Consulting Firms

    Most of the consulting firms performed their duties satisfactory. However, one International
    Consultant who was responsible for detailed designs and preparation of tender documents for
    rehabilitation and upgrading of some selected main roads did not perform to the satisfaction of the
    client. This contributed to the delays in implementation of road rehabilitation and upgrading
    component.

    10. LESSONS LEARNT

Highlighted below are some of the lessons and observation that the project implementation team
encountered:

1.   Strong and effective institutional coordination is paramount for the successful execution of complex
projects like ROMARP;

2.   The project has demonstrated the need, in future for the appointment of a project coordinator in each
of the implementing agencies for better coordination of similar projects;

3.   During implementation, it appears that the Bank was cooperative in agreeing to the changes in the
project. While a cordial relationship is welcome, the lesson being that the Bank should adopt this
flexibility in appropriate circumstances;

4.   For future project, as far as possible consider retaining the same consultant who carried out the
detailed designs to continue with supervision of works, in order to avoid additional costs and delays in
project completion;

5.   Inadequate institutional capacity for the review of designs and monitoring of the project during the


                                                       49

implementation resulted in cost over-runs. This highlights the need for capacity building in implementing
agencies;

6.   For continued planning purposes, there is need to commit and conduct on an annual basis collection of
road data such as road condition data and national traffic counts for efficient road planning and project
evaluation;

7.   At appraisal the project had very ambitious plans to carry out a number of project activities, but the
project did not secure adequate funding for all project activities. In future it would be prudent to ensure
that all projects identified at appraisal secure adequate funding for implementation; and

8.   The RAMPA assisted establishing a multi-sector data base which improved on the district planning
system and develop methodologies for provision of rural transport services.




Annex 8. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders




                                                       50

Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents
Economic and Technical Feasibility Study of the Road Maintenance and Rehabilitation Program
Mission terms of reference, Aide-Memoires and Back-to-Office reports.
Project Appraisal Document
Legal Documents and Amendments
Project Implementation Plan
Project Status Reports (PSRs)/Implementation Status Reports (ISRs).
Aide-Memoires of supervision missions.
Progress Reports
Mid Term Review Report




                                                  51

