Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 3239-MAI
Development Credit Agreement
(Road Maintenance and Rehabilitation Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF MALAWI
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated June 30, 1999
CREDIT NUMBER 3239-MAI 
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT 
AGREEMENT, dated June 30, 1999, between REPUBLIC OF MALAWI (the Borrower) and 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association). 
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and 
priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested the 
Association to assist in the financing of the Project;  
(B)
the Association has received a letter, dated May 10, 1999, from the 
Borrower describing a program of actions, objectives and policies for its roads sector 
(the Program) and declaring the Borrower’s commitment to the execution of the Program;  
(C)
the Borrower intends to contract from the Nordic Development Fund (NDF) a 
loan in an amount equivalent to SDR 5,000,000 (the NDF Loan) to assist in financing 
the Project on the terms and conditions set forth in an agreement to be entered into 
between the Borrower and NDF; and 
WHEREAS the Association has agreed on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, 
to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows: 
ARTICLE I 
General Conditions; Definitions
Page  2
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit 
Agreements" of the Association, dated January 1, 1985 (as amended through December 2, 
1997), with the modifications set forth below (the General Conditions) constitute an 
integral part of this Agreement:
(a)
A new paragraph (12) is added to Section 2.01 to read as set forth below, 
and the existing paragraphs (12) through (14) of said Section are accordingly 
renumbered as paragraphs (13) through (15):
"12.
‘Participating Country’ means any country that the Association 
determines meets the requirements set forth in Section 10 of Resolution No. 
183 of the Board of Governors of the Association, adopted on June 26, 1996; 
and ‘Participating Countries’ means, collectively, all such countries."
(b)
The second sentence of Section 5.01 is modified to read:
"Except as the Borrower and the Association shall otherwise agree, no 
withdrawals shall be made: (a) on account of expenditures in the territories 
of any country which is not a Participating Country or for goods produced in, 
or services supplied from, such territories; or (b) for the purpose of any 
payment to persons or entities, or for any import of goods, if such payment or 
import, to the knowledge of the Association, is prohibited by a decision of 
the United Nations Security Council taken under Chapter VII of the Charter of 
the 
United Nations."
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings: 
(a)
"DDLGA" means the Borrower’s Department of District and Local Government 
Administration in the Borrower’s Office of the President and Cabinet; 
(b)
"FY" means the Borrower’s Fiscal Year, from July 1 to June 30 of the 
following year; 
(c)
"MOT" means the Borrower’s Ministry of Transport; 
(d)
"MOWS" means the Borrower’s Ministry of  Works and Supplies; 
(e)
"NCIC" means the National Construction Industry Council of Malawi, 
established by the Borrower and operating pursuant to the National Construction 
Industry Act, 1996;  
(f)
"NRA Act" means the Borrower’s National Roads Authority Act, 1997;  
(g)
"NRA" means the National Roads Authority, established by the Borrower and 
operating pursuant to the NRA Act; 
(h)
"PIP" means the Project Implementation Plan and Manual referred to in 
paragraph 1 of Schedule 4 to this Agreement containing, inter alia, workplans, 
training plans, monitoring and performance indicators and procedures to be used for 
the purposes of implementation of the Project, as they may be amended from time to 
time, in consultation with the Association, and such item includes any schedules to 
the PIP;
(i)
"Project Management Report" means each report prepared in accordance with 
Section 4.02 of this Agreement. 
(j)
"Project Preparation Advance" means the project preparation advance 
granted by the Association to the Borrower pursuant to letters from the Association, 
dated February 24, 1997 and November 3, 1998, respectively and confirmed by the 
Borrower on March 6, 1997 and November 11, 1998, respectively; 
(k)
"Roads Fund" means the fund established by the Borrower pursuant to the 
NRA Act, for the purposes of financing road maintenance and related expenditures as 
provided for in the NRA Act; and 
(l)
"Special Account" means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of 
this Agreement. 
ARTICLE II 
Page  3
The Credit 
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Development Credit Agreement, an amount in 
various currencies equivalent to twenty-two million two hundred thousand Special 
Drawing Rights (SDR 22,200,000). 
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the Credit 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for 
expenditures made (or, if the Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of 
the reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project described in 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit.
(b)
The Borrower may, for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain in 
dollars a special deposit account in a commercial bank on terms and conditions 
satisfactory to the Association, including appropriate protection against set-off, 
seizure or attachment. Deposits into, and payments out of the Special Account shall be 
made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 5 to this Agreement. 
(c)
Promptly after the Effective Date, the Association shall, on behalf of 
the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and pay to itself  the amount required 
to repay the principal amount of the Project Preparation Advance withdrawn and 
outstanding as of such date and to pay all unpaid charges thereon. The unwithdrawn 
balance of the authorized amount of the Project Preparation Advance shall thereupon be 
canceled. 
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be March 31, 2005, or such later date as 
the Association shall establish. The Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of 
such later date. 
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a commitment charge 
on the principal amount of the Credit not withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be 
set by the Association as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of 
one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum.
(b)
The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date sixty days after 
the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to the respective dates on which amounts 
shall be withdrawn by the Borrower from the Credit Account or canceled; and (ii) at 
the rate set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date and at such 
other rates as may be set from time to time thereafter pursuant to paragraph (a) 
above. The rate set as of June 30 in each year shall be applied from the next date in 
that year specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
(c)
The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as the 
Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of any kind imposed 
by, or in the territory of, the Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this 
Agreement for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such other 
eligible currency or currencies as may from time to time be designated or selected 
pursuant to the provisions of that Section. 
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge at the 
rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of 
the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time. 
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be payable 
semiannually on June 1 and December 1 in each year. 
Section 2.07. (a) Subject to paragraphs (b), (c) and (d) below, the Borrower 
shall repay the principal amount of the Credit in semiannual installments payable on 
each June 1 and December 1 commencing December 1, 2009, and ending June 1, 2039. Each 
installment to and including the installment payable on June 1, 2019, shall be one 
percent (1%) of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter shall be two 
percent (2%) of such principal amount. 
(b)
Whenever: (i) the Borrower’s per capita gross national product (GNP), as 
determined by the Association, shall have exceeded for three consecutive years the 
level established annually by the Association for determining eligibility to access 
the Association’s resources; and (ii) the Bank shall consider the Borrower 
creditworthy for Bank lending, the Association may, subsequent to the review and 
approval thereof by the Executive Directors of the Association and after due 
consideration by them of the development of the Borrower’s economy, modify the 
Page  4
repayment of installments under paragraph (a) above by: (A) requiring the Borrower to 
repay twice the amount of each such installment not yet due until the principal amount 
of the Credit shall have been repaid; and (B) requiring the Borrower to commence 
repayment of the principal amount of the Credit as of the first semiannual payment 
date referred to in paragraph (a) above falling six months or more after the date on 
which the Association notifies the Borrower that the events set out in this paragraph 
(b) have occurred, provided, however, that there shall be a grace period of a minimum 
of five years on such repayment of principal. 
(c)
If so requested by the Borrower, the Association may revise the 
modification referred to in paragraph (b) above to include, in lieu of some or all of 
the increase in the amounts of such installments, the payment of interest at an annual 
rate agreed with the Association on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and 
outstanding from time to time, provided that, in the judgment of the Association, such 
revision shall not change the grant element obtained under the above-mentioned 
repayment modification. 
(d)
If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant to paragraph (b) 
above, the Association determines that the Borrower's economic condition has 
deteriorated significantly, the Association may, if so requested by the Borrower, 
further modify the terms of repayment to conform to the schedule of installments as 
provided in paragraph (a) above.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is hereby specified 
for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions. 
ARTICLE III 
Execution of the Project 
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry 
out the Project, with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate 
administrative, financial and road sector practices and with due regard to 
environmental practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, 
services and other resources required for the Project. 
(b)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section 
and except as the Borrower and the Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower 
shall carry out the Project in accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in 
Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, procurement of 
the goods, works and consultants’ services required for the Project and to be financed 
out of the proceeds of the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to 
this Agreement.
Section 3.03. Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.01 of this 
Agreement, the Borrower shall: (a)
open and thereafter maintain, until completion 
of the Project, an account (the Project Account) in a bank on terms and conditions 
acceptable to the Association; 
(b)
deposit an initial amount of $ 125,000 equivalent into the Project 
Account and thereafter, at quarterly intervals, deposit into the Project Account the 
estimated amount required for expenditures which shall not be financed from the 
proceeds of the Credit in the following quarter, or any other amount required for the 
Project, as agreed between the Borrower and the Association in each annual work 
program to be established in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 2(e) of 
Schedule 4 to this Agreement; and  
(c)
ensure that the amounts deposited into the Project Account in accordance 
with paragraphs (a) and (b) of this Section be used exclusively for the Borrower’s 
counterpart expenditures under the Project and not otherwise financed out of the 
proceeds of the Credit.
Section 3.04. For the purposes of Section 9.07 of the General Conditions and 
without limitation thereto, the Borrower shall: 
(a)
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Association, and 
furnish to the Association not later than six (6) months after the Closing Date or 
such later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the 
Association, a plan for the future operation of the Project; and 
Page  5
(b)
afford the Association a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with 
the Borrower on said plan.
Section 3.05. The Borrower shall: 
(a)
by January in each year review with the Association the funding 
requirements for the Roads Fund and by March in each year prepare and furnish to the 
Association a funding strategy for the Roads Fund, satisfactory to the Association, 
for the following year; and  
(b)
ensure that the following minimum amounts are allocated to the Roads 
Fund, $9,500,000 in FY 1999/2000, $12,000,000 in FY 2000/2001, $12,900,000 in FY 
2001/2002, $13,800,000 in FY 2002/2003 and $15,300,000 in FY 2003/2004. 
ARTICLE IV 
Financial Covenants 
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained records 
and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices the 
operations, resources and expenditures in respect of the Project of the departments or 
agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying out the Project or any part thereof.
(b)
The Borrower shall:
(i)
have its records, accounts and financial statements (balance 
sheets, statements of income and expenses and related statements) 
and the records and accounts for the Special Account for each 
fiscal year audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing 
principles consistently applied, by independent auditors 
acceptable to the Association;
(ii)
furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any case 
not later than six months after the end of each such year: (A) 
certified copies of said financial statements referred to in 
paragraph (a) of this Section for such year as so audited; and (B) 
the report of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and in 
such detail as the Association shall have reasonably requested; 
(iii)
furnish to the Association such other information concerning such 
records, accounts and financial statements and the audit thereof 
as the Association shall from time to time reasonably request.
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Credit 
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall:
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with paragraph 
(a) of this Section, records and separate accounts reflecting such 
expenditures;
(ii)
retain, until at least one year after the Association has received 
the audit report for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal 
from the Credit Account was made, all records (contracts, orders, 
invoices, bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing such 
expenditures;
(iii)
enable the Association’s representatives to examine such records; 
and
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the 
consolidated audit report referred to in paragraph (b) of this 
Section and that the report of such audit contains a separate 
opinion by said auditors as to whether the statements of 
expenditure submitted during such fiscal year, together with the 
procedures and internal controls involved in their preparation, 
can be relied upon to support the related withdrawals.
Section 4.02. (a) Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 4.01 of this 
Agreement, the Borrower shall carry out a time-bound action plan acceptable to the 
Association for the strengthening of its financial management system for the Project 
in order to enable the Borrower, not later than July 1, 2000, or such later date as 
Page  6
the Association shall agree, to prepare quarterly Project Management Reports, 
acceptable to the Association, each of which: 
(i)
(A) sets forth actual sources and applications of funds for the 
Project, both cumulatively and for the period covered by said 
report, and projected sources and applications of funds for the 
Project for the six-month period following the period covered by 
said report; and (B) shows separately expenditures financed out of 
the proceeds of the Credit during the period covered by said 
report and expenditures proposed to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Credit during the six-month period following the 
period covered by said report; 
(ii)
(A) describes physical progress in Project implementation, both 
cumulatively and for the period covered by said report; and (B) 
explains variances between the actual and previously forecast 
implementation targets; and
(iii)
sets forth the status of procurement under the Project and 
expenditures under contracts financed out of the proceeds of the 
Credit, as at the end of the period covered by said report. 
(b)
Upon the completion of the action plan referred to in paragraph (a) of 
this Section, the Borrower shall prepare, in accordance with guidelines acceptable to 
the Association, and furnish to the Association not later than 45 days after the end 
of each calendar quarter, a Project Management Report for such period. 
ARTICLE V 
Remedies of the Association
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (h) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified: 
(a)
a situation has arisen which shall make it improbable that the program, 
or a significant part thereof, will be carried out;
(b)
the NRA Act shall have been amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed or 
waived so as to affect materially and adversely the ability of NRA to perform any of 
its obligations under the Project, or to abolish the Roads Fund.
(c)
(i)
Subject to subparagraph (ii) of this paragraph: 
(A) 
the right of the Borrower to withdraw the proceeds of any 
loan made to the Borrower for the financing of the Project 
shall have been suspended, canceled or terminated in whole 
or in part, pursuant to the terms of the agreement providing 
therefor; or
(B) 
any such loan shall have become due and payable prior to the 
agreed maturity thereof.
(ii)
Subparagraph (i) of this paragraph shall not apply if the Borrower 
establishes to the satisfaction of the Association that: (A) such 
suspension, cancellation, termination or prematuring is not caused 
by the failure of the Borrower to perform any of its obligations 
under such agreement; and (B) adequate funds for the Project are 
available to the Borrower from other sources on terms and 
conditions consistent with the obligations of the Borrower under 
this Agreement.
Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01(d) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified: 
(a)
any event specified in paragraph (b) of Section 5.01 of this Agreement 
shall occur; and 
(b)
the event specified in paragraph (c) (i) (B) of Section 5.01 of this 
Agreement shall occur, subject to the proviso of paragraph (c) (ii) of that Section. 
ARTICLE VI 
Page  7
Effective Date; Termination 
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to the 
effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 
(b) of the General Conditions; 
(a)
the NDF Loan Agreement has been executed and delivered and all conditions 
precedent to its effectiveness or to the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals 
thereunder, except only the effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement, have 
been fulfilled; 
(b)
The Borrower has adopted the PIP in form and substance acceptable to the 
Association. 
(c)
the Borrower has issued tenders for the detailed engineering design 
services for civil works to be carried out during the second year of Project 
Implementation;
(d)
the Borrower has submitted to the Association its evaluation for the 
award of tenders for civil works and engineering services to be carried out during the 
first year of Project Implementation; 
(e)
the Borrower has adopted a Financial Management and Accounting System for 
the Project acceptable to the Association; and 
(f)
the Borrower has deposited into the Project Account the initial amount 
referred to in Section 3.03 (b) of this Agreement. 
Section 6.02. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is 
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VII 
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses 
Section 7.01. The Minister of the Borrower at the time responsible for finance 
is designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of 
the General Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Finance
P. O. Box 30049
Capital City
Lilongwe 3
Malawi
Cable address:
Telex:
FINANCE
44407 MI
Lilongwe
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
INDEVAS
248423 (MCI) or
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
Page  8
REPUBLIC OF MALAWI
By /s/ Cassim Chilumpha 
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ Callisto Madavo 
Regional Vice President 
Africa
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the amounts of the Credit to each Category 
and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated
   % of
(Expressed in
Expenditures
Category
SDR Equivalent)
to be Financed
(1)
Civil works 
90%
(a) Periodic
   5,200,000 
maintenance
(b) Rehabilitation
   5,400,000
(c) Upgrading
   3,700,000
(2)
Equipment,
     800,000
90%
vehicles and
computers
(3)
Consultants’
   2,400,000
100%
services,
engineering
services and studies
(4) Training
100%
(a) 
Under Part A
     350,000
of the Project
(b) 
Under Part B
     350,000
of the Project
(5)
Refunding of
   1,100,000
Amount due
Project pursuant 
to
Preparation
Section 2.02 (c)
Advance
of this Agreement
(6)
Unallocated
         2,900,000
TOTAL
        22,200,000
2.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of: (a) payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this 
Page  9
Agreement; and (b) payments made for expenditures under Category (4) (b), until the 
Borrower has established criteria acceptable to the Association, for the selection of 
local contractors to be trained under Part B of the Project;
3.
The Association may require withdrawals from the Credit Account to be made on 
the basis of statements of expenditure: (a) for expenditures under contracts for works 
and goods not exceeding $250,000 equivalent each; (b) for expenditures under contracts 
for consultants’ services provided by firms not exceeding $100,000 equivalent each; 
(c) for expenditures under contracts for consultants services provided by individuals 
not exceeding $50,000 equivalent each,; and (d) for expenditures for training, all 
under such terms and conditions as the Association shall specify by notice to the 
Borrower.
SCHEDULE 2 
Description of the Project
The objectives of the Project are to bring about sustainable improvements to the 
quality of the Borrower’s road infrastructure through: (i) the strengthening and 
restructuring of the institutional framework for the road sector, with a view to 
improving the effectiveness of sector management and enhancing planning and 
programming of road works; (ii) supporting the reform of road sector financing to 
ensure sustainability; and (iii) addressing the backlog of road maintenance and 
rehabilitation.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Borrower and the Association may agree upon from time to time to 
achieve such objectives:
Part A:
Strengthening Road Sector Institutional Framework 
1.
Strengthening the capacity of NRA, DDLGA and selected local authorities  to 
undertake road sector activities through the provision of training, technical advisory 
services and the acquisition of equipment. 
2.
Development of financial management systems, procurement systems, monitoring and 
evaluation procedures and development of environmental review and management capacity 
in NRA, DDLGA and selected local authorities through the provision of technical 
advisory services and training. 
3.
Formulation of appropriate road sector policies, including updating the national 
transport policy framework, carrying out a study on vehicle operating costs, carrying 
out a study on reclassification of roads and carrying out an analysis of sources of 
revenue for the Road Fund, adjustment formulae and collection and accounting 
procedures. 
4.
Development of the road sector institutional framework, including the carrying 
out of periodic assessments of the impact of institutional reforms, development of a 
medium-term framework for road sector management and options for private sector 
participation in contract management, through the provision of technical advisory 
services.
5. 
Development of a framework for the management and financing of rural roads, 
including an assessment of the institutional requirements for the management of rural 
roads, development of cost sharing and financing options for rural road maintenance 
and a rural transport needs assessment, through the provision of technical advisory 
services. 
6.
Restructuring MOWS and MOT and the development of their capacity for regulation 
and policy making in the road sector through the provision of technical advisory 
services and training.
Part B:
Development of the Construction and Consulting Industries 
1.
Strengthening the capacity of NCIC to develop local contractors and consultants 
through the provision of technical advisory services and training, and acquisition of 
equipment. 
2.
Carrying out training for local contractors and consultants, including the 
acquisition of equipment and refurbishment of facilities for training activities, 
development of training materials and curricula, and the provision of technical 
advisory services for training needs assessments and carrying out the training 
Page  10
activities. 
3.
Carrying out studies into the financing and equipment constraints faced by local 
contractors, and the development of options and pilot schemes to address these 
constraints.
Part C:
Periodic Maintenance of Roads 
1.
Carrying out a program of periodic maintenance of selected main, secondary, 
tertiary, urban and district roads, including resealing and resurfacing of paved roads 
and regravelling of gravel roads and minor spot repairs. 
2.
Provision of engineering and supervision services for the above-mentioned roads.
Part D:
Rehabilitation and Upgrading of Roads 
1.
Carrying out a program of rehabilitation and reconstruction of main, secondary, 
tertiary, urban and district roads. 
2.
Carrying out a program of upgrading of selected main, secondary, tertiary, urban 
and district roads. 
3.
Provision of engineering and supervision services for the above-mentioned roads. 
* * * 
The Project is expected to be completed by September 30, 2004.
SCHEDULE 3 
Procurement and Consultants’ Services 
Section I.
Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:
General
1.
Goods and works shall be procured in accordance with: (a) the provisions of 
Section I of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" 
published by the Bank in January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996, 
September 1997, and January 1999, subject to the modifications set forth in paragraph 
2 of this Part A (the Guidelines); and (b) the provisions of the following Parts of 
this Section I. 
2.
In paragraphs 1.6 and 1.8 of the Guidelines, the references to "Bank member 
countries" shall be deemed to be references, respectively, to "Participating 
Countries" and "Participating Country". 
Part B:
International Competitive Bidding 
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods and works shall be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of 
the Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto. 
2.
The following provisions shall apply to goods and works to be procured under 
contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Part B. 
(a)
Grouping of contracts 
To the extent practicable, contracts for works shall be grouped in bid packages 
estimated to cost $500,000 equivalent or more each and contracts for goods shall be 
grouped in bid packages estimated to cost $250,000 equivalent or more. 
(b)
Preference for domestic manufacturers and contractors 
The provisions of paragraphs 2.55 of the Guidelines and Appendix 2 thereto shall 
apply to works to be carried out by domestic contractors.
Part C:
Other Procurement Procedures  
1.
National Competitive Bidding 
Goods and works estimated to cost less than $250,000 and $500,000 equivalent 
Page  11
respectively per contract, up to aggregate amounts not to exceed $800,000 and 
$4,500,000 equivalent respectively, may be procured under contracts awarded in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the Guidelines. 
2.
National Shopping 
Goods estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $300,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts 
awarded on the basis of national shopping procedures in accordance with the provisions 
of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines. 
3.
Direct Contracting
Works under Parts C and D of the Project, estimated to cost the equivalent of 
$50,000 or less per contract up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $1,000,000 may be 
awarded after direct negotiations with contractors in accordance with procedures 
acceptable to the Association and on the basis of prices established by an independent 
consultant in the case of contractors who have completed the training program 
described under Part B.2 of the Project and who have not previously been awarded a 
contract financed under this Credit under international or national competitive 
bidding procedures.
Part D:
Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions 
1.
Procurement Planning 
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to prequalify for bidding or to bid for 
contracts, the proposed procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to the 
Association for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines. Procurement of all goods and works shall 
be undertaken in accordance with such procurement plan as shall have been approved by 
the Association, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
(a)
With respect to each contract for goods and works estimated to cost the 
equivalent of $250,000 or more, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of 
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
(b)
With respect to each contract for works and goods estimated to cost the 
equivalent of $50,000 or less, the following procedures shall apply: 
(i)
prior to the execution of any contract under shopping procedures, 
the Borrower shall provide to the Association a report on the 
comparison and evaluation of quotations received; 
(ii)
prior to the execution of any contract procured under direct 
contracting or shopping procedures, the Borrower shall provide to 
the Association a copy of the specifications and the draft 
contract; and 
(iii)
the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 (f), 2 (g) and 3 of 
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. 
3.
Post Review 
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. 
Section II.
Employment of Consultants
Part A:
General
1.
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with: (a) the provisions 
of the Introduction and Section IV of the "Guidelines:  Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers" published by the Bank in January 1997 and revised 
in September 1997 and January 1999, subject to the modifications thereto set forth in 
paragraph 2 of this Part A (the Consultant Guidelines); and (b) the provisions of the 
following Parts of this Section II. 
2.
In paragraph 1.10 of the Consultant Guidelines, the reference to "Bank Member 
countries" and "member country" shall be deemed to be references, respectively, to 
Page  12
"Participating Countries" and "Participating Country".
Part B:
Quality- and Cost-based Selection 
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, consultants’ services 
shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section 
II of the Consultant Guidelines, paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 
thereto, and the provisions of paragraphs 3.13 through 3.18 thereof applicable to 
quality- and cost-based selection of consultants. 
2.
The following provisions shall apply to consultants’ services to be procured 
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of the preceding paragraph.  
The short list of consultants estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per 
contract, may comprise entirely national consultants in accordance with the provisions 
of paragraph 2.7 of the Consultant Guidelines.
Part C:
Other Procedures for the Selection of Consultants  
1.
Single Source Selection
Services which are estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per contract 
for consulting firms, and less than $50,000 equivalent per contract for individual 
consultants may, with the Association's prior agreement, be procured in accordance 
with the provisions of paragraphs 3.8 through 3.11 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
2.
Individual Consultants
Services for tasks that meet the requirements set forth in paragraph 5.1 of the 
Consultant Guidelines shall be procured under contracts awarded to individual 
consultants in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 5.1 through 5.3 of the 
Consultant Guidelines.
Part D:
Review by the Association of the Selection of Consultants 
1.
Selection Planning 
Prior to the issuance to consultants of any requests for proposals, the proposed 
plan for the selection of consultants under the Project shall be furnished to the 
Association for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines.  Selection of all consultants’ 
services shall be undertaken in accordance with such selection plan as shall have been 
approved by the Association, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
(a)
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more, the procedures set forth in 
paragraphs 1, 2 and (other than the third subparagraph of paragraph 2(a)) and 5 of 
Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply.
(b)
With respect to each contract for the employment of individual 
consultants estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more, the qualifications, 
experience, terms of reference and terms of employment of the consultants shall be 
furnished to the Association for its prior review and approval.  The contract shall be 
awarded only after the said approval shall have been given. 
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall 
apply.
SCHEDULE 4 
Implementation Program 
1.
Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall carry out 
the Project in accordance with the provisions of the PIP and in accordance with the 
annual work programs to be established in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 
2 (d) of this Schedule. Such PIP shall not be amended or waived, in whole or in part, 
in a manner which in the opinion of the Association, would materially and adversely 
affect the execution of the Project or the achievement of its objectives.
Page  13
2.
The Borrower shall:
(a)
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and 
evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with the indicators set forth in Schedule 
6 to this Agreement, the carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the 
objectives thereof;
(b)
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Association, and 
furnish to the Association, on or about January 31 in each year, a report integrating 
the results of the monitoring and evaluation activities performed pursuant to 
paragraph (a) of this Section, on the progress achieved in the carrying out of the 
Project during the period preceding the date of said report and setting out the 
measures recommended to ensure the efficient carrying out of the Project and the 
achievement of the objectives thereof during the period following such date; 
(c)
review with the Association, by March 31 in each year, or such later date 
as the Association shall request, the report referred to in paragraph (b) of this 
Section, and, thereafter, take all measures required to ensure the efficient 
completion of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof, based on the 
conclusions and recommendations of the said report and the Association’s views on the 
matter;
(d)
furnish to the Association by January 31 of each year a draft annual work 
program; and
(e)
review with the Association by March 31 of each year such annual work 
program and carry out the Project in accordance with the annual work program as agreed 
with the Association.
3.
The Borrower shall: 
(a)
not later than June 30, 2002, carry out jointly with the Association a 
mid-term review. Such review shall assess the following: (i) the overall progress in 
the implementation of the Project; (ii) the results of the monitoring and evaluation 
activities; and (iii) the progress achieved in addressing the objectives of the 
Project with regard to improved road management and sustainable road financing. 
(b)
three months before such review, prepare and furnish to the Association 
reports, in scope and detail satisfactory to the Association, needed to undertake the 
review, including preparation of a program of action, to deal with deficiencies in 
Project implementation identified prior to such review; and 
(c)
based on such review promptly prepare an action plan, satisfactory to the 
Association, for the further implementation of the Project, and shall thereafter 
implement such action plan. 
4.
The Borrower shall carry out the studies under Parts A and B of the Project in 
accordance with a timetable agreed with the Association.
5.
The Borrower shall annually review the funding requirements of the Roads Fund, 
based on the proposed road maintenance program for the fiscal year concerned, and by 
March in each year prepare a funding strategy for the following fiscal year. 
6.
The Borrower shall; (a) adopt and maintain regulations and procedures acceptable 
to the Association for the collection, allocation and disbursement of road user 
charges proceeds into the Roads Fund; and (b) by June 30, 2000, adopt and maintain 
procedures and policies acceptable to the Association, for the periodic review and 
adjustment of the level and composition of road user charges.
7.
The Borrower shall: (a) by June 30, 2000, carry out a review of the impact of 
the institutional reforms being carried out in the road sector, in accordance with 
terms of reference acceptable to the Association; and (b) by March 31, 2001, prepare 
and furnish to the Association an action plan for carrying out further reforms in the 
road sector.
8.
The Borrower shall: (a) not later than December 31, 1999, carry out an 
assessment of the capacity of NRA, DDLGA and selected local authorities to implement a 
rehabilitation and upgrading program; and (b) adopt recommendations based on such 
review, taking into account the Association’s comments. 
9.
The Borrower shall by March 31 in each year, carry out reviews with the 
Page  14
Association on the effectiveness of the measures to be taken to promote the local 
construction industry in the road sector. 
10.
The Borrower shall by March 31, 2000, develop and adopt an action plan for the 
improvement of environmental management in the road sector and thereafter review the 
implementation of such plan by March 31 in each year.
11.
The Borrower shall: (a) by December 31, 2000, carry out an exercise to 
reclassify its public road network on the basis of economic, traffic and engineering 
considerations, in accordance with terms of reference acceptable to the Association; 
and (b) by June 30, 2001, prepare legal and institutional changes based on the 
recommendations of such exercise.  
12.
Roads Selection Criteria
Road works to be carried out under Parts C and D of the Project shall be 
selected on the basis of cost benefit analysis and a methodology, acceptable to the 
Association and  set out in detail in the PIP.
SCHEDULE 5 
Special Account
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1) through (4) set forth 
in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(b)
the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Credit allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories 
in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
(c)
the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equivalent to $2,000,000 
to be withdrawn from the Credit Account and deposited into the Special Account 
pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule, provided, however, that unless the 
Association shall otherwise agree, the Authorized Allocation shall be limited to an 
amount equivalent to $1,000,000 until the aggregate amount of withdrawals from the 
Credit Account plus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered 
into by the Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions shall be 
equal to or exceed the equivalent of SDR 8,000,000. 
2.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible 
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.
After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special 
Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Association a request or requests for deposit into the Special Account of an 
amount or amounts which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized 
Allocation. On the basis of such request or requests, the Association shall, on behalf 
of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit into the Special Account 
such amount or amounts as the Borrower shall have requested.
(b)
(i)
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the Association requests for deposits into the Special 
Account at such intervals as the Association shall specify.
(ii)
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the Association the documents and other evidence 
required pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment 
or payments in respect of which replenishment is requested. On the 
basis of each such request, the Association shall, on behalf of 
the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit into 
the Special Account such amount as the Borrower shall have 
requested and as shall have been shown by said documents and other 
evidence to have been 
paid out of the Special Account for 
eligible expenditures. All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the 
Association from the Credit Account under the respective eligible 
Categories, and in the respective equivalent amounts, as shall 
Page  15
have been justified by said documents and other evidence. 
4.
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the Borrower 
shall, at such time as the Association shall reasonably request, furnish to the 
Association such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made 
exclusively for eligible expenditures.
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Association 
shall not be required to make further deposits into the  Special Account:
(a)
if, at any time, the Association shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Credit Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph 
(a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement;
(b)
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Association, within 
the period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b)(ii) of this Agreement, any of the 
audit reports required to be furnished to the Association pursuant to said Section in 
respect of the audit of the records and accounts for the Special Account;
(c)
if, at any time, the Association shall have notified the Borrower of its 
intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals 
from the Credit Account pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the General 
Conditions; or
(d)
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the eligible 
Categories, minus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into 
by the Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to 
the Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized 
Allocation. Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the remaining 
unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the eligible Categories shall follow 
such procedures as the Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower. Such 
further withdrawals shall be made only after and to the extent that the Association 
shall have been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit in the Special 
Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized in making payments for eligible 
expenditures.
6.
(a)
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any payment out 
of the Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible 
pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence 
furnished to the Association, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the 
Association: (A) provide such additional evidence as the Association may request; or 
(B) deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Association shall so request, refund 
to the Association) an amount equal to the amount of such payment or the portion 
thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the Association shall otherwise agree, no 
further deposit by the Association into the Special Account shall be made until the 
Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may 
be.
(b)
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any amount 
outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for 
eligible expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, 
refund to the Association such outstanding amount.
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund to the 
Association all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.
(d)
Refunds to the Association made pursuant to paragraph 6 (a), (b) and (c) 
of this Schedule shall be credited to the Credit Account for subsequent withdrawal or 
for cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, 
including the General Conditions.
SCHEDULE 6 
Performance Indicators 
1.
Routine Maintenance funded by Roads Fund
- 100% of core network by 2000/01 (9,400 km)
- 100% of public network by 2003/04 (15,100 km)
2.
Road user revenues deposited into the Roads Fund at least:
Page  16
$9,500,000 in 1999/2000 
$12,000,000 in 2000/2001
$12,900,000 in 2001/2002
$13,800,000 in 2002/2003
$15,300,000 in 2003/2004 
3.
Administrative costs as a percentage of Roads Fund revenues fall from 
10% in 1999/2000 to 
5% in 2003/2004. 
4.
900 km of roads periodically maintained 1999/2000 to 2003/2004
450 km of roads resealed with financing from the Credit by 2002/2003 
5.
800 km of roads rehabilitated or upgraded 1999/2000 to 2003/2004
230 km of roads rehabilitated with financing from the Credit by 2002/2003
6.
By end 2004 for the public roads network, the following are the target quality 
indicators:
- 50% good condition
- 30% in fair condition
- 20% in poor condition
7.
Indicators for construction industry development:
- 20 local maintenance contractors trained in each year of the Project
- 30 small scale contractors upgraded to higher categories by 2004
- 10 medium scale contractors upgraded to unlimited category by 2004
- 10 local consultants trained in each year of the Project
8.
Indicators for institutional development and reform:
- NRA assumes responsibility for axle load control by December 2000
- Transition plan fully executed by June 2001 including but not limited to:
(Transfer of operational functions of MOWS to NRA 
(Transfer of policy and regulatory functions of MOWS to MOT 
(Transfer of training centers to NCIC
