Report No. PID5057
Project Name                     Malawi-Road Maintenance and (@+) ...
Rehabilitation Project (ROMARP)
Region                           Africa
Sector                           Roads/Transport
Project ID                       MWPE1666
Borrower                         Government of the Republic of Malawi
Implementing Agencies            Ministry of Works and Supplies
Private Bag 316
Lilongwe 3, Malawi
Telephone: 265-780200, Fax: 265-732328
National Road Authority
Private Bag B346
Lilongwe 3, Malawi
Telephone: 265-744448, Fax: 265-744448
Date of this PID                 September 2, 1998 (Original January 24, 1997,
First Update December 15, 1997)
Projected Appraisal Date         September 1998
Projected Board Date             December, 1998
Country and Sector Background.
1.      In the first 15 years after independence in 1964, Malawi's economy grew
at an average 6% per annum, one of the highest rates in Africa. Growth has
slowed in the intervening period as the country has been hit by a number of
misfortunes - the refugee exodus from Mozambique, terms of trade shocks and
droughts. This has increased macroeconomic instability and resulted in
declining per capita income and increased poverty. The country remains
heavily reliant on agriculture and a well maintained economic infrastructure
for the resumption of growth.
2.         The Government of Malawi's investment in the road infrastructure
initially concentrated on expanding the national network, especially into
areas with high agricultural potential and export/import corridors, as well as
upgrading major sections of the network to an all-weather standard. From the
late 1980s, the Government shifted emphasis to rehabilitation and intensive
maintenance given declining road quality. A number of donors have supported
these efforts including IDA most recently through the Malawi Infrastructure
Project which closed in December 1995. It remained evident however that the
network was not receiving adequate financial allocations for maintenance - a
1993 study showed that for a 107% growth in the length of roads under the
responsibility of central government since 1980, the real value of road
maintenance allocations over the same period declined by approximately 200%.
Under the Medium Term Expenditure Framework (MTEF) for 1995/96 to 2000/01, the
road sector is recognized as one of five priority areas to receive
preferential financial allocations In the first year of implementing the
MTEF, the roads sector received MK105 million (US$7 million), in the second
MK125 million (US$8.3 million).    While a considerable improvement over the
past, the MTEF allocations represent less than 40% of the total funding
required to maintain the network to an adequate level of service.



3.      While the Ministry of Transport (MoT) is responsible
for policy and planning for the transport sector as a whole, the Malawi Public
Roads Act vests responsibility for the planning, development, and maintenance
of the road infrastructure in the Roads Department in the Ministry of Works
and Supplies (MoWS). The Roads Department is therefore responsible for all
classified roads other than district and urban roads which fall under local
authorities. A small network of unclassified roads is administered by other
agencies, principally estate and private roads. All sector institutions
however suffer to a greater or lesser extent from inadequate resources,
staffing and tools to carry out their mandated roles. Consequently as
indicated below, Government is embarking on a program of reforms to address
the institutional constraints in the sector.
Sector Strategy.
4.      The Malawi Government is committed to a strategy of strengthening the
institutional framework for the management of the roads sector, increasing the
volume of financial resources available for road maintenance and
rehabilitation, and developing opportunities for greater private sector
participation in the roads sector. To this end in October 1994, Malawi joined
the Road Maintenance Initiative (RMI) as an associate member and established
an RMI Country Program in 1995. An RMI coordination unit has been set up with
the assistance of the Bank and the European Union (EU). A Program Steering
Committee (PSC) has been established and has prepared a National Road
Authority (NRA) Bill which provides inter alia for the creation of a Road
Fund. The bill has been approved by Cabinet, passed by the National Assembly
and gazetted as the NRA Act No. 13 of 1997 in May 1997. The Board was
appointed end August 1997 with a private sector chairman and private sector
members in a clear majority. The NRA has the mandate of preparation and
implementation of the national roads program and of managing the Road Fund.
This arrangement is expected to contribute to the creation of a reliable and
sustainable source of funding for the maintenance of the road network,
building upon the MTEF, to facilitate higher and better focused spending on
roads, and to bring in the active participation of the private sector as a
major stakeholder in the maintenance and operation of roads. From July 1998,
the maintenance program (funded solely from the proceeds of a MK1/liter
(US$0.04) fuel levy deposited in the Road Fund) is being managed by the NRA.
It is expected that about MK245 million (US$9.8 million), will be mobilized to
this end in 1998/99. The PSC also managed a program of policy studies under
EU funding covering the areas of improved road management and financing; road
safety; axle load control; training of sector staff, contractors and
consultants; and plant and vehicle pool management. Stakeholders reached
agreement June 1997 on a series of recommendations arising out of these
studies and Government will signal its assent through the letter of road
sector policy to be provided before November 1998. Principal among these is
the recommendation to establish a Central Roads Agency (CRA) to operate the
main road network on a commercial basis and to provide technical services to
the local authorities for the management of the tertiary and district road
networks. The NRA and CRA would essentially subsume most of the functions of
the Roads Department which would be restructured and downsized accordingly to
an agreed timetable.
Project Objectives.
5.      The principal objectives of the Road Maintenance and Rehabilitation
- 2-



Project (ROMARP) is to support the Government's sector reform strategy and to
bring about sustainable improvements in the quality of Malawi's road
infrastructure which will help improve economic growth and diversification in
the Malawian economy by reducing transport costs and increasing accessibility.
The project aims over the period 1999-2004 to facilitate the start up of the
NRA and the CRA as well as of the Road Fund which are to improve the
effectiveness of sector management and to ensure sustainable local financing
for road maintenance. The project also intends to address the development of
the local construction and consulting industries in order to ensure effective
local participation in works to be financed under the project.     Under the
project, a start will be made to address the backlog of maintenance on main,
secondary and tertiary roads. To this end a technical and economic study as
well as feasibility and preliminary engineering of a priority program for the
first two years of the project are being carried out with PPF and Japanese
PHRD Grant financing. Improvements in road safety and road traffic
management, which are aimed at reducing the costs of road transportation and
road accidents, will now be supported through a parallel project expected to
be launched in 1999 and for which a separate PID will be issued September 1,
1998 (Road Safety Project, MW-PE-57761).
Project Description.
6.      The four main components of the proposed road maintenance and
rehabilitation project may be summarized as follows:
i)      Strengthening of Road Sector Agencies: the newly established NRA will be
strengthened to carry out its planning and programming role and to effectively
manage the Road Fund while the implementing agencies for road maintenance and
rehabilitation, principally the CRA but also the Department of Local
Government and District Administration (DoLGDA) and the local authorities,
will be strengthened and selectively restructured to increase capacity;
ii)     Development of the Construction Industry:   the project will provide
for training of local consultants and contractors who will be expected to take
on an increasingly large share of road maintenance work as well as assistance
to address policy, financial and equipment constraints to the private sector.
iii)    Periodic Maintenance: for economically viable subprojects in the core
network, the project will cover periodic maintenance requirements to arrest
and begin to reverse network deterioration; and
iv)     Rehabilitation and Upgrading:   for selected roads within the core network
where high economic rates of return and broader economic benefits can be
demonstrated, the project will finance rehabilitation and a limited amount of
earth-to-gravel and gravel-to-paved upgrading;
Project Cost and Financing.
7.      The proposed project is estimated to cost US$39.5 million of which 60t in
foreign exchange. The local contribution is expected to be of the order of
US$2.5 million from Government and cofinancing is expected in the amount of
US$7 million. Recurrent maintenance costs are to be borne out of road user
charges channeled through the Road Fund.
Project Implementation.
8.      The project is to be implemented over a five-year period commencing in
1999. The PSC, which is chaired by the Secretary for Works and Supplies
-3 -



comprising public and private sector stakeholders, and which is already in
place to oversee the RMI program, is presently coordinating project
implementation.   This function will be taken on by the NRA Board under the
project. A Project Task Force made up of operational representatives of MWS,
MoT, DoLGDA, the Ministry of Finance (MoF) and a private sector representative
is currently managing project preparation and providing oversight of the PPF
financed study.  This function will be taken on under the project by the NRA
Technical Subcommittee.   Implementation of the main and secondary roads
component of the civil works program will rest initially with the Roads
Department but will then devolve to the CRA.   The CRA will assist the local
authorities and DoLGDA in the tertiary road program in both urban and rural
areas. The Road Fund managed by the NRA will be used to channel funding for
the agreed program of road maintenance to be executed by the private
contractors and consultants.
Project Sustainability.
9.      Strengthened institutions, adequate funding for, and improved
management of, the road network, and an improved road safety record are all
key success factors for the sustainability of the roads sector. The project
is expected to enhance sustainability by addressing these factors in a
coherent and effective manner. The recently adopted transport sector policy
framework, supported by strengthened institutions should improve planning,
programming and implementation of high priority road projects. Financing for
road maintenance will be addressed in such a way as to ensure greater
regularity and flexibility of financial flows to the sector which should
reduce the fiscal burden on the recurrent budget. The participatory nature of
project preparation, involvement of the private sector in the PSC discussions
leading to the establishment of the Road Fund and the NRA, as well as
opportunities to be created by the project, augur well for a high degree of
project ownership on the part of stakeholders of the network in Malawi.
Lessons learned from past operations.
10.    Experience gained from implementing infrastructure projects in Malawi
indicate the persistence of a number of problems impeding effective sector
development namely: lack of commitment to road maintenance; weak institutions
and a shortage of qualified staff; inadequate planning and programming of
development as well as maintenance work; and inadequate and unpredictable
budget allocations for road maintenance. The recently completed Malawi
Infrastructure Project was only partially successful in addressing these
issues. It is intended that ROMARP go further by addressing directly and up
front the financial and institutional constraints to a sustainable improvement
in the performance of the roads sector.
Poverty Reduction and Alleviation.
11.     The project will help address poverty through reducing transport costs
and increasing farm gate prices for rural smallholder farming families. The
project will deal with rural district roads which will help open up and
increase accessibility to a number of parts of the country, and create new
marketing opportunities as well as enhance the participation of the rural poor
in facility planning and implementation. Better roads will also help
alleviate poverty by improving access to health, education, and other socio-
economic facilities. In addition, new jobs are expected to be created through
- 4 -



the project, especially as a result of the labor-intensive works associated
mostly with rural earth and gravel roads.
Environmental Aspects.
12.     ROMARP is a Category B project.   An environmental assessment has been
carried out as part of the project preparation process under the framework of
the PPF funded technical and economic study. Findings of the study were
discussed with the Government of Malawi, and an action plan that includes
mitigation measures and institutional strengthening has been prepared prior to
project launch. Road sector institutions will have to be given a strengthened
environmental management capacity. The environmental impact of the project is
not expected to be major, although any road realignment, traffic diversion,
and quarrying of fill and road layer material will have to be carefully
managed.  Detailed engineering design documents and tender documents
associated with any construction work will inevitably include clear
instructions relating to the location and operation of construction camps,
treatment of borrow pits, and routing of traffic to offset any potential
environmental hazards, including road safety, arising out of road works.
Program Objective Categories.
13.     The primary project objective category is environmentally sustainable
development. Secondary project objectives are improved public sector
management, greater private sector participation in road sector development
and maintenance, and poverty alleviation through improved accessibility in
rural areas and employment creation in labor based works.
Contact Point:                   The InfoShop
The World Bank
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone No. (202)458 5454
Fax No. (202) 522 1500
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain activities and/or
components may not be included in the final project.
Processed by the InfoShop week ending September 11, 1998.
- 5 -



Annex
Because this is a Category B project, it may be required that the borrower
prepare a separate EA report. If a separate EA report is required, once it is
prepared and submitted to the Bank, in accordance with OP 4.01, Environmental
Assessment, it will be filed as an annex to the Public Information Document
(PID) .
If no separate EA report is required, the PID will not contain an EA annex;
the findings and recommendations of the EA will be reflected in the body of
the PID.
-6-



