                                           Document of
                                        The World Bank




                                                                Report No: 28372


                          IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
                                     (CPL-36860 SCL-3686A)

                                              ON A

                                              LOAN

                              IN THE AMOUNT OF US$60 MILLION

                                             TO THE

                                           REPUBLIC OF

                                            PANAMA

                                            FOR THE

                              ROADS REHABILITATION PROJECT




                                           June 16, 2004




Finance, Private Sector and Infrastructure Department
Central America Country Management Unit
Latin America and the Caribbean Region

                 CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                   (Exchange Rate Effective )

                   Currency Unit = Balboas
                        1 Balboa = US$ 1
                          US$ 1 = 1 Balboa

                         FISCAL YEAR
                   January 1     December 31

             ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS


AAC                 Civil Aviation Authority
                    Autoridad de Aeronáutica Civil
AMP                 Ports and Maritime Authority
                    Autoridad Marítima de Panamá
ATTT                Land Transport Authority
                    Autoridad de Tránsito y Transporte Terrestre
CAS                 Country Assistance Strategy
DINAMAN             National Directorate of Maintenance (of MOP)
DINAC               National Directorate of Contract Administration (MOP)
                    Dirección Nacional de Administración de Contratos
DINATRATE           National Directorate of Land Transport (of MOP)
                    Dirección Nacional de Transporte Terrestre
DIPRODI             Directorate of Programming and Institutional Development (of MOP)
                    Dirección de Programación y Desarrollo Institucional
EA                  Environmental Assessment
GOP                 Government of Panama
HDM                 Highway Design and Maintenance Model
IDB                 Inter-American Development Bank
IPDP                Indigenous Peoples Development Plan
LOA                 Loan Agreement
M&S                 Monitoring and Supervision
MGJ                 Ministry of Government and Justice
MIPPE               Ministry of Planning and Economic Policy
                    Ministerio de Planificación y Política Económica
MOP                 Ministry of Public Works
                    Ministerio de Obras Públicas
PMIS                Pavement Management Information System
QAG                 Quality Assurance Group
TSCU                Transport Sector Coordination Unit
UE                  Environmental Unit
UECP                Special Project Coordination Unit



                  Vice President:     David de Ferranti
               Country Director       Jane Armitage
                Sector Manager        José Luis Irigoyen
 Task Team Leader/Task Manager:       Emmanuel A. James

                                           PANAMA
                              PA ROADS REHABILITATION


                                         CONTENTS




                                                                              Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                    1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                   1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry         2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                            4
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                              9
6. Sustainability                                                                10
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                 11
8. Lessons Learned                                                               12
9. Partner Comments                                                              14
10. Additional Information                                                       14
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                             15
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                             23
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                             27
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                             28
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components             30
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                31
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                            32
Annex 8. Project Evaluation by Borrower                                          33

Project ID: P007844                                                  Project Name: PA ROADS REHABILITATION
Team Leader: Emmanuel A. James                                       TL Unit: LCSFT
ICR Type: Core ICR                                                   Report Date: June 16, 2004


1. Project Data
                   Name: PA ROADS REHABILITATION                                  L/C/TF Number: CPL-36860; SCL-3686A
   Country/Department: PANAMA                                                             Region: Latin America and the
                                                                                                     Caribbean Region

        Sector/subsector: Roads and highways (93%); Central government administration
                            (7%)
                  Theme: Regulation and competition policy (P); Other urban development
                            (P); Other financial and private sector development (P)


  KEY DATES                                                                  Original               Revised/Actual
           PCD: 03/31/1993                                     Effective: 04/13/1994                04/13/1994
     Appraisal: 06/21/1993                                         MTR: 10/05/1996                  10/05/1996
      Approval: 12/21/1993                                      Closing: 09/30/2000                 09/30/2003



    Borrower/Implementing Agency:          GOVT OF PANAMA/MIN OF PUBLIC WORKS
                      Other Partners:

STAFF                           Current                                        At Appraisal
Vice President:                 David de Ferranti                              S. Shahid Husain
Country Director:               Jane Armitage                                  Edilberto Segura
Sector Manager:                 Jose Luis Irigoyen                             Martin J. Staab
Team Leader at ICR:             Emmanuel A. James                              Peter Gyamfi
ICR Primary Author:             Oswaldo Patiño; Andres Pizarro


2. Principal Performance Ratings

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly Unlikely,
HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)

                           Outcome:        S
                      Sustainability:      L
   Institutional Development Impact:       M
                 Bank Performance:         S
            Borrower Performance:          S


                                                      QAG (if available)             ICR
                                  Quality at Entry:                                  U
                     Project at Risk at Any Time: No

3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry

3.1 Original Objective:
The development objectives were to: (a) increase competition in the road transport industry and provide the
foundation for future regulatory reform; (b) improve the management of the transport sector through the
coordination of investments and the formulation of policies; (c) continue strengthening the administration
and maintenance of roads, through support to the Ministry of Public Works (MOP) in: (i) pavement
management and (ii) private sector participation in maintenance; (d) assist the MOP in removing the
existing road maintenance backlog and preventing its future occurrence through the implementation of a
well-coordinated rehabilitation and maintenance program; and (e) reduce traffic congestion and provide
more efficient, safer and reliable passenger transport service in the city of Panama and other major cities in
the country.

The project was intended to finance a four-year (1994-1997) slice of GOP's Road Program that was to be
parallel co-financed with the IDB. Project documentation consisted of a Memorandum to the President
with a comprehensive technical annex and the IDB's Project Document that was used in lieu of the Bank's
Staff Appraisal Report.

3.2 Revised Objective:
Project objectives were not revised during implementation.

3.3 Original Components:
To achieve the objectives described above, the project included the following components: 1. Urban
transport. This component comprised the carrying out of urban transport sub-projects covering: (a) street
rehabilitation and/or widening and maintenance, intersection improvement, improved signalization and
traffic management and (b) institutional reforms and regulatory changes in public road transport. 2.
Inter-urban roads. This included the carrying out of sub-projects and a pilot maintenance program for
inter-urban roads. 3. Policy reform and institutional strengthening. This component aimed at: (1)
strengthening of the Ministry of Public Works (MOP), Ministry of Economy and Planning (MIPPE) and
Ministry of Government and Justice (MGJ) by: (a) improving the management and efficiency of the
Borrower's agencies within the transport sector; and (b) coordinating all the investments in the transport
sector; (2) strengthening the MOP by: (a) addressing and resolving environmental issues within the
transport sector, including the training of the staff required, (b) increasing the participation of the private
sector in the Borrower's transport sector and preparing future transport sector projects; and (3)
implementation and evaluation of the Borrower's Law 14 of May 26, 1993, on urban passenger transport.

3.4 Revised Components:
The original project components were maintained throughout implementation.

3.5 Quality at Entry:
The project predates the introduction of the QAG process at the Bank, hence no official quality at entry
data are available. Nonetheless, the evidence available suggests that the quality at entry can be rated
marginally satisfactory.

In the sector context, the development objectives clearly corresponded to the issues and the needs identified
at the time by the Borrower and the Bank. However, the objectives were not prioritized or organized in a
manner more according to their scope or technical field. This is particularly the case for objectives (a) and
(e). Objective (a) mixes both trucking industry and urban public transport regulation. These issues are
fundamentally different in scope and complexity and normally require distinct treatment for their resolution.
Objective (e) mixes traffic congestion and urban public transport, which despite being both urban transit


                                                     - 2 -

issues, require somewhat different approaches,         time frames, and institutional arrangements for their
adequate management.

In addition, there was no clear indication as to the relative importance of each objective. Although major
policy reforms carry significant weight, due largely to the urgency existing at the time because of the
dilapidated state of the road infrastructure, the loan mostly funded civil works. On balance, more resources
should have been allocated to the project's policy and institutional components.

In this context, the project objectives were over optimistic given that the proposed investments were geared,
much more toward transport road rehabilitation with less emphasis on the policy and reform measures.
Although the structural reforms were stated in a well-drafted Matrix of Policies and Reforms, the outcome
indicators to measure and monitor these activities were over optimistic. For example, in order to achieve
them, it was required that at the end of the first year of project execution (and with a newly elected
government in place) that the following be achieved: (i) a total deregulation of the trucking industry and the
creation of an institution that provided a more efficient bus system, (ii) improvement in MOP's capacity for
maintenance, whose indicators targeted 50% of routine maintenance as well as a reduction of the equipment
fleet of the National Directorate of Maintenance (DINAMAN); and (iii) increase in private sector
participation to 15% of resources assigned for maintenance together with a budgeted increase for periodic
and routine maintenance, among other indicators. These tasks were clearly not achievable within the time
frame proposed and without the appropriate studies and resources.

Another area that needed to be addressed was the regulatory framework, and the urban public transport
sector itself which needed institutional and policy reforms. While these were foreseen, the project did not
target any specific investments for urban public transport, or focus specific technical assistance or studies
for it. Instead, virtually all of the investments funding went to urban roads, and traffic signaling. A similar
treatment was accorded to objective (e), which was based on the premise of an improvement in the
performance of urban public transport companies, and in the "cupo" system (a system for allocating
routes).

With regard to the road rehabilitation and maintenance objective, the project intended to reduce the backlog
of rehabilitation, and to assist the MOP in its efforts to transform itself into a more normative agency by
relying more on the private sector to carry out road maintenance rather than by force account. Although,
the investments were consistent with the objectives pursued and they were clearly defined, the targets
(related to the cadre of personnel and to equipment reduction) were very ambitious, and not matched by
equivalent efforts for ensuring the sustainability of maintenance funding.

Finally, it is important to mention that the Bank's team recognized that there were numerous institutional
and policy reform issues that Panama faced in the urban and inter-urban transport sectors. The team
realized that more leverage would be needed for implementing these difficult institutional and policy
reforms. Therefore, the Bank proposed to the IDB a revision of the program design that would have
involved splitting it into two projects: (i) an immediate inter-urban road rehabilitation and improvement
project, (ii) an urban transport and transport sector reform project that could be conducted a few years
later. This proposal was not accepted by the IDB due to the high level of commitment to the then program
made already with the Panamanian government.

A key question that could therefore arise concerning the program design is whether it would have been
appropriate to go ahead with an ambitious program that included major policy reforms and investments or
to focus at first on a project for inter-urban road rehabilitation and maintenance plus the appropriate
institutional strengthening mix. The latter would have been a better approach because the project was


                                                       - 3 -

going to be executed by a newly elected Government, which would have had to navigate the many problems
faced by new governments in any country when implementing difficult policy measures.


4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs

4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:
The overall satisfactory rating is justified by the fact that the project achieved its expected physical and
output development objectives and an important part of its institutional reform objectives. Project design
and loan resources were focused predominantly on the physical investments and these were largely
achieved. MOP can now be considered to have improved its capacity to identify, prepare and implement
projects, directly as a result of the numerous subprojects executed under the Project. Shortcomings were
related to unsatisfactory quality at entry of policy components and unrealistic expectations for the
implementation of these complez tasks. The IDB project had similar issues and approaches. Therefore,
based on these facts, the project has been rated as overall satisfactory. An assessment of each development
objective follows.

(a) increase competition in the road transport industry and provide the foundation for future
regulatory reform. The creation of ATTT (Autoridad de Transito y Transporte Terrestre) was a major
achievement and it constitutes a good step for coordinating and better managing a fairly deregulated land
transport sub-sector. It is important to mention that the ATTT was created by re-uniting two entities from
MOP and MGJ, and by assigning to it the planning, management, and regulating functions of the land
transport sector. This was a significant institutional step for future regulatory reform of the sector. ATTT
remains fairly weak and needs capacity building and adequate funding for further institutional consolidation
and development of its capacity to adequately regulate the land transport sector. Also, this institution will
be in charge of implementing and operating the traffic and signal control system in Panama City. The
designs and bidding documents for the traffic system were prepared under the project, and ATTT is
actively seeking funding to implement a much larger scale system than that envisaged at project
preparation. The implementation of the for-hire goods transport, which was deregulated, was not strictly
enforced. However, it is worth noting that the transport market has increased enormously with the
development of private ports in Panama, relegating this issue to a great extent. Therefore, this objective is
rated marginally satisfactory

(b) improve the management of the transport sector through the coordination of investments and the
formulation of policies. The Transport Sector Coordination Unit (TSCU) under the General Secretary of
MOP - whose creation was a condition of loan effectiveness and at some point had 4 professional staff -
was originally assigned the responsibility for the overall coordination of transport investments and policies.
This unit was essentially non-operational since MOP has no statutory authority over the transport modes
handled by other ministries. As mentioned in (a), since the establishment of the TSCU, the Government
moved quickly on the concessioning of railways and major ports, thus reducing the need for coordinating
transport investments centrally. However, with the technical assistance provided under the project, some of
the TSCU key functions have been taken over by the newly created ATTT. As a result, project activities in
this regard were less advanced than expected due to delays in establishing ATTT (only done by year 2000).
Still, it is a major step forward to have road transport managed by two entities: ATTT and MOP. The
scale and degree of coordination by these entities is satisfactory, especially given the fact that they are
responsible for all of the road network (Panama being one of the few countries where the MOP is
responsible for both urban and inter-city roads). This objective has been achieved marginally satisfactorily.




                                                     - 4 -

(c) continue strengthening the administration and maintenance of roads, through support to MOP in:
(i) pavement management; and (ii) private sector participation in maintenance.                  The project
achievements have mixed results in that pavement management was successfully set up while contracting
out maintenance has not achieved the targets proposed under the project. Key performance indicators (See
Annex 1a) show that proposed outcomes for this objective (particularly regarding road maintenance
funding and operation and private sector participation) have not been fully met due to shortage of road
maintenance budget, insufficient road maintenance in terms of coverage and limited implementation of
contract-based maintenance operations. The main issues are as follows:

Road Maintenance Funding. The level of funding for routine maintenance has on average been below the
annual targets established in the LOA of about US$21 million. Under the project, a study to establish
alternative mechanisms to finance road maintenance and to determine the current needs for routine and
periodic maintenance was carried out. The study findings showed that there is need for periodic and routine
road maintenance of about US$50 million per year, once the entire network has been brought up to a
maintainable state. Currently, the level of funding for both activities is about US$16.5 million. While
lower than expected, this amount would be adequate for the key needs of the maintainable segments of the
network if efficient implementation mechanisms are used. It is worth noting that, with project technical
assistance funds, the MOP has prepared the corresponding Law for the creation of the Road Funding
Mechanism that could provide the funds needed. This Law is in the process of being presented to Congress
for approval and could in the future help to ensure sustainable funding for maintenance.

Using Private Contractors for Road Maintenance. The technical assistance component under the project
helped MOP to implement a Pilot Maintenance Program, which included: maintenance by medium-sized
contractors, maintenance of specific road sectors by experienced contractors using maintenance by
standard, and maintenance contracts with local community groups. However, these mechanisms for
contracting maintenance are not being actively pursued by MOP due to shortage of funds and the force
account based operations which are typically inefficient.

On the positive side, the project has resulted in major significant achievements with the implementation of a
coordinated rehabilitation program, together with the parallel IDB project, and has led to the rehabilitation,
inter alia, of most of the Pan American Highway and the Panama-Colon road, the country's two principal
axes. As a result, since 1994, the condition of the road network has improved substantially; currently,
2,731 km or 32% of the 12,000 km of total paved road network are in good condition.

The Pavement Management objective has been adequately achieved through the establishment of: (i) the
highway data bank and (ii) a pavement management unit, which assists MOP's planning and maintenance
directorates through the PMIS (computerized Pavement Management Information System). Also, MOP
staff is now skilled in the use of the Bank's Highway Design Maintenance Model (HDM). The road
management system still needs to be linked to all operational units of MOP, especially to work closely with
DINAMAN (National Directorate for Maintenance) and DIPRODI (Program and Planning Directorate).
However, DINAMAN requires increased financial resources to perform adequate monitoring and
evaluation of the road network.

The GOP must continue acting on a number of recommendations proposed by the technical assistance
component, in particular with regard to adopting cost recovery mechanisms for the management and
financing of road maintenance, increasing private sector participation in maintenance, improving
procurement cycle and payment procedures for contractors, and continuing with capacity-building of the
ATTT and MOP staff. Thus, this objective is rated satisfactorily for (c)(i) and unsatisfactory for (c)(ii).




                                                     - 5 -

(d) assist the MOP in removing the existing road maintenance backlog and preventing its future
occurrence through the implementation of a well-coordinated rehabilitation and maintenance
program. The program has resulted in significant achievements with the successful implementation of a
coordinated rehabilitation and maintenance program with Government investment reaching over US$750
million during 1994-2003. Project achievements in terms of civil works for inter-urban roads and urban
streets have been fully satisfactory. MOP's capacity has improved and it appears to have satisfactorily
discharged its planning and operational responsibilities under the project through the identification,
preparation and execution of road improvement plans during the ten-year implementation period. MOP is
now familiar with Bank's procurement procedures.           In addition, environmental capacity has greatly
improved through the establishment of an Environmental Unit (EU). As a result, the EU currently provides
inputs such as initial environmental screening of road sub-project, drafting terms of reference for
Environmental Assessment (EA) studies, approval of EA studies, as well as ensuring that new project
specific environmental requirements are incorporated within the bidding documents. This unit is also
providing field supervision for road works. Under the project, guidelines for the environmental assessment
of transport investments have been prepared and EU staff was trained adequately. EU staff is currently
ensuring that environmental impacts from MOP road activities are appropriately mitigated. The
Environmental Division of the LAC region has expressed its approval of the performance of the EU on
several occasions. Based on the above results the objective is rated satisfactory.

It is worth noting that MOP has complied with the Indigenous Peoples Development Plan (IPDP) that was
required    prior   to   initiation of  the    rehabilitation  of   the   sub-project    for  the  Quebrada
Aguacate-Canitas-Bayano road, (under the IDB package). The Indigenous Plan was implemented under
several projects, the principal ones being the IDB's Darien Sustainable Project and the Panama Social
Investment Fund. This plan was subject to three specific revisions during project execution by specialist
social staff from LAC region. It has one of the first major IPDP prepared in the Bank and it contributed
significantly to the introduction and mainstreaming of the IPDP concept.

(e) reduce traffic congestion and provide more efficient, safer and more reliable passenger transport
service in the city of Panama and other major cities in the country. Due to project investments, some
success has been reached with functional pedestrian bridges, horizontal and vertical signals and road
signing programs in Panama City and other major towns, as well as realignments to improve road safety
and eliminate accident black spots. However, it is important to note that these improvements are focused on
specific locations and hence it is difficult to assign specific effects on overall traffic congestion or road
safety. Reportedly both factors have deteriorated during recent years but it is also clear that conditions
would have been worse without the project. On the other hand, the proposed traffic signal program in
Panama City was not implemented due to delays in the initial project preparation combined with the change
of institutional set-up (DINATRATE and TSCU becoming ATTT), and later with ATTT's own plans to
implement a much larger system than envisaged originally. ATTT is planning now to finance this larger
traffic system with its own budget together with a loan from bilateral or multilateral banks.

As far as passenger transport services are concerned, the establishment of ATTT represented the startup of
measures to conceive and manage improvements to improve passenger transport services. The sector still
needs further institutional strengthening and investments. To ATTT's credit, this agency is moving ahead
with some of the initiatives necessary to improve the sector issues pending, such as the reform of the
"cupo" system. Therefore, this objective was achieved marginally satisfactorily.




                                                     - 6 -

4.2 Outputs by components:
The time-slice project implied that the UECP should present pluri-annual programs, which included urban
and inter-urban sub-projects selected on the basis of technical, economic, financial and environmental
criteria satisfactory to the Bank. A first batch of sub-projects was proposed and appraised in 1993 and was
clearly defined in the IDB Loan document. The initial package covered 43 sub-projects for the period
1994-1997. These sub-projects included 5 for inter-urban road rehabilitation, 2 for road signaling; 5 for
intersection improvements, 3 for road widening, 4 for pedestrian crossings, 1 vehicle overpass, 2 for urban
street signaling, 16 for road rehabilitation and 6 for periodic maintenance. From these broad outputs to be
achieved, the project executing unit prepared pluri-annual packages which included the subprojects to be
implemented in a 2-3 year period.

The execution of the first plan took more time than expected and used up most of the investment funds
budgeted. However, some additional packages were added to this plan for the period 2000-2003. It is
important to mention that most of the 47 work contracts have been successfully completed. This accounts
for most of the funds disbursed. Below there is a listing of some of the subprojects completed.

Inter-urban component. The project successfully achieved the following: (i) 172 km rehabilitated through
5 specific projects; (ii) 43 km with improved signaling, including a signaling package for the Province of
Colon; (iii) 10 km of the Capira-Sajalices section of the Pan-American Highway widened; and (iv) 18.75
km maintained through 2 specific sub-projects as part of the Pilot Routine Maintenance Program.

Urban component. The component financed successfully the following sub-projects: (i) 18 civil work
packages for street rehabilitation sub-projects in Panama, Chitre, Santiago, Penonome, Colon, among
others; (ii) 10 periodic maintenance sub-projects for Chorrera, Arraijan, Pedregal, among others; (iii) 3
widening and extension sub-projects in Panama City; (iv) 4 km of intersection improvements in Panama
City; (v) 7 pedestrian bridges in Panama city and Colon; and (vi) 50 km of streets with improved signaling.
Only the Panama City traffic signaling system was not carried out, due in part to the ATTT plan to
implement a more comprehensive system than that envisaged at appraisal. Despite this, the overall outputs
in the urban component are consistent with the outputs envisaged at appraisal.

Technical Assistance Component. Most of the proposed studies were carried out, including: the road
safety study, the maintenance financing alternatives, the road sector management, and the IPDP. Also,
assistance was provided to improve MOP managerial capacity, with the most important being: the
development and implementation of the Road Management Information System together with the road
inventory and traffic counts and data bank, the environmental guidelines and the Urban Transport Plan. It
is important to mention that extensive training has been successfully provided to regular MOP staff in key
positions and in particular the staff of the EU and the maintenance units. Approximately, 227 MOP staff
have been trained in different technical areas. All of these activities and training courses have contributed to
the institutional development impact in MOP.

The pilot design for the maintenance program and for the contracting out of the routine maintenance were
carried out successfully with different models, the idea was to introduce the differing notions of routine and
periodic maintenance and seek opportunities of developing the contracting out of maintenance activities.
However, this component received too little attention, only two contracts were awarded and US$110,000 of
the $US500,000 available loan proceeds were spent, although it was key for the sustainability of
maintenance operations. The maintenance contracts that were carried out do not provide a sufficient basis
to assess the pros and cons of contracting out routine maintenance.



                                                      - 7 -

4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
An ex-post cost-benefit analysis was carried out for 5 representative sub-projects in 5 project cities. This
sample included two urban and three inter-urban roads financed under the Bank-project. The economic
analysis was undertaken using HDM III model. The main differences between ex-ante and ex-post analysis
are an overall cost reduction of 5%, somewhat lower than forecast traffic volumes, and a longer
construction period. It is important to mention that the cost reduction occurred due to excellent supervision
of consultants and contractors by UECP and as a result of good engineering designs that were prepared.
Also, the executing agency was able to minimize claims thereby generating modest savings in the
implementation of the civil works.

The principal benefits of "with the project" compared to "without the project" include: (i) savings in vehicle
operating cost due to road improvement and rehabilitation, (ii) time saving for passengers and (iii) savings
in routine maintenance. The estimated IERRs for the roads continue to be positive ranging between 15.4%
for Volcan-Cerro Punta, to 76.5% for Rio Chagres-Rio Gatun. Based on this example, the average
economic rate of return has been estimated at 39.2%, which is below the 67.6% average anticipated at the
appraisal, due mainly to overestimation of traffic counts at appraisal. The rates of return are still highly
acceptable.

4.4 Financial rate of return:
Not applicable.

4.5 Institutional development impact:
The project provided solid contributions to the institutional development of the transport sector in Panama.
In particular, the project (a) assisted in the development of a Road Fund Law through the study for
Financing Mechanism for Maintenance; (b) improved pavement management through the introduction of a
pavement management system; (c) strengthened the capacity for maintenance management, procurement,
environment, urban road transport planning, and economic analysis of inter-urban and urban sub-projects;
(d) developed (i) the urban transport plan for Panama City, (ii) the first major Indigenous Peoples
Development Plan prepared under a road project and (iii) the guidelines for environmental assessment of
transport investments; (e) promoted private sector participation through the development of a pilot
maintenance program with different contracting options; (f) established the Environmental Unit for
environment mitigation, social and resettlement programs; and (g) strengthened MOP's institutional and
managerial capacity.

In regard to the latter, the project assisted MOP in strengthening the National Directorate of Contracts
Administration, the Directorate of Highways, the Directorate of Programming and Institutional
Development, the National Directorate of Land Transport, the National Directorate of Maintenance, and
the Environmental Unit, among others. As a result, MOP is carrying out better analyses for inter-urban and
urban sub-projects in terms of (i) contracting out of feasibility studies and engineering final designs, (ii)
improved monitoring of the supervision of civil works and road rehabilitation with private companies, and
(iii) performing and supervising environmental assessments. The acquired experience has been
demonstrated through the implementation and execution of a relatively large rehabilitation road program ­
over US$750 million during the project execution period- in coordination with multilateral institutions and
other donors, as well as the management of the construction of the new bridge across the Panama Canal.

Hence, as a direct result of the project, (i) the ATTT was created, (ii) the MOP has acquired the capacity to
manage large road program and created the Environmental Unit, and (iii) through the preparation of the
IPDP, there has been an increased awareness of the importance of the needs to respect the rights and



                                                     - 8 -

cultures of native indigenous people.

5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome

5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:
The original loan closing date of September 2000 was extended twice. The first 18-month extension to
March, 2002 was granted in order to permit: (i) the completion of the rehabilitation of the Volcan to Cerro
Punta Road; (ii) safety investments on critical roads (black spot improvements and intersection, pedestrian
bridges, and signing and marking in Panama City), (iii) the rehabilitation of priority streets in secondary
cities; (iv) the extension of the pilot routine maintenance program; (iv) a training program, and (vi)
implementation of a computerized infrastructure management system. The second extension to September
30, 2003 was given at the Government's request in order to complete the installation of the computerized
accounting system as well as to complete the safety component activities and some road rehabilitation
works, which were in execution. The Bank denied a Government request in August 2003 for a third and
final 9 month extension, mainly because of the age of the project.

Staff turnover due to changeover in government administration. During implementation, there was
considerable staff turnover at the executing unit and MOP. Over the life of the project, Panama had three
different governments: one that prepared, appraised and negotiated the project, a second one during the
project's entry into effectiveness and startup (1994) and the current one that was elected in 1999. During
2000, three different Ministers were in charge of the MOP. This resulted in several changes in project
coordinators and key staff within the MOP, which adversely affected continuity and resulted in delays in
project implementation.

Force Majeure events. The rainy seasons in Panama of approximately 8-10 months a year delayed the
road sub-projects implementation. It is difficult to rehabilitate roads during these heavy rains.

5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
Untimely provision of local counterpart funds. The untimely release of counterpart funds compounded
by the insufficient amount has been a factor that affected project implementation performance significantly
both in civil works and technical assistance components.

Protracted procurement and payment procedures. The procurement and payment process designed by
MOP's directorate, DINAC, is bureaucratic and lengthy. There were multiple contract preparation,
celarance and effectiveness steps imposed by the Contraloria General de la Republica, that required a lot of
time and resourcefulness for their completion. For example, about four months elapsed between the
no-objection and the signing of a typical contract. In addition, and with some overlapping, there were the
contract vetting and payment procedures which used the UNDP-based financial and project management
system (called "Dinamization") that had been introduced by the Government for transparency purposes.
This "Dinamization" did achieve partially its objective of reducing the time required for effecting payments
to contractors.

5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
Use of World Bank Standard Bidding documents. After loan effectiveness, it took one year to agree on
the format of the documents to be used for civil works bidding, since substantial adjustments were required
to previous local practices in order to permit use of the World Bank Standard Bidding Documents.

Project Monitoring. The key outcomes of performance identified at design and appraisal and stated in the
Memorandum of the President were not followed through by the implementing agency to monitor and
supervise outcomes such as the length of network maintained, or by the level of funds to be allocated for


                                                      - 9 -

routine and periodic maintenance, reduction of equipment, and progress in substituting private contractors
for MOP force account in the execution of roads and bridge maintenance, among others. Also, the
executing agency should have carefully monitored the Action Plan Matrix for Policy Reform and
Institutional Strengthening agreed at negotiations. MOP staffing is still at the 1996 target level and funding
for periodic and routine maintenance is low compared to project targets and much too low vis-a vis the
requirements for the maintainable segments of the 12,000 km network road.

Financial Management System. UECP's performance was weak in terms of establishing an accounting
and financial control system. The unit did not have a computerized project management information
system, and only in year 2002 was the system in place and operational. The lack of an adequate financial
and accounting management system for a long period of time generated moderate but manageable problems
in presenting external financial audit reports and delayed contractors' payments, among others.

5.4 Costs and financing:
As of December 2003, the total cost of the program amounted to the equivalent of US$474.2 million, which
is 14.4 percent higher than the appraisal estimate of US$406 million. The Government's share increased
substantially from US$166 million to US$240 million, principally to finance and rehabilitate other roads
with current budgetary allocations agreed in principle with the IDB. The US$180 million loan from the
co-financier IDB was practically fully disbursed while the US$60 million from WB loan proceeds were not
disbursed totally due mainly to the delays in project execution, and the need for MOP to prepare and
implement 3 multi-year plans.

With respect to cost sharing, at appraisal, the project was to be financed 80% by the Bank and 20% by the
GOP; the final figures are 75% and 25% respectively. This change is due partly to the GOP's fully
financing the completion of the program after the September 2003 Loan closing. Project costs details are
given in Annexes 2a (Project Costs by Component), 2b (Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements) and
2c (Project Financing by Component).


6. Sustainability

6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:
The project has substantially improved MOP's capacity to execute projects. Although, progress was made
in planning, selecting, evaluating and supervising, it is of concern to see that overall financing for
maintenance has decreased over the project's life, and the number of kilometers of the national network
maintained has accordingly decreased (see Annex 1f). The sustainability of the outcomes achieved under
the urban and inter-urban road components will depend mainly on MOP continuing efforts to obtain the
approval of the Law for the creation of a maintenance fund through user charges. The latter will permit the
implementation of the institutional and financial reforms needed within MOP not only to increase the level
of funding for periodic and routine maintenance, but also to restructure maintenance operations. These
reforms should take place together with an increase in private sector participation in periodic and routine
road maintenance by applying the experience gained through the pilot maintenance program implemented
under the project.

With regard to the urban sector, MOP has successfully managed urban civil works components ­
improvements of road intersections, traffic signals and accident black spots elimination. However, the joint
tasks with the ATTT related to the reduction of traffic congestion and provision of more efficient and
reliable passenger service in the City of Panama represent major challenges with regard to sustainability.
Although the ATTT agency has been successfully created and has taken charge of its management,



                                                    - 10 -

planning and regulating functions, there is still room for improvement in critical areas within the sector
such as the (i) analysis and definition of investment options to improve public transport in Panama City, (ii)
installation of a modern traffic signaling system, and (iii) capacity building for ATTT staff.

Based on the achieved results, especially the mainstreaming of the project cycle within the UECP and the
excellent management of the rehabilitation program, the sustainability is likely. It is important to mention
that the UECP is currently managing other projects from multilateral banks worth over US$150 million
using the project cycle mechanisms established under the project, as well as the construction of the second
bridge over the Panama canal (US$103.9 million, excluding the access roads).

6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
Most of the project activities were carried out by different MOP Directorates, although the UECP
coordinated the process. In this repect, project execution was streamlined in all Directorates, thus no
intervention is necessary as transition has been naturally occurring. Planning and sector coordination
activities have not been as successfully internalized in MOP, so additional efforts are necessary to
strengthen these fields in the future.

In the urban sector, the project made progress in the institutional development aspects, through the creation
of ATTT, re-uniting planning, policy formulation and regulation in one body. ATTT as such is trying to
improve the regulatory framework, and thus improve the reliability and safety of the passenger transport
sector. The relative weakness of ATTT due to its recent creation, and the complexity of the task at hand is
such that only modest progress has been made. For this, and to ensure sustainability, it is crucial to
continue with the strengthening of ATTT's staff in planning and policy formulation.


7. Bank and Borrower Performance

Bank
7.1 Lending:
The project was identified through "piggy backing" on IDB's appraisal. Under this approach, the Bank
used the IDB appraisal report and only a Memorandum of the President together with a technical annex
were prepared. Only a few missions visited Panama; Bank staff joined the IDB pre-appraisal and appraisal
missions. During the missions, the Bank staff proposed a two-phase approach as mentioned, both to be
co-financed with IDB and the Bank. The proposal was not accepted due to IDB's relatively advanced
commitments to the GOP. Hence, while it was probably a cost-effective approach on balance the Bank
performance during preparation must be regarded as weak.

7.2 Supervision:
Bank supervision is rated satisfactory. During project implementation, Bank assistance focused more on
the streamlining of the project cycle under the administration of MOP as well as on the procurement of civil
works, goods and the hiring of consultants. However, the Bank paid little attention to the progress of
policy reform in the sectors, especially in the public transport sector. Other factors that affected the
supervision were the turnover of task managers together with the high turnover of project coordinators at
UECP and Ministers. On average, the Bank conducted two and a half supervisions per year.

7.3 Overall Bank performance:
Bank performance is rated overall as being satisfactory.           This rating is based primarily on      the
achievements of the civil works component. In addition, the lead co-financier (IDB) in its PCR (Project
Completion Report) also rated its performance as satisfactory. The overall rating for the execution of the
joined IDB-WB project was also satisfactory.



                                                    - 11 -

Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
Borrower performance during the preparation stage is rated satisfactory. The MOP staff assisted the IDB's
team in preparing the project and helped the Bank staff during the pre-appraisal and appraisal missions. It
is important to mention that the MOP undertook and prepared a large investment program with the IDB
after many years of inactivity as well as supported the preparation of the Policies and Reforms Matrix.
The MOP has continued preparing investment projects efficiently.

7.5 Government implementation performance:
The overall performance of the Government is rated marginally satisfactory. Delays in declaring loan
effectiveness and later difficulties in the provision of counterpart funds in a timely manner had a strong
negative impact on project performance throughout its execution. The procurement and financial-
management mechanism for approving and processing contracts together with the complex payment cycle
for contractors created additional delays that hindered project implementation.

7.6 Implementing Agency:
The performance of MOP, through its executing unit (UECP) is rated as highly satisfactory. The project
constituted the first Bank lending operation after a long period of inactivity in Panama. The UECP
experienced difficulties in procurement and keeping adequate records of disbursements and in the
installation of the accounting and financial system. However, the UECP successfully managed the loans
from IDB and the Bank. The key factors that supported the high rating are that the unit: (i) managed the
implementation of the technical assistance component as well as the training component, (ii) adequately
developed the capacity building of most of the MOP's Directorates involved in the multi-year investment
programs, and (iii) prepared other major investment programs for the Government such as the CAF loan
for US$60 million, a second loan from IDB for US$85 million, the construction of the second bridge over
the Panama canal with investments of over US$100 million, and a third loan from IDB for US$37 million.

7.7 Overall Borrower performance:
Borrower performance is rated overall as satisfactory. This rating takes into account the strong
performance demonstrated by the MOP through its executing unit together with the unsatisfactory rating of
Government performance on the timeliness of counterpart funding.


8. Lessons Learned

Several lessons can be obtained from the implementation of this project, some of these are:

Project Design and Policy implications

In the loan agreement, a mechanism or clause should be included for Government to budget for
periodic and routine maintenance adequately. In the Loan Agreement (schedule 6), it was stipulated that
the Borrower should provide funds for maintenance of the urban and inter-urban roads through an annual
budget allocation of US$21.0 million. This was introduced as a Table but no reference was made to a
covenant clause within the LOA. Because of this, the borrower did not have the obligation to comply with
this important requirement. Over the life of the project, GOP assigned to MOP less than US$16 million on
average per year. If this level of funding continues indefinitely, there is a risk that roads rehabilitated under
the project could deteriorate due to lack of maintenance.




                                                    - 12 -

Adjust project design in a manner more consistent with the investments. It would have been preferable
to work under the time-slice project in two phases. The first would have been a transport rehabilitation
project with technical assistance to MOP to streamline its capacity to plan and manage projects and funds
for the preparation of the second phase. The second would have been an urban transport project, including
a quick disbursing policy-based component, rehabilitation and maintenance component, urban and road
sub-projects with a technical assistance to strengthen MOP and the regulating entity for the urban public
transport. It is very difficult to manage two such sub-sectors in one operation as was attempted.

Prepare the Operational Manual, as well as ensure that an accounting and management information
system is in place, prior to loan effectiveness. An operational manual that describes a summary
framework of the project design, policies, definitions, indicators, procurement procedures, guidelines and
plans should be agreed with the Bank, prior to effectiveness. Also, the borrower should install a financial
management system at the same time. During project implementation, these activities were carried out very
late within the cycle.

Project Implementation

Lack of continuity in the political environment and project management negatively affect
implementation. Successful implementation of the project is highly dependent on the stability of key
project management staff, both at the local and Bank levels, and a stable political environment. Project
implementation suffered from various changes in Ministers, Project Coordinators and, on the Bank side,
task managers. Maintaining stability in the Project Management Unit, as well as in the other operational
units involved in the project could help to guarantee an effective management and administrative
performance.

Use of monitoring and evaluation (M&E) system, and follow through the key outcome indicators. The
project did not develop an appropriate M&E system to follow throughout the implementation period so as
to measure outputs, outcomes and impacts, nor did it include initially any computerized project financial
management and monitoring systems. Without the system indicators, the project staff was unable to
effectively monitor implementation and progress in fulfilling the development objectives. As a result, Bank
supervision teams were often unable to identify delays and issues early enough to propose timely remedial
measures to achieve the outcomes proposed at appraisal. Detailed implementation action plans and specific
measurable indicators and targets are essential factors to incorporate into project design as monitoring tools
and as "early warning devices".

Role of supervision missions. Bank supervision missions should be geared to provide technical support to
local staff in order to keep the basic concepts of project design on track and to discuss required mutually
acceptable adjustments. During project implementation the Bank assistance was focused more on the
procurement of civil works, goods and consultants, while insufficient attention was given to the policy and
reforms measures needed to achieve project objectives.

IPDP should have ownership from the beneficiary indigenous communities. The IPDP was a
comprehensive plan, which not only focused on the roads to be rehabilitated but also on the needs and the
development agenda in other sub sectors like water and education. It is important to mention that the
indigenous communities took full ownership of the IPDP and used this plan to leverage funds for
implementation by indigenous initiation not only from Bank financed projects such as the FIS project but
also from other donors and Government institutions.




                                                    - 13 -

9. Partner Comments

(a) Borrower/implementing agency:
A final evaluation report prepared by the Borrower is included in the Annex 8. The Borrower's conclusion
is that despite the difficulties encountered during preparation and implementation of the Project, most of the
project objectives were achieved satisfactory, substantially contributing to the country's progress.


(b) Cofinanciers:
A separate ICR report issued by the IDB considers the project implementation to have been fully
successful.


(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):
Not applicable.


10. Additional Information

Not applicable.




                                                     - 14 -

Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix

Annex 1a
Outcome/Impact Indicators


 KEY PERFORMANCE                    COMMENTS                       1994  1995    1996    1997    1998    1999    2000    2001   2002   2003
       INDICATORS


INSTITUTIONAL
STRENGTHENING

Staffing Strength                                          Target  4583    4117    3683    2955    2955    2955    2955
                                                           Real    4455    4384    4026    4421    3944    3826    2526   3214   3207
Ratio Key Staff               There was never any clarity  Target    85      90     100     100     100
                               as to the meaning of this   Real
Staff Receiving Training      Target since 1994: 107 p.    Target    10      30      30      25      12
                               Total since 1995: 227 p     Real       3      13       8      50      67      27      14      1      1   43

INVESTMENT

Total Investments               (Achieved/Budgeted)                34.7/  111.2/   79.1/   57.7/  120.9/  112.3/  107.3/ 101.8/  43.9/
                                                                    83.0  132.0   182.3   118.9   225.5   149.6   145.5  135.4  156.6
Net Investments financed by     (Achieved/Budgeted)                28.3/   26.3/   20.4/   18.7/   36.1/   66.8/  27.06/ 34.24/  6.83/
Government                                                          35.4    32.1    26.8    26.8    65.1    80.9     n/a    n/a 45.68
Of which Government financed                                      81.55% 23.65%  25.79%  32.41%  29.86%  59.48%  37.75%  33.63% 15.55%

GOVERNMENT
CONTRIBUTION

Total                                                      Target   30.8    40.2    39.4    39.0    39.0    39.0    39.0
                                                           Real     n./a     n/a    37.6     n/a     n/a    83.4  44.96  47.54  28.03
Counterpart Funds                                          Target   9.3     19.0    18.5    18.1    18.1    17.6    19.2
                                                           Real      n/a     n/a    20.4     n/a     n/a    66.8  27.06  34.24  16.83
Routine Maintenance                                        Target   21.5    21.2    20.9    20.9    20.9     21      21
                                                           Real     8.6     16.4    17.2    19.3    15.8    16.6    17.9  13.3   11.2


URBAN PASSENGER
TRANSPORT

% Carried by Bus               Information requested       Target    15      20      25      30      30
Companies
                                                           Real
No. of New Cupos               Information requested       Target    50      50      25      25      25
                                                           Real

CONTRACT MANAGEMENT

Days for Approval of Signed                                Target    60      60      60      60      60
Contracts
                                                           Real     124     124     124      77      77      77     248    248    248

ROAD MAINTENANCE

Expenditures (US$ million)                                 Target    42      41      40      39      39      39      39
                                                           Real   13.91   32.58   36.62   34.80   26.59   27.22   27.97   20.2  16.13
Periodic                                                   Target    20      20      19      18      18      18      18
                                                           Real     5.31  15.56   18.27   14.36   10.65   10.41     9.02  6.91   4.83
Routine                                                    Target    22      21      21      21      21      21      21
                                                           Real     8.60  17.02   18.35   20.44   15.94   16.81   18.95  13.37  11.30
% of Total Road Expenditures                               Target    30      32      35      35      35
                                                           Real




                                                                  - 15 -

NETWORK MAINTAINED

-Interurban Roads                                              Target  281    280   280   280    280  280   280
 Rehabilitation (Km.)
                                                               Real    212    212   212   212    212  212   172  172  172
Periodic Maintenance                                           Target  704    700   700   700    700  700   700
                                                               Real     n/a   n/a   n/a   n/a    529  662   379  257  198
Routine Maintenance                                           Targ     7720  7720  7720  7720  7720  7720  7720
                                                               et
                                                               Real     n/a   n/a   n/a   n/a  3416  3236  3721 2053 2234
-Urban Roads Rehabilitation                                    Target   43    50    50    50     50
 (Km.)
                                                               Real     94    94    94    94     94   94    11   11   11
Periodic Maintenance                                           Target   33    30    30    30     30
                                                                Real    n/a   n/a   n/a   n/a    258  257   178  131  135
Routine Maintenance                                            Target  500    500   500   500    500
                                                                Real    n/a   n/a   n/a   n/a  1 356 1558  1782 1522 1191

CONTRACT MAINTENANCE

% of Total Maintenance                                         Target   15    30    50    75     75
 (financing)
                                                               Real     2.6  11.3  16.9  13.8    3.1  0.9   3.9  0.4  0.6
Disposition of DINAMAN's                                       Target  699    546   433   424
(# of pieces)
                                                                Real    n/a   n/a   n/a   n/a    n/a 1358  1407 1414 1334
Disposition of Industrial Equip.    Includes quarry sites,     Target   11     7     2     0      0
(# of pieces)                     asphalt and culvert plants.
                                                               Real     18    19    19    19     19   16    15   15   15




                                                                     - 16 -

Annex 1b
Output Indicators

       Key Performance Indicators         Unit      SAR Estimate                 Actual
1. CIVIL WORKS
1.1 Interurban roads
   Road rehabilitation                     Km        5 contracts                 172.08
   Road signaling                          Km        2 contracts                  42.84
   Road widening                           Km                                     10.10
   Pilot Routine Maintenance Program       Km        2 contracts                  18.75
1.2. Urban streets
     Street Rehabilitation                 Km        16 contracts                118.78
     Periodic Maintenance                  Km        5 contracts                  77.83
     Widening and extensions               Km        3 contracts                  8.10
     Intersection improvements             Km        5 contracts                    4
     Pedestrian Bridges                   Units      4 contracts                    7
     Signage and signaling                 Km        2 contracts                  49.9
2. EQUIPMENT
2.1 Signals and signal systems            Units          1                     Cancelled
2.2 Vehicles                              Units          9                          9
2.3 Equipment
   Computer and software                  Units           -       For transit police, laboratory and
                                                                  environment units of MOP
3. CONSULTING SERVICES
3.1 Studies
   Road Safety                            Units          1                     Completed
   Maintenance and Financing Alternatives Units          1                     Completed
   Transport Sector Management            Units          1                     Cancelled
   Review of Transport Law                Units          1        Proposed maintenance fund loan
   Public Passenger Transport Tariffs     Units          1                     Cancelled
   Indigenous Peoples development Plan    Units          1                     Completed
3.2 Technical Assistance
   Studies                                Units          7                     Completed
   Data bank, HDM/SAM                     Units          2                3 systems executed
   Traffic and signals                    Units          1                     Completed
   Vehicle weight control                 Units          4                     Completed
   Environment                            Units          1                     Completed
   Laboratory                             Units
   Maintenance Contracting Management     Units          1                     Completed
   Transport industry                     Units
   Urban transport planning               Units          2                     Completed
   Individual Consultants                 Units          3                          3
   UCST                                   Units          1                          1
3.3 Training
   Short-term                             Units          24                        227
   Long-term                              Units          87




                                              - 17 -

Annex 1c
Studies included in project

              Study                        Purpose                Status             Impact Of Study

1. STUDIES
 Road Safety Study             Campaign for road and transit     Completed No follow up action
                               safety.
 Maintenance Financing                                           Completed Pilot Routine Maintenance Program.
 Alternatives                  Private sector participation and            Two contracts and draft law for
                               road fund                                   creating road fund.
 Road Sector Management                                                    Institutional strengthening to urban
                               Administration of traffic         Completed sector completed.
                               management.                                 ATTT created and in operation.
 Public Passenger Transport                                     Cancelled
 Tariffs
 Indigenous People's           Due to rehabilitation of roads.   Completed Implemented by FIS and other
 Development Plan                                                          institutions.

2. TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE
 Road Design Standards (IDB)   Strengthening road rehabilitation Completed Adopted by MOP and private sector.
                               private sector capacity
 Data bank, HDM/SAM            Strengthening planning capacity.  Completed In operation
 Traffic and signals           Improve traffic management.       Cancelled
 Vehicle weight control (IDB)                                    Completed
 and dimensions
 Environment                   Strengthening environment units   Completed Road rehabilitation studies following
                               and road rehabilitation                     environmental criteria.
                               execution.
 Laboratory (IDB)                                                Completed Soil mechanics equipment procured.
                                                                           Laboratory deemed to function.
 Maintenance contracting       Pilot program for routine         Completed Not adopted due to lack of funds.
 management                    maintenance.
 Implementation of Road Sector Implementation UCST parts A
 Management                    and B
 Transport industry
 Urban transport plan




                                                  - 18 -

Annex 1d
Overseas training for MOP staff (proposed at SAR)

           Type of Training                DIPRODI   DINAC  DINAMAN  DINATRATE  DA

   Long-term training
   -   Highway Management                    4        2      2         2        -
   -   Contract Management                   2        6      4         2        -
   -   Pavement Management                   1        -      4         2        -
   -   Maintenance Management                2        -      8         -        -
   -   Road Rehabilitation                   -        4      4         2        -
   -   HDM-III                               4        -      4         -        -
   -   Highway safety                        -        1      -         3        -
   -   Environment and highways              4        2      2         2        -
   -   Computer applications                 4        2      2         2        -
   -   Training                              -        -      -         -        4

   Short-term training
   -   Traffic engineering/planning          2        -      -         2        -
   -   Environment and highways              6        2      1         1        -
   -   Highway safety                        -        1      -         2        -
   -   Contract administration               -        2      -         -        -
   -   Highway management                    2        1      1         1        -


Overseas training for MOP staff (executed)




                                               - 19 -

Annex 1e
Institutional Arrangements of the Project

                Components                  Primary                  Collaborators       Operation & Maintenance/
                                          Responsibility                                   Continuity of Program
  1. Improvement and Rehabilitation
    Annual selection of projects           DIPRODI        DINATRATE, DINAMAN, DINAC   DIPRODI
    Feasibility Studies                    DIPRODI        DINATRATE (urban), DINAMAN  DIPRODI / DINAMAN
                                                          (Maint. & Rehab.), DINAC
    Design, Contracting, Supervision        DINAC                                     DINAC/ Dirección Ejecutiva de
                                                                                      Estudio y Diseño / DNI
  2. Periodic Maintenance
    Selection of Projects                  DIPRODI        DINAMAN, DINATRATE (urban)  DIPRODI
    Contracting, supervision                DINAC                                     DINAC / DNI
  3. Routine Maintenance
    Selection of projects                 DINAMAN                                     DINAMAN
    Contracting                             DINAC                                     DINAC
    Supervision                           DINAMAN                                     DINAMAN / DNI
  4. Intersections & Corridors
    Supervision of projects                DIPRODI        DINATRATE                   DNI
    Feasibility                            DIPRODI                                    DIPRODI / DINAMAN
    Design, Contracting and supervision     DINAC                                     DINAC
  5. Traffic Signals
    Supervision of projects               DINATRATE       DIPRODI                     ATTT
    Feasibility                           DINATRATE       DIPRODI                     ATTT
    Design, Contracting and supervision     DINAC         DINATRATE                   ATTT
  6. Road safety
  -Critical Spots                                                                     ATTT
    Data Collection and Analysis             MGJ          DINATRATE, MGJ              ATTT
    Design of Remedies                      DINAC                                     ATTT
    Contracting and supervision             DINAC                                     ATTT
  -Road safety campaign                      MGJ                                      ATTT
  -Highway Police                            MGJ                                      MGJ
  7. Studies and Tech. Asst.               DIPRODI        Affected Agencies




                                                         - 20 -

Annex 1f
Maintenance Expenditure/Length of Network Maintained

 Interurban
                                   Forced Account                        Total                                Contracted                      Total           % Contracted
    Year                   Routine             Periodic                                             Routine             Periodic
                                  $US                 $US                     $US                         $US                 $US                  $US                $US
                       km      (millions)    km    (millions)      km        (millions)  km             (millions)   km     (millions)    km    (millions)    km    (millions)
                1994       n/a        n/a      n/a        n/a        5,246           n/a             0        0.00      18        0.36       18       0.36     0.3%        n/a
                1995       n/a       9.49      n/a       11.73       3,781         21.22  159                 0.57     138        2.17     297        2.74     7.3%    11.4%
                1996       n/a       8.43      n/a       10.22       3,900         18.65  226                 1.10     117        1.91     343        3.01     8.1%    13.9%
                1997       n/a     10.54       n/a        9.85       4,707         20.39            17        0.25      66        1.26       83       1.50     1.7%      6.9%
                1998    3,397        8.66     523         6.00       3,919         14.66            19        0.14       6        0.70       25       0.83     0.6%      5.4%
                1999    3,164      10.01      662         7.96       3,826         17.96            72        0.25       0        0.00       72       0.25     1.8%      1.3%
                2000    3,614      10.22      379         6.16       3,993         16.38  107                 1.09       0        0.00     107        1.09     2.6%      6.2%
                2001    2,026        6.93     257         4.42       2,284         11.35            27        0.08       0        0.00       27       0.08     1.2%      0.7%
                2002    2,212        6.25     198         2.98       2,504          9.23            22        0.10       0        0.00       22       0.10     0.9%      1.0%

 Urban
                                   Forced Account                        Total                                Contracted                      Total           % Contracted
    Year                   Routine             Periodic                                             Routine             Periodic
                                  $US                 $US                     $US                         $US                 $US                  $US
                       km      (millions)    km    (millions)      km        (millions)  km             (millions)   km     (millions)    km    (millions)    km      $US
                1994       n/a        n/a      n/a        n/a        1,170           n/a             0        0.00       0        0.00        0       0.00     0.0%        n/a
                1995       n/a       6.96      n/a        0.71       1,778          7.66             0        0.00      39        0.96       39       0.96     2.1%    11.1%
                1996       n/a       8.82      n/a        2.98       1,642         11.80             0        0.00      63        3.16       63       3.16     3.7%    21.1%
                1997       n/a       8.80      n/a        0.82       1,550          9.61            22        0.86      35        2.43       58       3.30     3.6%    25.5%
                1998    1,356        7.13     258         3.95       1,615         11.09             0        0.00       0        0.00        0       0.00     0.0%      0.0%
                1999    1,558        6.56     257         2.46       1,814          9.01             0        0.00       0        0.00        0       0.00     0.0%      0.0%
                2000    1,782        7.64     178         2.86       1,960         10.50             0        0.00       0        0.00        0       0.00     0.0%      0.0%
                2001    1,522        6.37     131         2.49       1,653          8.86             0        0.00       0        0.00        0       0.00     0.0%      0.0%
                2002    1,191        4.95     135         1.85       1,234          6.80             0        0.00       0        0.00        0       0.00     0.0%      0.0%

 Total
                                   Forced Account                        Total                                Contracted                      Total           % Contracted
    Year                   Routine             Periodic                                             Routine             Periodic
                                  $US                 $US                     $US                         $US                 $US                  $US                $US
                       km      (millions)    km    (millions)      km        (millions)  km             (millions)   km     (millions)    km    (millions)    km    (millions)
                1994       n/a          9      n/a           5       6,416           14              0        0.00      18        0.36       18       0.36     0.3%      2.6%
                1995       n/a     16.45       n/a       12.44       5,559         28.88  159                 0.57     176        3.12     335        3.70     5.7%    11.3%
                1996       n/a     17.25       n/a       13.19       5,542         30.45  226                 1.10     180        5.08     406        6.18     6.8%    16.9%
                1997       n/a     19.33       n/a       10.67       6,257         30.00            39        1.11     101        3.69     140        4.80     2.2%    13.8%
                1998    4,753      15.80      781         9.95       5,534         25.75            19        0.14       6        0.70       25       0.83     0.4%      3.1%
                1999    4,721      16.56      919        10.41       5,640         26.98            72        0.25       0        0.00       72       0.25     1.3%      0.9%
                2000    5,396      17.87      557         9.02       5,953         26.89  107                 1.09       0        0.00     107        1.09     1.8%      3.9%
                2001    3,549      13.29      388         6.91       3,937         20.20            27        0.08       0        0.00       27       0.08     0.7%      0.4%
                2002    3,404      11.20      333         4.83       3,738         16.03            22        0.10       0        0.00       22       0.10     0.6%      0.6%


                                   Maintenance Expenditure                                                              Length of Network Maintained


               25                                                                                    6,000

               20                                                                                    5,000


               15                                                                                    4,000

    Millions
               10                                                                                    3,000

            $US
                5                                                                         Kilometers 2,000


                0                                                                                    1,000

                   1994 1995     1996    1997 1998  1999    2000     2001   2002                        0
                                                                                                              1994  1995  1996     1997   1998  1999    2000   2001  2002
                      Routine by F.A.                    Periodic by F.A.

                      Routine by Contract                Periodic by Contract                                               Interurban network    Urban network




                                                                                    - 21 -

Annex 1g
Condition of the Network

                                                                            CONCRETE                            ASPHALT                                    UNPAVED
                                                                                 CONCRETE/ASPHALT                      SURFACE                                                       TOTAL
   YEAR                                    CONDITION              CONCRETE                              ASPHALT                                   GRAVEL             DIRT
                                                                                     COVER                             TREATMENT
                                                                 Km      %        Km         %       Km        %      Km               %        Km       %       Km        %      Km       %

                                          GOOD                     369     87%       375        95%     670     84%    1318              52%      684      16%     337      10%     3752    32%
                                          FAIR                      44     10%        19         5%      93     12%               799    31%     2090      50%    1276      37%     4321    37%

     2002                                 BAD                        9      2%         0         0%      36     4%                433    17%     1373      33%    1792      53%     3644    31%
                                          TOTAL                    422    100%       394       100%     800    100%    2550             100%     4147     100%    3405     100%    11717    100%
                                          %NETWORK                  3.6%              3.4%               6.8%                     21.8%           35.4%             29.1%            100.0%

                                          GOOD                     422     87%       343        95%     549     81%    1309              50%      682      16%     264      8%      3569    30%
                                          FAIR                      57     12%        19         5%      93     14%               902    34%     2106      51%    1259      38%     4436    38%

         2001                             BAD                        9      2%         0         0%      36     5%                433    16%     1373      33%    1798      54%     3650    31%
                                          TOTAL                    488    100%       362       100%     678    100%    2644             100%     4162     100%    3321     100%    11654    99%
                                          %NETWORK                  4.2%              3.1%               5.8%                     22.7%           35.7%             28.5%            100.0%

                                          GOOD                     422     87%       343        95%     549     81%    1309              50%      682      16%     264      8%      3569    31%
                                          FAIR                      57     12%        19         5%      93     14%               902    34%     2106      51%    1259      38%     4436    38%

             2000                         BAD                        9      2%         0         0%      36     5%                433    16%     1373      33%    1798      54%     3650    31%
                                          TOTAL                    488    100%       362       100%     678    100%    2644             100%     4162     100%    3321     100%    11654    100%
                                          %NETWORK                  4.2%              3.1%               5.8%                     22.7%           35.7%             28.5%            100.0%

                                          GOOD                     340     68%       318        91%     381     74%               893    33%      417      10%     193      6%      2541    22%
                                          FAIR                     151     30%        31         9%     120     23%    1148              42%     1859      44%     994      30%     4303    37%

                 1999                     BAD                       10      2%         0         0%      13     3%                677    25%     1926      46%    2124      64%     4749    41%
                                          TOTAL                    501    100%       349       100%     514    100%    2717             100%     4202     100%    3311     100%    11593    100%
                                          %NETWORK                  4.3%              3.0%               4.4%                     23.4%           36.2%             28.6%            100.0%

                                          GOOD                     474     89%       296        94%     372     82%    1288              50%      748      17%     274      9%      3452    30%
                                          FAIR                      32      6%        19         6%      73     16%               855    33%     2222      52%    1303      41%     4504    40%

                     1998                 BAD                       29      5%         0         0%      10     2%                452    17%     1312      31%    1625      51%     3428    30%
                                          TOTAL                    535    100%       315       100%     455    100%    2595             100%     4282     100%    3202     100%    11384    100%
                                          %NETWORK                  4.7%              2.8%               4.0%                     22.8%           37.6%             28.1%            100.0%

                                          GOOD                     380     63%       144        63%     267     71%    1191              48%      993      23%     451      14%     3427    30%
                                          FAIR                     195     33%        78        34%      95     25%               824    33%     1847      43%    1315      40%     4355    39%

                         1997             BAD                       25      4%         5         2%      14     4%                484    19%     1451      34%    1546      47%     3525    31%
                                          TOTAL                    600    100%       227       100%     377    100%    2500             100%     4290     100%    3313     100%    11307    100%
                                          %NETWORK                  5.3%              2.0%               3.3%                     22.1%           37.9%             29.3%            100.0%

                                          GOOD                     395     62%        97        52%     225     70%    1019              41%      870      20%     451      14%     3058    27%
                                          FAIR                     222     35%        83        45%      81     25%               907    36%     1874      43%    1247      38%     4415    39%

                             1996         BAD                       25      4%         5         3%      14     4%                579    23%     1571      36%    1619      49%     3813    34%
                                          TOTAL                    642    100%       185       100%     320    100%    2505             100%     4315     100%    3317     100%    11285    100%
                                          %NETWORK                  5.7%              1.6%               2.8%                     22.2%           38.2%             29.4%            100.0%

                                          GOOD                     371     57%        78        48%     130     47%               888    35%      892      21%     552      19%     2912    27%
                                          FAIR                     253     39%        81        49%     125     45%    1230              49%     1252      29%    1262      43%     4201    39%

                                 1995     BAD                       22      3%         6         3%      20     7%                415    16%     2124      50%    1091      38%     3677    34%
                                          TOTAL                    645    100%       165       100%     275    100%    2533             100%     4268     100%    2905     100%    10790    100%
                                          %NETWORK                  6.0%              1.5%               2.5%                     23.5%           39.6%             26.9%            100.0%

                                          GOOD                     356     55%        25        15%      83     31%               578    25%      521      13%     246      9%      1809    18%
                                          FAIR                     279     43%       140        85%     153     56%    1364              58%     1893      46%     989      36%     4817    47%

                                     1994 BAD                       10      2%         0         0%      35     13%               417    18%     1696      41%    1536      55%     3694    36%
                                          TOTAL                    645    100%       165       100%     271    100%    2358             100%     4111     100%    2771     100%    10321    100%
                                          %NETWORK                  6.2%              1.6%               2.6%                     22.9%           39.8%             26.8%            100.0%



                                                                    ConditionofUnpavedNetwork                                                 ConditionofPavedNetwork


                                                        4500                                                                      3000
                                                        4000
                                                        3500                                                                      2500

                                                        3000                                                                      2000
                                                        2500
                                                        2000                                                                      1500

                                              Kilometers1500                                                            Kilometers1000
                                                        1000
                                                                                                                                   500
                                                        500
                                                          0                                                                          0
                                                             1994 1995  1996 1997 1998  1999   2000 2001 2002                          1994 1995 1996  1997 1998 1999  2000 2001 2002


                                                                            GOOD     FAIR     BAD                                                    GOOD     FAIR     BAD




                                                                                                          - 22 -

Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing




Annex 2a
Project Cost by Component (estimated at Appraisal)

              Project Cost by Component                 IBRD        IADB         GOP        Total
                                                       US$ million US$ million US$ million
1. CIVIL WORKS
1.1 Interurban roads
   Road Rehabilitation                                   20.26       80.23       26.88     127.37
   Routine Maintenance (pilot project)                   0.50        0.00        49.24      49.74
   Bridge rehabilitation/improvement                     0.00        24.81       3.97       28.78
   Road Signage and Traffic Safety                       1.65        0.00        3.31       4.96
   Rural roads                                           0.00        0.00        3.31       3.31
   Capira-Sajalices                                      8.29        0.00        6.27       14.56
1.2 Urban streets
   Street Rehabilitation                                 7.44        6.62        7.44       21.50
   Routine Maintenance                                   0.00        0.00        9.10       9.10
   Corridors and Traffic Management Schemes              7.55        6.62        16.28      30.45
   Road Signage, signalization and Traffic Safety        2.21        0.00        1.10       3.31
Subtotal                                                 47.90      118.28      126.90     293.08

2. EQUIPMENT
2.1 Signals and Signal System                            0.99        0.00        0.50       1.49
2.2 Vehicles                                             0.11        0.00        0.05       0.16
2.3 Computers and others                                 0.10        0.00        0.25       0.35
Subtotal                                                 1.20        0.00        0.80       2.00

3. CONSULTING SERVICES
3.1 Pre-investment studies and design services           0.70        3.31        4.96       8.97
3.2 Supervision services                                 0.00        0.83        8.27       9.10
3.3 Studies                                              0.00        0.66        0.00       0.66
3.4 Technical assistance                                 4.55        2.44        0.32       7.31
3.5 Training                                             0.25        0.21        0.03       0.49
Subtotal                                                 5.50        7.45        13.50      26.53

BASIC PROJECT COST                                       54.60      125.73      141.28     321.61
Physical Contingencies                                   0.00        12.57       13.48      26.05
Price Contingencies                                      5.40        13.70       14.70      33.80
BASE COST                                                60.00      152.00      169.46     381.46
IDB Financing Costs                                      0.00        28.00       0.43       28.43
Project Costs                                            60.00      180.00      169.89     409.89
Other Investments                                        0.00        10.00      245.00     255.00
TOTAL PROGRAM COSTS                                      60.00      190.00      414.89     664.89




                                                  - 23 -

Annex 2b
Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)

                                                            Procurement Method (1)
     Expenditure Categories                                  Actual/Latest Estimate
                                           LCB             ICB         Other            NBF           Total
1. Civil Works                              62.5           11.0                        297.9          371.4
                                           (45.0)         (8.3)                         (0.0)         (53.3)
2. Equipment                                 1.8                         0.20                           2.0
                                            (1.1)                      (0.10)                          (1.2)
3. Consulting Services                                                    9.8           26.7           36.5
                                                                        (5.5)                          (5.5)
TOTAL                                       64.3           11.0          10.0          324.6          409.9
                                           (46.1)         (8.3)         (5.6)           (0.0)         (60.0)
         (1) Figures in parenthesis are the amounts financed by the Bank loan. All costs include contingencies.




Annex 2c
Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Actual/Latest Estimate) (US$ millions/equivalent)

                                                         Procurement Method (1)
  Expenditure Categories                                  Actual/Latest Estimate
                                         LCB               ICB         Other            NBF           Total
1. Civil Works                           44.6              19.9                        347.4          411.9
                                        (33.5)            (14.3)                        (0.0)         (47.8)
2. Equipment                                               0.6                           4.0            4.6
                                                          (0.5)                         (0.0)          (0.5)
                                                                          7.3           52.4           59.7
3. Consulting Services                                                  (7.2)           (0.0)          (7.2)
TOTAL                                    44.6              20.5           7.3          403.8          476.2
                                        (33.5)            (14.8)        (7.2)           (0.0)         (55.5)
         (1) Figures in parenthesis are the amounts financed by the Bank loan. All costs include contingencies.




                                                         - 24 -

Annex 2d
Project Financing by Component (in US$ million equivalent)

                Component                      Estimates at Appraisal          Actual/Latest Estimate        Percentage of Appraisal
                                          IBRD    IADB          Govt.     IBRD   IADB           Govt.     IBRD IADB          Govt.
                                                           IBRD    IADB                   IBRD      IDB                  IBRD     IDB
1. CIVIL WORKS

1.1 Interurban roads

  Road Rehabilitation                     20.26   80.23     5.06    21.82 21.58  136.34    8.39    132.00 1.06   1.70     1.66    6.04
  Routine Maintenance (pilot project)      0.50             0.13    49.11  0.11            0.03           0.22            0.23

  Bridge rehabilitation / improvement             24.81              3.97

  Road Signage and Traffic Safety          1.65             0.41     2.90  0.31            0.12           0.19            0.29

  Rural roads                                                        3.31

  Capira-Sajalices                         8.29             6.27           7.83            3.04           0.94            0.48

1.2 Urban streets

  Street Rehabilitation                    7.44    6.62     1.86     5.58  5.94   10.23    2.31     67.00 0.80   1.55     1.24   12.00
  Routine Maintenance                                                9.10  2.75            1.07

  Corridors and Traffic Management         7.55    6.62     4.28    12.00
  Schemes
  Road Signage, signalization and Traffic  2.21             0.55     0.55  0.25            0.10           0.11            0.18
  Safety
  Pedestrian Bridge                                                        1.22            0.47

  Widenings and extensions                                                 6.78            2.64

  Intersection improvements                                                0.98            0.38



2. EQUIPMENT

2.1 Signals and Signal System              0.99             0.24     0.26  0.24            0.09           0.24            0.38

2.2 Vehicles                               0.11             0.02     0.03  0.19            0.08           1.73            4.00

2.3 Computers and others                   0.01             0.25           0.07   3.92     0.03           7.00            0.12



3. CONSULTING SERVICES

3.1 Pre-investment studies and design      0.70    3.31              4.96  0.52   0.03              8.00  0.74   0.01             1.61
     services
3.2 Supervision services                   5.40    0.83              8.27  3.13   1.51              12.00 0.58   1.82             1.45

3.3 Studies                                        0.66                           0.36                           0.55

3.4 Technical assistance                   4.55    2.44              0.32  3.52   0.14                    0.77   0.06

3.5 Training                               0.25    0.21              0.03  0.02   0.42                    0.08   2.00



4. OTHER

4.1. Contingencies and Financial Costs     0.50    54.2             28.61         27.05             3.00         0.50             0.10



TOTAL                                     60.00  180.00     19.07  150.82 55.45  180.00   18.77    222.00 0.92   1.00     0.98    1.47




                                                              - 25 -

Annex 2e
Program Financing (in US$ million equivalent):

                       Estimated             %           Actual    %
IBRD                     60.00               15          55.45     12
IADB                    180.00               44          180.00    38
Government              169.89               41          240.77    50
TOTAL                   409.89               100         476.22    100




Project Financing (in US$ million equivalent)

                       Estimated             %           Actual    %
IBRD                     60.0                76          55.45     75
Government               19.07               24          18.77     25
TOTAL                    79.07               100         74.22     100




                                                - 26 -

Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits


        Component                   SAR Estimate             Actual
                              Costs   NPV      IERR   Costs  NPV     IERR
                              US$      US$            US$    US$
                              million million        million million
 A. Road Improvements
 Concepción ­ Volcán          4.95    12.09     52.4  4.79   7.62    22.4
 Volcán ­ Cerro Punta         6.69     3.51     24.8  6.21   1.98    15.4
 San Miguelito ­ Villa Zaíta  2.77    34.69    139.3  2.77   14.66   52.0
 Río Chagres ­ Río Gatún      5.36    40.31    101.8  5.11   60.77   76.5
 Capira - Sajalices           11.5      9.2    19.61  10.87  17.45   29.9




                                              - 27 -

Annex 4. Bank Inputs

(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                No. of Persons and Specialty             Performance Rating
                                     (e.g. 2 Economists, 1 FMS, etc.)     Implementation Development
                   Month/Year  Count           Specialty                    Progress       Objective

 Identification/Preparation
              03/24/1993                2    MISSION LEADER. (1);
                                             URBAN TRANSPORT ENG. 1)

 Appraisal/Negotiation
              07/28/1993                2    MISSION LEADER. (1);
                                             URBAN TRANSPORT
                                             ENG.(1)

 Supervision

              04/20/1994                4    URBAN TRANSPORT ENG.              1               1
                                             (1);
                                             TRANSP/ENVIRON.ECONOM.
                                             (1); PRINCIPAL
                                             ENG.SPECIAL. (1);
                                             TRANSP.PLANNER/TRAIN.
                                             (1)
              08/10/1994                2    URBAN TRANSPORT ENG.              S              HS
                                             (1); PRINCIPAL TRS. SPEC. (1)
              12/21/1994                2    URBAN TRANSPORT ENG.              S               S
                                             (1); PRINCIPAL TRANSPORT
                                             (1)
              04/28/1995                3    URBAN TRANSPORT ENG.              S               S
                                             (1);
                                             TRANSP/ENVIRON.EXPERT
                                             (1); PRINCIPAL TRANSPORT
                                             (1)
              09/29/1995                2    TRANSP/ENVIRON.EXPERT             S               S
                                             (1); PRINCIPAL
                                             TRANSP.SPEC. (1)
              07/17/1996                1    TRANSPORT SPECIALIST (1)          S               S
              10/08/1996                2    SECTOR LEADER (1);                S               S
                                             TRANSPORT SPECIALIST (1)
              04/15/1997                1    TRANSPORT ENGINEER/ECO            S               S
                                             (1)
              08/05/1997                1    TRANSPORT SPECIALIST (1)          S               S
              10/27/1997                2    ENGINEER (1); TRANSPORT           S               S
                                             ECONOMIST (1)
              05/17/1998                1    TRANSPORT ENGINEER/ECO            S               S
                                             (1)
              09/30/1998                3    HIGHWAY ENGINEER (1);             S               S
                                             TRANSPORT ECONOMIST (1);
                                             HDM SPECIALIST (1)
              03/02/1999                1    ENGINEER/ECONOMIST (1)            S               S
              11/05/1999                1    TRANSPORT SPECIALIST (1)          S               S




                                              - 28 -

               11/05/1999              3   TEAM LEADER (1); FIN               S    S
                                           MNGT SPECIALIST (1);
                                           ECONOMIST (1)
               11/05/1999              2   TEAM LEADER (1);                   S    S
                                           FINANCIAL SPECIALIST (1)
               05/01/2001              2   TEAM LEADER (1); SOCIAL            S    S
                                           SPECIALIST (1)
               11/16/2001              4   TASK MANAGER (1);                  S    S
                                           FINANCIAL MGT (1);
                                           TRAFFIC SPECIALIST (1);
                                           PROCUREMENT ASS'T (1)
               11/16/2002              4   TEAM LEADER (1); SOCIAL            S    S
                                           SPECIALIST (1);
                                           SOCIOLOGIST (1);
                                           FINANCIAL SPECIALIST (1)
               09/25/2003              3   TASK MANAGER (1);                  S    S
                                           ACCOUNTANT (1); SOCIAL
                                           SPECIALIST (1)


 ICR
               03/02/2004             2     TRANSPORT SPECIALIST              S    S
                                            (1); CONSULTANT (1)



(b) Staff:

       Stage of Project Cycle                Actual/Latest Estimate
                                 No. Staff weeks                 US$ ('000)
  Identification/Preparation            41.9                         119.5
  Appraisal/Negotiation                 31.2                           87.7
  Supervision                          145.5                         659.5
  ICR                                   8.35                         59.71
  Total                                227.0                        926.41




                                            - 29 -

Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components

(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
                                          Rating
  Macro policies                        H        SU    M       N    NA
  Sector Policies                       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Physical                              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Financial                             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Institutional Development             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Environmental                         H        SU    M       N    NA

Social
           Poverty Reduction            H        SU    M       N    NA
           Gender                       H        SU    M       N    NA
           Other (Please specify)       H        SU    M       N    NA
        Indigenous Peoples
Development Plan
  Private sector development            H        SU    M       N    NA
  Public sector management              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Other (Please specify)                H        SU    M       N    NA




                                                    - 30 -

Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)


6.1 Bank performance                           Rating

   Lending                                       HS     S     U       HU
   Supervision                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU
Marginally Satisfactory
6.2 Borrower performance                       Rating

   Preparation                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Government implementation performance         HS     S     U       HU
   Implementation agency performance             HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU




                                                    - 31 -

Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents


 l Project Supervision Reports 1994 ­ 2003


 l Amendment to the Loan Agreement 1999


 l Amendment to the Loan Agreement 2002


 l Project Files




                                          - 32 -

Additional Annex 8. Project Evaluation by Borrower


                                       REPÚBLICA DE PANAMA
                                 MINISTERIO DE OBRAS PÚBLICAS
                                     PRÉSTAMO 3686 ­ PAN BIRF

                       INFORME DE CIERRE DE LA IMPLEMENTACION DEL
                  PROYECTO DE REHABILITACIÓN Y ADMINISTRACION VIAL

                                              ENERO, 2004

1. Evaluación del Diseño y del Desarrollo de los Objetivos

1.1. Componente de Rehabilitación y Administración Vial

Las obras y acciones en esta área perseguían los siguientes resultados:

   l Reducir los costos de trasporte mediante la rehabilitación y el mejoramiento de la infraestructura
        vial que haya superado su vida útil o se encuentre en riesgo de perderse adecuándola para permitir
        capacidad, seguridad y eficiencia en el tránsito.

   l Aumentar la eficiencia y productividad del mantenimiento a través de la participación del sector
        privado en las actividades de rehabilitación, mantenimiento periódico y rutinario y supervisión de
        obras.

   l Reducir el problema de congestión e inseguridad vial, a través de mejoramiento en sectores críticos
        de la red, que incluyen la ampliación de algunos tramos, la mejora de ciertas intersecciones y la
        dotación o complementación de señalización, semaforización y la aplicación de medidas de
        administración del tránsito destinadas a mejorar la eficiencia y seguridad para peatones, vehículos
        de carga y de pasajeros que utilizan la infraestructura vial.

Este componente dentro del Programa de Rehabilitación Vial comprendió inversiones para el desarrollo vial
urbano e interurbano, mediante obras de rehabilitación, mejoramiento y mantenimiento de la red vial
pavimentada y revestida y caminos de producción, obra de rehabilitación, ensanche y mejoras de vías
urbanas, pasos elevados y peatonales, y semaforización y regulación del tráfico urbano.

a. Vías urbanas
El componente de Desarrollo Urbano tenía como objetivos (i) mantener, rehabilitar y mejorar la
infraestructura vial urbana de la Ciudad de Panamá y otras ciudades del interior del país, (ii) mejorar la
eficiencia del movimiento de personas y cargas en el medio urbano, mediante el uso de medidas de
administración del tránsito de bajo costo y alta rentabilidad, (iii) mejorar la seguridad del tránsito; (iv)
apoyar la participación del sector privado en el mantenimiento vial; y (v) apoyar la modernización de la
administración vial y la planificación del desarrollo vial urbano; y diseñar e implementar gradualmente
reformas de política institucional, financiera, operativa, legal y regulatoria en el sector de transporte
urbano. Originalmente se tenía previsto un 45% del costo del proyecto. Comprende: Rehabilitación Vial,
Mantenimiento Periódico, Mantenimiento Rutinario, Ensanche de Calles Urbanas, Mejoras a
Intersecciones, Puentes Carreteros y Peatonales, Señalización y Semáforos y Seguridad Vial.



                                                    - 33 -

b. Vías interurbanas
El componente interurbano del Programa tenía como objetivos: (i) reducir los costos del transporte
mediante la rehabilitación y mejora de la infraestructura vial que haya superado su vida útil o se encuentre
en riesgo de perderse; (ii) promover la participación del sector privado en las actividades de mantenimiento
y rehabilitación vial, supervisión de obras y gestión de algunas vías mediante concesión, y (iii) resolver el
problema de congestión y seguridad vial, a través de mejoras en sectores definidos y críticos de la red, la
mejora de ciertas intersecciones y la dotación de señalización vial. Originalmente se tenía previsto un 45%
del costo del proyecto. Comprende: Rehabilitación Vial, Mantenimiento Periódico, Mantenimiento
Rutinario, Puentes carreteros y peatonales, Señalización, seguridad vial y Caminos rurales.

c. Fortalecimiento institucional y reformas políticas
Las metas de las acciones para fortalecimiento institucional del MOP fueron:

   l Racionalizar la estructura actual del MOP, con base en un plan acordado para racionalizar
        recursos humanos y materiales de mantenimiento; y privilegiar las actividades normativas,
        planificadores y de fiscalización.

   l Dar cumplimiento a la Ley de pesos y dimensiones vigente, estableciendo un control efectivo para
        limitar el peso de la carga de los vehículos circulando la red vial.

   l Fortalecer la unidad ambiental del MOP para realizar un control efectivo del impacto ambiental de
        las obras de infraestructura vial; y

   l Capacitar al personal de las diversas unidades del MOP, incluyendo las áreas administrativas de
        pavimentos y del mantenimiento, conteos de tráfico, privatización del mantenimiento rutinario vial,
        planeación del transporte, ingeniería de tránsito y sistemas de administración del transito,
        seguridad vial, supervisión de la industria del transporte y adquisiciones.

   l Contratación de consultores para análisis de los sistemas de contratación de mantenimiento,
        normas de diseño vial, control de cargas y planeación del transporte, y apoyo a la administración y
        acciones del programa.

2. Logro de los Objetivos y Rendimientos

2.1. Resultado y Logro de los Objetivos

Los resultado y logros obtenidos mediante la implementación de este programa son satisfactorios ya que se
logró ejecutar un 96% de la totalidad del préstamo, aunque en un periodo de tiempo mas largo al indicado
en la propuesta inicial de los objetivos del programa.

El programa tiene un porcentaje de avance físico del 96% y hasta la fecha se han contratado obras,
adquirido bienes y contratado servicios por un monto de 74.22 millones de balboas. De este monto
contratado se ha pagado 72.58 millones de balboas de los cuales 54.7 millones corresponden a fondos del
préstamo, y representaron un desembolso de 91% del mismo, y la diferencia, 18.32 millones de balboas se
han pagado con fondos locales. Con esta inversión se han atendido un total de 508.68 kms de la Red Vial
Nacional.




                                                    - 34 -

2.2. Resultados por Componentes

a. Componente de Rehabilitación y Administración Vial

Subcomponente Desarrollo Urbano
Durante la implementación del Programa de Rehabilitación Vial se realizaron dentro del subcomponente de
desarrollo urbano un total de cuarenta y tres (43) proyectos viales. Entre las que podemos mencionar obras
tales como: la Ampliación de las Avenidas José A. Arango, José M. Torrijos, 3 de Noviembre; el
Mejoramiento de 4 intersecciones; la Construcción de siete (7) Pasos peatonales, cinco de ellos terminados
(Beckman, Lajas, Juan Díaz, San Pedro No 1 y Súper X-tra), dos más en construcción (en la vía José
Agustín Arango y en la vía Domingo Díaz frente UTP-Tocumen); la Rehabilitación de Calles en Centros
Urbanos tales como: Santiago, Boquete, Puerto Armuelles, Chitré, Penonomé, Panamá, Colón,               etc.
También se han ejecutado proyectos de Mantenimiento Periódico en Chorrera, Arraijan, Pedregal, Juan
Díaz, Ancón, Río Abajo,        etc. y obras de señalización vial en las ciudades de Panamá y Colón,
rehabilitando así 273.36 kms de la red vial urbana. A continuación detallamos los resultados por categoría:

    l Rehabilitación vial: Dentro de la red vial urbana, 118.78 Km. fueron rehabilitados en diferentes
         ciudades importantes del país, mediante la ejecución de 18 proyectos realizados durante el periodo
         1994 al 2003.

    l Mantenimiento periódico: Se ejecutaron diez (10) proyectos de mantenimiento para 77.83 Km. de
         la red vial urbana.

    l Ensanche de calles urbanas: Se llevaron a cabo tres (3) proyectos con un total de 8.10 kms de
         ensanche dentro de la Ciudad de Panamá.

    l Mejoras a intersecciones: Se realizaron cuatro (4) proyectos para la mejora de intersecciones
         dentro de la Ciudad de Panamá.

    l Puentes carreteros y peatonales: Se logró construir y finalizar siete (7) pasos peatonales para
         beneficio de comunidades y escuelas en la ciudad de Panamá y Colón.

    l Señalización y semáforos: Se completó un proyecto de señalización para servir a 49.09 Km. de la
         red vial urbana.

    l Programa piloto de mantenimiento rutinario: Se terminaron dos (2) proyectos mediante la
         implementación del programas de mantenimiento piloto, efectuando así mantenimiento a 18.75 kms
         de la red vial urbana.

Subcomponente Vías Interurbanas
Las obras interurbanas incluyen nueve (9) proyectos de Rehabilitación y Ensanche de carreteras tales
como: Capira ­ Sajalices, San Carlos - Río Hato, Río Hato ­ Antón, Carretera Transístmica Tramos San
Miguelito ­ Villa Zaíta y Puente Río Chagres ­ Puente Río Gatún, Concepción ­ Volcán, Volcán ­ Cerro
Punta y Soná ­ Guarumal ­ El Tigre de San Lorenzo. Además se desarrollaron obras de señalización vial
y actividades de mantenimiento rutinario a través de un Programa Piloto, rehabilitando así 235.32 kms de
la red interurbana. A continuación detallamos los logros y resultados obtenidos por categoría:

    l Rehabilitación vial: Se logró finalizar la rehabilitación de 182.38 Kms de la red vial interurbana




                                                   - 35 -

        mediante la ejecución de ocho (8) proyectos durante el periodo de 1995 al 2003.

   l Señalización y seguridad vial: Se ejecutó un solo proyecto de señalización en el área interurbana
        para servir a 42.84 Km. de la red vial interurbana.

b. Componente de Fortalecimiento Institucional
Dentro del componente de Fortalecimiento Institucional se han contratado servicios por un monto de 4.21
millones de balboas, de los cuales 0.52 millones han sido en estudios, 3.6 millones en asistencias técnicas y
0.2 millones en capacitación.

Entre las consultorías más importantes están la Planificación del Transporte Urbano Fase I y II, el Estudio
de Seguridad Vial y Tránsito e identificación de Sitios Peligrosos, Alternativas para el Financiamiento del
Mantenimiento, la Campaña de Seguridad Vial y la Actualización del Inventario y Condición de Red Vial
Interurbana, Aforo de Tránsito y Sistema de Administración Vial.

Adicionalmente se realizó la adquisición de bienes mediante una inversión de 0.69 millones de balboas en la
compra de equipos para diferentes direcciones del Ministerio de Obras Públicas como son Dirección
Nacional de Mantenimiento (DINAMAN), la Unidad Especial Coordinadora (UECP), la Unidad Ambiental
del MOP, Dirección Nacional de Tránsito y Transporte Terrestre (DINATRATE) ahora Autoridad de
Tránsito y Transporte Terrestre (ATTT) y para el Ministerio de Gobierno y Justicia (Policía de Tránsito).

Se adquirieron principalmente equipos computacionales, vehículos, radares, motos, kit de primeros
auxilios, etc. En el caso de la Unidad Ambiental del MOP se han adquirido vehículos y equipos de
monitoreo de calidad del aire, agua, medidores de ruido, cámaras fotográficas digitales, filmadoras, etc.
Este equipo se ha distribuido en las tres oficinas de la Unidad Ambiental: Panamá, Herrera y Chiriquí.

Al mismo tiempo se licitaron servicios de Inspección y Supervisión de Obras (11 en total) por un monto de
3.13 millones de balboas.

A continuación le detallamos por categoría los resultados obtenidos mediante la implementación de este
programa dentro de este componente:

   l Estudios: Se realizaron tres (3) estudios por el monto de 0.5 millones de balboas durante el periodo
        de vigencia de implementación del préstamo.

   l Asistencias Técnicas: Se efectuaron aproximadamente veintitrés (23) proyectos de asistencia
        técnica por el monto de 3.6 millones de balboas. Estos proyectos estaban enfocados en apoyar las
        diferentes Direcciones del Ministerio mediante evaluaciones, sistematizaciones, consultorías,
        asesorías y servicios en las áreas de transporte, mantenimiento, seguridad vial, impacto ambiental,
        auditorias y contabilidad.

   l Capacitación: Se logró realizar mediante este préstamo capacitaciones locales y en el extranjero
        enfocadas principalmente en temas de rehabilitación y mantenimiento de vías. Se financió un total
        de cuarenta y cinco (45) capacitaciones durante el periodo de vigencia de implementación del
        préstamo, por el monto de 0.2 millones de balboas.

   l Inspección y supervisión de obras: Se contrató la inspección y supervisión privada de once (11)
        proyectos viales urbanos e interurbanos por un monto de 3.13 millones de balboas.




                                                     - 36 -

3. Valor presente neto / Tasa de Retorno Económica

Para el cierre del proyecto, se efectúo una revisión de cinco proyectos, los cuales fueron financiados con
fondos del Banco Mundial (BIRF), a los cuales se les realizó un estudio de factibilidad económica antes de
ser llevado a cabo y comprobar si las hipótesis planteadas en el momento del estudio son válidas, o dicho
de otro modo después de terminada la obra se han logrado los beneficios esperados.

El análisis económico se realizó con la ayuda del modelo HDM-III; obteniéndose buenos indicadores de
rentabilidad. Los resultados obtenidos en el presente estudio nos muestran claramente que las
rehabilitaciones de estas carreteras, las cuales fueron llevados a cabo en años anteriores, han cumplido su
objetivo.

La ejecución de un proyecto de rehabilitación trae consigo la disminución de los costos de transporte, el
tiempo de recorrido, reducción de los accidentes de tráfico y el mejoramiento en la seguridad de los
usuarios. Evidentemente todos estos beneficios contribuyen con el mejoramiento del nivel de vida y
desarrollo de la región.

Se identificaron los proyectos de mayor relevancia en el país, los cuales se les había realizado un estudio de
factibilidad económica con el modelo HDM-III en su etapa de planificación, para que la comparación
fuese óptima. Los proyectos seleccionados son los siguientes: (i) Carretera Concepción ­ Volcán; (ii)
Carretera Volcán - Cerro Punta; (iii) San Miguelito ­ Villa Zaíta; (iv) Río Chagres ­ Río Gatún; y (v)
Capira ­ Sajalices.

Para la evaluación económica de este grupo de proyectos se utilizó el Modelo HDM-III, para así hacer una
comparación de los beneficios generados por este proyecto al día de hoy.

Se utilizaron datos generados por el Inventario Vial desarrollado por la empresa TNM (Technology and
Management), al igual que los datos de aforos del año 2002 realizados por esta misma empresa.

Luego se procedió a realizar una corrida con el modelo HDM-III con los datos de la carretera en su
condición actual y comparados con la política de rehabilitación con la que se rehabilitó el camino. Los
resultados obtenidos se muestran en las tablas anexadas para cada uno de los proyectos seleccionados. (ver
anexos)

a. Resultados económicos
Los indicadores de rentabilidad económica tales como el Valor Presente Neto (VPN), la Tasa Interna de
Retorno (TIR) de los beneficios después de haber recuperado la inversión inicial descontados al 12%,
obtenidos para cada uno de los proyectos analizados, están basados en los flujos económicos de los costos
y los beneficios netos mostrados en las tablas resúmenes.

Valor Presente Neto
El valor presente Neto es la actualización de los flujos de costos y beneficios del proyecto para todo el
período de análisis. La tasa de descuento corresponde al costo de oportunidad de capital que ha sido
considerado en 12%.




                                                     - 37 -

Tasa Interna de Retorno
La tasa interna de retorno se define como aquella tasa de descuento que anula el valor presente neto, siendo
rentables aquellos proyectos cuyo TIR sea mayor que el costo de oportunidad, que para este proyecto se
considera 12%.

b. Comparación de los resultados económicos
La siguiente tabla nos muestra una comparación de los indicadores económicos arrojados por el estudio de
factibilidad económica antes de realizarse la obra y los mismos después de realizada la obra.


                                        TIR              TIR                VAN                       VAN
       Nombre del Proyecto            (antes del     (después del   (antes del Proyecto)     (después del Proyecto)
                                    proyecto) %      proyecto) %     en millones de B/.        en millones de B/.
Concepción ­ Volcán                     52.40            22.4               12.09                     7.62
Volcán ­ Cerro Punta                    24.8             15.4               3.51                      1.98
San Miguelito ­ Villa Zaíta             139.3            52.0               34.69                     14.66
Río Chagres ­ Río Gatún                 101.8            76.5               40.31                     60.77
Capira - Sajalices                      19.61            29.9                9.2                      17.45



4. Impacto en el Desarrollo Institucional

Mediante la eficiente utilización de los recursos destinados para el Fortalecimiento Institucional, el
Ministerio de Obras Públicas logró capacitar al personal en diversas áreas como son la Administración
Vial, el Mantenimiento de Vías, Uso del Modelo HDM-IV, Instalación y uso de paquetes computacionales
para el área contable y en el manejo de algunos programas de informática. Adicionalmente se logró
adquirir equipos computacionales, software y vehículos para equipar a las diferentes Direcciones del MOP
con nueva tecnología para un mejor desempeño laboral e institucional.

Se proporcionó mayor seguridad vial mediante la adquisición de equipos para la policía de tránsito como
son radares, radios y motocicletas. Además de la contratación de un estudio de sitios peligrosos con su
respectiva recomendaciones.

Se capacitaron funcionarios de la Dirección de Tránsito y Transporte Terrestre (DINATRATE), hoy en día
Autoridad del Tránsito y Transporte Terrestre (ATTT), durante la ejecución de la asistencia técnica de
Planificación del Transporte Urbano de la Ciudad de Panamá.

5. Principales Factores que Afectaron la Implementación y Resultados

A continuación le mencionamos los factores que consideramos afectaron en gran parte la ejecución total de
este programa:

5.1. Factores fuera del Control del Gobierno

   l Durante la implementación de este préstamo se efectuaron importantes cambios políticos en el país.
         En el año 1994, exactamente después de la firma del Convenio de Préstamo, se efectuaron
         elecciones nacionales en el país, y en consecuencia inició una nueva         administración en el
         Ministerio de Obras Públicas diferente a la que suscribió el Convenio, la cual estableció sus
         propias estrategias y prioridades, dentro de las cuales procuraron adaptar el convenio



                                                    - 38 -

        recientemente suscrito con el Banco, e iniciando un proceso de adaptación y aprendizaje de los
        procedimientos, normativas y políticas del Banco. Similar proceso aconteció en el 1999, cuando
        nuevamente se efectuaron elecciones nacionales y en consecuencia inició una nueva administración
        en el Ministerio de Obras Públicas.

   l Durante la vigencia del Convenio hubo cambios en los procedimientos del Banco y en sus políticas,
        así como también de las autoridades que manejaban el convenio, lo cual implicaba un proceso de
        actualización por parte del Ministerio de los nuevos requerimientos del Banco.

   l Con la aprobación del Banco, se realizaron en el año 2003 un total de 18 Licitaciones Públicas
        para la contratación de la rehabilitación de calles en centros urbanos del país por un monto
        aproximado de 4.3 millones de dólares, los cuales serían financiados con los remanentes del
        préstamo; no obstante, la negación de la solicitud de prorroga elevada al Banco hizo imposible que
        estos proyectos entraran bajo el convenio. Los referidos actos públicos ya se habían realizado, y
        estaban finalizando sus trámites de adjudicación.

   l Adicionalmente, durante la vigencia del Convenio hubo diversos fenómenos de la naturaleza que
        afectaron el país con fuertes lluvias, extendiendo la estación de invierno en nuestro país, lo que
        ocasionó que los proyectos mantuviesen un ritmo de avance por debajo de lo proyectado.

   l Por varios años, durante la ejecución del Convenio, el manejo de la documentación relativa a la
        contratación de obras y servicios era remitida al Banco físicamente, las veces que se requiriese
        hasta su aprobación, lo cual dilataba el proceso. Con la implementación masiva del internet en
        nuestro país, se solucionó este factor.

   l La conducta administrativa y procesal de los proponentes en los actos públicos, de utilizar
        indiscriminadamente los recursos que la Ley les ofrece para impedir la adjudicación de un acto
        público, en el cual no han salido seleccionados.



5.2. Factores Sujetos al Control del Gobierno

   l La falta de una iniciativa legislativa que simplifique los procedimientos de contrataciones públicas,
        basados en la experiencia poco eficaz de la normativa que existe en el país en esta materia.

   l La falta de Programación y Planificación Nacional a mediano y largo plazo que permita alcanzar
        objetivos nacionales en materia de infraestructura vial, indistintamente del cambio administrativo
        que acontece cada quinquenio.

   l La falta de Coordinación Interinstitucional que se ha dado en algunos periodos de la vigencia del
        Convenio entre instancias que esencialmente deben colaborar mancomunadamente como por
        ejemplo: entre el organismo ejecutor (Ministerio de Obras Públicas) y el ente contratante frente al
        Banco (Ministerio de Economía y Finanzas).

   l Las elecciones gubernamentales de los años 1994 y 1998 produjeron cambios en los puestos
        directivos de la Unidad Coordinadora y en otras direcciones en todo el Ministerio, lo que implicó
        un periodo de adaptación y capacitación del nuevo personal a los procedimientos del




                                                    - 39 -

Banco para el financiamiento y desembolso de fondos para los proyectos, lo que trajo como consecuencia
una demora en la ejecución del programa.

5.3. Factores Sujetos al Control Institucional

   l En el año 1994, el Ministerio adelantó un proceso de selección para la contratación del Proyecto de
        Semaforización de la Ciudad de Panamá el cual no finalizó exitosamente, siendo retomada la
        tramitación posteriormente en 1998. Acontecido el cambio de Administración en 1999, por las
        elecciones nacionales, las nuevas autoridades solicitaron una prórroga al Banco para ejecutar el
        Proyecto de Semaforización. El proyecto debía ser ejecutado por la Dirección Nacional de Tránsito
        y Transporte Terrestre del Ministerio; no obstante en el año 2000 dicha dependencia se convirtió
        en la Autoridad de Tránsito y Transporte Terrestre y dejó de formar parte de la institución, no
        logrando presentar al Banco los documentos requeridos para seguir adelante con el Proyecto, en el
        plazo concedido para estos efectos.

   l Se experimentó dificultad en el flujo de fondos del programa debido a los complejos
        procedimientos administrativos para la asignación de partidas presupuestarias para los diferentes
        proyectos, así como la insuficiencia de recursos para la contrapartida local.

   l Las numerosas solicitudes y reclamos presentados por las contratistas y proveedores del
        Ministerio, solicitando modificaciones a sus contratos, tanto en sus cuantías como en los periodos
        de ejecución de las obras o de entrega de los bienes, lo cual dilata la ejecución de los proyectos en
        espera de la decisión institucional de cada solicitud de reclamo.

   l La falta de estabilidad laboral del personal técnico que inspecciona los proyectos viales, lo cual
        merma la solidez y contundencia de sus informes o pronunciamientos al demandar de los
        contratistas el cumplimiento de lo establecido en los contratos de obra.

   l La modificación del organigrama del Ministerio, a fin de nuevamente colocar a la Unidad Especial
        Coordinadora (UECP) bajo la dependencia del Despacho Superior, y no como subordinada a la
        Dirección de Planificación Financiera y Presupuesto (DIPRODI).



5.4. Factores Sujetos al Control de la Agencia de Implementación

   l La falta de apoyo y coordinación entre la Unidad Especial Coordinadora (UECP) y las restantes
        direcciones que guardan relación con la ejecución de proyectos:          Mantenimiento, Inspección,
        Estudios y Diseños, Contratos, Presupuestos y Contabilidad, en algunos periodos de la vigencia del
        Convenio.

   l Promover el acercamiento permanente y directo con el Despacho Superior, a fin de contar con su
        aval en las diversas decisiones administrativas que se adopten en el ejercicio de las funciones de la
        Unidad Especial Coordinadora (UECP).

   l La falta de capacitación y entrenamiento del personal de la Unidad Especial Coordinadora (UECP)
        para efectos de promover su permanente actualización de conocimientos y motivarles en el ejercicio
        diario de las funciones, así como también la adaptación de las infraestructuras de la Unidad acorde
        con sus funciones.




                                                    - 40 -

6. Sostenibilidad

La sostenibilidad del proyecto se considera "muy probable", debido a los programas existentes de
mantenimiento de carreteras en el país, en los que ha sido primordial la planificación apropiada de la
inversión de los recursos asignados para este fin y la prevención del deterioro de las obras realizadas.
Adicionalmente, contamos con programas de financiamiento en los que los contratos de las obras incluyen
el mantenimiento del proyecto por un periodo de cinco (5) años como parte del contrato y consideramos que
esta iniciativa es una herramienta eficaz para la sostenibilidad de los proyectos.

7. Actuación del Banco y del Prestatario

7.1. Actuación del Banco

a. Prestando asistencia en la preparación del Proyecto
Consideramos satisfactoria la asistencia del Banco en la preparación del Proyecto. La preparación del
Proyecto fue realizada atendiendo las necesidades prioritarias del sector vial. Adicionalmente,
consideramos que la      decisión de incorporar dentro del programa el componente de Fortalecimiento
Institucional fue acertada ya que se logró mejorar el ambiente laboral al adquirir importantes instrumentos
de trabajo, así como la capacitación pertinente, todo lo cual se refleja en la eficiencia y calidad de los
trabajos realizados en el MOP.

b. Supervisando
Se considera satisfactorio el desempeño del Banco en la supervisión del préstamo. A través de los años de
ejecución de programa se realizaron varias misiones de supervisión que fueron programadas
simultáneamente entre el MOP y el Banco, y en las cuales se organizaban giras técnicas a los diferentes
proyectos, visitas a las diferentes instancias gubernamentales y reuniones para solventar problemas y
aclarar incertidumbres relacionadas a los procedimientos tanto del Banco como del Ministerio de Obras
Públicas para el financiamiento, contratación y ejecución de los proyectos. Adicionalmente se supervisaba
el avance financiero del Programa, incluso con el apoyo de consultores del Banco que analizaban
detalladamente los registros contables llevados en la Unidad Especial Coordinadora.

c. Actuación global del Banco
Se considera la actuación global del Banco satisfactoria en todas las etapas del programa. Consideramos
que la administración, supervisión, asesoramiento y comunicación continua con la Unidad Coordinadora
del Programa fue el indicado para lograr cumplir con gran parte de los objetivos del préstamo, dando
solución a las necesidades de diferentes sectores del país y logrando así rehabilitar y mejorar gran parte de
la red vial principal.

7.2. Actuación del Prestatario

a. En la preparación del Proyecto
Consideramos la participación del Prestatario en la preparación del proyecto satisfactoria. Los objetivos
principales del préstamo estaban de acuerdo a las necesidades existentes en el país, claramente
especificadas y sustentadas al Banco. Se estimó la inversión necesaria para atender los mismas y se
elaboraron los objetivos, metas y resultados a esperar del Convenio en atención a esto.

b. Actuación del gobierno en la implementación del Proyecto
Calificamos la actuación del Gobierno en la implementación del Proyecto como satisfactoria, considerando


                                                    - 41 -

que durante la vigencia del Convenio hubo dos elecciones nacionales que implicaron un cambio de las
personas que regentan los destinos de país, tanto en el Órgano Ejecutivo y Legislativo, como en el resto de
las dependencias gubernamentales. Esta alternabilidad del poder, bajo las circunstancias históricas vividas
hace escasos años en nuestro país, representa un factor positivo y de alto valor: el respeto de los principios
democráticos garantizados mediante un proceso electoral transparente.

c. Agencia de implementación
La actuación de la agencia de implementación en este caso la Unidad Especial Coordinadora (UECP) se
considera satisfactoria. La supervisión, administración, coordinación y manejo del programa llevado a
cabo por la UECP y la comunicación eficaz con las agencias involucradas en la ejecución de las obras fue
fundamental para el logro de los objetivos del Convenio.

d. Actuación global del prestatario
La actuación del prestatario se considera satisfactoria. Se logró realizar en gran parte los objetivos
principales del programa. Las obras ejecutadas con los fondos de este préstamos son obras que promueven
el desarrollo del sector vial y para una mejor calidad del transporte interno en el país.

8. Lecciones Aprendidas

   l La ejecución del convenio aportó un amplio conocimiento y permanente actualización de las
        políticas del Banco, su normativa y procedimientos a nivel institucional, específicamente en la
        Unidad Coordinadora de Programas, con lo cual se hizo más efectivo la preparación de los actos
        públicos, los pliegos de cargos, los estudios ambientales y de factibilidad económica, etc.

   l La eficiente ejecución de un convenio de préstamo está directamente relacionado con el alto nivel
        de coordinación que la unidad ejecutora logre establecer a nivel institucional, (involucrando al
        resto de las Direcciones afines) e interinstitucional (con otros Ministerios y entidades oficiales,
        tales como el Ministerio de Economía y Finanzas, la Contraloría General de la República, y otros),
        de tal manera que el avance físico y financiero del convenio sea un logro del equipo gubernamental
        en beneficio de las comunidades del país.

   l En el esfuerzo de ejecutar el convenio, la unidad ejecutora debe considerar que por la naturaleza de
        la relación contractual y financiera, el Banco se constituye en su primordial colaborador, por lo
        que es imprescindible manejar un alto nivel de comunicación que permita al Banco conocer las
        necesidades e inquietudes actuales de la Institución y, respetando los objetivos del Convenio,
        atender las mismas con la mayor prontitud. Bajo este marco de permanente comunicación se logra
        forjar un equipo (Institución-Banco) comprometido con el logro de los resultados trazados.

   l Se debe elaborar una estrategia nacional de desarrollo de la red vial, que establezca metas a corto,
        mediano y largo plazo, y con la cual se comprometan las diversas instancias de decisión del país,
        de manera que sin distingo de cual administración gobierne el país, se respete dicha estrategia y se
        alcancen los objetivos y metas de la misma.

   l La modernización institucional ha aportado numerosos beneficios en el manejo con los organismos
        de financiamiento, como lo es el manejo electrónico de informaciones y datos que requieren los
        Bancos y permiten avanzar con mayor celeridad en el cumplimiento de los procedimientos. Por
        tanto, debemos apoyar este proceso de modernización y actualización del Ministerio.




                                                    - 42 -

l Debe iniciarse una iniciativa de reforma legislativa para modificar los procedimientos de
  contratación pública en el país, a fin de simplificarlos significativamente, resguardando los
  principios de transparencia, libre concurrencia y competencia.




                                             - 43 -

- 44 -

