Updated Project Information Document (PID)
Report No: AB598
Project Name                MALAWI - Community-Based Rural Land Development Project
Region                      Africa Regional Office
Sector                      General agriculture, fishing and forestry sector (100%)
Theme                       Land management (P); Rural markets (P); Participation and civic engagement (S)
Project                     P075247
Borrower(s)                 GOVERNMENT OF MALAWI
Implementing Agency(ies)    MINISTRY OF LANDS, PHYSICAL PLANNING, AND SURVEYS
Address: Private Bag 31 1, Capital City, Lilongwe, Malawi
Contact Person: Patrick .A. Yasini
Tel: (265-1) 774-766   Fax: (265-1)-774421      Email:
Environment Category        B (Partial Assessment)
Date PID Prepared           January 8, 2004
Auth Appr/Negs Date         December 4, 2003
Bank Approval Date          April 13, 2004
1. Country and Sector Background
Poverty in Malawi is severe and deep: about 60 percent of the population lives below the poverty
line. Agriculture provides 85 percent of employment, but land distribution is sharply unequal, and
overcrowded areas exist next to un- or underused arable land. It is estimated that one third of Malawi's
arable land is underutilized. At the same time, household surveys demonstrate a direct link between
poverty and access to land. Malawi's dualistic agriculture is the result of the history of expropriation of
customary lands in order to establish large farms (as leasehold estates, freehold or state land), combined
with the impact of other market distortions which favored large farmers at the expense of small farmers
(e.g. by imposing restrictions on smallholders to grow cash crops, marketing). These trends have resulted
in an unequal distribution of land, and tenure insecurity for the poor, living on customary land. However,
substantial numbers of large-scale farms are now un or under-utilized due to so-called "estate crisis". The
juxtaposition of unused land on large estates, on the one hand, and overcrowded customary lands, on the
other, is creating localized tensions in certain rural areas. Already, these tensions sometimes express
themselves in encroachments of estates, protected areas, and Govemment-administered lands.
There is a risk that these sentiments and tensions would at some future point find a more organized
political expression, at which time the land issues would be much more difficult to resolve than at the
present time. Currently, the Government is committed to pro-actively undertake properly resourced and
assisted land redistribution and land tenure reforn. It prefers this approach, as opposed to dealing with the
land issues on ad-hoc basis, and often under considerable local political pressure (e.g. by accommodating
squatters and encroachers as part of a negotiated settlements).
Given the development objectives of the project, the following issues are the most relevant:
(a)    Highly unequal distribution of land, land degradation and rural tensions
There are basically four forms of land tenure in Malawi:
* There area some 1.8 million smallholder families (about 10 million people) who live on about 6
million ha of land under "customary" rules of tenure (i.e., land allocated to them by village



2
PID
headmen and traditional authorities). About 60 % of these households cultivate less than one
hectare of land.
*   Some 1.1 million ha. of land belong to approximately 30,000 medium and large "estates"
(mostly tobacco), under leasehold tenure created by Government allocations of customary
lands over the last three to four decades, and ranging in size from 10 ha to over 500 ha.
*   About 34,000 ha. belong to large estates (mostly tea companies in the South, some local, some
foreign) under freehold tenure granted during colonial times.
*    There are about 1.8 million ha. of public lands reserved for parks, urban areas and other
purposes.
Particularly in the southern regions of the country, rural population density is among the highest in
Africa. Combined with extreme poverty, this has led to soil erosion and nutrient depletion. However, in
many regions this acute land scarcity occurs next to abandoned, underutilized or idle lands belonging to
medium and large estates or Government agencies. The resulting rural tensions (often described as
"chronic but subdued") over the unequal distribution of land in many areas are increasing, as reflected in
the recent encroachments of tea estates in the South of the country and some Government-administered
lands in the Center, such as the Kasungu Flue-Cured Tobacco Authority (KFCTA). There is also some
evidence of political manipulation of these tensions which may lead to increased rural violence.
Government has so far handled these challenges through ad-hoc solutions under pressure, but it is
aware that it needs to develop effective and transparent mechanisms for addressing these land imbalances.
The approach proposed under the project is considered one of the most promising approaches for achieving
this goal.
(b)    Land market failure
Malawian rural land markets are constrained by the dualistic nature of its agricultural sector. On
the one hand, there is growing supply of land from the medium and large-scale farm sector. The so-called
"Estate Crisis" is characterized by the collapse of unprofitable, poorly managed tobacco estates due to the
decline in international prices and liberalization of the marketing system in the last half of the 1990s. But
in any given area, there are few buyers, if any. A 1998 study estimated that commercial banks held
unsaleable mortgages of farms covering over 23,000 ha. And, using 1998 data, of the 1.1 million ha.
belonging to medium to large estates, only about 600,000 ha. were under cultivation at the time. Taking
into account that some 200,000 ha. may not be suitable for cultivation, somewhere between 200,000 and
300,000 ha. of good land could be transferred to poor farmers without having any impact on production on
existing commercial farms.
The conversion of customary land into private normally targeted prime land, leaving smallholders
to work on the marginal unproductive land. On the other side of the dual divide, demographic pressure has
been forcing increased subdivision of customary lands, with already low productive potential, to the point
that most rural families in (Southern) Malawi today cannot earn enough income out of agricultural
activities to feed themselves. However, this increasing need for land, mostly for young families, does not
get translated into effective demand due to lack of finance (both for purchase and investments) and related
opportunities to enter into transactions with willing sellers of underutilized estate lands. Moreover, in most
cases failing estates are surrounded by land-starved neighbors.



3
PID
Equity and efficiency can be enhanced if effective and transparent mechanisms are developed to
address this land market failure. High real interest rates (above 30 percent) and the estate crisis combine to
keeping land values low, so the cost of transferring lands, through market mechanisms, from failing estates
to asset-poor but able farmers is not very high. The benefits can be susbtantial: several studies estimate
that even small amounts of additional land, say one hectare, would significantly reduce the poverty of a
typical rural family in the Southern region were the pilot project will be implemented.
Finally, rapid urbanization is exerting pressure on rural communities to transfer some lands for
urban development. By improving and increasing secure access to land by the poor, the project would
contribute to increased valuation of rural lands and thus of the main asset owned by the poor.
Government intends to address land redistribution issues by relying on voluntary transactions
between suppliers and beneficiaries.
(c)    Community-driven development and decentralization
Malawi has had a long history of failed top-down and centralized approaches to development. In
land administration and management, for instance, this history is demonstrated by the now abandoned
"Ndunda system". It involved titling of customary land, and was abandoned due to the lack of acceptance
by communities and by the resistance to Government-prescribed investments in land demarcation and
conservation structures. However, since the late 1990s, the Government is committed to a more
decentralized model, under which development is driven by communities themselves. The success of this
new paradigm is best demonstrated by the Malawi Social Action Fund. A third program (MASAF 3) has
recently been designed, using highly effective, open, transparent and participatory implementation
processes. Using Participatory Rural Appraisal techniques, MASAF has already received numerous and
repeated requests from civil society for a MASAF-type mechanism to fund productive investments,
including in land, as complements to the social and economic communal infrastructure funded under
MASAF.
The project, instead of re-inventing the wheel, will work through these established systems,
immediately benefiting from the existing systems, while Ministry staff get "on the job" training in
decentralized and community-driven development methods.
The project will finance the development of transparent mechanisms that empower rural
communities in their ability to identify beneficiaries and establish new farms on underutilized lands and to
increase their security of tenure. These mechanisms will reduce rural tensions, minimize the incidence of
encroachment on either private lands or protected public areas, and encourage productive investments on
the newly established farms. A community-based approach to facilitating access to land offers the best
chance for effectively transferring assets to some of the poorest groups in Malawi. Experience in other
countries and regions show that other land redistribution approaches do not constitute viable choices.
(d)    Land Administration
Finally, outdated land registration systems, inaccurate surveying and limited enforcement of
covenants of private leaseholds, and corrupt administrative practices by village headmen, chiefs, and
Government officials have often led to dispossession of customary lands, encroachment on private and
public lands, illegal development of lands, and tenure insecurity. The new Land Policy supports a move
towards a decentralized, transparent and democratic land administration system. This is made possible by
the 1998 National Decentralization Policy and Local Government Act, under which local authorities



4
PID
(District Assemblies) are given increasing powers and responsibilities for land administration, including
valuation, taxation, surveying, and enforcement of lease agreements.
Designing a Land Administration system which is fiscally affordable and responds efficiently to
community demand for the formalization of property rights, will take time and considerable effort.
International experience shows that this is best achieved through a gradual approach, based on pilots. This
is the strategy adopted by the Government in this and related projects. The project will directly support
institutional capacity building in land administration, by providing resources for tenure regularization,
titling and registration of participating settlement schemes. Because the development of institutional
capacity for land administration at the District level will take time, it is proposed that this be implemented
in a phased manner, starting with providing services to the beneficiary communities, and then to
communities on demand.
(e)    Programmatic approach and partnership
In the past decade, the land policy reform process in Malawi has enjoyed broad support from all
the key donors. There is broad agreement among donors to support implementation of the new land policy
under a programmatic approach. For instance, the AfDB, DFID, EU, FAO, IFAD, GTZ and USAID have
all expressed an interest in supporting the implementation of the new Land Policy. The proposed pilot
project will be an important component of a broader land reform program, supported by the donor
community. In particular, DFID has expressed interest in separate financing of the project through starter
packs and its contribution to MASAF. The EU is supporting capacity-building for Land Administration
and the African Development Bank is preparing a pilot project for land titling and registration of customary
land. It would operate in three different districts, but would benefit CBRLDP by developing decentralized
and least-cost approaches to land registration.
The project directly addresses the challenge of reducing rural poverty and promoting growth,
through a combination of facilitating access by the poor to underutilized assets (land), strengthening the
participation of smallholder farmers through community-initiated productive investments, building
institutional capacity at various levels of govemment and civil society, and increasing the consultation and
participation of key stakeholders in the implementation of the land policy reform. By facilitating voluntary
transactions and market-based redistribution of unused arable lands to the poor, the proposed project will
make a direct contribution to increasing economic growth and reducing poverty. And by providing the poor
a legal, transparent and resource-backed approach to accessing land, the project will provide a better
alternative to encroachment and directly contribute to better environmental stewardship. Finally, the
combination of land redistribution and the implementation of a decentralized and transparent land
administration system is expected to enhance governance, improving on Malawi's legacy of undemocratic
expropriation of customary land owners and the localized land tensions that exist today, expressing
themselves through squatting, illegal encroachment, spontaneous invasions of complete farms, and
vandalization of farms. The objective of a scaled-up program, based on the pilot project, would be to
resolve these tensions before they would find an organized political expression, at which point in time the
land issue may become intractable.



5
PID
2. Objectives
The project development objective is to increase the incomes of between 15,000 and 20,000 poor
rural families by implementing a decentralized, community-based and voluntary approach to land reform in
4 pilot districts. The approach to land reform piloted under the project includes (i) voluntary acquisition of
lands by communities, either land sold by willing estate owners, transferred to communities by
Government, or donated by private individuals; (ii) on-farm development, including the purchase of
necessary advisory services and basic inputs; and (iii) land administration (regularization, titling, and
registration of property rights in land). The latter activity will be executed as part of a decentralized land
administration system to be piloted in the four districts in which the project will operate.
3. Rationale for Bank's Involvement
Internationally, the Bank has obtained considerable experience in implementing the approach to be
used in this pilot project (e.g. Brazil). In Malawi, the partnership between the Government and the Bank
has been instrumental in formulating a new Land Policy and catalyzing other donor support. Successful
implementation of the project would have positive regional demonstration effects and extemalities which
the Bank could help materialize for other countries in Africa. The Bank's early participation in this
process would make available valuable international experience of past and ongoing land reform programs
worldwide and would ensure that the growing political pressures on Government to address land
inequalities do not lead to ad hoc interventions with potentially damaging effects, both on the agricultural
sector and the country's poverty reduction efforts.
4. Description
The estimated total project cost of the Community-Based Rural Land Development Project
(CBRLDP) is US$28.75 million equivalent, of which the Bank (the International Development Association,
IDA) would finance approximately US$24.0 million. Government would finance about US$4 million in the
form of counterpart contributions (including Government-administered land made available to the project,
and taxes); and beneficiary communities would contribute the remaining US$0.8 million (3%), mostly
in-kind and labor.
The project would finance four components:
(i)    Land acquisition and farm development, with direct community involvement in identification and
negotiation of the lands. Community proposals for acquiring land and farm development would be
reviewed and approved -taking into account legal, technical, environmental, and poverty reduction
criteria-by a District-level multi-stakeholder entity (the existing District Executive Council, augmented
with key stakeholders) and the National Technical Advisory Council, established under MASAF. The
sources of land include: (i) leasehold or freehold land offered by willing sellers; (ii)
Government-administered land (e.g. the so-called "re-entered estates": estates which failed to comply with
leasehold covenants); and (iii) private donations. Farm development costs will finance individual benefits,
consisting of settlement costs and establishing agricultural production. Communal infrastrucuture will not
be eligible for financing under this component, but will be eligible for financing under MASAF. The cost of
this component to be financed by the Bank is US$ 16 million.
(ii)   Land administration (transacting, titling, and registration). Basic District Land Registries will be
established in the four pilot Districts. The communities will decide under what property rights regime they
wish to register their land and how to distribute land among participating households, which could include
the registration of individual plots, if requested by the community. Under the project, a simple and
cost-effective approach to land administration will be piloted, only with respect to participating
beneficiairies, but later on for the administration of property rights by other communities on demand. A



6
PID
new Land Law will become effective during the project implementation period, which will provide the legal
framework for decentralized land administration. This component would then be used to assist in piloting
the implementation of the new Land Law in the pilot districts. The cost of this component to be financed
by the Bank is about US$ 3 million.
(iii)  Capacity building. The component would finance public information campaigns, community
mobilization, participatory rural appraisal, training and technical support to communities, district and
national participating institutions and stakeholders. This will include financing environmental and social
impact assessments and action plans. Policy analysis, and some basic infrastructure at the district and
national levels would also be supported. The cost of this component to be financed by the Bank is about
US$ 4 million.
(iv)   Project management and M&E. This component finances project administration, coordination,
supervision, monitoring and evaluation. The existing Management Information System of MASAF will be
used. Qualified NGOs and/or private firms will be contracted to assist project monitoring and evaluation in
each of the Districts. The M&E system will measure changes "before and after", and "with-without" along
two dimensions: (a) welfare of beneficiairies; and (b) productivity and environmental condition of the land.
The Bank-financed cost of this component is about US$2 million.
5. Financing
Source (Total ( US$m))
BORROWER ($2.45)
IDA ($24.00)
LOCAL COMMUNITIES ($2.30)
Total Project Cost: $28.75
6. Implementation
Implementation Period: Five years
The current legal and institutional framework is generally adequate for launching the proposed
project. Nevertheless, the project will have flexible implementation arrangements to allow for adjustments
to be made in the course of project execution, particularly taking into account that a new land law is likely
to become effective in the near future.
The project would finance the establishment of farms (land acquisition and farm development) up
to a total cost of approximately US$ 1,200 per beneficiary household, including the cost of land
acquisition. This figure is based on current unit cost estimates, and will be reviewed during project
appraisal. All initiatives considered for financing under the project would be subject to a "Uniform
Ceiling" for reasons of equity and for purposes of evaluation.
At the local level, the project will be implemented by beneficiary communities themselves. A
self-selected rural beneficiary community (using basically the same definition and eligibility criteria used in
MASAF projects, but with the addition of a "land-poor" criterion and willingness to farm) will (i) identify
the farm which it proposes to acquire (ii) draw up a general farm plan; and (iii) directly negotiate the
acquisition of the land. Vulnerable and marginalized groups can benefit from up-front special assistance
paid for by the project. The beneficiary community then presents a proposal (farm plan and provisional
sale agreeement) to the Lands Officer in the District, who leads a Field Appraisal Team to appraise the
proposal. If a proposal passes appraisal, it is submitted to the District Executive Committee, as used for



7
PID
MASAF, for approval.
DEC is responsible for reviewing and approving community proposals for land acquisition and
farm development and would confirm that (i) the potential beneficiaries meet the eligibility criteria; (ii) title
to the land (freehold or leasehold) is clean, (iii) no other condition threatens the effectiveness of the land
acquisition, (iv) the negotiated price is consistent with market conditions; (v) the farm plan is realistic and
the intended use of the land is compatible with land potential; (vi) the community understands the
implications of the choice they have made with respect to the legal entity (association, company, trust,
individual, etc.) and specific property rights regime (leasehold, freehold, sub-divisions, etc.) under which
they propose to hold the land; (vii) environmental checklist is met, or whether an environmental impact
assessment is needed; and (viii) the farm is free of encroachers, no unresolved disputes with farm workers
exist, and the integration of the new settlement into the existing, surrounding communities will not pose
significant problems. If necessary, DEC seeks the assistance of the Project Technical Unit at the national
level or other specialized assistance to complete this review, and conduct additional assessments (e.g.
environmental and/or social impact assessments). Such assistance would be financed by the project.
Once the land acquisition and farm development proposal is approved, beneficiary communities
would be granted title to the land acquired under the project and would thereafter decide internally how the
land is to be farmed or subdivided among the individual households of the beneficiary community. Upon
approval, the beneficiary community signs a Grant Agreement (as under MASAF), which specifies the
conditions for implementation, including the establishment of a project management committee, the
elaboration of a detailed Farm Development Plan, the disbursement schedule with tranche release
conditions, and other responsibilities of the comunity (e.g. community contributions, environmental
management plan)
If the acquired land is leasehold, beneficiaries will now start paying the ground rent, which is
currently a small nominal fee, but which will be increased in the next years. If the acquired land is freehold,
beneficiaries will start paying the land tax, which will be introduced over a similar time frame, following
agreements reached under the Structural Adjustment Credit (2003). This will provide the community with
an incentive to immediately start agricultural production, while the gradual raising of rents and taxes will
put downward pressure on land prices, counteracting the potential upward pressure on land prices caused
by the project.
After the transfer of the land has taken place (either through direct purchase by communities or
transferred from govenmuent or a third party), beneficiary communities would become eligible for funding
of communal infrastructure under MASAF. CBRLDP, on the other hand, only finances activities which
deliver an individual benefit, rather than a common good. The project will use the following positive list of
activities which allow the family to settle on the farm and start agricultural production: (i) basic settlement
costs (shelter, basic amenities, and a small, one-time settlement allowance); and (ii) agricultural production
costs (inputs, tools, livestock, and technical assistance).
Communities immediately receive the settlement allowance and the DFID-financed Starter Pack.
Beneficiaries then prepare a detailed Farm Development Plan (FDP) with the assistance of the Lands
Officer, who will mobilize the necessary technical assistance for its preparation. Participatory Rural
Appraisal techniques will be used in providing this assistance.
The actual distribution of resources among different cost categories (land acquisition, farm
development, technical assistance, etc.) would vary from initiative to initiative. Figure 1) shows an
example.



8
PID
Figure 1) Indicative cost shares of a typical land reform project
(approximate shares)
Uniform Ceiling: US$1,200 per household
/  i  Land (30%)
U Starter Pack (5%)
I] Settlement Allowance
(5%)
\  Farm development
(60%)
First, the cost of land would probably represent about 30% of total cost of the initiative (some
US$ 400 per household). Second, immediately upon establishment of the farm, beneficiary communities
will receive a one-time settlement allowance (of approximately US$ 60 per beneficiary family) to assist
them settling in. They will also receive a farmer Starter Pack valued at about US$60, to be provided
through parallel financing (DFID). Third, the grant balance under the Uniform Ceiling can then be spent
on farm development (basic settlement costs, and establishing agricultural production).
Under the Uniform Ceiling, the greatest trade-off would occur between the value of the land
(between US$ 15 and US$ 100 per hectare) and the amount spent on farm development. So, use of a
Uniformn Ceiling for all beneficiaries would automatically mean that for farms that are fairly expensive (as
a result of high per hectare cost, with good infrastructure, or large farm size), fewer resources would be
available for basic farn development. And vice-versa, for relatively inexpensive farms, more funds would
be available for on-farm development. Communities would see this inherent trade-off explicitly once they
are familiarized with the project rules.
At the District level, Lands Officers (one for each District) would be hired, financed by the project.
They will function as team leaders of appraisal teams of community proposals and as Secretaries to the
DEC review and approval meetings. These officers will essentially be "systems developers" piloting this
position for future scaling-up.
At the national level, a Project Management Unit will be established, responsible for overall
management of the project, including oversight of decentralized procurement, periodic performance and
procurement audits (and taking remedial action). In addition, a Project Technical Unit will be established
to facilitate access to technical support, coordination of activities at the District-level, public information
campaigns to disseminate information about the project, capacity-building, and monitoring and evaluation.



9
PID
Details of its functions would be worked out during appraisal.
Finally, an appropriate monitoring and evaluation system (based on the existing MASAF system)
will be set up as part of project implementation, with strong reliance on direct beneficiary participation.
7. Sustainability
Sustainability of community-based land acquisition and farm development is highly likely due to:
*   high degree of community participation in identification, preparation, contracting,
implementing, and supervising subprojects;
* ownership by beneficiaries as evidenced by cash or in-kind contributions;
* existing and tested MASAF procedures are used for the community-driven components of the
project; and
* involvement of other sectors, local NGOs and other stakeholders ("horizontal accountability").
8. Lessons learned from past operations in the country/sector
The international experience on unsuccessful and/or delayed land reform programs is quite large.
Some of the important lessons learned from these experiences include:
* Land reform is a highly political issue. Therefore, the government's willingness and
commitment to the process is a fundamental condition for success.
*   Central government identification of targeted lands, as well as expropriation and land
acquisition directly by government, tend to create legal disputes, delays, high administrative
costs, and they often breed corruption.
*   It is much better to involve beneficiaries from the outset in a process of voluntary transactions
with landowners.
*   Centralized administrative designation of program beneficiaries is not very effective. Direct
community participation in the selection of beneficiaries is to be preferred.
* When unresolved land issues are allowed to fester for too long, popular sentiments will at some
point become organized politically. When that happens, the issue will become extremely
difficult to resolve in a developmental and planned fashion. Whereas it is difficult to predict
how and when this will happen, the key lesson from international experience is to try to resolve
land issues before they become organized politically.
The evaluations of the Land Reform and Poverty Alleviation Pilot Project in Brazil (4147-BR),
which relies on community initiatives to land reform, have yielded the following lessons:
*   A community-based approach to land distribution is considerably more expedient and less
costly than the traditional administratively-led process. For example, in that project the
process of land acquisition, from identification of lands to purchase, typically has taken less
than 90 days. On average, the actual total cost of land redistribution (including the land
acquisition price, litigation, administrative, and other costs) of the traditional approach is close
to three and half times that of a market-assisted approach.
* Communities have consistently chosen good quality land at costs that represent savings of 40%
or more relative to traditional land reform and without upward pressure on land prices.
* Self-selection of project participants has proven effective in pinpointing the landless rural poor;
the vast majority of beneficiaries have household incomes and characteristics consistent with



10
PID
the target population. The requirement of own contributions for investment subprojects
ensures effective self-selection.
*   Streamlined approval of complementary investment subprojects, such that funds are
immediately deposited with the beneficiary community and disbursed once a subproject
proposal is presented and approved, eliminates unnecessary delays.
*   Concurrent and ex-post monitoring and evaluation are critical to identify bottlenecks and make
adjustments in the course of project implementation.
9. Environment Aspects (including any public consultation)
Issues : The project does not present any major environmental issues as it will be implemented in
already established farming areas suitable for intensive agriculture. Potential issues that justify conducting
an environmental analysis, and the preparation of a screening and review process to be incorporated into
the project implementation manual, and to be funded and implemented through the project, include: possible
location of farms to be purchased near natural habits or critical ecosystems areas, environmental health of
project beneficiaries and their families, and sustainability of land use and agricultural management
practices on all newly acquired farms.
Key stakeholders include poor rural communities, estate owners, local level organizations-including
NGOs, and District-level entities, and small farmer organizations. In addition to the consultations already
conducted during the preparation of the project and the ESA, involving the project concept and
development objectives, eligibility criteria, and geographical location, structured and more detailed
consultations will be undertaken as a fundamental project design feature in order to enable poor and
vulnerable communities to access project benefits, on a demand-driven and widely transparent basis.
Rural communities will be in the driver's seat throughout project implementation. They will identify the
lands, negotiate with the seller, and prepare and implement their Farm Land Development Plans (FLDPS)
(focused on private household benefits, and not communal sub-projects--which fall under the purview of
MAlawi Social Action Fund (MASAF).
In addition to consultations with a number of local communities within the four Pilot Districts, technical
officers from govemment, non-governmental organizations and members of the private sector were also
consulted in each district, including, District Commissioners (DC's), Environmental District Officers
(EDO), Directors of Planning and Development (DPD), NGO representatives with an interest in
environmental issues, staff responsible for lands, Land Husbandry Officers, Fisheries and Forestry,
Agriculture, Meteorological department and Tea Estates representatives. Opinion leaders' views were also
sought during the process, including traditional leaders, local politicians and religious leaders, and other
key informants.
NGOs were involved in public consultations from the very beginning, both at national and district level.
The preparation of the ESA involved a number of NGOs (such as members of the National Smallholder
Farmers Association of Malawi, NASFAM) from all four Pilot Districts, during all three pahses of
consultations conducted.
It is expected that NGOs will play a major role during the launch phase of the project, during which an
extensive communication campaign will be launched at the national and local levels, in order to identify
eligible communities and help them access project funding to present their applications, identify farms
available on the market, negotiate a price, and meet the requirements for land acquisition, as well as
prepare detailed farm plans for appraisal and implementation.



11
PID
Disclosure. The SEA (including consultations) was prepared from December 2002 to October 2003, and
reviewed by the Bank in November 2003. The Executive Summary was disclosed starting November 18,
2003 in local languages and in English in the country capital and at the offices of the four district
assemblies, as well as in the Bank's Infoshop. The entire project documentation in English is also available
in country and in the Bank's files.
10. List of factual technical documents:
11. Contact Point:
Task Manager
Rogier J. E. van den Brink
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington D.C. 20433
Telephone:
Fax:
12. For information on other project related documents contact:
The InfoShop
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone: (202) 458-5454
Fax:   (202) 522-1500
Web: http:/l www.worldbank.org/infoshop
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain components may not be necessarily included
in the final Droiect.



