                                               Documentof
                                           The WorldBank

                                      FOROFFICIALUSEONLY

                                                                              ReportNo: 28188-MA1




                                  PROJECTAPPRAISALDOCUMENT

                                                 ONA

                                          PROPOSEDGRANT

            INTHE AMOUNT OF SDR 18.1 MILLION(US$27 MILLION EQUIVALENT)

                                                TO THE

                           GOVERNMENTOF THE REPUBLICOF MALAWI

                                               FORTHE

                   COMMUNITY-BASEDRURAL LAND DEVELOPMENTPROJECT

                                           MARCH 15,2004




Environmentand Social DevelopmentUnit AFTSl   -
Country Department3, Malawi
Africa RegionalOffice


IThis documenthas a restricted distributionandmay be usedbyrecipients only inthe performanceoftheir
 official duties. Its contentsmav not otherwisebe disclosedwithoutWorld Bank authorization.          I

                        CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                 (Exchange Rate Effective December 31,2003)

                       Currency Unit = Malawian Kwacha
                               IMK = US$106.0500000
                              US$1 = MK106.0500000



                              FISCAL,YEAR
                              July 1 -- June 30

                   ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS




m          I AfricanDevelopmentBank                                 I
CAS          Country Assistance Strategy
CBOs         Communitv BasedOrganizations
m  D  P    I Community-Based    Rural Land Development Proiect      I
CDD          Community DrivenDevelopment
CDP          Communitv DeveloDmentProjects
CPAR         Country ProcurementAssessment Report
CCA          Credit CeilingAuthority
DC's         District Commissioners
DEC          District Executive Committee
DFID         DeDartmentfor InternationalDeveloDment
DPD          Directors of Planning andDevelopment
ED0          Environmental District Officers
ESA          Environmental and SocialAnalysis
ESSR         Environmental and Social ScreeningReview Process
EMS          Environmental Monitoring System
EMA          Environment Management Act
EU         I EuropeanUnion
F A 0      1 Food and Agricultural Organization
FARAH        Financial Reporting andAuditing Handbook
FDP          FarmDevelopment Plan
FMR          Financial Monitoring;Report
FDP          FarmDevelopment Plan
-
GPN          General ProcurementNotice
GTZ          Deutsche Gessellschaftfur Technische Zusammenarbeit
Ha          Hectares
IDA         International Development Association
IFMIS      IIntegratedFinancial ManagementInformationSystem
           I

                                                         FOROFFICIAL, USEONLY
       INTOSAI            International Organization of SupremeAudit Institutions
      IPM                 Integrated Pest Management
       LAFD               LandAcquisition and Farm Development
       MASAF              Malawi Social Action Fund
       MASIP              Malawi Agricultural Sector Invest
       M & E              Monitoring and Evaluation
       MES                Monitoring and Evaluation Svstem
                                                                                     ~~
       MLPPS              Ministry of Lands, PhysicalPlanning and Surveys
                 7

       MOF                Ministry of Finance
       NACCEA             National Advisory Committee for Community Empowerment and
                          Accountabilitv
     I NAO              I National Audit Office                                         ---1
       NEP                National Environment Policy
       NASFAM             National Smallholder Farmers Association of Malawi
       NTAC               National Technical Advisory Committee
       OED                Operations Evaluation Department
       PBS                PaPer Based Svstem
       PSR                Project Status Report
       PRSP               Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper
       PMC                Project Management Committee
       PIM                Project Implementation Manual
       PMP                Pest Management Plan
       PMU                Project ManagementUnit
       SA                 Special Account
       SAC                Structural Adjustment Credit
       SOE                Statement of Expenditures
       SPA                Strategic Partnership for Africa
       SPN                Specific ProcurementNotice
       UNDP               UnitedNations Development Program
       USAID              UnitedStates Agencv for International DeveloDment
     IWB                 IWorldBank                                                          I


                                   Vice President:    Callisto Madavo
                        Country ManageriDirector:     Hartwig Schafer
                          Sector ManagerDirector:     Richard Scobey
                  Task Team Leader/Task Manager:      Rogier van den Brink


This document hasa restricted distributionand may be used by recipients only in
the performance of their official duties. I t s contents may not be otherwise disclosed
lwithout World Bank authorization.                                               I


                                              MALAWI
               COMMUNITY-BASED RURAL LAND DEVELOPMENT PROJECT


                                            CONTENTS




A. Project Development Objective                                                        Page

   1. Project development objective                                                       2
   2. Key performance indicators                                                          2

B. StrategicContext

   1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project      3
   2. Main sectorissues and Government strategy                                           4
   3. Sector issues tobe addressedby the project and strategic choices                    7

C. ProjectDescriptionSummary

   1. Projectcomponents                                                                   9
   2. Key policy and institutional reforms supportedby the project                        11
   3. Benefitsand targetpopulation                                                        11
   4. Institutional and implementation arrangements                                       12

D. ProjectRationale

   1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection                           16
   2. Major related projects financedby the Bank and/or other development agencies        18
   3. Lessons learned and reflectedin the project design                                  19
   4. Indicationsof recipient commitment and ownership                                    19
   5. Value added ofBank supportin this project                                          20

E. Summary Project Analysis

   1. Economic                                                                           20
   2. Financial                                                                          21
   3, Technical                                                                          21
   4. Institutional                                                                      21
   5, Environmental                                                                       22
   6. Social                                                                              25
   7. SafeguardPolicies                                                                   27

F. Sustainabilityand Risks

   1. Sustainability                                                                      28

   2. Criticalrisks                                                                29
   3. Possible controversial aspects                                               30


G. MainConditions

   1. EffectivenessCondition                                                       30
   2. Other                                                                        30

H. Readinessfor Implementation                                                     30

I. Compliance with Bank Policies                                                   31


Annexes

Annex1:ProjectDesign      Summary                                                  33
Annex 2: DetailedProjectDescription                                                37
Annex3: EstimatedProjectCosts                                                      46
Annex 4: Cost Benefit Analysis Summary                                             47
Annex 5: FinancialSummary                                                          55
Annex6:(A)ProcurementArrangements                                                  56
           (B)Financial Management and Disbursement Arrangements                   63
Annex7:ProjectProcessingSchedule                                                   72
Annex 8: Documents in the Project File                                             73
Annex 9: Statementof Loans and Credits                                             74
Annex 10: Countryat a Glance                                                       76
Annex 11:Environmental and Social Analysis                                         78
Annex 12: Detailed Description of MASAF Community Development Projects Component
                                           3                                       90
Annex 13: Choiceof Pilot Districts and the Costs
                                             of Scaling Up                         100
Annex 14: Social-culturalAppraisal Summary                                         104
Annex 15: Pilot Districts- MAP                                                     107




MAP(S)
Annex 15: PilotDistrictsMap (IBRD-32815)

                                                   MALAWI
                                Community-BasedRuralLandDevelopmentProject

                                     Project AppraisalDocument
                                             Africa RegionalOffice
                                                    AFTS1

Date: March 15, 2004                                    Team Leader: Rogier J. E. VanDenBrink
sector Managermirector: RichardG. Scobey                Sector@): Generalagriculture,fishing and forestry sector
C'ountry Managermirector: HartwigSchafer                (100%)
Project ID: PO75247                                     Theme(s): Landmanagement(P), Ruralmarkets (P),
Lending Instrument: Specific Investment Loan (SIL)      Participationand civic engagement(S)
Project Financing Data
 [ ]Loan       [ ]Credit      [XI Grant       [ ]Guarantee       [ ]Other:




BORROWERIRECIPIENT                                                     1S O              0.00             1S O
[DA                                                                   25.30              1.70           27.00
LOCAL COMMUNITIES                                                      1.28              0.00             1.28
rotal:                                                                28.08              1.70           29.78
BorrowerlRecipient: GOVERNMENTOF MALAWI
Responsible agency: MINISTRY OF LANDS, PHYSICALPLANNING,AND SURVEYS
Address: PRIVATEBAG, 311, CAPITAL CITY, LILONGWE3, MALAWI
Contact Person: MR. PATRICKA. YASINI




Project implementation period: 2004-2009
Expected effectivenessdate: 07/01/2004 Expected closing date: 06/30/2009

A. Project Development Objective

1. Project development objective: (see Annex 1)

The project development objective is to increase the incomes o f about 15,000 poor rural families by
implementing a decentralized, community-based and voluntary approach to land reform in 4 pilot districts
in southern Malawi.       The approach to land reform piloted under the project includes (i)voluntary
acquisition by communities of land sold by willing estate owners, transferred to communities by
government, or donated by private individuals); (ii)    on-farm development, including the establishment o f
shelter, and the purchase of basic inputs and necessary advisory services; and (iii)  land administration, viz.
the regularization, titling, andregistration of beneficiaries'property rightsinland.

Malawi, a landlockedcountry with a current estimated population o f 11million and an average population
growth rate o f 3.3% per year, i s significantly dependent on agriculture. Agriculture contributes about 36
% to GDP, employs 85% of the work force, and contributes 90% o f foreign exchange earnings. Total
cultivated area in the past five years has been on average about 2.7 million hectares. About 84 % o f
agricultural value-added comes from about 1.8 million smallholders who on average own 1 ha. o f land.
Landpressures are particularly severe inthe south o f Malawi (where average holdings can be as low as 0.1
ha) and much less in the North and Center, where average holdings are 10-15 ha and 5-10 ha, respectively.
About 1.1 million hectares o f land is held in some 30,000 estates, with an average size o f landholding
ranging between 10 to 500 hectares.

Malawi's agriculture is dualistic. At independence in 1964, it inherited an agriculture sector comprising a
few, large foreign-owned, export-oriented estates and a smallholder sector o f mostly poor, subsistence
farmers. Colonial laws allowed estates to obtain the full value o f export sales, but prevented smallholders
from producing burley tobacco, the most lucrative export crop and forced smallholders to sell through the
parastatal, the Agricultural Development and Marketing Corporation (ADMARC). The situation has
improved though much still needs to be done with respect to improved distribution and more efficient
utilization o f land, and more effective support to the smallholder. Although smallholder agriculture is
mainly subsistence oriented, dominated by maize and other food crops, smallholders are now also
contributing significantly to cash crop and export production in burley tobacco, cotton, tea, paprika,
groundnuts and chillis. The proposed project i s designed to make a start in addressing emerging social
conflicts related to unequal access to land by piloting a market-assisted, community-driven land transfer
program to land-deprived small scale farmers. The project is a flagship operation o f the Malawi Land
Reform Programme Implementation Strategy (2003-2007).

2. Key performance indicators: (see Annex 1)

The key outcome or impact indicators by which success of the project will be measured are: (i)     incomes o f
participating families compared to control groups ("with-without")            and pre-project income levels
("before-after");   (ii)increased and sustainable agricultural productivity on participating farms
("with-without" and "before-after"); and (iii) the effective evaluation ofthe piloted approach.

Project outputs are: (i)  providing access to resources for land acquisition and farm development to about
15,000 poor beneficiary families; (ii) providing beneficiaries with secure title to the land acquired through
the piloting o f decentralized land administration; (iii)buildingcapacity at community, district and national
levels to implement a community-driven and market-assisted approach to land reform; and (iv)
implementing a monitoring and evaluation system to assess project inputs, outputs, and outcomes, and
provide a soundbasis for the decision to scale-up the project.



                                                      - 2 -

The proposed project's key performance indicators are the: (i)number o f rural families benefited; (ii)
quantity, speed and cost (per beneficiary family and per hectare) of land acquired; (iii)agricultural
production established; (iv) number of beneficiary groups or beneficiaries which received appropriate
documentation o f land ownership; (v) number and quality o f land acquisition and farm development
proposals reviewed, approved and fully disbursed; and (vi) timeliness and content o f reports generated by
the monitoring and evaluation system.

The Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) framework also include an intensive focus on the qualitative
aspects o f project implementation, inparticular, inrelation to group processes and social integration issues,
with communities themselves, District Assemblies and the Ministry being able to access resources to
mobilize special assistance for monitoring purposes. The evaluation will start in the first year o f project
implementation and will be undertaken annually by an independent institution, selected on the basis o f
international competitive bidding.

B. Strategic Context
1.Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goalsupportedby the project: (see Annex 1)
Document number: 25906             Date of latest CAS discussion: June 10, 2003

Poverty in Malawi i s widespread and deep: about 65 percent o f the population lives below the poverty line
(Integrated Household Survey, 1998).           Agriculture provides 85 percent o f employment, but land
distribution i s sharply unequal, and overcrowded arable land exist next to under-used ones. It i s estimated
that one third o f arable land i s under-utilized, while household surveys demonstrate a direct link between
poverty and access to land. In addition, Malawi's history o f the carving out o f large-scale farms (estates)
from customary land, combined with increasing land pressure, has led to the emergence o f localized
tensions around land, sometimes expressing themselves through encroachments and invasions. The project
would pilot a transparent, voluntary, legal and resource-supported approach to land reform, which, if
scaled-up, would help to avoid a possible escalation o f these tensions, before they find an organized
political expression, at which point in time the land issue may become intractable. At the same time, the
redistribution o f unused arable lands to the poor would make a direct contribution to increasing economic
growth and reducing poverty.

Malawi's first full Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper (PRSP) o f 2002 sets as its overall goal to promote the
type o f broad-based growth that reduces poverty. The PRSP emphasizes sustainable pro-poor growth and
structural transformation, human capital development, improving the quality o f life o f the most vulnerable
groups, and promoting good governance. The PRSP argues that land i s the sole source o f livelihood for the
majority o f Malawians and notes that inadequate access to land has been identified as one o f the critical
factors contributing to poverty in the country.        Therefore, increasing secure access to land is a key
component o f the Government's strategy to reducepoverty.

The 2003 Country Assistance Strategy supports the PRSP and i s built on three pillars: (i)       strengthening
economic management and achieving macroeconomic stability; (ii)         establishing a platform for sustainable
poverty-reducing growth; and (iii)   improving service delivery and expanding the safety net. The proposed
project falls under the second pillar and i s identified as an operation with high strategic rewards. It is also
one o f the few projects to be implemented even in the low case, defined as a situation o f macroeconomic
instability and problematic governance. Finally, the 2004 Structural Adjustment Credit (SAC) has a land
component, underlining its importance for sustainable agriculture and improving the policy environment.
The SAC will support the project through the wider dissemination o f the Government's Land Policy



                                                       - 3 -

 (adopted by Cabinet in 2002), the drafting o f a new Land Bill based on that policy, and by providing
 incentives for the release o f unused land to the market (rental or sale) through the raising and improvement
o f collection o f leasehold rents, and the future implementation o f a land tax on freehold land.

The project's main community-driven component (i.e. land acquisition and farm development) will be
implemented through the financial, procurement and disbursement mechanisms o f the Malawi Social
Action Fund (MASAF), which has successfully implemented community-driven development for nearly a
decade. The project will be governed by the Environmental Management Act (1998), and linkages will be
established with the Malawi Agricultural Sector Investment Program (MASIP). The central role o f District
Assemblies inthe project is based on the National Decentralization Policy o f 1998, which was given legal
status through the Local Government Act, also o f 1998. This Act, inter alia, increases the powers o f the
40 District Assemblies to administer land (including valuation, taxation, surveying, and enforcingleasehold
contracts). The project will pilot an approach to decentralized land administration consistent with Malawi's
2002 Land Policy.

2. Main sector issuesand Government strategy:

Malawi's dualistic agriculture is the result o f the history o f expropriation o f customary lands in order to
establish large farms (as leasehold estates, freehold or state land), combined with the impact o f other
market distortions which favored large farmers at the expense o f small farmers (e.g. by imposing
restrictions on smallholders to grow cash crops, marketing). These trends have resulted in an unequal
distribution o f land, and tenure insecurity for the poor living on customary land. However, substantial
numbers o f large-scale farms are now un- or under-utilized due to the so-called "estate crisis".         The
juxtaposition o f unused land on large estates, on the one hand, and overcrowded customary lands, on the
other, i s creating localized tensions in certain rural areas. Already, these tensions sometimes express
themselves in encroachments of estates, protected areas, and Government-administered lands.

There is a risk that these sentiments and tensions would at some future point find a more organized political
expression, at which time the land issues would be much more difficult to resolve than at the present time.
Currently, the government i s committed to pro-actively undertaking properly resourced and assisted land
redistribution and land tenure reform. It prefers this approach, as opposed to dealing with the land issues
on ad-hoc basis, and oftenunder considerable local political pressure (e.g. by accommodating squatters and
encroachers as part o f a negotiated settlements).

These and other issues are described in the findings of, and background studies prepared for, the
Presidential Land Commissiono f Inquiryfor Land Reform (1999), with support from FAO, UNDP, DFID,
USAID, the EU and the Bank. These and other studies provided the groundwork for the Land Policy,
adopted by Cabinet in 2002, and translated in 2003, with support from DFID and the EU, in the Malawi
Land Reform Programme Implementation Strategy (2003-2007).                     This strategy incorporates the
Community-Based Rural Land Development Project as a key component. The Bank i s well-placed to assist
the Government in implementing this project, given its international experience with community-driven
development and market-assisted land reform, its previous support to implementing land titling and
registration, and its past assistance to the development o f Malawi's Land Policy.

Given the development objectives o f the project, and following the analysis o f the 2003 CAS, OED's
Malawi Country Assistance Evaluation (Report No. 21395, 2000), the "Growth Prospects Study", OED's
"Impact Evaluation Report: The World Bank and the Agricultural Sector", and DFID's Sustainable
Livelihoods Approach for Malawi, the following issues are the most relevant:




                                                       - 4 -

HighlyUnequalDistributionof Land,LandDegradationandRuralTensions.
There are basically four forms o f land tenure inMalawi:

       i.Therearesome1.8millionsmallholderfamilies, wholiveonabout6millionha.of landunder
          "customary" rules o f tenure (i.e., land allocated to them by village headmen and traditional
          authorities). About 60 % o f these households cultivate less than one hectare o f land.
       ii.Some 1.1millionha. oflandbelongto approximately 30,000 farmers under leasehold tenure
          created by Government allocations o f customary lands over the last three to four decades, and
          rangingin size from 10 ha to over 500 ha.
      iii.About.34,000 ha.belongtolargeestates(mostly teacompanies intheSouth, somelocal, some
          foreign) under freehold tenure granted during colonial times,
      iv. There are about 1.8 million ha. o f public lands reserved for parks, urban areas and other
          purposes.

Inthe southern region of the country particularly, rural population density is among the highestinAfrica
and combined with extreme poverty, has led to soil erosion and nutrient depletion. The acute land scarcity
inparts of the southern region occurs next to abandoned, underutilized or idle lands belongingto medium
and large estates or Government agencies. The resulting rural tensions (often described as "chronic but
subdued") over the unequal distribution o f land in many areas are increasing, as reflected in the
encroachments o f certain private estates and government-administered lands, sometimes accompanied by
violence. There is also evidence o f political manipulation o f these tensions which, if not addressed, may
lead to increased rural violence.

LandMarketFailure.
Malawian rural land markets are constrained by the dualistic nature o f its agricultural sector. Whilst, there
i s a growing supply o f land from the medium and large-scale farm sector, the so-called "estate crisis" is
characterized by the collapse o f unprofitable, poorly-managedtobacco estates due to the decline in
international prices and liberalizationo f the marketingsystem inthe last half o f the 1990s. However, in
any given area, there are few buyers if any. A 1998 study estimated that commercial banks held unsaleable
mortgages o f farms covering over 23,000 ha. Of the 1.1million ha. belonging to medium to large estates,
only about 600,000 ha. were under cultivation at the time. Even if a significant part o f this land would not
be suitable for cultivation, this leaves a substantial area o f agricultural land which could be transferred to
poor landless or land-poor farmers through rental or sale, without having any impact on production o f the
existing commercial farms. The benefits would be substantial; several studies estimate that even small
amounts o f additional land, i.e. one hectare, could significantly reduce the poverty o f a typical rural family
inthe southern region. Alternatively, rapidurbanization is exerting pressure onrural communities to
transfer some lands for urban development. By transferring secure property rights to land to the poor, land
reform would contribute to increased valuation o f rural lands and thus o f the main asset owned by the poor.


The conversion o f customary land into private, normally targeted prime land leaving smallholders to work
on the marginal unproductive land. On the other side o f the dual divide, demographic pressure has been
forcing increased subdivision o f customary lands, with already low productive potential, to the point that
most rural families in (Southern) Malawi today cannot earn enough income out o f agricultural activities to
feed themselves. However, this increasing need for land, mostly for young families, does not get translated
into effective demand due to lack o f finance (both for purchase and investments) and related opportunities
to enter into transactions with willing sellers o f underutilized estate lands. And given that ground rents on
leasehold land are very low and poorly collected, estate lease holders have little incentive to rent out unused
land, and instead may hold onto the land for speculative purposes. In addition, land owners are reluctant to



                                                       - 5 -

rent out land to smallholders given the history of dispossession, which may lead to restitution claims and
difficulties ending rental contracts.    As a result, failing estates are often surrounded by land-starved
neighboring communities, which sometimes leads to encroachment.

Government has so far handled these challenges through ad-hoc solutions under pressure. However, the
Government's new Land Policy and the Land Reform Programme Implementation Strategy (2003-2007)
intends to address the land redistribution issues described above by developing a number o f effective and
transparent mechanisms which will enhance the equity and the efficiency o f Malawi's land distribution.
Current high real interest rates (above 30 percent) and the estate crisis, combine to keep landvalues low so
the cost o f transferring lands, through market mechanisms, from failing estates to asset-poor but able
farmers, is not a very high one. The project will pilot a promising approach to do so, based on voluntary
transactions between suppliers and beneficiaries. In addition, the planned increase in ground rents and the
introduction o f a land tax on freehold land would make both the sale and rental markets for land more
buoyant.

Community-DrivenDevelopmentandDecentralization.
Malawi has had a long history o f failed top-down and centralized approaches to development. However,
since the late 1990s, the Government is committed to a more decentralized model, under which development
is driven by communities themselves.        The success o f this new paradigm is best demonstrated by the
Malawi Social Action Fund, which has been in operation for 8 years. A third version o f the program
(MASAF 3) is now effective, using highly effective, open, transparent and participatory implementation
processes to create communal infrastructure at the village level. However, using participatory rural
appraisal techniques, MASAF received numerous and repeated requests from civil society for a
MASAF-type mechanism to also fund individually productive investments, including in land, as
complements to the social and economic communal infrastructure funded under MASAF.                            The
Community-Based Rural Land Development Project would respond to this demand. Instead o f puttingnew
institutions in place, the project can start implementation immediately through the already operational
MASAF system, while Ministry staff benefit from "on the job" training in the decentralized and
community-driven development approach.

LandAdministration.
Finally, outdated land registration systems, inaccurate surveying and limited enforcement o f covenants o f
private leaseholds, and corrupt administrative practices by village headmen, chiefs, and government
officials have often led to dispossession o f customary lands, encroachment on private and public lands,
illegal development o f lands, and tenure insecurity. The new Land Policy supports a move towards a
decentralized, transparent and democratic land administration system. This is made possible by the 1998
National Decentralization Policy and Local Government Act, under which local authorities (District
Assemblies) are given increasing powers and responsibilities for land administration, including valuation,
taxation, surveying, and enforcement o f lease agreements.

Designing a land administration system which i s fiscally affordable and responds efficiently to community
demand for the formalization o f property rights, will take time and considerable effort.            International
experience shows that this i s best achieved through a gradual approach, based on pilots. This i s the
strategy adopted by the government in this and related projects.             The project will directly support
institutional capacity-building in land administration, by providing resources for tenure regularization,
titling and registration o fparticipatingsettlement schemes. Due to the fact that development o f institutional
capacity for land administration at the District level will take time, it i s proposed that this be implemented
in a phased manner, starting with providing services to the beneficiary communities, and then to
communities on demand.



                                                      - 6 -

Programmatic Approach and Partnership.
Inthe past decade, the land policy reform process in Malawi has enjoyed broad support from all the key
donors. There is broad agreement among donors to support implementation o f the new land policy under a
programmatic approach. For instance, the AfDB, DFID, EU, FA0 IFAD, GTZ, and USAID have all
expressed an interest in supporting the implementation o f the new Land Policy. The proposed pilot project
will be an important component of a broader land reform program, supported by the donor community. In
particular, DFID has expressed interest in parallel financing o f the project through starter packs and its
contribution to MASAF. The EU is supporting capacity-building for land administration and the African
Development Bank is preparing a pilot project for land titling and registration o f customary land. It would
operate in three different districts, but would benefit the proposed project by developing decentralized and
least-cost approaches to land registration.

3. Sector issuesto be addressed by the project and strategic choices:

International experience demonstrates that a community-based approach to facilitating access to land offers
the best chance for effectively transferring assets to some o f the poorest groups in Malawi. The project
will finance the development o f transparent mechanisms that empower rural communities intheir ability to
identify beneficiaries and establish new farms on underutilized lands and to increase their security o f
tenure. These mechanisms will reduce rural tensions, minimize the incidence o f encroachment on either
private lands or protected public areas, and encourage productive investments on the newly established
farms.

The project supports the efforts o f the decentralization process in strengthening the capacity o f Districts to
plan, organize, and manage funds. By usingthe operational arrangements and systems already existing and
tested under MASAF, the project avoids duplicating an already successful community-driven
implementation mechanism. Using the same methods o f community participation and the community
development capacity created by MASAF, the project will empower local communities and strengthen their
organizational capacity to interact with landowners, local governments, and NGOs. At the same time, the
project complements MASAF's activities, which are geared towards the creation o f communal
infrastructure, because the Community-Based Rural Land Development Project targets benefits o f an
individual nature. The project would allow beneficiary communities to have immediate access to financing
to make their newly acquired farms productive. Matching grants, based on a per beneficiary household
ceiling and requiringin-kindcontributions by communities, would be made available to beneficiaries.

Duringa first phase, the aim is to show that the proposed mechanisms can work. To launch the project,
significant external technical support to the districts will be needed but over time, local capacity will be
built based on the lessons learned during the early phase o f project implementation. To further minimize
operational risks, project design will be flexible to allow for adjustments in the course o f project
implementation.

Project implementation will be in four pilot districts, which were selected on the basis o f their potential for
land redistribution (within districts and between districts), the severity o f land pressures and the existence
o f social tensions resulting from the unequal land distribution. The pilot districts are all located in the
Southern Region, which has the lowest size o f smallholder land holding, the highest incidence o f poverty,
and the most pressing land issues o f the three regions in Malawi. The AfDB and the EU are funding land
projects inthe North and the Center.

Within the Southern Region, the choice of districts was guided by the principles of high opportunity and



                                                     - 7 -

highneed. This resultedinthe selectionofMulanje and Thyolo, whichhave some ofthe highest population
densities inthe country ( 2 0 8 h 2 and 268/km2,respectively) and have been most affected by tensions over
land issues and encroachments. They also have under-utilized estates that could be used o f resettlement.
Machinga and Mangochi were chosen because they have significant numbers o f land-poor households and
also have an ample supply o f idle estates., with relatively low population densities ( 9 7 h 2 ) and an ample
supply o f un- and under-used estates.        While it is expected that the majority o f farms acquired by
beneficiaries will be in their "home" district, the choice o f the four districts also opens an opportunity for
limited inter-district migration.    Some flexibility would exist during project implementation to include
additional districts, within the agreed framework and budget constraints.

A scaled up project would expand into land stressed districts in the Center (for example, Nkhotakota and
Mchinji) and other priority districts in the South (for example, Chiradzulu, Zomba and Chikwakwa). The
estimated number o f potential beneficiaries o f a scaled-up project is inthe order o f 100,000. Ifthe uniform
ceiling currently proposed in the pilot project i s proven to be appropriate, scaling up the project would cost
around $120 million over, say, 20 years, i.e. around $6 million a year, suggesting that a scaled-up version
of the project would be financially feasible. See Annex 14 for a full description o f the choice o f pilot
districts and an estimate o f the costs o f scaling-up.

The Government and the Bank have agreed that project designand implementation will be based on certain
"Basic Principles", which are the outcome o f the strategic choices made.             The basic project design
principles are the following:

     1. Inimplementing the concept of Community-DrivenDevelopment, beneficiaries will be given grants
         to acquire farms and establish sustainable livelihoods on them.
    2. Land redistribution will only take place on un-encroached lands acquired from willing sellers,
         those already under Government administration, or from private donations.
     3. Project explicitly excludes lands in protected or fragile areas, or unsuitable for agricultural
         purposes.
    4. Ground rents on leaseholds and land taxes on freehold will be used as the policy instrument to
         control land prices.
     5. Beneficiaries will be self-selected, formed in groups on a voluntary basis, subject to certain
         eligibility criteria, and usingparticipatory methods.
     6. Beneficiary eligibility will be assessed inbeneficiaries' "home" district, while land acquisition and
         farm development proposals will be assessed in the district where the farm to be acquired is
         located.
     7. Participatory rural appraisal techniques will be used throughout the implementationo f the project.
     8. Specially-targeted assistance will be provided for marginalized groups.
    9. Specially-targeted assistance will be provided for resolving social issues arising from the need to
         ensure integration o f new settlers into receivingcommunities, to integrate farm workers, ifany, into
         the project, and to address any other social issues arising from project implementation.
   10. After proper orientation, beneficiaries will decide themselves on: (i)the legal entity under which
         they will hold the land (e.g. associationiclub, trust, company, individual sub-divisions); (ii)    the
         specific property rights regime (e.g. freehold, leasehold, or, when the new Land Law is passed,
         "customary estate"); (iii)  sub-divisions, demarcation o f individual lots and common areas; and (iv)
         the   level     o f   precision    required   (traditional  markers,     surveying)   and   level   o f
         formalizationiregistration o f property rights.
   11. The combined grant assistance per beneficiary family will be subject to a "Uniform Ceiling" equal
         to the combined sum o f resources spent on land acquisition and on-farm development for reasons
         o f equity and for evaluation purposes.


                                                       - 8 -

   12. MASAF3 will support sub-projects that deliver a community good, rather than an individual
        benefit.  MASAF's indicative positive list consists of: (i)social infrastructure (health centers,
        classrooms, boreholes for community water supply, construction and rehabilitation o f rural roads,
        energy efficiency improvements, community kiosks); (ii)labor-intensive works (afforestation,
        terracing, community roads, community bridges, valley tanks, flood control structures, contour
        ridging, composting, drainage systems, gravity-fed water schemes, community water reservoirs);
        and (iii)the establishment o f community savings and loan group schemes (micro-credit).
   13. CBRLDP will finance activities which deliver an individual benefit, rather than a communal good.
        CBRLDP will use the following indicative positive list o f activities which will allow the beneficiary
        family to finance: (i)land; (ii) settlement costs (shelter, basic amenities, and settlement
                                            basic
        allowance); and (iii)the establishment o f agricultural production (agricultural inputs, tools,
        livestock, training, technical assistance).
   14. CBRLDP discourages encroachments and invasions by making encroached farms ineligible to be
        acquired under the project; and providing a better alternative under the project: a legal, transparent,
        and resource-backed mechanism for the poor to access land.
   15. No farm will be acquired where there are still unresolved labor disputes between the owner and
        farm workers.
   16. Farm workers will be encouraged to participate inthe project.
   17. Implementationwill be decentralizedthrough existing District Assembly Structures, augmented for
        screening purposes with key stakeholders (including Chiefs and NGOs).
   18. There will be targeted public information campaigns that will contribute to good govemance and
        the transparency ofthe project's principles, methodology, processes and outcomes.
   19. Financial management, procurement and disbursement will be implemented through existing
        MASAF 3 systems and usingthe MASAF Management Information System.
   20. A business standards time line will be established to ensure speedy processing o f beneficiaries'
        grant proposals.
   21. The project will support institutional capacity building at grassroots, civil society, local and
        national govemment levels.
   22. The M&E system will track changes along two dimensions: beneficiaries' welfare, and the
        productivity o f the land and its environmental condition.
   23. Communities, Districts and the Ministryo f Lands will hire NGOs to monitor implementation o f the
        project and undertake beneficiary assessments.
   24. The Ministry will, in addition to operating its own monitoring system, also contract out the
        evaluation o f the pilot project to an independent organization.

The project's basic design ensures that (i)  the productivity o f the land acquired is improved; (ii)distortions
inthe landmarket are addressed; (iii)    resources will be disbursed directly to communities usingan existing
financing mechanism (MASAF), which is transparent, efficient and has adequate fiduciary controls; (iv)
potential risks are adequately addressed; and (v) an acceptable Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E)
framework is put in place, which will, inter alia, track the costs o f land acquisition. Based on these
conditions, Management has approved an exception to the Bank's prohibition on disbursement against land
under para. 2(b) o f OP 12.00 on Disbursement.

C. Project Description Summary
1. Project components (see Annex 2 for a detailed description and Annex 3 for a detailed cost breakdown):

The indicative total project cost o f the Community-Based Rural Land Development Project (CBRLDP) and
Bank grant financing is given in the Table below.          Govemment financing would be in the form o f



                                                      - 9 -

counterpart contributions (including Government-administered land made available to the project, and
taxes); andbeneficiary communities would contribute the remainder, mostly through in-kindcontributions.




                                                                  indicative              Bank-          % of
                          Component                                 costs      % of     financing       Bank-
                                                                   (US$M)      Total     (US$M)      financing
 Land acquisition and farm development                               16.50        55.4      15.00         55.6
 Land administration                                                  2.97        10.0       2.95          10.9
 Capacity building                                                    3.39        11.4       3.29          12.2
 Project management and M&E                                           6.92        23.2       5.76         21.3
                                            Total Project Costs      29.78       100.0     27.00          100.0
                                    Total Financing:Reauired         29.78       100.0     27.00          100.0


The project would finance four components:

     1.1. Land Acquisition and Farm Development. This component will be implemented with direct
     community involvement in identification and negotiation o f land acquisition and the preparation o f
     farm development proposals. Community proposals for acquiring land and farm development would
     be reviewed and approved - taking into account legal, technical, environmental, and poverty reduction
     criteria-by a district-level multi-stakeholder entity (the existing District Executive Committee,
     augmented with key stakeholders, which i s a technical sub-committee o f the District Assembly) and
     the National Technical Advisory Council, established under MASAF. The sources o f land include: (i)
     leasehold or freehold land offered by willing sellers; (ii)Government-administered land (e.g. the
     so-called "re-entered estates": estates which failed to comply with leasehold covenants); and (iii)
     private donations. Farm development costs will finance individual benefits, consisting of settlement
     costs and the establishment o f agricultural production. Communal infrastructure will not be eligible
     for financing under this component, but will be eligible for financing under MASAF.

     1.2. Land Administration. Under the project, secure title will be provided to the beneficiaries. The
     communities will decide under what property rights regime they wish to register their landand how to
     distribute land among participating households, which could include the registration o f individual
     plots, if requested by the community. The RegionalLand Registry in Blantyre will be strengthened to
     provide the necessary land administration services inthe four pilot districts.

     1.3, Capacity-building. The component would finance public information campaigns, community
     mobilization, participatory rural appraisal, training and technical support to communities, district and
     national participating institutions and stakeholders. This will include financing environmental and
     social impact assessments and action plans.             Policy analysis, and some basic infrastructure
     refurbishing at the district and national levels would also be supported.

     1.4 Project Management and Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E). This component finances
     project administration, coordination, supervision, monitoring and evaluation.            The existing
     Management Information System of MASAF will be used for tracking the inputs and outputs,
     including processes.     Qualified$NGOs andor private firms will be contracted to assist project
     monitoring and evaluation in each o f the districts. Communities themselves, District Assemblies, and



                                                      - 1 0 -

      the Ministry o f Lands will be able to contract NGOs to assist them in monitoring project
      implementation.     An independent evaluation will be implemented by a specialized organization,
      selected through intemational tendering. The M&E system will measure changes "before and after",
      and "with-without" along two dimensions: (a) the welfare o f beneficiaries; and (b) the productivity and
      the environmental condition o f the land.

2. Key policy andinstitutional reformssupported by the project:
The project seeks to: (i)assist the Government in designing an efficient and effective approach to land
reform, based on voluntary transactions; (ii)apply the Community-Driven Development approach,
successfully established during 8 years o f MASAF implementation (estimated to have benefited 3 million
people) to land reform; (iii)support on-going decentralization o f key Government functions in a
cost-effective and fiscally affordable manner; and (iv) assist in the piloting o f a decentralized land
administration system appropriate for the Malawian context.

3. Benefits and target population:

3.1. Benefits The goal o f the project is to pilot a new approach to land redistribution, based on
market-assisted transactions and community-driven processes, that can be scaled-up across the country. A
scaled-up version of a successful pilot project would reduce the negative externalities associated with
tensions around the land issue. The pilot project would benefit an estimated 15,000 poor rural families in
the four pilot districts through increases intheir income. New family farms covering about 30,000 hectares
would be established. The project design, based on community participation, will allow communities to
start sustainable production immediately duringthe next season or within one year o f establishing their new
farms, In addition to these direct income effects, the project would generate economic benefits in the form
o f increased agricultural production on previously underutilized lands within the established farming
regions ("efficiency" gains). The project would contribute to reduced social tension in the pilot districts by
reducing inequality in access to land ("equity" benefits) and providing a legal, transparent and
resource-backed alternative to encroachments and invasions. Following the same logic, the project i s also
expected to generate some environmental benefits by discouraging encroachment on protected or otherwise
fragile areas ("environmental" benefits).

3.2. Target Population. The project will target poor, land-poor and food insecure families from the four
pilot districts. Beneficiaries will be self-selected according to democratic and local customary principles,
and with the capability to farm.       Errors o f inclusion will be reduced by requiring in-kind or labor
contributions for farm development, and the screening o f beneficiary eligibility by the community from
which the potential beneficiaries originate, following specific eligibility criteria specified in the Project
Implementation Manual. The screening will include adequate provisions to prevent "elite capture" and
ensure that women have equal access to land as men.           Random audits, to complement the appraisal
processes, would be carried out to ensure that project beneficiaries meet the key eligibility criteria.
Although it is expected that most beneficiary communities would identify lands intheir immediate vicinity,
the project would not exclude inter-district migration on a demand-driven basis. Inthose cases, eligibility
o f beneficiaries will be assessed in their home districts, while the proposals for farm acquisition and
development will be assessed inthe district where the farm is located.




                                                     - 11-

4. Institutional andimplementationarrangements:

The implementation period of the project would be five years (2004-2009).

The current legal and institutional framework is generally adequate for launching the proposed project.
Nevertheless, the project will have flexible implementation arrangements to allow for adjustments to be
made in the course o f project execution, particularly taking into account that a new land law is likely to
become effective inthe near future.

For a detailed description o f the project cycle, specifying the executing agencies and implementation
arrangements see Annex 2. A summary follows below.

The project would finance the establishment o f farms (land acquisition and farm development) up to a
certain maximum grant amount (the Uniform Ceiling) for reasons o f equity and for purposes o f evaluation.
The ceilingwill be regularly reviewed.

At the local level, the project will be implemented by beneficiary communities themselves. A self-selected
rural beneficiary community (poor, landless or land-poor, and willing to farm) will: (i)identify the farm
which it proposes to acquire; (ii)  draw up a general farm plan; and (iii) negotiate the acquisition o f
                                                                          directly
the land, resulting in a Letter o f Agreement. Beneficiary group formation and farm purchase will be
facilitated by a Community Oversight Committee, which will be established in both the originating and
receiving community to ensure fairness, transparency and social integration. Vulnerable and marginalized
groups can benefit from up-front special assistancepaid for by the project.

The beneficiary community presents a Land Acquisition and Farm Development proposal (including the
Letter o f Agreement and a general farm plan) to the Lands Officer inthe district, who issues a public notice
announcing the intended sale and leads a Field Appraisal Team to appraise the proposal. If a proposal
passes appraisal, it i s submitted to the District Executive Committee (DEC) for approval.

DEC is responsible for reviewing and approving community proposals for land acquisition and farm
development and would confirm that: (i)the potential beneficiaries meet the eligibility criteria; (ii)  title to
the land (freehold or leasehold) is clean; (iii) other condition threatens the effectiveness o f the land
                                                    no
acquisition; (iv) the negotiated price is consistent with market conditions; (v) the farm plan is realistic and
the intended use o f the land is compatible with land potential; (vi) the community understands the
implications o f the choice they have made with respect to the legal entity (association, company, trust,
individual, etc.) and specific property rights regime (leasehold, freehold, sub-divisions, etc.) under which
they propose to hold the land; (vii) the environmental checklist is met, or whether an environmental impact
assessment is needed; and (viii) the farm i s free o f encroachers, no unresolved disputes with farm workers
exist, and the integration o f the new settlement into the existing, surrounding communities will not pose
significant problems. If necessary, DEC seeks the assistance o f the Project Management Unit at the
national level or other specialized assistance to complete this review, and conduct additional assessments
(e.g. environmental and social impact assessments). Such assistance would be financed by the project.
The procedures for appraisal and approval by DEC are specified inthe Project ImplementationManual.




                                                      - 12-

Upon approval, the beneficiary community signs a "Land Acquisition and Farm Development Grant
Agreement", which specifies the conditions for implementation o f the LAFD Sub-project, including the
establishment o f a Project Management Committee, the elaboration o f a detailed Farm Development Plan,
the disbursement schedule with tranche release conditions, and other responsibilities o f the community (e.g.
community contributions, environmental management plan). Once the LAFD Grant Agreement i s entered
into by the beneficiaries and the MASAF-MU, the MASAF-MU effects the payment for the farm and the
beneficiary communities would be granted title to the land acquired.

Ifthe acquired landis leasehold, beneficiaries will now start paying the ground rent, which is currently a
small nominal fee, but which will be increased in the next few years. If the acquired land is freehold,
beneficiaries will start paying the land tax, which will be introduced over a similar time frame, following
agreements reached under the Fiscal Management and Accelerating Growth program, an adjustment credit
(2004). This will provide the community with an incentive to immediately start agricultural production,
while the gradual raising o f rents and taxes will put downward pressure on land prices, counteracting the
potential upward pressure on land prices caused by the project.

After the transfer o f the land has taken place (either through direct purchase by communities or transferred
from government or a third party), beneficiary communities would become eligible for funding o f
communal infrastructure under MASAF. CBRLDP, on the other hand, only finances activities which
deliver an individual benefit, rather than a common good. The project will use the following positive list o f
activities which allow the family to settle on the farm and start agricultural production: (i)basic settlement
costs (shelter, basic amenities, and a small, one-time settlement allowance); and (ii) agricultural production
costs (inputs, tools, livestock, and technical assistance).

Communities immediately receive the settlement allowance and the DFID-financed Starter Pack.
Beneficiaries then prepare a detailed Farm Development Plan (FDP) with the assistance o f the Lands
Officer, who will mobilize the necessary technical assistance for its preparation. Participatory Rural
Appraisal techniques will be used inproviding this assistance.




                                                      - 1 3 -

The actual distribution o f resources among different cost categories (land acquisition, farm development,
technical assistance, etc.) would vary from initiative to initiative. Figure 1) shows an example.


                            Figure 1) Indicative cost shares of a typical land reform project
                                                 (approximate shares)




                                                                      Starter Pack (5%)

                                                                    0SettlementAllowance
                                                                      (5%)
                                                                    0Farmdevelopment
                                                                      160%)



First, the cost o f land would probably represent about 30% o f cost o f the initiative. Second, immediately
established upon establishment o f the farm, beneficiary communities will receive a one-time settlement
allowance (of approximately 5% o f total cost) to assist them settling in. They will also receive a farmer
Starter Pack (also valued at about 5% of total cost, to be provided through parallel financing by DFID).
Third, the grant balance under the Uniform Ceiling can then be spent on farm development (basic
settlement costs and the establishment o f agricultural production).Under the Uniform Ceiling, the greatest
trade-off would occur between the value o f the land and the amount spent on farm development. So, use o f
a Uniform Ceiling for all beneficiaries would automatically mean that for farms that are fairly expensive
(as a result o fhighper hectare cost, with good infrastructure, or large farm size), fewer resources would be
available for basic farm development. And vice-versa, for relatively inexpensive farms, more funds would
be available for on-farm development. Communities would see this inherent trade-off explicitly once they
are familiarized with the project rules.

At the district level, Lands Officers (one for each district) would be hired, financed by the project. They
will fimction as team leaders o f appraisal teams o f community proposals and as secretaries to the DEC
review and approval meetings.       These officers will essentially be "systems developers", piloting this
position for future scaling-up.

At the national level, a Project Management Unit (PMU) has been established, responsible for overall
management o fthe project, including the runningthe Management InformationSystem, conducting periodic
performance and procurement audits (and taking remedial action), organizing and facilitating public
information campaigns to disseminate information about the project, and facilitating access to the
capacity-building activities.   The already existing Policy Planning Unit will facilitate manage and
coordinate policy analysis activities and the monitoring and evaluation system, ensuring its integration in
the overall M&E systems o f the Ministry and the Government. The project's overall guidance will be
provided by a Project Steering Committee, with membership drawn from key stakeholders (relevant



                                                     - 14-

ministries, donors and civil society).

The M&E framework includes an intensive monitoring o f social development issues, with communities,
District Assemblies, and the Ministry, being able to access resources to mobilize special assistance. A
community will, for instance, have access to project funds to engage an NGO specifically for monitoring
purposes.

The monitoring o f the Land Acquisition and Farm Development component will be done as part o f the
MASAF MIS, augmented by intensive on-site monitoring by the Lands Officer and specialized NGOs,
which, depending on the hiring entity, will report to communities, the DEC or the Ministry. NGO
monitoring will include undertaking regular beneficiary assessments.

MASAF's system is based on information collected by District-level staff on community activities,
submitted to the MASAF Monitoring Unit for aggregation, and then shared with the National Advisory
Committee for Community Empowerment and Accountability, chaired by the Ministry o f Economic
Planning and Development. The CBRLDP MIS will monitor the project's output indicators as described in
the log frame (see Annex 1: Project Design Summary).           To ensure adequate process monitoring, each
District will hire an NGO to monitor project implementation, using Participatory Rural Appraisal
techniques.   These assessments will be o f a qualitative nature (e,g. targeting effectiveness, community
development, satisfaction, inclusiveness, relations with surrounding communities, incorporation o f farm
workers, relations with local government structures and other stakeholders, self-evaluations). Reports will
be submitted for review and action to the District and the P M U on a regular basis.

The Policy Planning Unit, as part o f the M&E framework, will set up a land market database to monitor
and analyze land market transactions (prices and quantities). This i s needed to: provide good information
to potential beneficiaries; provide "early warning" for land price increases; compare "with" and "without"
project situation; assess whether the program i s improving overall land market activity (e.g. sales,
sub-divisions); and assess land distribution impact at district levels.

Evaluation will be executed by an independent organization, selected on the basis of international tendering.
Evaluation will be based on a sampling framework, which, by use o f base-line surveys and control samples,
will be able to assess the following:

     i.Whataretheabsoluteoutcomes-before/after?
    ii.Whataretherelativeoutcomes-WitWwithout?

The key questions to assess the outcomes o f the landreform pilot program are the following:

Beneficiaries:

     i.Whobenefits?Arewetargetingandreachingtherightpeople? Doesthescreenedself-selection of
        potential beneficiaries result in the inclusion o f the poor and land-poor, and the exclusion o f
        better-off and "landed" households?
    ii.Notethatbeneficiaryfamiliesmaybringinadditionalfamilymembersand/or workerslater-these
        add to the "who benefits?" list.
   iii.Welfare measures (household income/expenditures,               well-being objective and subjective,
        quantitative and qualitative).

Land:


                                                    -15-

     i.Productivitymeasures;and.
    ii.environmentalconditions.



Potentialfor Scaling-Upthe PilotbyMeasuringKey Project PerformanceIndicators:

     i.Landtransfers-area,       speed and cost o f transfers;
    ii.Fiscalcostpersustainablebeneficiarylivelihoodcreated-do           the above economic benefits justify
         the overall fiscal costs?

Evaluation will be carried out annually, starting with a Baseline Survey upon project effectiveness. The
evaluation data will be generated from beneficiary surveys and control groups. The quantitative data would
be collected from household surveys, stratified to land reform beneficiaries and agricultural areas, and the
MIS.     Qualitative data would be supplied by the NGOs monitoring the project, using beneficiary
assessments and participatory rural appraisals.

Three sample surveys will be conducted;

     i.Beneficiaryhouseholdandfarmpanel;
   ...ii.Control household panel;' and
   111.  Control farm panel ("area survey").

D. Project Rationale
1. Projectalternatives consideredand reasonsfor rejection:
    1.1. To wait until a new Land Law is passed. Generally, the current legal and institutional
    fi-amework i s adequate for launching the proposed project and project design would be flexible enough
    so that when the new law becomes effective, project implementation would be expected to continue
    without disruption. The project would pave the way for the formulation and implementation o f a
    scaled-up landreform program under the new policy and law by piloting community-drivenapproaches
    to land redistributionand land administration.

    1.2. To use compulsory, insteadof voluntary, acquisition of land. International experience shows
    that this would not result in any cost-savings.       Moreover, designated farms would need immediate
   protection to prevent asset-stripping and vandalization.         Finally, a badly-executed expropriation
   program will result in loss o f confidence, leading to loss of investment and currency devaluation.

    1.3. To build the Ministry's own capacity to handle procurement, disbursement and financial
    managementof community-driven components,instead of relying on MASAF. This would delay
    the effectiveness o f the project, unnecessarily replicate an already existing, mature and successful
    system, and risk not benefiting from cross-sectoral and stakeholder oversight ("horizontal
    accountability").

    1.4. To transform part of the community grant into a loan. The objective of adding a loan
   component would be to provide beneficiaries a strong incentive to immediately start using the land
   productively. However, Malawi's experience with agricultural credit schemes has been negative--low



                                                      - 1 6 -

 repayment rates are the rule, rather than the exception.           No credit system appropriate for the
 beneficiaries targeted by the project exists at the moment, so this would need to be created first, leading
 to possibly costly delays. In addition, prevailing real interest rates are very high (30 percent plus),
 while subsidized rates would lead to unwanted distortions. A strategic choice was made to achieve the
 production incentive objective by, after a grace period, insisting on the payment o f leasehold ground
 rents or freehold land taxes, as envisaged by the Government. MASAF3 does promote community
 savings and investment schemes, in which the land reform beneficiaries can participate. While no
 external resources would be injected into these schemes, making them unsuited to finance the large
 up-front costs associated with land acquisition and farm development, the increased agricultural
 incomes generated by the land reform beneficiaries would serve as important sources o f local savings
 to be mobilized inthese community savings and loans institutions.

 The general rationale for providing grants for land purchase to the poor i s based on two main
 arguments. First, a grant targeted towards the poor i s justified from an efficiency point o f view to
 compensate for distorti,ons in land, credit and agricultural markets that bias against them.          These
 market imperfections cause land prices to exceed the capitalized value o f the agricultural income, the
 only source out o f which the poor could repay the loan. Because small-scale family farmers are in
 general more efficient producers than large farmers or absentee landlords, a targeted grant to purchase
 the farm and make it productive would be justified from an economy-wide efficiency perspective.
 Second, a targeted grant i s justified because the resulting reduction in the inequality in land holdings
 would alleviate social and political tensions. If unresolved, these tensions can have severely negative
 economic consequences, as international experience demonstrates.

1.5. To use IDA credit instead of an IDA grant. Five criteria have been set out by IDA donors as
part o f the IDA 13 replenishment framework: (i)      HIV/AIDS, (ii) natural disaster, (iii)
                                                                                          post-conflict, (iv)
poorest IDA-only country, or (v) particularly debt-vulnerable poorest IDA-only country. Malawi
qualifies under the fifth criterion. As such, the CBRLDP has been allocated 100% grant financing from
IDA. The 2003 Country Assistance Strategy supports the PRSP and is built on three pillars: (i)
strengthening economic management and achieving macroeconomic stability; (ii)         establishing a platform
for sustainable poverty-reducing growth; and (iii)improving service delivery and expanding the safety
net. The proposed project falls under the second pillar and is identified as an operation with high
strategic rewards. It i s also one o f the few projects to be implemented even inthe low case.




                                                    - 1 7 -

2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and/or other development agencies (completed,
ongoing and planned).
                                                                                        Latest Supervision
              Sector Issue                                Project                          (PSR) Ratings
                                                                                   (Bank-finance ~ojectsonly)
                                                                                   Implementation   Development
 Bank-financed                                                                      Progress (IP)   Objective (DO)

 Social Fund                               MASAF 1 (closed 1998)                         S              HS
                                           MASAF 2 (closed 2003)                         S               S
                                           MASAF 3 (became effective
                                           Nov. 2003)
 Structural Adjustment                     Fiscal Management and
                                           Accelerating Growth (2004)
Agriculture                                Agricultural Marketingand                     S                S
                                           Estate Development Project
                                           (closed 1995)
                                           Agricultural Services Project                 U               U
                                           (closed 1999)
                                           Agricultural Sector Adjustment                 S               S
                                           Credit (closed 1997)
Other development agencies
 European Union                            Productivity and Soil
                                           Conservation Project--on-going,
                                           being scaled-up

                                            Capacity-building for
                                            decentralization o fLand
                                            Administration inpilot districts
                                            (planned, Mzimba inthe North,
                                            Salima inthe Centre, and
                                            Mwanza inthe South.
 DANIDA                                     LandAdministration (closed
                                            2001)
 DFID                                       Targeted Inputs Programme
                                            (on-going)
 USAID                                      Smallholder Support Project
 AfDB                                       Land Administration project for
                                            customary lands inpilot
                                            districts (planned, Rumphi in
                                            the North; Kasungu inthe
                                            Centre; and Chiradzulu in the
                                            South)
IP/DO Ratings: HS (Highly Satisfactory), S (Satisfactory), U (Unsatisfactory), I- I (Highly Unsati!




                                                       - 18-

3. Lessonslearnedand reflectedin the project design:

The international experience on unsuccessful andor delayed land reform programs i s quite large. Some o f
the important lessons learned from these experiences include:

      i.Landreformisahighlypoliticalissue. Therefore, theGovernment's willingnessandcommitment
         to the process is a fundamental condition for success.
     ii.Centralgovernment identificationoftargetedlands, aswellasexpropriationandlandacquisition
         directly by Government, tend to create legal disputes, delays, high administrative costs, and they
         often breed corruption.
    iii.Itismuchbettertoinvolvebeneficiariesfromtheoutsetinaprocessofvoluntarytransactionswith
         landowners.
    iv. Centralized administrative designation of program beneficiaries is not very effective.            Direct
         community participation inthe selection o f beneficiaries i s preferred.
     v. When unresolved land issues are allowed to fester for too long, popular sentiments will at some
         point become organized politically. When that happens, the issue will become extremely difficult
         to resolve in a developmental and planned fashion. Whereas it is difficult to predict how and when
         this will happen, the key lesson from international experience is to try to resolve land issues before
         they become organized politically.

The evaluations o f the Land Reform and Poverty Alleviation Pilot Project in Brazil (4147-BR), which
relies on community initiatives to landreform, have yielded the following lessons:

    i.A community-basedapproachtolanddistributionisconsiderablymoreexpedientandlesscostly
        than the traditional administratively-led process. For example, in that project the process o f land
        acquisition, from identification o f lands to purchase, typically has taken less than 90 days. On
        average, the actual total cost o f land redistribution (including the land acquisition price, litigation,
        administrative, and other costs) o f the traditional approach i s close to three and half times that o f a
        market-assisted approach.
    11. Communities have consistently chosen good quality land at costs that represent savings o f 40% or

   ...  more, relative to traditional land reform and without upward pressure on land prices.
   111. Self-selection o f project participants has proven effective inpin-pointing the landless rural poor; the
        vast majority o f beneficiaries have household incomes and characteristics consistent with the target
        population. The requirement o f own contributions for investment sub-projects ensures effective
        self-selection.
   iv. Streamlined approval o f complementary investment sub-projects, such that funds are immediately
        deposited with the beneficiary community and disbursed once a sub-project proposal is presented
        and approved, eliminates unnecessary delays.
    V.  Concurrent and ex-post monitoring and evaluation are critical to identify bottlenecks and make
        adjustments inthe course o f project implementation.

4. Indicationsof recipientcommitment and ownership
    i.SincethepresentationofthePresidentialCommission's ReportinOctober 1999,Governmenthas
         adopted a new Land Policy (2002); and designed a LandReform Implementation Strategy (2003).
    ii.GovernmentiscurrentlydraftinganewLandBilltobefinalizedin2004.
   iii.Government has negotiated a land component as part of the policy matrix of the Financial
         Management and Accelerating Growth credit (2004).
   iv. Government has taken decisive actions to control land encroachments when these have erupted.




                                                      - 1 9 -

  5. Value added of Bank support in this project:

  Internationally, the Bank has obtained considerable experience in implementing the concept o f
  Community-Driven Development and market-assisted land reform (e.g. Brazil). InMalawi, the partnership
 between the Government and the Bank has been instrumental in formulating a new Land Policy and
  catalyzing other donor support. Finally, successful implementation o f the project would have positive
  regional demonstration effects and extemalities which the Bank could help materialize for other countries in
  Africa.

  E. Summary Project Analysis (Detailed assessmentsare inthe project file, see Annex 8)
  1. Economic (see Annex 4):
 0 Costbenefit            NPV=US$4.1 million; ERR = 15 % (see Annex 4)
 0 Costeffectiveness
 0 Other(specify)

  Detailed economic and financial analyses were prepared to quantify the economic benefits o f the project.
  The primary economic benefits as a result o f the project are the increased agricultural productivity from the
  redistributedland that is currently under-utilized, and the distributional benefits gained from increasing the
  incomes o f about 15,000 poor and land-poor rural families. The analysis i s based on three representative
  farm models - based on agro-climatic zones within the four pilot districts - anticipated to be established by
  smallholders under the project:

      i.asubsistencemodelinwhich80%oftargetbeneficiariesareassumedtogrowfoodcropsfortheir
          own consumption, and a small quantity o f cash crops;
     ii.asemi-commercialmodelinagro-climaticzonesthatsupportthecultivationofahigherproportion
          o f cash crops such as rice, cotton, chilies or paprika; and
     iii.ateamodelinwhichsmallholderssellteatothelocalestatesasout-growers.

In each farm model, beneficiaries are expected to buy approximately 2 ha o f land on which they build a
shelter, some local infrastructure and begin cultivation. Fullproduction is expected to be reached by year 3
inmodels 1and2 andyear 5 inthe model3. Familylabor is assumed, and a small amount ofoff-farm labor
i s assumed inmodel 1, to supplement family income during the dry season.

  The farm models produce intemal economic rates o f return ranging from 22% to 59%. The NPV o f net
  benefits i s significantly positive for all models. Model 2 produces about 5 times the net benefits than model
  1, model 3, about 3 times the benefits.        The analysis aggregates from the individual farm models to
  determine project benefits, based on a project benefit build-up as beneficiary households enter the project.
  The NPV for the overall project i s $4.1 million (ERR = 15%). Ifwe just consider the land administration
  and farm development component (57% o f total costs), the NPV rises to $15.1 million (ERR = 30%).
  Farm incomes rise substantially over the project life compared to the without project scenario, from 138%
  inyear 3 to 213% inyear 15 for model 1.

  The sensitivity analysis demonstrates the robustness o f the analysis for the following variables: land prices,
  crop yields (most sensitive), input and output prices, cropping patterns, "capture" by non-poor, impact o f
  linkage effects on nonfarm economy, proportion o f beneficiaries in the three models, assumptions around
  benefits accruing from asset accumulation and beneficiary entry into the project.




                                                         - 20 -

2. Financial (see Annex 4 and Annex 5):
NPV=US$O.7 million; FRR = 13 % (see Annex 4)
See E2 and Annex 4 for discussion. Economic benefits are greater thaqfinancial benefits for two reasons:
the increased tax revenue (relatively minor) and the linkage effect from increased farm incomes on the
nonfarm economy (substantial, particular inmodel 2).

Previously, the key financial issue was to secure commitment from another donor to provide funding for
land acquisition. However, the project has obtained an exception to Bank practice o f not funding land
acquisition (see Section B.3).

Empirical evidence for Malawi demonstrates that household incomes are positively correlated to access to
land. Inaddition, even though an unfinished policy agenda exists, the financial profitability o f smallholder
farming has increased as a result o f liberalization o f the marketingenvironment duringthe 1990s.

Fiscal Impact:

The direct fiscal cost per family o f community-based land reform will be subject to a Uniform Ceiling,
which will be subject to regular review. The current estimate compares favorably to the cost o f ad hoc
solutions, viz. the regularization o f squatting, which entails no cost savings on compensation for the
original owner or subsequent infrastructure provision, but has an additional fiscal cost, stemming from the
negative impact on governance and the investment climate. Additional cost-savings would be achieved due
to the empowerment o f communities in the implementation o f the project (as opposed to a central
bureaucracy), resulting in (i)lower cost o f land acquisition caused by the negotiations between willing
buyers and sellers; and (ii)lower farm development costs due to community participation in design and
implementation.

The primary fiscal impacts are: the impact o f reducing poverty o f 15,000 poor families, increase in
agricultural productivity, and the moderate gains in employment and tax revenue. The most important
unquantified fiscal and economic benefits o f the pilot project and its scaling up result from the reduction o f
political and social tensions around the land issue and the associated negative economic consequences.

3. Technical:
Empirical research o f smallholder farming in Malawi confirms the feasibility o f establishing sustainable
rural livelihoods centered around family farming.

Most of the technical features o f the proposed project have been adopted from the highly successful
experience o f MASAF in Malawi and from similar experiences in other countries.             The project would
support only simple, appropriate, and environmentally sound technologies, corresponding to the needs and
capabilities (for construction o f shelter, as well as for the establishment o f agricultural production) o f the
population. The design and standards o f Land Acquisition and Farm Development Grant proposals will
follow the MASAF procedures and guidelines, which conform to the norms and standards o f the'
appropriate technical ministries, consistent with Malawi's environmental policy andthe Bank's safeguards,

Farm prices will be compared to prevailing market-conditions. Costs for farm development (inputs, tools,
livestock, training and technical assistance) will be based on prevailing market unit costs, with appropriate
allowance for inflation, and, whenever applicable, a reasonable level o fphysical contingencies.

Communities will be allowed to request special assistance from the project for group formation, farm
identification and price negotiations.      They can also allocate part o f the LAFD Grant for technical



                                                      -21   -

assistance for the preparation o f detailed farm development plans, including community development
training, organization and social capital formation, management of natural resources, and farming
practices.

4. Institutional:
The project would use existing mechanisms for project implementation and avoid the creation of new
institutional structures. Inparticular, the project will make use o f existing MASAF financing, procurement
and disbursement modalities and procedures. This has the added advantage o f capacity-building through
on-the-job training by MASAF counterparts. Project preparation has taken place in close collaboration
with the MASAF team.

4.1 Executing agencies:

The Ministry o f Lands' P M U will be the main executing agency. It will be complemented by the MASAF
Management Unit. The National Technical Advisory Committee (NTAC) o f MASAF will approve all
proposals under the Land Acquisition and Farm Development component, after approval by the District
Executive Committees (DECs).

4.2 Project management:

Project management for the Land Administration, Capacity-Building and Project Management and M&E
components will be implemented by the Ministry o f Lands PMU. The P M U will be supervised by the
Community-Based Rural Land Development Project Steering Committee, which will be responsible for
monitoring project implementation. Project management for the Land Acquisition and Farm Development
will be out-sourced to the MASAF MU. See Annex 6.A and 6.B for details.

4.3 Procurement issues:

Procurement o f the Land Acquisition and Farm Development Component will go through the existing
MASAF systems and use the Community Participation Procurement method. While the development o f
robust procurement plans is the basis o f project implementation in most World Bank operations, it will be
difficult to develop the same in as far as the Land Acquisition and Farm Development aspects are
concerned, as these are community-driven and depend on market conditions. However, attempts will be
made to ensure that the relevant procurement framework i s updated regularly (periods o f six months) to
reflect projected procurements for the ensuing periods. Other procurement will be done by the Ministry o f
Lands PMU. See Annex 6.A for details.

4.4 Financial management issues:

Financial management and disbursement o f the Land Acquisition and Farm Development Component will
go through the existing MASAF systems. Financial management of the other components will be done by
the Ministryo f Lands PMU. The only issue coming out of a financial management capacity assessment o f
MASAF and the Ministry o f Lands points to weak capacity in the Ministry o f Lands. An appropriate
action plan mitigating against such a risk has been developed to ensure that the project runs smoothly. In
addition, less than half o f the credit sum will be disbursed through the Ministry o f Lands. See Annex 6.B
for details.

5. Environmental:                           Environmental Category: B (Partial Assessment)
5.1 Summarize the steps undertaken for environmental assessment and EMP preparation (including
consultation and disclosure) and the significant issues and their treatment emerging from this analysis.




                                                      - 22 -

The proposed CBRLDP represents a novel pilot approach to land reform, whereby a significant number o f
poor households will have access to farmland through a voluntary and market-driven land acquisition
process. The project will be undertaken on estates previously used for agricultural purposes, but now
largely under-utilized. Any protected areas and ecologically or culturally vulnerable sites will be excluded
from acquisition and resettlement, while only those beneficiaries who form their groups on a voluntary and
inclusive basis will be eligible. Similarly, land will only be acquired from a willing seller, an existing
government-administered farm, or a private donation.

Qualifying beneficiaries will be given grants to buy land that i s either available on the market, free of any
encumbrances, or land which i s already Government-administered.          Moreover, the Land Acquisition and
Farm Development Grant to be provided by the project (capped by the Uniform Ceiling), will include a
portion that would be used for settlement expenses, basic shelter and amenities, as well as the purchase of
basic tools and inputsto start farming.

Although the project will not finance or support any communal infrastructure, and will focus mainly on
individual household benefits (which may include, shelter, drinkingwater, pit latrines, and livestock kholus,
as well as agricultural inputs and basic technology), it has been classified as "B" (according to World Bank
OP/GP 4.0 1) with the requirement that an Environmental and Social Analysis (ESA) would be prepared.
This classification has been assigned largely to enhance the potential positive impacts, and to ensure that:
(i) acquisitionoffarmsdoesnotencroachonnationalparksorprotectedareas,wetlands, andsensitive
   the
ecosystems, or any sites o f cultural or archeological value; (ii)farms acquired through the project
incorporate sustainability principles and the new farmers take advantage o f the capacity-building support
available through the project, including a pilot program on integrated pest management; (iii)on-farm
renovatiodconstruction o f household shelter and other amenities are undertaken in accordance with sound
environmental and social principles; and (iv) that the capacity for dealing with safeguard issues is built
among public institutions in charge o f implementing the project, particularly at the level of the local District
Executive Committees and District Assemblies (DECs and DAs), and communities, thus enhancing the
capacity o f local institutions and the government's decentralization program.

The ESA concluded that the project was not expected to have any significant environmental or social
impacts, and will, in fact, contribute to the sustainable development o f the rural sector in Malawi through
piloting an approach to land reform which would: (i)    increase the income o f poor households; (ii)  improve
agricultural productivity and sustainable land management practices; (iii)strengthen community
empowerment, inclusion, and social cohesion; and (iv) mitigate the localized tensions around the land
issue.

The ESA covers: (i)baseline conditions in the districts where the project will be implemented (Mulanje,
Thyolo, Machinga, and Mangochi); (ii)policy and institutional issues; (iii)potential social and
environmental issues (related mainly to community development, human health and farming); and (iv) a
process framework to identify and mitigate the potential risks and enhance the potential benefits o f project
activities.

Potential issues identified by the ESA relate to the possible location o f farms to be purchased near natural
habitats or critical ecosystem areas, environmental health o f project beneficiaries and their communities,
and sustainability o f land use and agricultural management practices on all newly-acquired farms. More
specific risks identified by the ESA include: (i)  the acquisition o f farms that may encroach (or border) on
national parks or protected areas, wetlands, or other sensitive ecosystems; (ii)  impacts that may arise from
individual shelter rehabilitation or setup (including location, access to drinkingwater, and sanitation for the
new farm owners); (iii)increased use o f agro-chemicals, either as part o f a "Starter Pack" or, over time,


                                                     - 23 -

through improved incomes and access to informationand extension services; and (iv) landuse and cropping
practices that may exacerbate land degradation, lead to the loss o f biological diversity, or result in poor
water management, that may already be ongoing on farms to be purchased through the project.

The ESA recommendations for social and environmental issues (described above) resulted in the
preparation o f an Environmental Management Plan comprised o f an Environmental and Social Screening
and Review Process (ESSRP), a Pest Management Plan (PMP), a Monitoring and Evaluation System
(MES), and institutional strengthening, all funded and implemented as part o f the project.

Consultations. Despite the fact that the project would not have any significant environmental impacts, and
would not involve any resettlement or restriction o f livelihoods, the preparation o f the ESA used a
participatory process, conducted in three stages: during preparation o f the Terms o f Reference o f the ESA,
at community level during field surveys, and at district level to review the draft report. The consultations
were aimed at facilitating a broad-based dialogue and transparency in project development and identifying
key environmental and social issues.

Disclosure. The ESA (including consultations) was prepared from December 2002 to October 2003, and
reviewed by the Bank in November 2003. The Executive Summary was disclosed starting November 18,
2003 in two local languages and in English in the country's capital Lilongwe and at the offices o f the four
District Assemblies, the relevant Wards, Traditional Authorities, and Group Village Headmen, as well as in
the World Bank's Infoshop. The entire project documentation in English is also available in the country
and inthe World Bank's files.

Finally, it is important to note that the ESA was prepared in accordance with Government o f Malawi's
Environmental Management Act (1996) and its Guidelines for Environmental Assessment (19971, and
that the project was reviewed and cleared by the Director o f Environmental Affairs. Annex 11provides a
summary o f the findings andrecommendations o f the ESA.

5.2 What are the main features o f the EMP and are they adequate?

Given the demand-driven nature o f the project and the types o f issues and risks identified in the ESA, the
EMP is comprised o f an Environmental and Social Screening and Review Process (ESSRP), a Pest
Management Plan (PMP), a Monitoring and Evaluation System (MES), and institutional strengthening, all
funded and implemented as part o f the project. Furthermore, because the project uses a demand-driven
process for acquiring farms, both as part o f appraising their viability (at the time o f purchase), and later, as
part o f preparing their Farm Development Plans (FDPs), using rapid rural appraisal techniques, a
farm-level environmental assessment will be conducted and-if              need be-more       specific mitigation
measures would be incorporated inthe FDPs. This screening process will be mainstreamed in the overall
project process framework and will be fully integrated inthe project implementation manual (PIM).


5.3 For Category A and B projects, timeline and status of EA:
                     Date o f receipt o f final draft: ESA start date: December 13, 2002
                                                      ESA Final Draft: November 18,2003



5.4 How have stakeholders been consulted at the stage o f (a) environmental screening and (b) draft EA
report on the environmental impacts and proposed environment management plan? Describe mechanisms
of consultation that were used and which groups were consulted?

Extensive consultations conducted helped inform the final project design. In addition to consultations with


                                                       - 24 -

the local communities, technical officers from government, nongovernmental organizations and members o f
the private sector were also consulted in each district, including District Commissioners (DC's),
Environmental District Officers (EDO),           Directors o f Planning and Development (DPD),               NGO
representatives with an interest in environmental issues, staff responsible for Lands, Land Husbandry
Officers, staff from the Ministries o f Fisheries and Forestry, Agriculture, the Meteorological Department
and tea estates' representatives. Opinion leaders' views were also sought during the process, including
traditional leaders, local politicians and religious leaders, and other key informants.

5.5 What mechanisms have been established to monitor and evaluate the impact o f the project on the
environment? D o the indicators reflect the objectives and results o f the EMP?

Giventhe nature o f impacts and issues to be encountered duringproject implementation, an Environmental
Monitoring System (EMS) has been designed based on two principles:

1. The EMS will not focus on monitoring and reporting on either general environmental and social
     conditions in the four pilot districts, nor on the impact from individual farm activities (this would be
     neither feasible nor effective). Rather, the EMS will track a small number o f indicators related to: (i)
     the sustainability o f the FDPs and adoption o f sound land use practices, and (ii) environmental
                                                                                                the
     health conditions o f the beneficiary households and their communities; and (iii)other process
     indicators.
2. The Environmental Monitoring Plan will be an integral part o f the Project Monitoring and Evaluation
     System. The EMS has initially been designed to carry out monitoring and evaluation o f the trends in
     the adoption o f processes and practices o f the beneficiary groups and their host communities inrelation
     to environmentally and socially important issues that might arise.

Through the Environmental and Social Screening and Review Process (which is hlly integrated in the
Project Implementation Manual), a number o f processes have been put in place to ensure that appropriate
environmental management practices are followed in the project. These processes are essential at all levels
o f the project. The EMS covers three groups o f indicators: (i)   process indicators at the village, district, and
national levels; (ii)socioeconomic and well-being indicators (part o f the core indictors to be monitored by
the project as a whole); and (iii) adoption o f management practice indicators.
                                   the

Furthermore, periodic supervision missions will also monitor progress achieved and the effectiveness o f the
EMS.

6. Social:
6.1 Summarize key social issues relevant to the project objectives, and specify the project's social
development outcomes.

The net social effect o f the project i s expected to be positive, since it will significantly reduce rural poverty
among the beneficiaries and i s likely to encourage increased Government and donor support for a
community-based approach to land acquisition and farm development. Specially targeted assistance will be
providedto mobilize vulnerable and marginal groups and ensure their inclusion into the project.

Inaddition to advancing the Bank's work inthe areas o f community participation and collaboration with
NGOs and civil society organizations in Malawi, the project's decision-making processes are expected to
contribute towards strengthening the capacity o f local governments and the traditional village system to
serve as effective mechanisms for active participation by marginalizedgroups (women, landless, youth).

Good relationships will need to be fostered between the settlers and the surrounding communities in those
cases where the beneficiaries do not originate from the surrounding communities.                 Specially targeted


                                                       - 25 -

assistance will be provided to ensure the successful resolution o f such issues, ifnecessary. The project will
support the establishment o f Community Oversight Committees to ensure transparency in beneficiary
selection, facilitate the integration o f beneficiary groups into the community and resolve social problems, if
they were to arise.

While the project will support the purchase o f farms available on the market or inthe public sector for the
benefit o f poor/landless farmers and other vulnerable groups, the project will involve no involuntary land
acquisition, or any form o f restriction o f livelihoods or loss o f access to protected areas or other natural
resource reserves. However, the acquisition o f new land by poor and vulnerable groups, particularly in an
area where the new farm owners may be outsiders (e.g., from a different district or area where they
currently live) may result in social tensions.          Thus, the important emphasis in the project-as       a
fundamental design feature-on       community development in order for beneficiaries to access project funds,
all through the initial phase o f information dissemination, group formation and application submissions
(pre-qualification), until the preparation, appraisal, and approval o f a detailed Farm Development Plan
(FDP).

A Resettlement Framework will not be necessary, because community sub-projects are screened and
financed by MASAF, which prohibits involuntary land acquisition. In addition, no farm will be acquired
where there are still unresolved labor disputes between the owner and farm workers, and farm workers will
be encouraged to participate inthe project. Finally, the CBRLDP discourages encroaching by:

      i.makingencroachedfarmsineligibletobeacquiredundertheproject; and
     ii.providing a better alternative under the project: a legal, transparent, and adequately funded
         mechanism for the poor to access land.

6.2 Participatory Approach: How are key stakeholders participatingin the project?

Key stakeholders include poor rural communities, estate owners, local level organizations-including
NGOs, and district-level entities, and small farmer organizations. In addition to the consultations already
conducted during the preparation o f the project and the ESA (see Section 5 above), involving the project
concept and development objectives, eligibility criteria, and geographical location, structured and more
detailed consultations will be undertaken as a fundamental project design feature in order to enable poor
and vulnerable communities to access project benefits, on a demand-driven and widely transparent basis.

Furthermore, rural communities will be in the driver's seat throughout project implementation. They will
identify the lands, negotiate with the seller, and prepare and implement their Farm Land Development Plans
(FLDPs) (focused on private household benefits, and not communal sub-projects--which fall under the
purview o f Malawi Social Action Fund (MASAF). Estate owners will be active voluntary participants in
the project, as they will be approached directly by rural communities and will interact with the appropriate
local level district administration entities supporting the project.

6.3 How does the project involve consultations or collaboration with NGOsor other civil society
organizations?

NGOs were involved in public consultations from the very beginning, both at national and district level.
The preparation o f the ESA involved a number o f NGOs (such as members o f the National Smallholder
Farmers Association o f Malawi, NASFAM) from all four pilot districts, during all the three phases o f
consultations conducted.

It is expected that NGOs will play a major role during the launch phase o f the project, during which an
extensive communication campaign will be launched at the national and local levels, in order to identify


                                                        - 26 -

eligible communities and help them access project funding to present their applications, identify farms
available on the market, negotiate a price, and meet the requirements for land acquisition through the
project.NGOs will also be active participants on a demand-driven basis, as rural communities and
district-level entities will contract out some technical assistance services from them, particularly in relation
to the initial phase of community formation and application submission, detailed farm appraisal, and FLDP
preparation and implementation.

6.4 What institutional arrangements have been provided to ensure the project achieves its social
development outcomes?

The project implementation arrangements will be based on the highly successful experiences o f MASAF in
Malawi and other community-based land development programs.               Although this project will not fund
community sub-projects (since its focuses on market-drivenland acquisition and household benefits), it will
use essentially the same institutional arrangements as MASAF, adapted to the specific needs o f the project.
Local institutions, particularly District Executive Committees (supported by other local government
technical entities and NGOs, as needed), will be the main counterparts o f communities, and will be in
charge o f information dissemination, application screening and appraisal, including capacity-building
support and M&E. At the national level, the National Technical Advisory Committee (NTAC) provides a
final review before the land transactions are sanctioned by the Lands Minister (as required by the
legislation in place). In turn, NTAC is monitored by the National Advisory Committee for Community
Empowerment and Accountability (NACCEA). The P M U plays a role o f managing the capacity building
support and M&E for the project as a whole.

6.5 How will the project monitor performance in terms o f social development outcomes?

It is expected that through the combination o f an effective management and information system compatible
with that o f MASAF that generates periodic implementation progress reports at the district level, periodic
Bank supervision missions, random audits, beneficiary assessments, and independent evaluations, project
performance in terms o f social development outcomes will be effectively monitored.             Details o f the
monitoring and evaluation arrangements are included inthe Project Implementation Manual.

7. SafeguardPolicies:




7.2 Describe provisions made by the project to ensure compliance with applicable safeguard policies.

The project does not present any major safeguard issues. The net social and environmental effects o f the
project are expected to be positive, since the project will significantly reduce rural poverty among the
beneficiaries and i s likely to discourage encroachment on private and public lands. The only safeguard
policies triggered are OP 4.01 and OP 4.09,



                                                     - 27 -

Compliance with Environmental Assessment (OP 4.01) is ensured through the implementation o f the
Environmental Management Plan which includes, an Environmental and Social Screening and Review
Process (ESSRP), a Pest Management Plan (PMP), Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E), and institutional
strengthening, all funded and implemented as part o f the project. Inaddition, through ESSRP, the project
will specifically screen potential farms to be purchased by poor communities for the existence of, or
connection to, potential natural habitat issues, and will promote sustainable land use practices as part o f the
Farm Development Plans. Finally, the appraisal phase o f the Farm Development Plans will use a
safeguards screening checklist and will promote sustainable practices at the household and agricultural
production level, by providing capacity-building resources to the new communities, as needed.

Compliance with Pest Management (OP 4.09) is ensured through the Pest Management Plan. Since one o f
the key aims o f the project i s to help poor and vulnerable groups in Malawi own farmland and improve
their livelihoods, the Farm Development part o f the Land Acquisition and Farm Development Sub-projects
Grant is designed to enable beneficiaries to acquire basic production technology, that may involve
agro-chemicals, seeds, tools and implements, etc. Therefore, the Pest Management Policy i s triggered and
a Pest Management Plan has been developed and incorporated into the Environmental Management Plan o f
the project.

The PMP, as designed, has a dual objective: i)to enhance the capacity o f the project beneficiaries to use
pesticides inan economic and safe way (ensuring that banned pesticides or ago-chemicals inWHO classes
IA, IB and I1will not be acquired by farmers), and introduce them to Integrated Pest Management (IPM)
on a pilot basis--for which technical capacity will be established in project districts through training o f
trainers; and 2) to identify key strategic and institutional issues at the national and local government levels,
inorder to promote movement towards the development and implementationo fa pest management policy.

Finally, it is important to note that while the project will support the purchase o f farms available on the
market for the benefit o f poor/landless farmers and other vulnerable groups, the project will involve no
involuntary land acquisition or any form o f restriction o f livelihoods, or involuntary restrictions o f access to
legally designated parks and protected areas. This is ensured through the following project design features:

     i.farmspurchasedfromthemarketwillbeunencumberedandfreeofanylegalandfinancialclaims
         or any other liens;
     ii.farmswithencroachersorsubjecttoanyformofunresolvedlabordisputeswillnotbeeligiblefor
         purchase and payment by the project;
    iii.theFarmDevelopmentpartoftheLandAcquisitionandFarmDevelopmentGrantwillbeusedfor
         individual benefits only, allowing farmers to setup shelter, and basic amenities, and to enable them
         to start agriculture production; and
    iv. the project will not fund any community infrastructure.             Instead, if they express the need,
         communities will be supported in the preparation o f proposals to MASAF (which uses a
         community-driven approach to support a variety o f community socioeconomic and infrastructure
         sub-projects).

F. Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability:

Sustainability o f community-based land acquisition and farm development activities is highly likely due to:




                                                      - 28 -

          i.the high degree of community participation in identification, preparation, contracting,
             implementation, and supervision;
          ii.theownershipbybeneficiariesasevidencedbycashorin-kindcontributions;
         iii.theuseoftheexistingandtestedMASAFprocedures;and
         iv. the involvement o f other sectors, local NGOs and other stakeholders ("horizontal
             accountability").

2. Critical Risks (reflecting the failure o f critical assumptions found inthe fourth column o f Annex 1):
                     Risk                          Risk Rating                 Risk Mitigation Measure
From Outputs to Objective
Government does not use ground rents and                 M          Policy instrument supportedby adjustment
land tax policy instrument to suppress                              )peration with land component
speculation inland prices

Property rights allocated to beneficiaries               M          Project will provide secure title to beneficiaries,
do not provide sufficient tenure security to                        including individual sub-divisions ifdemanded
encourage on-farm investment
                                                                    4cceptance o f land sale by neighboring
                                                                    :ommunity is part o f approval process

Decentralization policy inpilot districts i s            S          Both MASAF and CBRLDPprovide
not implemented                                                     zapacity-building support to local government
                                                                    institutions inpilot districts


I                                                                   Resources are directly controlledby beneficiary
                                                                    groups, creating strong effective demand on
                                                                    local government performance

 Social issues (withinthe group and with                 M          Group cohesion and prevention o f elite capture
 respect to the receivingcommunity) are                             will be facilitated through specialized assistance.
 not resolved satisfactorily.
                                                                    Ifbeneficiaries have identifieda farmina
                                                                    different district than where they live, both
                                                                    originating and receivingdistricts will be
                                                                    supported to work with beneficiaries and
                                                                    receiving communities to resolve potential
                                                                    conflicts.

                                                                    Project will hire a social development specialist.
 From Components to Outputs
 Insufficient land, at excessive prices, is              M          Iflandmarket supplyis not sufficient or too
 available for acquisition inparticipating                          costly, Government can increase ground rents
 districts                                                          and land taxes, as agreed under parallel
                                                                    adjustment operation with landcomponent.

                                                                    Strengtheningo f ground rent collection will be
                                                                    financed under the project.


                                                       - 29-

Decentralization o f Land Administration               M            3roject finances decentralization, including a
inpilot districts is not effective                                  LandAdministration Manager who reports to
                                                                    :heMinistry'slandadministrationline function
                                                                    nanagement

Support to local government institutions               M            rargeted and specialized assistance has been
inpilot districts is ineffective                                    xogrammed into the project, to be providedby
                                                                    mblic and private agencies at the community
                                                                    mddistrict levels.

                                                                    [ftechnical assistanceisnot sufficiently
                                                                    ivailable at the local level, the participating
                                                                    iistrict would seek supplemental technical and
                                                                    financial support from the Project Management
                                                                    Unit at the national level.

Beneficiaries do not have sufficient access            S            Project finances special capacity-building
to technical and financial assistance to                            support to beneficiaries and local NGOs
prepare and implement profitable land
acquisition and farm development
proposals.



M&Esystemis ineffective                                M             Readiness o f M&E system i s condition for
                                                                    effectiveness
Financial management andprocurement                    S            Financial management and procurement
capacity o f project implementation                                 assessments undertaken, including formulation
structures i s weak.                                                o f action plans.

                                                                    Land Acquisition and Farm Development
                                                                    component will use existing MASAF systems,
                                                                    with low financial management and procuremen
                                                                    risks.
Overall Risk Rating                                    M
iisk Rating - H (High Risk), S (Substantial Ri! , M (Modest Risk), F Negligible or Low Risk)


3. Possible Controversial Aspects:

Given the voluntary nature o f the land redistribution approaches being proposed, the project i s not expected
to engender resistance from either estate-owners or potential beneficiaries.

Voluntary movement o f beneficiaries between districts may sometimes be problematic, but, under the pilot
project, will take place within the same socio-ethnic regional grouping. Movement between regions, under
a scaled-up operation, would be controversial, however.

Given the high degree o f landlessness in Malawi, non-pilot districts might feel excluded.                      An
Information-dissemination Education, and Communicationcampaign will be mounted to inform the nation



                                                      -30 -

o f the pilot-nature o f the project, and, if successful, its scaling-up.

The project obtained an exception to the Bank's policy on tobacco, as set out in OP 4.76: "The Bank does
not lend directly for, invest in, or guarantee investments or loans for tobacco production, processing, or
marketing."      CBRLDP includes no specific activities targeted to tobacco production, processing, or
marketing. However, under this community-based approach to land reform, project beneficiaries would be
empowered to make their own decisions on the purchase and development o f their farms -- and it cannot be
ruled out that some farmers would choose to use the grants that they receive under the project to purchase
inputs to raise small amounts o fburley tobacco. The exceptionwas granted on the basis that:

      i.Malawiisheavilydependentontobaccoasasourceofincome(accountingforabout60percentof
          merchandise exports, 23 percent o f total tax base, and 10percent o f GDP);
      ii. the proposed land reform activities are highlightedinthe Malawi Poverty Reduction Strategy
          Paper, the FY03 Country Economic Memorandum, and the FY04 Country Assistance Strategy as

     ...  core elements for promoting pro-poor growth;
     ill. the beneficiaries of the proposedmeasures would be poor smallholder farmers, who account for 70
          percent o f total production; and
     iv. the Bank program includes a number o f activities designed to help Malawi diversify away from
          tobacco.

G. Main Grant Conditions
1. EffectivenessCondition
      i.Keyprojectmanagement staff inplace andTerms ofReference acceptable :ProjectManager,
          Finance Manager and Procurement Specialist.
      ii.Positionofindependentevaluatoradvertised.

2. Other [classify according to covenant types used in the Legal Agreements.]

      i.MASAF-ManagementUnitwiththeappropriateprojectstafftobemaintaineduntilcompletionof
          the project to implement the Land Acquisition and Farm Development component;
      ii.Project Management Unitwith the appropriate staffto be maintained untilcompletionofthe

     ...  project to implement the other components o f the project;
     111. Steering Committee to be maintained until completion o f the project to oversee the overall
          implementation o f the project;
     iv. Project to be carried out in accordance with the Project Implementation Manual and the
          Environmental Management Plan;
      v. Land Acquisition and Farm Development (LAFD) component to be implemented in accordance
          with the procedures set out in the Project Implementation Manual and the LAFD Sub-project
          GrantAgreements.
     vi. Annual procurement plan to be submittedby May 15 o f each year o f project implementation;
    vii. Semi-annual and annual financial audits to be carried out under the project;
  viii. Mid-termReview to be carried out by December 31, 2006; and
     ix. An Independent evaluator appointed within six months o f the effectiveness date.

H. Readinessfor Implementation
0 1.a) Theengineeringdesigndocuments forthefirstyear's activitiesarecompleteandreadyforthestart
          o f project implementation.
    1. b) Not applicable.



                                                         -31  -

   02.Theprocurementdocumentsforthefirstyear'sactivitiesarecompleteandreadyforthestartof
          project implementation.
    Ix13. The Project ImplementationPlanhasbeen appraised andfoundto berealistic andofsatisfactory
          quality.
   04.Thefollowingitemsarelackingandarediscussedunderloanconditions(Section G):



    I. Compliance with Bank Policies
       1. This project complies with all applicable Bankpolicies.
   02.ThefollowingexceptionstoBankpoliciesherecommendedforapproval. Theprojeawnplieswith
          all other applicable Bank policies.




4
fi' Rogier J. E. Van DenBrink            L R i c h a r d G. Scobey                     hafer
 i  Team Leader                              Sector ManagerlDirector   '     Country ManagerlDirector




                                                         - 32 -

                                Annex 1: Project Design Summary
                    MALAWI: Community-Based Rural Land Development Project
                                Key Performance           Data CollectionStrategy
 Hierarchyof Objectives             Indicators                                           Critical Assumptions
iector-related CAS Goal:    iector Indicators:            iector/ country reports:     from Goal to Bank Mission)
 0  Reducepoverty by         0 Poverty and extreme         0  Comparison o f rural      0 Selected poverty
    increasing broad-based     poverty headcount              household survey data       indicators are relevant for
    economic growth                                                                       measurement o f actual
                                                                                          poverty



'roject Development         Iutcome / Impact              'roject reports:             from Objective to Goal)
Ibjective:                  ndicators:
 0  To increase the incomes    Incomes o f participating   0  Annual project M&E        0 Scaling-up o f pilot project
    o f about 15,000 poor      families, compared to          reports by Ministry o f     i s feasible
    rural families by          control groups and             Lands, Physical Planning  0 Localizedtensions
    implementing a             pre-project income levels.     and Surveys according to    around land issue do not
    decentralized                                             M&Eframework                escalatebefore pilot i s
    community-based          0 Increased agricultural      0  Annual independent          scaled-up
    approach to land           production.                    evaluation reports        0 Macroeconomic and
    acquisition and farm                                   0  Bank supervision reports    govemance situation do
    development in four      0 Pilot program evaluated     0  Mid-TermReview              not markedly deteriorate
    districts.                 and decision to scale-up                                 0 Progress inthe
                               positive                                                   unfinishedagricultural
                                                                                          policy reform agenda
                                                                                          through adjustment
                                                                                          programs is effective and
                                                                                          enhances the profitability
                                                                                           o f smallholder farmers
                                                                                        0  HIV / AIDS pandemic is
                                                                                           significantly mitigated




                                                      -33 -

                                 Key Performance            Data Collection Strategy
 Hierarchy of Objectives               Indicators                                        CriticaI Assumptions
htput from each              3utput indicators:             `rojectreports:             `Tom Outputsto Objective)
:omponent:
I. Landacquired, number o f  0  Number o f family farms      0 M I S implementation     0  Government uses
ieneficiary families, and       establishedon lands            progress reports            groundrents and land
igricultural production         acquired through the         0 Progress Reports by Land    taxes to suppress
ichieved                        project                        Acquisition and Farm        speculation in land prices
                             0  Amount, speed and cost         Development Manager
                                o f land acquisition (per    0 Annual independent
                                beneficiary family and         evaluation reports
                                per hectare)
                             0  Speed and cost o f
                                establishment o f
                                agricultural production
                                (per beneficiary family
                                and per hectare)

?.Decentralized, transparent 0  Number o f beneficiary       0 M I S implementation      0 Property rights allocated
and administration system in    groups or beneficiaries        progress reports            to beneficiaries provide
)lace                           which have received          0 Annual independent          sufficient tenure security
                                appropriate                    evaluation reports          to encourage on-farm
                                documentation o f land                                     investment
                                ownership,
                             0  Number, speed and cost
                                o f titles, cautions and
                                hectares registered, and
                                sketch maps completed

3. Capacity to implement     0  Number and quality o f       0 M I S implementation      0 Decentralization policy i s
:ommunity-driven land           land acquisition and farm      progress reports            effectively implemented
icquisition and farm            development proposals by     e Annual qualitative group  e Social issues are resolved
levelopment program exists      eligible beneficiary           monitoring o f selected     satisfactorily (within
)r is created                   communities (andor             beneficiary groups          beneficiary groups and
                                hectares o f land) (i)       0  Community monitoring        between beneficiary
                                received; (ii)  reviewed;       reports                     groups and receiving
                                (iii)approved; and(iv)       0  Annual independent          communities).
                                fully disbursed.                evaluation reports

1.Monitoring and evaluation  0  Timeliness and content of    0  M I S implementation     e Government makes
system provides appropriate     reports generated by            progress reports            effective use o f M&E
nformation for effective        M&Esystem                    0  Annual independent          results
xoject management and                                           evaluation reports
rcaling-up decision after
xoject completion




                                                        - 34-

                                Key Performance         Data Collection Strategy
Hierarchv of Objectives             Indicators                                            Critical Assumptions
'roject Components I         nputs: (budget for each    'roject reports:                from Components to
Iub-components:              :omponent)                                                 1utputs)
.Land   acquisition and farm JSS 15.00 m                 e MIS implementation           e Sufficient land, at
evelopment                                                  progress reports               reasonable prices,
                                                            generated at district-level    becomes available for
                                                                                           acquisition in
                                                         e M I S aggregated                participating districts (on
                                                            implementation reports         the market or as
                                                            prepared and coordinated       counterpart contribution)
                                                            by the Ministryof Lands

                                                         e Independent evaluation
                                                            reports

.Land   administration       JSS 2.95 million             e Periodic random audits       e Supportto
                                                            and field supervisions by      decentralization o f land
                                                            Ministry o f Lands             administration is effective


                                                          0 MISreports



 .Capacity building          JSS 3.29 million             e MISreports                   e Support to local
                                                                                           government institutions
                                                          e Beneficiary assessments        through M A S A F and
                                                                                           CBRLDP is effective
                                                                                         e Beneficiaries have
                                                          e Independent evaluation          sufficient access to
                                                             reports                        technical and financial
                                                                                            assistance to prepare and
                                                                                            implement profitable lanc
                                                                                            acquisition and farm
                                                                                            development proposals.
I.ProjectManagement and      JS$5.76 million              e Disbursement reports          e Use o f resources for
d&E                                                                                         project management is
                                                                                            effective
                                                                                          e Financial management
                                                                                            and procurement capacitJ
                                                                                            i s adequate.
                                                                                          e Use o f resources for M&I
                                                                                            system is effective
                                                          e Procurement records,
                                                             contracts, audits, etc.

                                                          e Periodic Bank
                                                             supervision reports


                                                          0  Timeliness and quality of
                                                             M I S reports

                                                          e Timeliness and quality of
                                                             independent evaluation



                                                    - 35 -

- 36 -

                                Annex 2: DetailedProject Description
                   MALAWI: Community-BasedRural Land Development Project

By Component:

Project Component 1. Land Acquisition and Farm Development US$16.50 million
                                                                  -
This component covers the voluntary acquisition o f landby eligible communities, basic settlement costs and
the establishment o f agricultural production. The sources o f this land acquisition are:

      i.land(leaseholdorfreehold) soldbywillingowners;
      ii.landtransferred to communities byGovernment (so-called "re-entered" estates, whichfailedto
          comply with development covenants); and
     iii.landdonatedbyprivateindividualsandentitiesforresettlementpurposes.

A business standards timeline has been developed in the PIM to ensure speedy project processing. The
timeline will be communicated as part o f the initial information package to the potential beneficiaries.
During the public dissemination campaign, the project information, including a detailed description of
application and approval procedures, will be made available in local languages in each district by the
District Commissioner. The campaign will be conducted with the assistance o f MASAF and NGOs. A
special dissemination and mobilization program will be targeted to marginalized groups (e.g. destitute
people, women, orphans).

Potential beneficiary groups will first undertake to pre-qualify. Group formation will be facilitated by
Community Oversight Committees (COC) which will be formed by both originating and receiving
communities. The committees would ensure fairness and transparency at community level and certify that
self-selected beneficiaries qualify; participate during field appraisal meetings; and facilitate integration o f
beneficiary groups with the receiving communities. A group submits names and the relevant proof o f
eligibility o f each member o f the group to the Lands Officer in the District, using a standard application
form. The Lands Officer receives the form and does a desk appraisal. He communicates to the group
whether the form has been filled out correctly or not.

When the form has been correctly filled out, the Lands Officer explains the standard proposal forms and
supplies the information of available farms to the beneficiaries. This information is contained in a Land
Data Base which will be established by the Department of Lands at the Ministry o f Lands Physical
Planning and Surveys. Beneficiaries can also obtain information themselves using real estate agents, the
Districts, advertisements in local newspapers, and other sources, but the Policy Planning Unit in the
Ministryo f Lands will assist by collating such information in a monthly District newsletter, produced by
MASAF.

A potential beneficiary group identifies a farm and provisionally negotiates the price with the existing
leaseholder or freeholder. The group can ask the assistance o f a valuer, NGOs, or a registered estate agent.
The group verifies that no unresolved labor disputes exist, involving farm workers, and that no
encroachment problems exist. The group then draws up a general farm plan, using a standard template,
which describes: (i)  the agricultural production envisaged (short and medium-term); (ii) basic land use
                                                                                              a
and environmental plan; (iii)  the legal entity under which the group proposes to acquire the farm initially
(e.g. as an associatiodclub, trust, company, individuals each holding sub-divisions); and (iv) the property
regime under which they will hold the land (leasehold, freehold, or, when the new Land Law is passed,
"customary estate").



                                                     -37  -

After negotiations, the group obtains a letter of agreement from the seller. The group presents the letter o f
agreement and a general farm plan to the Lands Officer in the District. The Land Officer issues a Public
Notice, announcing the intended sale of the land, and inviting anyone with an interest in the land to step
forward within twenty-one days o f issuing the notice. However, even ifsomeone steps forward after the
twenty-one days, and the land has already been transferred to the beneficiary group, disbursements under
the remainder o f the LAFD Grant will be stopped untilthe issue is resolved.

The Land Officer leads a Field Appraisal Team to inter alia (i)       confirm beneficiary eligibility; (ii)
                                                                                                          review
the provisional sale agreement, farm purchase price and farm plan; (iii)   review the environmental and social
aspects affecting the proposed land purchase; analysis, and (iv) carry out a preliminary determination as to
whether the land title is free of any encumbrances and not subject to any prior claims. This appraisal will
be guided by practical checklists and use Participatory Rural Appraisal techniques. The composition o f the
team will be flexible, given the specific characteristics o f the group and the farm.

Ifthe farm identifiedfor acquisition by the group is ina different district thanthat from which the group
originates, the Lands Officer contacts his or her counterpart in the group's home district for the appraisal
o f the eligibility o f beneficiaries.

The Field Appraisal Team decides on-site whether the proposal (i)passes field appraisal as is; (ii)         fails
appraisal; or (iii) merits further evaluation. The Lands Officer explains the decision to the group. Iffurther
evaluation is needed, the Lands Officer mobilizes special assistance (public andor private, financed by the
project).

Ifthe appraisal is positive, the Lands Officer submits the proposal to the District Executive Committee
(DEC) where the farm i s located for approval. This proposal will now be known as the "Land Acquisition
and Farm Development Sub-project".          The DEC i s an existing local government institution and the
implementing agency o f MASAF at the District Level. Ifthe appraisal i s negative, the group i s advised o f
the decision and given a copy o f the appraisal report.

The DEC is composed o f Heads o f relevant departments and, for the purposes o f this project, augmented
by relevant civil society representatives, including the Traditional Authorities. The appropriate composition
o f the augmented Committee will be decided on by each District, in consultation with the Ministry o f
Lands. The DEC meets regularly to approve MASAF and CBRLDP proposals, but will meet at least once
a month for the purposes o f this project, given the market-based characteristic o f the land acquisition
process.

The DEC o f the "home" district o f the group evaluates whether beneficiaries meet the eligibility criteria, as
specified inthe Project Implementation manual, including confirmationthat the members o f the beneficiary
group are: (i) Malawian citizens; (ii)poor (according to a predefined list o f criteria and the Field
Appraisal's own assessment); (iii)land-poor (no land, or less land than needed for own subsistence in
particular agro-climatic zone); (iv) willing to farm (as demonstrated by their farm plan and their
understanding o f this plan); and (v) capable to undertake this project as a group. However, DEC can make
exemptions to the eligibility criteria to accommodate vulnerable groups (e.g. orphans, disabled).

The DEC evaluates whether the farm price is fair and reflects prevailing market-conditions. If needed, it
hires an independent valuer to check the price paid (fee paid by project).

The DEC evaluates the agricultural and legal aspects o f the proposal, by assessing whether: i)the intended
use o f the land i s compatible with its potential; ii) the group understands the farm plan and has (or will


                                                     - 38 -

acquire) the capacity to execute it; and iii)the group understands the implications o f the different legal
entities and property rights regimes.

The DEC evaluates the environmental soundness o f the proposal, by assessing whether: i) the
environmental checklist is met (zoning, protected area, bordering protected areas or water bodies, fragile
ecosystems); ii)an Environmental Impact Assessment is needed; and iii)the proposed landuse conforms
to the District EnvironmentalPlan.

The DEC evaluates whether the social issues are properly addressed: i)the farm is free o f encroachment; ii)
no unresolved disputes with farm workers exist, or, if special assistance is needed (financed by the project);
and iii)the integration o f the new settlement into existing, surrounding communities does not pose
significant social problems, or, if special assistance i s needed (financed by the project).

The DEC checks that: (i)the title to the land (freehold or leasehold) i s unencumbered and clear o f legal
claims; and ii)no other condition threatens the effectiveness o fthe land acquisition.

The DEC assesses which key, priority communal infrastructure could be financed under MASAF as a
matter o f priority.

If necessary, the DEC may seek the assistance of the Project Management Unit at the national level to
complete the review o f the proposal, and such assistance will be financed under the capacity-building
component o f the project (e.g. assistance for Community Development, Environmental Impact
Assessments, Social Impact Assessments),

Ifthe project has met all criteria, the project is approved by the District Executive Committee. The DEC
abides by the rules o f the District Assembly; and the existing sector norms and standards. The DEC then
sends the project to the Project Management Unit o f the Ministry o f Lands. The P M U sends it to the
members o f National Technical Advisory Committee (NTAC)                    for approval, in batches.     For
Community-Based Rural Land Development projects the NTAC will convene special meetings because
market transactions cannot afford long delays. The N T A C i s chaired by the Ministry o f Finance and
comprises representatives from the MLPPS; Ministry o f Education, Science and Technology; Ministry o f
Health; Ministry of Water Development; Ministry o f Transport & Public Works; Ministryo f Commerce &
Industry; Ministry o f Agriculture, Irrigation & Food Security; Ministry o f Gender and Community
Services; Ministry of Local Government; the National Local Government Finance Committee; and the
Executive Secretary o f Council for Nongovernmental Organizations in Malawi. The N T A C in tum is
monitored by the National Advisory Committee for Community Empowerment and Accountability,
composed o f seven members, including the Centre for Social Research, DFID, and UNICEF.

After the NTAC approval, the beneficiary community signs a "Land Acquisition and Farm Development
Grant Agreement" with the MASAF-MU.               The LAFD Grant Agreement will include inter alia the
following terms and conditions include: (i)   details o f the proposed landpurchase; (ii) establishment o f a
                                                                                           the
project management committee; (iii)the elaboration o f a detailed Farm Development Plan; (iv) the
disbursement schedule (40-30-30) with tranche conditions; and (v) the responsibilities o f the community in
implementing the agreement (e.g. beneficiary contribution o f at least 10% o f the farm development portion
o f the LAFD Sub-project Grant incash or inkind, environmental management conditions).

After the signing o f the LAFD Grant Agreement, MASAF issues the cheque to the seller o f the farm and
the MLPPS transfers the land ownership to the beneficiary group inits selected legal form. MASAF sends
information to the DEC and Ministry o f Lands on a monthly basis. The District Lands Officer transfers


                                                      -  39 -

the property to the new owners inthe specific regime requested.

Ifthe landis leasehold, beneficiarieswill now start payingground rent (MK5Oha currently, to be increased
inthe next years). Ifthe land is freehold, beneficiaries will start paying land tax, when introduced innext
years. This will provide them with an incentive to immediately start agricultural production.

After the transfer o f the land, beneficiary communities will become eligible to receive finding for
communal infrastructure through MASAF through procedures established under MASAF 3,

CBIUDP will finance activities which deliver an individual benefit, rather than a community good.
CBRLDP will use the following indicative positive list o f activities which allow the family to settle and
start agriculture production: basic settlement cost (shelter, basic amenities, settlement allowance) and
agricultural production (agricultural inputs, tools, livestock, technical assistance). In addition, through
parallel financing, the group will receive Starter Pack provisions (through NGOs, DFID-financed).
Beneficiaries immediately: (i)  receive the settlement allowance (cash, 5% o f grant), and the Starter Pack;
and (ii)  are informed o f the balance remaining per beneficiary (uniform ceiling minus costs o f land
acquisition).

Beneficiary groups then prepare a detailed Farm Development Plan (FDP), detailing the use o f the grant
balance for basic settlement cost and agricultural production, based on a detailed farm and land use plan.
To prepare the detailed FDP, the group will use technical assistance coordinated by the Lands Officer. The
proposal specifies community contributions in cash, labor or in-kind(10% o f the Farm Development part
o f the LAFD Grant), replicating the MASAF3 model.

The FDP is appraised by the Field Appraisal Team, led by the Lands Officer and composed o f Technical
Specialists as relevant. The Field Appraisal Team i)uses a detailed checklist for the evaluation o f the
proposal, andthe existing MASAF checklists for economic, environment and social aspects and; ii)can call
on specialized agencies if further review is necessary, and this will be paid for by the project (e.g.
environmental impact assessment, social impact assessment).

The Field Appraisal Team authorizes the disbursement o f tranches by the MASAF-MU. Procurement
follows IDA'SCommunity Procurement rules. Tranche releases are governed by the conditions spelled out
inthe signed LandAcquisition and FarmDevelopment Grant Agreement (see above).

The Lands Officer, with specialists as needed, monitors implementation. The Lands Officer will use the
Local Assembly Management Information System o f MASAF.

Project Component 2. Land Administration US$2.95 million
                                             -
This Component will support the Ministry o f Lands, Physical Planning and Surveys in carrying out land
administration tasks required by the project.      There are currently several important change processes
underway in land administration in Malawi, including implementation o f the decentralization o f land
administration to districts mandated by the Local Government Act, 1998. The European Union i s currently
funding a revision o f relevant land laws, and will be supporting a broad effort to strengthen land
administration. This component focuses much more narrowly on the land administration tasks needed to
ensure that those purchasing land under Component 1 receive secure titles.

The legal framework for the land acquisitions and titling is satisfactory, and no legal changes are required
to allow this project to achieve its objective. But the Ministry o f Lands, Surveys and Physical Planning has
large numbers o f unfilled posts and Ministry staff lack training and equipment for simpler, labor-saving


                                                     - 40 -

technologies such as GPS. The Ministry's capabilities must be both strengthened and supplemented. This
will be done through training for existing staff, contract hiring o f key project staff, and reliance on the
private sector, including lawyers, valuers, and surveyors. These private sector service suppliers are
available to people in the pilot districts due to their relative proximity to Blantyre, the commercial center o f
the country.

The land purchased under the project will be registered as freehold and leasehold land. It is anticipated that
most o f the land purchased by the beneficiary groups will be retained in those tenures. In the case o f
leaseholds, the un-exhausted term o f the lease will be purchased by the buyers but the Ministry will then
renew or extend the lease for the purchasers so that they will enjoy a term o f ninety-nine years. After
reviewing the first transactions under the project, the Minister will facilitate these transfers by providing a
general consent under the Land Act 1965 to all transfers o f land financed by this project. The purchases
would be registered under the Registered Land Act 1967, a title registration law which will provide secure
title. Purchasers will have the option, if they wish, to take the land purchased under the customary land
tenure system o f the area. If the new Land Law carries out the intention o f the 2002 Land Policy, that law
will allow for registration o f customary estates, and any beneficiaries who took their land under customary
tenure would then have this option.

In order to provide secure tenure to project beneficiaries, the Ministry will need to (i)advise and assist
District authorities implementing Component 1;(ii)      provide advice and assistance to communities obtaining
land, including advice on physical planning and accessing private sector services; (iii)provide quality
control o f services provided to project beneficiaries by private surveyors, conveyancers, valuers, and
lawyers; (iv) facilitate the transfer o f purchased properties currently registered in the older Deeds Registry
to the Land Registry, and e) process and register both the initial transfers to the groups purchasing the land
and any subsequent partition o f that land among the members o f the groups.

The number o f parcels to be purchased is estimated to be in the order o f 600 over the life o f the project.
The land administration work required will phase in as parcels are purchased, over the life o f the project.
They number o f parcels which may ultimately be surveyed and registered on the initiative o f the
beneficiaries will depend on the number o f groups which elect formal partition o f the purchasedland among
their members, at their own cost, but it could be on the order o f 20,000 parcels.

Implementing these processes will require (i)the posting o f a Land Officer to each o f the foLir Project
Districts; (ii)
              strengthening the capacity in the RegionalLand Survey Office and Land Registry in Blantyre
to carry out functions detailed above; and (iii)   strengthening the capacity o f the Headquarters to supervise
the land administration tasks under the project. The Ministryis currently seriously understaffed at regional
level and it hasno officers inthe Districts.

The project will support the hiring o f key staff under contract, who will be dedicated to work under this
project. These include the four district land officers and an administrative assistant for each officer; an
assistant registrar, a valuer, a physical planning officer, and a supervising surveyor for the Regional
Office; and a lands officer for the PMU, at Headquarters. The project will fund necessary vehicles, office
equipment, communication equipment, furniture and operating expenses for the central, regional and the
four district offices. In the districts it will also fund office renovation (where the district has office space
available) or office rental and renovation (where district office space is not available). The Ministry will
undertake a study o f lessons to be learned from past experience in land acquisition and distribution,
including Makande and other relevant cases. The project may support other studies and international
technical assistance as requested by the Ministry,within the budget figures specified.




                                                       -41  -

As implementation of the project proceeds, further strengthening o f district and regional landadministration
will be needed. The increased number o f registered titles created under the project will increase the demand
for land registry services in the pilot districts. Partitions o f land purchased seem likely to increase the
number of registered parcels in the pilot districts by a factor o f ten to twenty, and after five years the
beneficiaries will be able to engage intransactions concerning those parcels.

Inthe course of the periodic reviews of progress in achieving the objectives of the project, if the Ministry
and the Bank find that those objectives are being achieved and funding i s available in the budget over and
beyond what is needed for that purpose, then they may agree to reprogram that funding to more broadly
strengthen land administration at regional and district levels. Any such strengthening would be closely
coordinated with assistance being provided by the European Union, and if such an adjustment inuse o f the
component budget i s contemplated, international TA will be providedto advise on the most strategic use o f
such funding

Designinga LandAdministration system which is fiscally affordable and responds efficiently to community
demand for the formalization o f property rights, will take time and considerable effort. International
experience shows that this is best achieved through a gradual approach, based on pilots. At the local level,
activities under this component will be focused on providing beneficiaries o f land acquisitions with secure
rights, understanding their needs for tenure security and their preferences regarding tenure in the acquired
land, then working with the Ministry o f Lands to meet those needs. This "learning-by-doing"       will inform
project inputs into landpolicy and law reform taking place at national level.

Project Component 3. Capacity building US$3.39 million
                                         -
The project will support capacity-building at:

National level:
      i.MLPPS'ProjectManagementUnit,PolicyPlanningUnitandrelevantDirectoratesand
     ii.MASAF-MU

District level.
     i.DistrictExecutiveCommitteesand
     ii.Traditionalauthorities, civilsocietyorganizations,professionalassociations.

Community level.
     i.Eligiblebeneficiaries;
    ii.Vulnerablegroupsand
    iii.Communitiesoverseeingbeneficiaryselectionandintegratingbeneficiarygroups.

These activities include:

1. Dissemination Campaigns.
    (Project information, detailing application and approval procedures, to be made available in local
    languages).
     i.ineachDistrictbytheDistrictCommissioner,usingpublicinformationcampaign, withassistance
         from MASAF
    ii.special dissemination and mobilization programwill be targeted to marginalized groups (e.g.
         destitute, women).

2. LandDatabase.


                                                    - 42  -

      i.collatedfromlocalnewspapers,fromDistrict,andfromrealestateagents;
     ...ii.coordinated by the Ministry's Lands Department and
     111.  it will send, every month, this informationto MASAF to produce a district newsletter covering the
     four districts.

3. Special Technical Assistance.
     This would be provided for the development and appraisal o fproposals, including:
      i.communitymobilizationandbuilding,farmassessments,negotiations, farmplans;
     ..*
      ii.participatoryRuralAppraisal;
     111.  assessment and addressing o f social issues (e.g. community integration);
     iv. preparationo f detailed farm developmentproposal;
      v. Environmental Impact Assessments; and
     vi. Pest Management anduse o fpesticides.

Project Component 4. Project Management and Monitoring & Evaluation US$6.92 million
                                                                              -
The CBRLDP will be implemented through a decentralized framework. Using the Community Driven
Development approach, the project will work directly with beneficiaries, communities, district-level
institutions, NGOs, and line ministries. The Project Management Unit o f the CBRLDP will ensure the
overall supervision o f the project, including the effective coordination between the various stakeholders.
While the financial management o f the Land Acquisition and Farm Development Component rests with the
MASAF-MU, the financial management o f the other components will be executed by the PMU.

The Community-Based Rural Land Development Project has the development and implementation of a
rigorous M&E framework as one o f its key project outcomes. Market-assisted land reform i s a relatively
new concept and will need a better evaluation o f impact than "standard" projects (e.g. housing) to justify
the use o f public resources, in particular because an exception to the Bank rule to use IDA resources for
land acquisition would be given. In addition, the land reform target group is largely self-selected-an
evaluation will need to estimate the errors o f inclusion and exclusion. Importantly, project benefits will be
evaluated along two dimensions, the beneficiaries and the land. This is because the project not only intends
to raise the living standards o f the beneficiaries, but also the sustainable productivity o f the land. And
finally, because this is a pilot project, the M&E effort itself i s defined as a project outcome.

To monitor project performance and evaluate the impact o f the activities financed, the project will support
the design and implementation o f a monitoring and evaluation (M&E) system which is compatible with that
o f the Malawi Social Action Fund (MASAF) implemented by District Assemblies, communities and
NGOs/CBOs. The M&E framework will include an intensive monitoring o f social development issues,
with communities, District Assemblies, and the Ministrybeing able to access resources to mobilize special
assistance. A community will, for instance, have access to project funds to engage an NGO specifically for
monitoring purposes, The evaluation will be undertaken by an independent institution, selected on the basis
o f international selection.

Monitoring will be based on the MASAF MIS, augmented by intensive on-site monitoring by the Lands
Officer and specialized NGOs, which, depending on the hiring entity, will report to communities, DEC or
the Ministry. NGO monitoring will include undertaking regular beneficiary assessments. For the Land
Acquisition and Farm Development component, the M I S will be operated by MASAF, but ultimate
responsibility rests with the P M U at the Ministryo f Lands.

The MIS will monitor the inputs and outputs o f this component, in particular: (i) number o f family
                                                                                           the
farms established on lands acquired through the project, the speed of land acquisition (from first


                                                       - 43 -

 beneficiary screening to land transfer); (ii) cost o f land acquisition (per beneficiary family and per
                                                  the
 hectare); (ii)  the speed and cost o f establishment o f agricultural production (per beneficiary family and per
 hectare).

 Process inputs and outputs will include: (i)    number o f land acquisition and farm development proposals by
 eligible beneficiary communities (and/or hectares o f land) reviewed and approved by participating local
 government inparticipating districts; and (ii)   number o f beneficiary communities which enjoy secure tenure
 and have received appropriate documentation o f land ownership (based on prevailing legal framework at
 time o f land acquisition).

To ensure adequate process monitoring, each district will hire an NGO to monitor project implementation,
based on the MIS and using Participatory Rural Appraisal techniques. These assessments will be o f a
qualitative nature (e.g. targeting effectiveness, community development, satisfaction, inclusiveness,
relations with surrounding communities, incorporation o f farm workers, relations with local government
structures and other stakeholders, self-assessments). Reports will be submitted for review and action to
DEC and the P M U every four months.

The Department o f Lands will set up a land market database to monitor and analyze land market
transactions (prices and quantities). This i s needed to:

      i.providegoodinformationtopotentialbeneficiaries;
     ...11.provide "early waming" for landprice increases;
    111.   compare with and without project situation;
     iv. assess whether the program is improving overall land market activity (e.g. sales, sub-divisions);
           and
      V.   assess land distributionimpact at district levels.

Evaluation will be executed by an independent organization, selected on the basis o f international tendering.
Evaluation will be based on a sampling framework, which, by using o f base-line surveys and control
samples, will be able to assess (i)what are the absolute outcomes-before/after?             and (ii)what are the
relative outcomes-witldwithout?

Key questions to assess the outcomes the land reform pilot program are the following:

Beneficiaries:

      i.Whobenefits? Arewetargetingandreachingtherightpeople? Doesthescreenedself-selectionof
           potential beneficiaries result in the inclusion o f the poor and land-poor, and the exclusion o f
           better-offand "landed" households?
     11.   Note that beneficiary families may bring in additional family members and/or workers later--these
    ...    add to the who benefits?" list.
    111.   Welfare measures (household          income/expenditures,     well-being-objective    and subjective,
           quantitative and qualitative).

Land:

      1.   Productivitymeasures; and the environmental condition.
     11. Potential for scaling-up the pilot      by measuring key project performance indicators; (a) land
           transfers-area,  speed and cost o f transfers; (b) fiscal cost per sustainable beneficiary livelihood


                                                       - 44 -

          created- do the above economic benefitsjustify the overall fiscal costs?

Evaluation will be carried out annually, starting with a Baseline Survey upon project effectiveness. The
evaluation data will be generated from beneficiary surveys and control groups.           The quantitative data
would be collected from household surveys, stratified to land reform beneficiaries and agricultural areas,
and the MIS. Qualitative data would be supplied by the NGOs monitoring the project, using beneficiary
assessments and participatory rural appraisals.

Three sample surveys will be conducted:

     i.Beneficiaryhouseholdandfarmpanel;
    ii.Controlhouseholdpanel;and
    iii.Controlfarmpanel("area survey").

Importantly, the M&E results will need to assess the feasibility o f a scaled-up program, based on the pilot
project. For instance, how much financing the government and the donors would be willing to put into a
20-year land reform program will depend on the economic return and the poverty impact measured in the
pilot. But other factors, outside the scope o f this project, are equally important. For instance, Malawi has
experienced low growth rates in recent years. Ifthe adjustment efforts are successful, the macroeconomic,
agricultural and lands policy environment will accelerate the growth rate, which would make the program
more affordable over time.

The poverty impact will not be measurable in the short runby looking at the income and production on the
farms in the first years, but will depend on the rate o f savings and capital accumulation, in kind and in
cash, o f the beneficiaries over a longer period. The pilot project, since it has a timespan o f five years, will
generate therefore only partial information on the long-run poverty impact. This makes it imperative to
also obtain evaluation results from land reform programs which have a longer time series measuring
beneficiaries poverty and production levels. These experiences include the Brazil program, and the results
o f Zimbabwe's earlier land reform efforts (1980-83).         Finally, increased agricultural production and
beneficiaries will have multipliereffects, which need to be estimated for the scaled-up program, but will not
be generated by the results o f the pilot project.

Potential fiscal cost savings for a scaled-up program would be identified under the pilot project. In
particular, the gradual increase o f ground rents on leasehold contracts and a land tax on freehold during the
pilot project period would provide a basis to estimate the potential additional fiscal revenues under a
scaled-up program. Other potential cost savings which can be imputed from the pilot project stem from the
fact that the pilot will develop and test the implementation systems, so that a scaled-up subsequent program
would not need to finance this systems development cost. This will include some modest economies o f scale
in the overhead. Finally, the pilot project would investigate whether farmers associations could manage
parts o f the project at a lower cost than government employees or NGOs.




                                                     - 45 -

                                           Annex 3: EstimatedProject Costs
                    MALAWI: Community-BasedRural Land DevelopmentProject

                                                                                                   Local                Foreign                     Total
                        Project Cost By Component                                                US $million          US $million             US $million
Land Acquisition and FarmDevelopment                                                                14.50                   0.00                    14.50
Land Administration                                                                                  1.66                    1.29                     2.95
Capacity Building                                                                                    2.69                   0.52                      3.21
Project Management and Monitoring and Evaluation                                                     4.42                   0.50                      4.92
Total Baseline Cost                                                                                 23.27                   2.3 1                   25.58
 Physical Contingencies                                                                              2.00                   0.10                      2.10
 Price Contingencies                                                                                 2.00                   0.10                      2.10
                                         Total Project Costs1                                       27.27                   2.5 1                   29.78
                                  Total Financing Required                                          27.27                   2.51                    29.78

                                                                                                   Local                Foreign                     Total
                          Project Cost By Category                                               US $million          US $million             US $million
LAFD Sub-projects                                                                                     16.50                      0.00                    16.50
Goods                                                                                                   0.50                     1.50                     2.00
Consultants, Studies                                                                                    1.62                     1.oo                     2.62
Training and Workshops                                                                                  3.08                     0.00                     3.08
Operating Costs                                                                                         5.58                     0.00                     5.58
                                                         Total Project Costs1                        27.28                       2.50                    29.78
                                                 Total Financing Required                            27.28                       2.50                    29.78

  I
   Identifiable taxes and duties are 0 (USSm) andthe total project cost, net o f taxes, is 29.78 (US$m). Therefore, the project cost sharing ratio is 90.66% of
  total project cost net of taxes.




                                                                     - 46 -

                                Annex 4: Cost Benefit Analysis Summary
                   MALAWI: Community-Based Rural Land Development Project



         [For projects with benefits that are measured in monetary terms]




                        I                         I                         I                     I                       I
' The difference between the present value    o f financial and economic benefits are primarily due to the linkage
effects between farm incomes and the nonfarm economy.

I
 Ifthe difference betweenthe present value offinancial andeconomic flows is large andcannot be explained by
taxes and subsidies, a brief explanation o f the difference i s warranted, e.g. "The value o f financial benefits i s less
than that o f economic benefits because o f controls on electricity tariffs."

Summary of Benefitsand Costs:
A detailed economic and financial analysis has been prepared to quantify the economic benefits o f the
project. The primary economic benefits as a result o f the project are the increasedagriculturalproductivity
from the redistributed land that is currently under-utilized, and the distributional benefits gained from
increasing the incomes o f about 15,000 poor and land poor rural families. Two important benefits not
valued in the analysis are the relieving o f the negative externalities associated with tensions around the land
issue, and the value in piloting new approaches to land redistribution, in particular, market-assisted
transactions, and community-driven approaches, that can be scaled-up across the country.

The analysis is based on three representative farm models - based on agro-climatic zones within the four
pilot districts - anticipated to be established by smallholders under the project. The internal rate o f return
o f each o f these farm models is calculated, taking into account all financial and economic costs and
benefits. The change in household income, due to own-consumption and cash sales of crop surplus are
examined. The analysis aggregates from the individual farm models to determine project benefits, based on
a project benefit build-up as beneficiary households enter the project, considering financial and economic
rates o f return. The project costs are based on the cost estimates that result from the detailed project
costing. The sensitivity o f results to changes in key assumptions are analyzed to test the robustness o f the
results. Finally, the fiscal impact o f the project i s assessed.

1. Cost-benefit Analysis Summary:

Three farm models are considered:




                                                           - 47 -

    i. Subsistencemodel: 80% oftargeted beneficiaries are expected to grow primarilyfood crops for
       their own consumption and a small proportion of cash crops. The crops and cropping pattern will
        differ between agro-climatic zones, however the average smallholder, based on aggregate data from
       the four districts, is assumed to include some quantities of local and hybrid maize, groundnuts,
        sweat potatoes, pigeon peas (inbetween the maize), cassava and sorghum;
    ii. Semi-commercialmodel: 10%ofbeneficiariesareexpectedto grow ahigherproportionofcash
       crops inagro-climatic zones where this is possible, in addition to some food crops. Expected crops
        are: hybrid maize, sweet potato, cassava and rice, however, cotton, sugar, chilies and paprika are
       plausible substitutes (while tobacco i s also a likely substitute, it is not considered inthis analysis);
   iii. Tea model: 10%ofbeneficiaries (inThyolo andMulanje) are expected to grow tea (and some
        food crops) on an out-grower basis with the local tea estates.

The major assumptionsinclude:

    i.Where data is significantly divergent or unreliable, conservative assumptions havebeenmade.
        This is particularly significant with data on crop yields and input and output prices o f agricultural
       production.
    11. A 20 year time horizon i s considered for the  full project build-upo f costs andbenefits based on an
   ...  individual farm-level horizon o f 15 years.
   111. Current income levels (and assumed "without project" incomes) are assumed to be $100 per family
       per year, o f which own consumption is a component.
   iv. Beneficiaries in the subsistence model derive a small proportion o f their income from off-farm
        employment (mainly as ganyu labor, as is the current situation) which will come into affect by year
        3, once shelter and basic infrastructure has been constructed.
    V.  It is assumed that no credit is available for smallholders.
   vi. Smallholder productionyields o f all crops are expected to increase by 2% per year as productivity
        performance andtechnology adoption increase.
  vii. Input costs include fertilizer, seeds, establishment costs and farm implements.            Output prices

   ...  assume low quality, farm gate prices. Yields assume low fertilizer use.
  v111. Family labor is valued at the ganyu labor rate (informal labor) o f MKlO/day, the opportunity cost
   ix. The land price i s assumed to be fixed throughout the four districts at $175/ha. The project i s
        assumed not to affect the price o f land. Adjustments in land tax and ground rents (expected to be
        part o f the new Land Policy when it gets codified into law) are expected to contain any possible
        price escalation.
    X,  A discount rate o f 12% is used, inline with the figure recommendedby the Ministry of Economic
        Planning and Development.
   xi. Significant distortions in the economy in input costs (e.g. fertilizer) and output prices are assumed
        to be minimal. Therefore, financial and economic costs and prices are assumed to be virtually the
        same (except for a minor taxable proportion o f input costs).
  xii. The nonfarm multiplier from the linkage effect o f a change infarm cash on the local economy is
        assumed to be 1.5.

Costs accruing at the family level include the grant for land acquisition ($350), agricultural support (starter
pack, $60), and basic settlement costs (shelter, amenities and settlement allowance, $640) i.e. total o f
$1050.

Benefits included in the analysis include: the net cash derived from crop sales (Le. sold output less
purchased inputs), family consumption o f own production and a nominal valuation o f the asset



                                                     - 48 -

accumulation from the sweat equity inthe shelter and basic infrastructure.

Overall project costs include the total per family grant (15,714 beneficiaries at $1050 = $16.5 million)
and "overhead costs" o f land administration ($2.lm), capacity building ($3.5m), project management and
M&E ($5.8m). $100,000 per year is estimated as the ongoing overhead cost after the project is completed.
Therefore the total direct project cost i s $27.9m.

The following benefits have been ignoredinthe analysis as they are either difficult to value, or due to data
shortages: (i)value o f land improvements expected, for example, it i s likely that some smallholders will
plant fruit trees which will yield benefits; (ii) contributed by social infrastructure constructed under
                                                  value
MASAF i.e. schools, clinics, roads, It is not clear what number o f these activities will be completed and it
is difficult to include them in the analysis; (iii) expected health improvements (lower morbidity and less
health costs) associated with improved nutrition, water supply and sanitation; (iv) other benefits associated
with increased security o f tenure, for example, increased investments in home and consequent capital
accumulation; (v) livestock production, in particular, goats and chickens (and possibly cattle and pigs in
certain districts) is likely and should lead to substantial productionbenefits.

Beneficiaries are anticipated to enter the project evenly across the districts inthe proportions given in table
1.

Table 1:          Beneficiarybuild-up

                               year 1     year 2    year 3        year 4       year 5        Total
                                    7%        20%        33%            27%        13%              100%
Mangochi                            262        786       1310           1048        524             3929
Machinga                            262        786       1310           1048        524             3929
Mulanje                             262        786       1310           1048        524             3929
Thyolo                              262        786       1310           1048        524             3929
Total                              1048      3143        5238           4190      2095              15714


The net financial and economic benefit from the individual farm models represent the net benefit stream for
the land acquisition and farm development component as shown in Table 2. The breakdown o f the
overhead costs are as developed in the project costing. Project net benefits then subtract out the overhead
cost from the net benefit stream from the farm models.




                                                      - 49 -

Table 2:            Benefitbuild-up for project

Year Net financial benefitNet economicbenefit                      Overheadcosts                     Project net Project net
     from land and farm from land and farm                                                            financial   economic
-           dev.                 dev.                                                                  benefit    benefit
                                                                   Proj. Man. & Ongoing
                                             Land admin.Cap. Build.   M&E       overheads   Subtotal
   1                (0.8)              (0.8)        1.38     0.56          1.87                   3.8        (4.7)       (4.6)
   2                (2.4)              (2.4)       0.50      0.76             1                   2.3        (4.7)       (4.6)
   3                (3.6)              (3.5)       0.50       0.9         0.87                    2.3        (5.9)       (5.8)
   4                (14                (1.7)       0.50      0.78         0.99                    2.3        (4.1)       (3.9)
   5                 0.9                1.1        0.50       0.7         0.99                    2.2        (1.3)       (1.1)
   6                 3.3                3.7                                             0.1       0.1          3.2        3.6
   7                 3.7                4.2                                             0.1       0.1          3.6        4.1
   8                 4.0                4.5                                             0.1       0.1          3.9        4.4
   9                 4.1                4.7                                             0.1       0.1          4.0        4.6
  10                 4.2                4.9                                             0.1       0.1          4.1        4.8
  11                 4.4                5.1                                             0.1       0.1          4.3        5.0
  12                 4.5                5.2                                             0.1       0.1          4.4        5.1
  13                 4.6                5.4                                             0.1       0.1          4.5        5.3
  14                 4.7                5.5                                             0.1       0.1          4.6        5.4
  15                 4.8                5.7                                              0.1      0.1          4.7        5.6
  16                 5.0                5.9                                              0.1      0.1          4.9        5.8
  17                 5.1                6.0                                              0.1      0.1          5.0        5.9
  18                 5.1                6.1                                              0.1      0.1          5.0        6.0
  19                 5.1                6.1                                              0.1      0.1          5.0        6.0
  20                 5.1                6.1                                              0.1      0.1          5.0        6.0

Total                60.1               71.9        3.4        3.7          5.7          1.5     14.3         45.8       57.6


NPV                  11.9               15.1        2.9        3.0          4.8          0.7     11.1          0.8        4.1


Table 3 shows the summary results o f the cost-benefit analysis. Financial and economic costs are assumed
to be the same (see assumptions), however economic benefits include a small component o f incremental
taxes (derived from tax on agricultural inputs) and the linkage effects o f changes in farm income. These
economic benefits have little impact on the subsistence model, however are much greater in the
semi-commercial andtea models.




                                                         - 50 -

Table 3:            Summary cost-benefitanalysisresults

                                                         Farm models                    rota1Project
                                           Subsistence  Semi-commercial       Tea        ($ millions)


Proportionsof households(hh)                      80%            10%             10%        100%
Number of hh                                    12,571          1,571            1,571      15,714
Uniform grant ceiling                           $1,050         $1,050           $1,050
Area per hh                                          2              2                2
Total area                                      25,142          3,143           3,143       31,428


Land price                                        $175          $175             $175
Area under cultivation                             1.5            1.a              1.5
Annual revenueper ha planted                      $120          $392             $415


Financial analvsi8
NPV of total costs                              $1,050         $1,050           $1,050       $13.0
NPV of total benefits                           $1,578         $3,411           $2,544      $13.7
NPV of net financial benefits                     $528         $2,361           $1,494        $0.7


Economicanalvsis
NPV of incrementaltaxes                            $10            $12              $15        $0.2
NPV of linkage effects                             $24         $1,239            $805         $3.1
NPV of net economic benefits                      $563         $3,611           $2,314        $4.1


FRR                                               22%            45%              34%         13%
                                                  22%            59%              43%         15%


As the project is piloting new approaches to land redistribution, in particular, market-based land
transactions (willing buyer and willing seller) and community-driven approaches, a high proportion o f the
total project costs (43%) are for "overhead costs" i.e. costs not in the land acquisition and farm
development component.         If we were to analyze the project net benefit for just this component, the
economic benefits are much higher. This is arguably the more realistic net present value.

Land acauisitionand farm develooment comoonent


Financial              NPV            $11.9
                       FRR             27%
Economic               NPV            $15.1
                       ERR             30%


If we assume 50% of.the overhead costs will be needed in a scaled-up project, and thus, the project
overhead cost are reduced by 50%, the overall project FRR is 18% and the ERR is 20%. Similarly, at
70%, FRR= 15%; ERR = 18%.

2. FarmIncomeAnalysis:

Farm incomes in all three models are expected to rise substantially. This i s due to a rise in consumption
(currently target beneficiaries do not consume enough all year round for an adequate subsistence quantity)
and a rise in cash income. Consumption figure have been valued at the same price as outputs, and are
assumed to level off at a subsistence level o f 600-700 kg o f maize per family. Cash income i s derived from
primarilyfrom crop sales with a small proportionfrom off-farm labor.




                                                      -51-

Table 4             Familyincome

Family Income Compared to base year                            Model 1           Model2         Model 3        (weightedaverage)
Year 3                                                           138%               211%           120%                     143%
Year 6                                                           155%               451%          319%                      201%
Year 15                                                          213%               579%          433%                      272%


Household consumption of own maize (kg)                             617                108           390


Annual days family labor per farm (year 5)                          116                145           232


Figure 1 graphically presents the rise in family income due to cash income, consumption and off-farm
employment over the project life.


  Figure 1:Family incomeover project life


                     Total famlly income. subsltence




        $200
     0
        $150
     -
     e-
        si00
     m
     U   S50

          cn
             1 2    3    4   5   6    7  8   9   1 0 1 1 1 2 1 3 1 4 1 5                 1   2   3   4   5   6  7 8  9 x 1 1 1 1 2 1 3 1 4 1 5

                                       Years                                                                     YMrS

               111Off farm employment W Farm cash 0 Consumption



                                       1                        Total family income. tea




                                                   1   2   3    4   5   6     7  8   9  1 0 1 1 1 2 1 3 1 4 1 5

                                                                               Years

                                                       IBOff farm employment W Farm cash     Consumption




3. SensitivityAnalysis:



                                                                        - 52   -

The net present value o f net economic benefits is positive ($4.1 million) and has been calculated using
conservative assumptions, therefore, the positive economic rationale for the project should be robust. The
sensitivity o f this assertion on key assumptions i s analyzed below:

    i. Land prices: An increase in the land price - due to an increase in demand for estate land
         (assuming the market mechanism for controlling the price through increased ground rents and land
         taxes does not to work, or is not implemented) - will have little impact on project benefits as it will
         not impact agricultural productivity. Less grant will be available for shelter and infrastructure,
         however it is assumed that the beneficiaries will still purchase 2 ha. for agricultural production.
   ii. Cropyields: While conservative assumptions havebeenmade, itispossiblethat evenlowercrop
         yields could be achieved due to drought, or exceptionally low performance o f beneficiaries.        If
         yields are reduced by lo%, project NPV drops to -$0.2. At 20% lower yields, N P V for the project
         i s -$4.4, however the NPV for the land acquisition and farm development component is still
        positive untilyields are reduced by 33%.
   iii. Inputandoutputprices:Increasinginputcostsby50% willlowerproject rateofretumto 13%.
         Subsistence smallholders will not experience an increase in cash income until year 12, however
         they will still have a large increase in consumption. Ifoutput prices, for each commodity, were to
         drop by lo%, the ERR would still be above the rate o f capital (12%), however at 20%, this would
         drop to 9%. Conversely at, prices 20% higher than current prices, the overall project ERR would
         rise to 20%, with FRR's for the three models at 29%, 53% and 41% for the subsistence,
         semi-commercial and tea models respectively.
   iv. Cropping pattern: Changes in the crops grown and area cultivated will clearly have a large
         difference on the overall returns o f individual farmers.       While all the possible scenarios are
         impractical to model, the following are worth noting (i)    Ifsubsistence farmers grow 1.5 ha ofjust
         local maize (and nothing else) and the semi-commercial and tea models are as given, the ERR for
         the project i s 3%, however the ERR for land acquisition and farm development component i s still
         above cost o f capital.    Smallholders experience a decrease in income until year 8 and (ii)If
         subsistence farmers grow lha o fjust hybridmaize, the project ERR = 12%.
    V.   "Capture"by non-poor: Ifthe targeting mechanismo fthe project fails, and non-poor, or non-land
         poor beneficiaries qualified for the grant, in economic terms, this is represented by an increase in
         the estimate o f the existing income levels o f target beneficiaries.        If we assume we have
         under-estimated annual cash incomes by 100% i.e. beneficiaries actual incomes are $165 per year,
         N P V for the project drops from $4.lm to $0.6 (ERR = 13%), and incomes do not increase as
         dramatically as estimated in Table 4, however increased incomes still range from 26% (year 3) to
         288% over the project life.
   vi. Linkage effects: The analysis assumes a nonfarm multiplier o f 1.5. The linkage effect at project
         level results in a NPV o f $3.1 million (most o f which i s derived from the semi-commercial and tea
         models). Ifwe assume no linkage effects, the project NPV drops to $0.9 million, however, if we
         assume the multiplier i s 2, our N P V rises to $7.2 million. Obviously, there i s no impact on farm
         incomes.
  vii. Proportion of beneficiaries in each model: If we assume that 100% o f beneficiaries are in the
         subsistence model, the NPV i s -$2m (with IRR o f lo%), however still strongly positive NPV for
         component 1 ($7.7m with ERR o f 23%). However, increases in income (the primary objective o f
         the project) are still very high (103% in year 3).       If we assume 20% of tea model (and 0%
         semi-commercial), ERR = 15% and if we assume 20% semi-commercial (and 0% tea), ERR =
         18%.
 viii. Valuing asset accumulation: The analysis has considered a small component (20%) o f the



                                                       - 53 -

        infrastructure cost as a benefit accrued to the family through sweat equity (see project costs and
        benefits).  However, if we do not value this benefit at all, the impact on the rate o f r e m is
        negligible (15% to 14%).
   ix. Beneficiary build-up: If we assume that the initial demand for the project is weak, and
        beneficiaries only join in the following proportions: 0%, lo%, 20%, 30% 40%, this has little
        impact on the overall ERR (14%). Indeed, even ifwe assume there is no beneficiaries inthe first 4
        years, and all in the last, project ERR i s 12%. Higher beneficiary demand early on the project
        increases project net benefits.

4. FiscalImpact:

The following fiscal impacts are considered:
     i.Agriculturalproduction:agriculturalproductionwillincreaseinthefourpilotdistrictswhichadds
        to the national aggregate productionand enhances national self-sufficiency in food crops.
    ii.Tax revenue: NPVofthe incrementaltax increaseasaresultoftheproject isnotsignificant
        ($168,000).
   iii.While ithasnotbeenfklly quantified, theprojectshouldhaveapositive impact ontherateof
        employment.
   iv. Poverty reduction: while the impact o f lifting 15,000 poor families (currently under subsistence
        level) has not been explicitly quantified, this clearly has national level significance on the drain on
        the economy, for example, in food hand-outs and health care.
    v. Scale-up: the cost, and fiscal impact, o f a scaled-up project is considered ina separate annex.
   vi. Without project scenario: the potential economic consequence o f not doing the project, and not
        addressing the increasing social tension arising from the land issue could have potentially dramatic
        economic consequences.

Main Assumptions:
     i.Increasedaccesstolandincreasesincomesofbeneficiaries
    ii.Progress inthe unfinishedagricultural policy reform agenda through adjustment programs is
        effective and enhances the profitability o f smallholder farmers
   iii.Existinglandlawprovidessufficienttenuresecuritytoencourageon-farminvestments
   iv. Localizedtensions around land issues do not intensify becauseofpolitical interference
    v. Beneficiaries have sufficient access to technical and financial assistance to prepare and implement
        profitable land acquisition and farm development proposals.

Sensitivityanalysis/ Switchingvalues of criticalitems:




                                                     -54  -

                             Annex 5: Financial Summary
                MALAWI: Community-Based Rural Land Development Project
                                   Years Ending



                       IYear1 I   year2   I  Year3  I year4  I Year5   IYear6  IYear 7
Total Financing
Required
 Project Costs
  Investment Costs         5.5        5.5        7.7      6.2       3.6     0.0     0.0
 RecurrentCosts            0.2        0.3        0.3      0.3       0.3     0.0     0.0
Total Project Costs        5.7        5.8        8.0      6.5       3.9     0.0     0.0
Total Financing            5.7        5.8        8.0      6.5       3.9     0.0     0.0

Financing
   IBRDlIDA                5.1        5.1        7.3      6.0       3.5    0.0      0.0
  Government               0.4        0.5        0.5      0.4       0.2    0.0      0.0
      Central              0.0        0.0        0.0      0.0       0.0    0.0      0.0
      Provincial           0.0        0.0        0.0      0.0       0.0    0.0      0.0
  Co-financiers            0.0        0.0        0.0      0.0       0.0    0.0      0.0
Beneficiaries              0.2        0.2        0.2      0.2       0.2    0.0      0.0
Other                      0.0        0.0        0.0      0.0       0.0    0.0      0.0
Total Project Financing    5.7        5.8        8.0      6.6       3.9    0.0      0.0
Main assumptions:




                                         - 55 -

                              Annex 6(A): Procurement Arrangements
               MALAWI: Community-Based Rural Land Development Project

Procurement
General:
Malawi has a new Procurement Law which was passed by Parliament on May 22, 2003 and became
effective on August 21, 2003. The Law establishes the Office o f Public Procurement. However, this office
i s not yet operational because the Director and his Deputy are yet to be appointed and procurement
regulations are yet to be finalized. A Country Procurement Assessment Report (CPAR) for Malawi has
been carried out and the first draft has beenproduced.

The procurement o f goods, works and consultant services will be govemed by the Development Grant
Agreement and procurement plans prepared by the Project Management Unit (PMU) in the Ministry o f
Lands, Physical Planning and Surveys (MLPPS) in close collaboration with MASAF, and approved by
IDA. Procurement for all IDA financed goods and works will be carried out in accordance with IDA's
Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA s published in January, 1995 and revised in
January and August, 1996; September, 1997 and January, 1999.               The IDA's Standard Bidding
Documents (SBD) and Standard BidEvaluationForms will be used.

Consultant services contracts financed by IDA will be procured in accordance with IDA's Guidelinesfor
Selection and Employment of Consultant by World Bank Borrowers published in January, 1997 and
revised in September, 1997 and January, 1999 and May, 2002. IDA's Standard Request for Proposals
(RFP) will be used for Quality and Cost Based Selection (QCBS) and Standard Form o f Contract as
needed and also the Sample Form o f EvaluationReport for the Selection o f Consultant.

Inaddition to complying with IDA'SGuidelines, procurement will also comply with the new Procurement
Act. However, in the event o f a conflict between IDA Guidelines and the Act, the former will prevail and
failure to adhere to the Guidelines and detailed procedures as described in the Procurement Procedures
Manual may result inthe activities being declared ineligiblefor IDA funding.

ProcurementArrangements:

Procurement for the Project's community-demand-driven component--the Land Acquisition and Farm
Development component-will be implemented by MASAF, utilizing existing MASAF 3 procedures and
institutional setup. The P M U will implement procurement under the Land Administration, Capacity
Building,and Project Management and M&E components.

Procurement o f goods, works and services for the project will follow IDA procedures and Guidelines
referredto above. The land acquisition portion of the LandAcquisition and Farm Development Component
will follow the detailed procedures as set out inthe Operational Manual, having due regard to economy and
efficiency. The first two land acquisitions made in each district will be subject to prior review by IDA.
The farm development portion will follow Community Participation procurement as described below. The
Project Management Unit (PMU) in the MLPPS will implement the Land Administration, Capacity
Building, and Project Management and M&E components. Under this arrangement Project Management
Committees (PMCs), Community Based Organizations (CBOs), and Nongovernmental Organizations
(NGOs) will take primary responsibility for procuring goods, civil works and services, but will receive
support from the MASAF Management Unit (MU). The exact mix o f goods, civil works and services to be
financed in the Land Acquisition and Farm Development sub-projects o f the Grant will depend on the



                                                    - 56 -

results o f demand-driven identification and appraisal process. The relationship and specific procurement
responsibilities o f the MASAF MU, District Assemblies, NGOs, CBOs and PMCs will be already spelt out
duringthe orientation and training that precedes each sub-project proposal's implementation.

ProcurementCapacity:

There are two main executing agencies for this Grant, MLPPS and MASAF. An agency procurement
capacity assessment has not been carried out for MASAF 3 which i s to implement the community
demand-driven (CDD) components. However, the implementing agencies to be assessed are well-known to
IDA through experience with them on MASAF Iand I1and these should be retained to implement the CDD
components o f the project. IDA'S experience through closely following up the implementing agencies
under the last two MASAF projects has shown that there were no major procurement or contract
administration issues that affected the successful implementation o f the projects. PMC's, NGO's, CBO's
and staff at MASAF MU have all been trained in IDA procurement procedures. Based on the above,
overall procurement risk to implement CDD components of this project through MASAF I11is considered
average.

A procurement capacity assessment o fthe MLPPS was carried out inaccordance with OPCPR Instructions
o f July 15, 2002. The capacity o f the Ministryto plan, implement, monitor and evaluate procurement has
gradually been declining due to lack o f procurement training and high staff turnover. The Ministry has,
therefore, limited capacity to implement the project. The procurement risk is considered high. As already
mentioned, the CBRLDP's components which are not community-demand-driven, will be implemented by a
Project Management Unit to be specifically established for the project. The P M U will be composed o f
seven key personnel: Project Manager who will report to the Controller o f Lands, a Land Acquisition and
Farm Development Manager, a Finance Manager, a Land Administration Manager, a Capacity-Building
Manager, a Monitoring and Evaluation Specialist and a Procurement Specialist who will be highly
experienced in IDA projects, to organize all the procurement under Land Administration, Capacity
Building, and Project Management and M&E components. Individuals with qualifications acceptable to
IDA will be recruitedto fill these positions.

ProcurementPlans:

Goods, works and services will also be procured inaccordance with annual procurement plans prepared by
MASAF and the P M U and approved by IDA. MASAF and P M U are in the process o f preparing these
plans. The plans from P M U and MASAF will be reviewed and finalized at negotiations and will form part
o f the Project Implementation Plan. The Procurement Plans will be reviewed every six months during
implementation.

ProcurementProceduresManual:

A Procurement Manual has been drafted by the MLPPS as part o f the Project ImplementationManual. In
further refining and reviewing these manuals, MLPPS should solicit participation of all stakeholders, set
out the procurement plans, assess local counterpart fund requirements, specify responsibilities for
commitment and implementation, and the risks that needto be controlled.

Procurement monitoring and audit procedures for the community demand driven components will follow
the guidelines established under MASAF and are described inthe Project ImplementationManual.




                                                    - 57 -

ProcurementMonitoring:

During implementation, the PMU will provide quarterly reports on progress of procurement highlighting
difficulties encountered inthe past, andhow these would be addressed inthe future to ensure timely project
completion.      There will be procurement supervision every six months which will include special
procurement supervision for post reviews. During these missions, IDA will review one in every five
randomly selected contracts which are below the prior review threshold specifiedbelow.

ProcurementMethods:

Procurement methods for goods and works will include International Competitive Bidding (ICB), National
Competitive Bidding(NCB), National Shopping (NS), International Shopping (IS), Direct Contracting and
more importantly Community Participation procurement methods which include local shopping, local
bidding,community force account and direct contracting (paragraph 3.15 of the Guidelines).

Procurement methods for consultant services will include Quality and Cost Based Selection (QCBS),
Least-Cost Selection, Selection Based on Consultants Qualification, Individual Consultants Selection
method and Single Source Selection.

A General Procurement Notice (GPN) and Specific Procurement Notice (SPN) will be published in the
United Nations Development Business and local newspapers for all ICB and QCBS. Notice i s required to
be given in sufficient time to enable prospective bidders to obtain pre-qualification or bidding documents
and prepare and submit their responses. The draft GPN will be submitted to IDA for prior review and
approval. The GPN will be updated annually, showing all outstanding ICB for goods and QCBS for
consultant contracts, and submitted to IDA.

     1. InternationalCompetitive Bidding (ICB). Goods estimated to cost US$150,000 equivalent or
          more shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions o f Section I1o f
          the Guidelines. To the extent practicable, contracts for goods shall be grouped inbidpackages.
     2. NationalCompetitiveBidding(NCB). Goods estimated to cost more than US$30,000 equivalent
          and up to US$150,000 per contract may be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with
          the provisions o f paragraph 3.3. and 3.4 of the Guidelines. NCB Bidding Documents for goods
          currently being used by IDA projects and previously cleared by IDA, will be used.
     3. InternationalShopping (IS) or National Shopping (NS).             Goods estimated to cost less than
          US$30,000 per contract may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis o f International or
         National Shopping procedures, in accordance with the provisions o f paragraph 3.5 and 3.6 o f the
          Guidelines.
     4. Direct Contracting. Goods which should be procured as an extension o f an existing or must be
          purchasedfrom the original supplier to be compatible with existing equipment or are o f proprietary
          nature or must be procured from a particular supplier as a condition o f a performance guarantee
          and costing US$1.0 million equivalent or less in aggregate, may with the Association's prior
          agreements, be procured inaccordance with the provisions o f paragraph 3.7 o f the Guidelines.
     5. Community Participation. Goods and works required under the Land Acquisition and Farm
          Development component will be procured under MASAF through Community Participation
          utilizing a combination o f methods which include Local Shopping, Local Bidding, Direct
          Contracting and Community Force Account as described below. Land shall be acquired with due
          attention to economy and efficiency, through cost and competitive assessment based on prevailing
          prices in the market, and in accordance with procedures set forth in the Project Implementation


                                                     - 58 -

    Manual.
6. Local Shopping. This is a simple version o f National Shopping and is the most commonly used
   procurement method. Inthis process, communities will solicit at least three price quotations for the
   purchase of goods, materials or services (other than consulting services) in order to make a cost
   comparison. Quotations will be submitted inwriting and opened at the same time inthe presence o f
    community members. As a general rule, the supplier who offers the lowest price should be awarded
   the contract. Factors such as quality, availability and transportation costs should be taken into
   account when comparing the potential suppliers. Inrelation to works, contractors may be hiredto
    carry out a particular part o f an activity that i s technically or physically beyond the community's
    capacity. Again, at least three quotations are submitted on the basis o f simplified quotation forms.
    The forms would describe the scope o f the works, detail specifications and where possible include
   drawings. Goods estimated to cost not more than $10,000 equivalent per contract may be procured
   through this method.
7. Local Bidding. This is a simplified version o f NCB (with local or regional competition and
   simplified contracts and biddingdocuments) and is used for larger contracts. This process requires
    a level o f procurement expertise on the part o f the community. Communities are often interested in
    open competition in order to enhance the economy, a perception o f faimess and equal opportunity
   to suppliers and contractors. Open tendering procedures would be limited to local advertising using
    local newspapers, community radio stations, posting notices on trees at strategic places or
    announcements in churches and communityipublic meetings. The request for bids spells out the
   work or goods needed, the criteria for selection, and the deadline for submission o f bids. Bids are
    opened in a public ceremony. The bids are evaluated by a committee appointed by the community.
    Bids are examined to determine whether they meet the minimum specifications mentioned in the
    bidding documents (experience, quality of works, equipment, services offered and delivery dates).
    Bids that meet the minimum requirements specified in the bid invitation are retained for further
    evaluation and the bidder who meets the minimum requirements and offers the lowest bid i s
    selected. The award and amount o f the contract should be announced to all bidders. A contract
    should be signed within five days of the announcement. Goods and works estimated to cost more
    than $10,000 equivalent per contract, but not exceeding $50,000 equivalent per contract, may be
   procured under this method.
8. Direct Contracting. This method may be used when the cost to the community o f another
   procedure would be disproportionately high relative to the value o f the procurement itself and
    where only one supplier or contractor i s available locally.        Other reasons for direct contracting
    could be urgency, the need to adopt certain technology or a repeat order. The supplier can thus be
    chosen without going through either the biddingor shopping procedures described above, provided
    the cost are in line with local market rates (using an updated Unit Cost Database).              Direct
   contracting should be one case that requires approval o f the community committee in order to
   remove the inherent risk o f comparison. This method may be used for items estimated to cost not
   more than $3,000 equivalent per contract.
9. Community Force Account. Under a community force account, the community may implement
   the sub project using its own resources (skilled and unskilledlabor, materials, equipment) and may
   sub-contract part of the sub-project. Works under the Land Acquisition and Farm Development
   component estimated to cost $2.0 million equivalent or less may be carried out through this
   method.
10. Quality and Cost BasedSelection (QCBS). Consultant services contracts estimated to cost US$
    100,000 or more equivalent per contract shall be procured in accordance with the provisions o f
   paragraph 3.13 through 3.18 o f the Consultant Guidelines. Where QCBS i s used for consultants
   services estimated to cost less than US$lOO,OOO equivalent per contract, the shortlist may comprise
   entirely national consultants in accordance with provisions o f paragraph 2.7 o f the Consultant


                                                 - 59 -

         Guidelines.
   11. Least Cost Selection.       Services for audits and technical services estimated to cost less than
         US$lOO,OOO equivalent per contract may be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with
         the provisions o f paragraph 3.1 and 3.6 o f the Consultant Guidelines.
   12. Selection Based on Consultants' Qualifications. Services o f firms estimated to cost less than
         US$lOO,OOO equivalent per contract may be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with
        the provisions o f paragraph 3.1 and 3.7 o f the Consultant Guidelines.
   13. Individual Consultants. Services o f individual consultants estimated to cost less than US$50,000
         equivalent per contract may be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the
        provisions o f paragraphs 5.1 through 5.3 o f the Consultant Guidelines.
   14. Single-Source Selection, Services which are estimated to cost less than US$lOO,OOO equivalent
        per contract, may, with IDA's prior agreement, be procured under contracts awarded inaccordance
        with the provisions o fparagraph3.8 through 3.11o f the Consultant Guidelines.

Prior Review Thresholds:

For goods, all contracts estimated to cost the equivalent o f US$150,000 and US$200,000 respectively, will
be subject to prior review o f IDA in accordance with procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 o f
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines. The first two Land Acquisition and Farm Development sub-project
proposals in each o f the four pilot districts will also be subject to prior review by IDA. The first two
contracts awarded under NCB, the first three contracts awarded under N S or IS and all contracts awarded
under direct contracting by the PMUshallbe subject to IDA'sprior review.

Consultant services contracts estimated to cost US$lOO,OOO equivalent per contract or more shall be
subject to IDA's prior review procedures set forth inparagraphs 2, 3 and 5 o f Appendix 1 o f the Consultant
Guidelines. Consultant services contracts procured under Selection Based on Consultants' Qualifications
and Individual Consultants estimated to cost more than US$ 100,000 and US$50,000 equivalent per
contract respectively, shall be subject to IDA'sprior review.

All services contracts procured through Single Source Selection shall be subject to IDA'sprior review




                                                      - 60 -

Procurement methods (Table A)


                           Table A: Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements
                                             (US$ million equivalent)




I'Figures inparentheses are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Grant. All costs include contingencies.

2!Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of
  contracted staff o f the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental operating
  costs related to (i)managing the project, and (ii)re-lending project fknds to local government units.




                                                        - 61 -

Prior reviewthresholds (Table B)

                 Table B: Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review'

                                   Contract VaIue                                            Contracts Subject to
                                      Threshold                    Procurement                   Prior Review
   Expenditure Category            (US$ thousands)                   Method                     (US$ millions)
 1. Works                           <us$200,000                        NCB                         FirstTwo
                                     <US$50,000                 Price Comparison                  FirstThree
                                       All values               Direct Contracting                     All
 2. Goods                          =>US$150,000                         ICB                      US$ 150,000
                                    <US$150,000                        NCB                         FirstTwo
                                     <US$30,000                      NSor IS                      First Three
                                       All values               Direct Contracting                     All
 3. Services

      Firms                        =>US$100,000                        QCBS                      us$loo,ooo
                                    <US$ 100,000                   LCS, SBCQ
                                    <US$ 100,000              Single Source Selection                  All
      Individuals
                                    =>US$50,000                          IC                       US$50,000
                                     <US$50,000                          IC
                                    <us$loo.ooo               Single Source Selection                  All
 1. Sub-projects                >US$ 10,000=< 50,000                Community                 1st 2 in each district
                                                            Participation-Local bidding
                                    =<us$lo,ooo                     Community
                                                                Participation-Local
                                     =<US$3,000                      shopping
                                                                    Community
                                                               Participation-Direc t
                                    =<US$50,000                     contracting
                                                            Community Force Account
 5. Miscellaneous
 6. Miscellaneous

                Total value of contracts subject to prior review:
                          Overall Procurement Risk Assessment:            High
      Frequency of procurementsupervisionmissionsproposed:                One every 6 months
                                                                          (includes special procurement supervision foi
                                                                          post-review/audits)


I\
 Thresholds generally differ by country andproject. Consult "Assessmentof Agency's Capacity to Implement
 Procurement''and contact the RegionalProcurement Adviser for guidance.




                                                    - 62 -

              Annex 6(B): FinancialManagementand DisbursementArrangements
                   MALAWI:Community-Based Rural Land DevelopmentProject

FinancialManagement
1. Summary ofthe FinancialManagementAssessment
The Project will be implemented in a moderate to high risk environment. This is derived from the just
concluded      Malawi Country Financial Accountability Assessments Country Financial Accountability
Assessments: a collaborative assessment by the Government o f Malawi, the World Bank and a Select
Group o f Strategic Partnership for Africa (SPA) donors, issued on September 15, 2003. The report
outlines problems o f budget execution inensuring that the allocated resources are utilized efficiently for the
intended purposes and in obtaining comfort that value for money has been achieved. Inadequate linkage
between policies and budget processes have made it impossible to measure outputs from activities where
resources have been utilized. Lack o f compliance with established financial regulations have rendered
ineffective all forms o f internal control inthe public sector making the existing systems even weaker.

The specific risk related to the project stems from the fact that the major project components deal with
communities, which have limited capacity to manage funds o f the magnitude being envisaged in this
operation. Naturally, Community Driven Development (CDD) activities are risky owing to multiplicity o f
actors, including the geographic dispersal o f community activities, making control o f activities difficult.

A Financial Management Capacity Assessment o f the two main implementers o f the program (MLPPS and
MASAF) was carried out using Bank Guidelines issued by the Financial Management Sector Board on
October 15,2003. The capacity o f the MLPPS, the main Bank interlocutor on the project, was assessedas
weak in terms o f human capacity and strength o f government systems. The capacity of the MASAF MU,
which is going to disburse and manage over 63% o f the proposed grant, was assessed as strong.

The major risks arising from the assessment are low capacity inMLPPS, and at community level, the risks
o f beneficiary groups' project management committees not to be accountable to the group members they
serve. It i s also expected that teething problems on the development o f proposals for Land Acquisition and
Farm Development will occur, which, if approved by the District Assemblies, could give rise to problems
o f underiover costing o f the activities. Full and transparent accounting for the use o f sub-project hnds at
community would also pose challenges.

Being a first operation with the MLPPS, and the fact that its capacity is weak, the assessment
recommended that a new system should be designed and used for this project. This system will be outside
government financial accounting systems, but with an acceptable interface with the Integrated Financial
Management Information System (IFMIS) project module. The generic design o f such an accounting
system was discussed and agreed to during appraisal. Once designed, the system will be computerized to
facilitate timely and accurate productiono f accounts and other requisite reports which will be consolidated
with similar reports from the MASAF-managed component o f the project to be sharedwith stakeholders.

Since the project total costs are above $20 million, the project needs a qualified Director o f Finance, who i s
already inplace, two Assistant Accountants at the Ministry, and two Senior Accountants, one seconded to
the MASAF MU. The Senior Accountant at MASAF will be responsible for processing transactions
relating to the Land Acquisition and Farm Development component.             The Director o f Finance for the
project based at MLPPS will be responsible for managing transactions relating to project management,
capacity-building for the Ministry and managing transactions relating to consultants. A detailed action
plan to strengthen financial management o f the Project Management Unit inthe Ministry i s contained inthe



                                                      - 63 -

Capacity Assessment Report to the Task Team Leader whose copy is to be shared with the Government o f
Malawi, specifically the MLPPS. This annex contains salient features o f such a report .

Besides developing a specific chart o f accounts for the project in its Financial Management Accounting
Handbook (currently in place) and in the MASAF Financial Management System to reflect this particular
project's transactions, Budget Codes to reflect project expenditures through IDA and government
contribution will be reflected inthe Government Budget. The project accounts, once consolidated, will have
to comply with International Accounting Standards and Bank requirements for accounting, auditing and
reporting. The budget codes developed will provide a linkage between the cost elements of the Project to
outputs and outcomes as defined inthe monitoring indicators o f the operation.

A Community-Based Rural Land Development Project Steering Committee will be responsible for
monitoring overall project implementation, while the National Technical Advisory Committee (NTAC) o f
MASAF will approve all proposals under the Land Acquisition and Farm Development component, after
approval by the District Assemblies. Besides this, the Steering Committee will also be responsible for
reviewing financial management matters o f the project on a quarterly basis. The two project Accountants
will be responsible for preparing books o f accounts for the project and coordinating and facilitating the
audit o f the project semi-annually and the end o f each fiscal year and ensuring that it i s submitted to the
Bank six months after the end o f the fiscal year. Description o f such reports i s contained in the finalized
version o f the Project Implementation Manual and will be again discussed during negotiations.

Action Plan to mitigate against the major risks:

Risks identifiedduring the Financial Management Capacity Assessmenthave been discussed with the P M U
and the Director o f Finance. Duringappraisal findings o f the capacity assessment were discussed with the
Project Manager, the Principal Secretary, Controller o f Lands, Commissioner o f Lands and the in the
Ministryfor them to support an action plan to correct observations made therein inbefore negotiation. To
mitigate risks and strengthen controls as well as overall accountability at all levels within the project, the
following interventions are planned:

     i.AtthelevelofMASAF,aSeniorAccountantwillbeengagedtohelpthecurrent, veryqualified,
         and diligent accounts' team lead the process of processing o f transactions and consolidating the
         requisite reports required for the project. Development of terms o f reference for this post were
         done by December 31,2003.
     ii.BecauseoftheweaksystemsobservedinMLPPSandthelowlevelsofintemalcontrols, thebulk
         o f disbursements will be done at the MASAF management unit owing to their strength o f their
         financial management systems and intemal controls besides their experience in dealing with
         communities. MASAF has developed a chart o f accounts for this project to be integrated into
         their system and determinedthe number o fsignatories and levels.
    iii.A separatefinancial management systemwill be developed outside government systemfor the
         components managed by MLPPS. The manual describing this system is in place. This financial
         management system should be computerized by December 31, 2004. It will be manned by a
         qualified Director o f Finance (already in place), assisted by one Senior Accountant and two
         Assistant Accountants. By December 31, 2003 the project developed terms o f reference for the
         two Assistant Accountants and i s yet to advertised the posts inthe most popular newspapers inthe
         country.
    iv. An internal audit unit will be established within the project unit to check on the levels o f internal
         controls at district level as well as check on accountability at community level. Terms o f reference
         and structure o f the unit and its reporting lines have been determined and included in the projects


                                                      - 64-

          financial management manual.
      V.  It has been agreed that owing to these weaknesses, the project shall follow the traditional
          disbursement method and will be converted to report based disbursement when the project i s
          assessedby the Bank to be ready.
    vi. Semi-annual audits will be conductedby the office o f the Auditor-General to check on operation o f
          the systems at community, district, MASAF and Ministrylevel. These reports will help inputting
          together an action plan for the strengthening o f such systems, monitoredby the Steering Committee
          (on-going).
   vii. Usage o f Project Rural Appraisal techniques and further scrutiny by the District Executive
          Committee through use o f the District Lands Officer to be engaged in the pilot districts will help
          deal with issues o f ovedunder costing (on-going).
    . * *
   v111.  The project has developed the format for reports which has been shared with the Bank.These
          reports will be the ones to be sent to stakeholders at district and Ministry level every quarter which
          should include the Steering Committee. This format o f reports will be discussed and finalized at the
          negotiation meeting.
    i x. The project has developed terms o f reference for the audit o f the project whose report should be
          submitted to IDA six months after the fiscal year end.
      X.  To promote accountability, groups o f communities benefiting from the project will call for monthly
          meetings for their groups where they shall present a simple financial report and state how much the
          group still has in their Bank account. The tranches made available to groups o f communities will
          be posted on trees, school bulletin boards and any other form o f media upon receipt to promote
          transparency.

Institutional Arrangements:

The project will be coordinated and implemented by two parties: the P M U in MLPPS, and the MASAF
MU, While MLPPS is the major beneficiary ofthe project, it will be directly responsiblefor managingand
disbursingjust over 40% o f the grant, while the MASAF MUwill be responsible for disbursingjust over
60%. While MASAF 3 will finance infrastructure and other items as articulated in its PAD, what the
MASAF MU will finance under this project i s specifically land acquisition and farm development whose
criteria i s clearly developed in the operational manual, While the financial management system to be used
for processing and recording transactions for the two projects will be the same, there will be a separate
Senior Accountant to ensure that funds being paid out o f this project relate to this project. The internal
control system and the coding o f transactions relating to this project will ensure that there is no overlap o f
items to be funded.

In MLPPS, a Project Manager (already in place) manages the project.               He reports to the Principal
Secretary o f the Ministry on the operations o f the project and every quarter to the Steering Committee.
This Committee will discuss all reports from MASAF and the PMU on the progress o f the project and
make recommendations on next steps. An Operational Manual has been developed which clearly spells out
the various job descriptions. Reporting to the Project Manager will be a Director o f Finance and two
Assistant Accountants.

At MASAF, the overall governing body will be the NTAC. An official from the MLPPS will be a member
of this Committee. Beneficiary proposals for Land Acquisition and Farm Development sub-projects will
first be appraised by the Field Appraisal Team, headed by the Lands Officer in the District, before being
submitted to the DEC for approval. It is at this level where issues o f valuation and pricing will be resolved
through the use o f qualified valuers on a retainer basis by the Local Assemblies. The District Lands
Officer will be utilized to help resolve any problems at that level. DEC-approved proposals will then be


                                                      - 65 -

sent to the N T A C which will approve such purchases and payments made directly from the project account
maintained by MASAF to the owner o f the land (willing seller). Disbursements for farm development will
follow the conditions specified inthe Sub-project Agreement.

Accounting System:

The new Public Finance Management Act was adopted in May 2003. Guidance for budgeting o f GOM
entities i s currently governed by the Finance and Audit Act Chapter 37"Ol assisted by Treasury circulars.
The Act stipulates accounting and audit requirements from government entities and government-managed
projects ingeneral. The instructions define responsibilities and levels o f authority within the Ministry. The
Treasury instructions and circulars require all Government Ministries to submit expenditure retums at the
end o f each month outlining expenditures incurred duringthe month, commitments made and cash balances
intheir holdingaccounts at the Reserve Bank at the endo f such months. The Project will follow a blendo f
instructions emanating from the newly designed system and instructions from government, including the
need to submit monthly expenditure returns.

A Financial Management Accounting Systems Manual has been drafted which spells out the procedures to
be followed for accounting transactions o f the project at the P M U in MLPPS. MASAF already has a
Financial Management Accounting Systems Manual. Accounting aspects to do with this project will be
incorporated into the existing computerized accounting systems through introduction o f account codes that
reflect transactions o f this project.

The accounting system at MLPPS is not yet in place. Consequently, a manual system will be established
which shall use ledgers and cashbook for recording transactions. Reports from such a system will be done
on spreadsheets. Such reports will be consolidated with reports from MASAF. It is expected that a
computerized accounting system will be in place twelve months after the project will have been declared
effective.

Communities that wish to buy or develop land after acquisition will organize themselves into a Project
Management Committee (which i s a group o f willing buyersfland developers).                  This PMC will be
responsible for the preparation o f an action plan with their communities. After approval o f their
development plans for their farms by DEC, the plans will be eligible for funding. The PMCs will open a
bank account for their investment sub-projects to which funds from the project management unit will be
deposited and all eligible sub-project expenditures will be paid. These bank accounts are supposed to be
opened inthe same locality where most o f the purchases will be made to avoid the danger o f carrying large
amounts o f cash over long distances or keeping cash overnight. Signatories to this bank account will be
Chairperson, Treasurer, the Secretary, and any one committee member. Funds to PMCs will be paid in
tranches. The first tranche will be 40%, the second one will be 30% and the last one will be 30%.
Eligibility for the second and third tranches will be only after submission to the District Assembly and
requisitejustification o f 75 percent o f each of the tranches by the internal audit unit o f the assembly. When
PMCs wish to apply for another tranche from the project management unit, the PMC should attach a bank
statement showing the balance o f the current account and deposits or cheque returned and bank
reconciliation. This will be attached to a progress report which for the period which shows the expenditures
made, the physical progress achieved and the procurement status for the period. Failure to do so will result
into withholding o f the requisite tranche.

Payments by communities are supposed to be by cheque to lessen abuse o f cash. The PMC must maintain
a cashbook inwhich is listed cheque by cheque the expenditure from the current account. The amount o f
expenditure will be listed once in a summary column and again under the appropriate expenditure


                                                       - 66 -

categories. The expenditure categories will be those listed inthe project agreement. Incase o f cash cheques
that cover more than one expenditure category, the breakdown o f expenditure must be done and allocated in
as many columns as necessary.

The PMC will submit the Project Progress Report to a District Assembly office when seeking the next
tranche. The report needs to be accompanied by all original receipts, invoices as well as the most recent
bank statement which would be sent to the PMU. These will be reviewed                  and upon satisfactory
justification will enable the project coordinating to send the next tranche.

Counterpart Contribution:

Counterpart contributions for the Land Acquisition and Farm Development component o f the project will
be in the form o f Government-administered farms contributed to the project. An assessment o f the exact
number and value o f these farms (already existing and for the project period) has been made to estimate the
Government's counterpart contributions.       N o additional cash contributions need to be made by the
Government for this component.         Any person making cash contributions from the community for the
project will be issued with a receipt. Community contribution in form o f labour will be valued by costing
the hours spent on a task at a task rate for predetermined (which is at 20% less of the market rate
determined by government). This will be recorded using the MASAF MIS already established at district
level.

For all other project components, the Government counterpart contribution will be provided in cash in
accordance with the disbursement percentages agreed upon for each expenditure category. For consultant
services, the applicable disbursement percentage i s the Standard Disbursement Percentage agreed between
the Government o f Malawi and the IDA o f 100% for foreign consultants and 80% for local consultants.
IDA shall make disbursements against the eligible expenditures based on the invoices submitted for
payment, inclusive o f taxes.

ManagementInformationSystem:

The project will use the MASAF Integrated Management Information System for the Land Acquisition and
Farm Development component. For the other components a procurement tracking system will be developed
within the project to track the major acquisitions in as far as they relate to project outputs. The details o f
this will be discussed duringappraisal.

2. Audit Arrangements
Audits o f Public Enterprises, which include Government projects, are the responsibility o f the National
Audit Office (NAO). The NAO uses International Organization o f Supreme Audit Institutions (INTOSAI)
standards when carrying out its audits. Annual audits o f the CBRLDP will be carried out by the NAO or
by an external auditor suitable to the World Bank. The Terms o f Reference for the annual audit o f the
project have been agreed upon and are included in the Project Implementation Manual, ensuring that the
auditors assess whether: a) the information i s fairly presented for the specified period and cumulatively for
the period with regard to project accounts and statement o f sources and application o f funds; and b)
reported disbursements were made in accordance with the Development Grant Agreement and the Project
Appraisal Document.

Based on the change in audit policy, the World Bank would accept a single audit opinion on the annual
financial statements for this project instead o f requiring separate opinions on statements o f expenditure and
special accounts, provided such statements reflect the transactions and balances associated with any such


                                                      - 67 -

statements of expenditure and special accounts. Bank staff will not be required to undertake SOE reviews
on projects where the audit scope, auditor quality and audit report are considered acceptable. However, the
Bank will retain the right to conduct SOE reviews.

Communities will not be subject to direct audits. Their expenditures will be checked through justification
and internal audit processes. The supporting documents from communities will be retained at District
Assembly level and, where necessary, sent to the MASAF Management Unit for checking and audit
purposes.

Owing to the number o f components and the fact that it will operate in four pilot districts and the fact that
we are dealing with community transactions, it shall also be a requirement that separate semi-annual audits
be carried out for purposes o f checking on internal controls compliance with financial covenants,
operations o f statements o f expenditures and special accounts. These semi-annual audits will be carried
out for a six month period as agreed with the Association and audit reports will be furnished to the
Association no later than two months after the end o f the relevant six month period, as agreed with the
Association. The separate semi-annual audits may be carried out by NAO, or, if it is jointly determined or
shown that NAO cannot carry out the separate semi-annual audits ina timely fashion, they may be carried
out by private auditors.

InternalAudit An InternalAudit Unit will be established inthe Project Management Unit.Their function
will be to go around and check on the authenticity o f transactions conductedby communities.

3. DisbursementArrangements
FundsFlow. The flow o f funds for this project has beenagreed as follows:

Once funds have gone into each one o f the Special Accounts, one managedby MASAF and another by the
Project Management Unit, the two managing entities will transfer such funds into each one o f their
operating accounts to be opened at local commercial Banks. For project components to be managedby the
P M U in the MLPPS, such funds will be used to pay for capacity building initiatives, project management,
M&E, computers, vehicles, supplies, supervision, consultants and any other form of technical assistance
envisaged under the project. In addition to these activities, the funds will also be used to pay for fees
relating to land valuation at district level and development o f plans for land development by communities,

There will be two classes o f signatories on the local account to be managed by MLPPS.
     i.Class A will consist of accounting staff who will be responsible for initiating payment for
         transactions in the project.
    ii.ClassBwillconstituteadministrativestaffwhichincludethePrincipalSecretary,theControllerof
         Lands, the Commissioner for Lands, the Finance Manager, Senior Accountant and Chief
         Accountant inthe Ministry.

For the MASAF-managed component, funds will be transferred into a local account from a Special
Account when required. These funds will be used for payment o f land being purchased by communities
and financing o f individual farm investments. For purchases o f land, a group o f willing buyers will come
together, identify land and negotiate with the land owner. They will submit a Land Acquisition and Farm
Development sub-project proposal, appraised by a team led by the District Lands Officer, to the District
Commissioner who will table the issue to the District Executive Committee for approval. Once approved,
the proposal will be forwarded to N T A C at MASAF for final approval. Payment for such land will be
made directly to the seller's account from the local bank account. Ifthe amount is large, arrangements will
be made to pay the owner either from the Special Account or from the grant account through direct


                                                      - 68 -

payment.

The signatories on the MASAF-managed local bank account will be the Executive Director, the Acting
Director o f Finance in MASAF, the Senior Accountant, the Director o f Sponsored Sub-projects and any
other officials deemed necessary.

Agreed Financial Reporting Formats:

The Project will use financial management, disbursement and reporting arrangements that are consistent
with the guidance provided in the "Financial Monitoring Reports" guidelines issued by the Operations
Policy and Country Services in November 2001 for the entire life o f the project, the World Banks'
Disbursement Handbook in conjunction with the Financial Reporting and Auditing Handbook (FARAH)
issued in 1985 for the period prior to conversion to report-based disbursement. The MLPPS and the
MASAF have agreed on producing Financial Monitoring Reports (FMRs) in the required reporting
formats, though the basis o f disbursements will be based on traditional methods. It is only when the project
i s assessedby the Bank to be ready that the projects disbursements will be converted to report-based.


Prior to conversion to report-based, the MLPPS and MASAF components will use traditional disbursement
methods.     Despite this methodology, the financial information will be consolidated in a Financial
Monitoring Report (FMR) format and submitted to the Steering Committee and shared with the World
Bank, Inthis manner, the P M U will practice consolidating and preparing FMR reports which will be used
for purposes o f disbursement when conversion is deemed appropriate.

The project will prepare and produce quarterly FMRs. The FMRs will comprise a financial report, a
physical progress report and a procurement report. These reports will provide information on the progress
o f the project in terms o f financial activity, key output measures and procurement for the relevant quarter.
As for financial reports, they will include a statement showing for the period, and cumulatively, cash
receipts by sources and expenditures by main expenditure classification; beginning and ending cash
balances o f the project; and supporting schedules comparing actual and planned expenditures.              The
reporting line items inthe FMRs will follow the project's chart o f accounts.

The cumulative FMRs over the project year will be used as the project's annual financial statement. This
will result ina more cost-effective reporting.

A physical progress report will include a narrative write-up and output indicators, linking financial
information with physical progress and highlight any issues that require attention. Inprocurement reports
under the FMRs, such reports will provide information on the procurement o f goods, work and related
services, and the selection o f consultants, as well as compliance with agreed procurement methods. This
report will compare procurement performance against the plan agreed at negotiations or subsequently
updated and highlightkey procurements issues such as staffing and buildingcapacity.

The currency used in the FMRs will be the Malawi Kwacha with the equivalent in dollars as a parallel
column. This will become beneficial because the books o f accounts for the project will be kept in Kwacha
while those o f the special account will be in U S Dollars which will give rise to issues o f translation. The
FMR preparation and submission will be done on a quarterly basis. These will be used as a basis o f
disbursements. These will be submitted to the Task Team Leader within 40 days o f the reporting period.
Late submission may result inthe application o f legal remedies for noncompliance.

Since configuration o f the finalized FMRs will take some time, the project will maintain accounts in


                                                      - 69 -

spreadsheet format, awaiting computerization o f the automated accounting system at the Ministry. During
this period, initially the project will disburseunder the traditional disbursement methods. Duringthis time,
the accounting system will produce a summary Statement o f Expenditures (SOEs) and a statement o f
withdrawal schedule, a balance sheet if deemed necessary, a Special Account statement and notes to the
accounts.   Each quarter the accountant will produce: (a) financial statements showing a summary o f
sources and uses o f finds, and uses by project activity; (b) procurement monitoring reports; and (c)
physical progress reports. These reports will be consolidated with the reports from MASAF and produce
the FMRs.

 Allocation of grant proceeds (Table C)

                                   Table C: Allocation of Grant Proceeds

I         Expenditure Category                 I Amount  in US$miliion    I       Financing Percentage
ILAFDsub-Droiects                              I         13.50            I      95% o f amounts financed         1I
IGoods                                         I          1.80              100% o f foreign expenditures, 80% o f
                                                                                      local exDenditures
Consultant services                                      2.15               100% o f foreign expenditures, 80% o f
                                                                                      local expenditures
Training and Workshops                                   2.31               100% o f foreign expenditures, 80% o f
                                                                                      local expenditures
Operating Costs                                          4.00                  85% in FY 2004/2005,80% in
                                                                              FY200512006. and 75% thereafter
PPF Advance                                              0.48
Unallocated                                              2.70

Total Project Costs with Bank                            27.00
 Financing
Total                                                    27.00




Use of statements of expenditures (SOEs):

Inthe case of this project, the SOE methodology o f disbursement will be useduntilthe project is assessed
 by the Bank to be ready to utilize report based disbursement.

The SOE procedure is used in cases where the Bank i s satisfied that acceptable financial management and
accounting controls are in place to assure eligibility o f expenditures. In this methodology, the Bank will
reimburse the borrower for eligible expenditures for which supporting documentation, including evidence o f
payment has been retained by the borrower. The borrower will have to certify that in paragraph D o f the
Application for Withdrawal (Form 1903) that goods and services covered under the statement o f
expenditure have been provided and the relevant documents are available for inspection by the Bank. The
SOE limits as articulated in this Annex in procurement will apply and will guide prior review on
procurement.




                                                     - 70 -

SOEs will be used for reimbursements or Special Account replenishments against contracts for: (i)       goods
costing less than US$150,000; (ii)services o f individual consultants costing less than US$50,000 for
individuals; (iii)services o f consulting firms costing less than US$lOO,OOO; (iv) training and workshops;
(v) operating costs; and (vi) the Land Acquisition and Farm Development Sub-projects. This methodology
will be used until the Project is assessed by the Bank to be ready to utilize report based disbursement.
Mechanisms for disbursement will be clearly laid out inthe Disbursement Letter.

 Special account:
The project will have two Special Accounts (SAs) which will be opened through a commercial bank.
While the Special Account levels will be determined by the level o f advance made into them based on six
monthly projection of activities from the time the project is assessed by the Bank to be ready to convert to
report based disbursement, the level for the first Special Account to be operated by the P M U in MLPPS
under transaction based disbursement is suggested to be set at $700,000, while the second one, suggested to
be set at $1,200,000, will be managed by the MASAF MU. All requisite disbursement documentation,
whether relating to reimbursement through statement of expenditures, direct payments, special account
replenishments, or special commitments documentation will be initiated and keptby the P M U and MASAF
MU. IDA should be informedofthe two relatedaccounts opening inthe commercial bank andwill deposit
funds withthe accounts once the project is declared effective.

Withdrawal applications for reimbursement, direct payment instructions and other disbursement requests
will originate from the P M U and MASAF MU and will be endorsed by the Ministry of Finance (MOF)
Claims Unit to the World Bank. Payment instructions direct to suppliers will be sent through the same
route through commercial banks, as pursuant to World Bank instructions.

Upon review and approval o f submitted withdrawal applications, or payment instructions, the World
Bank's Treasury Department will pay grant funds being reimbursed into the project's two Special
Accounts at a commercial bank. Such funds will then be transferred from the Special Account. The bank
where the project accounts are maintained shall submit a letter o f comfort on Bank funds from its
headquarters to the World Bank.

Upon receipt o f such funds by the commercial bank from the World Bank through the Special Accounts,
the bank shall immediately notify the M O F about the receipt. The MOF shall immediately issue a note
called Grant Ceiling Authority (CCA) to the project's banks totaling the sums received. The purpose o f the
note is to inform the local commercial bank that the project i s allowed, for the period, to issue out cheques
not exceeding the amount advised -pending receipt o f some more funds which would necessitate issuance o f
another      grant    limit     increasing    the     limit    for     expenditure     for      the    project.

Payments paid through the local accounts, all related documentation, will be maintained by the CBRLDP
P M U and MASAF MU for review by auditors and World Bank implementation support missions. Upon
receipt o f the commercial bank statements, the project's Special Accountants shall reconcile the accounts
before submittingthe withdrawal application to the M O F for onward transmission through the commercial
bank to the World Bank. When the project begins to implement report-based disbursements, the procedure
described under agreed reporting formats for report based documents shall apply.

The project will be audited by an independent auditor acceptable to IDA who would be appointed prior to
grant effectiveness based on an audit scope as contained interms o f reference acceptable to IDA. Only one
overall opinion will be issued on the overall project financial statements . The audited accounts will be
submitted to the Bank six months after the end o f each fiscal year from review.



                                                    - 71 -

                              Annex 7: Project Processing Schedule
              MALAWI: Community-Based Rural Land Development Project


Project Schedule                                           Planned                   Actual
Time taken to prepare the project (months)               17                         35
First Bank mission (identification)                      05/01/200 1                05/01/2001
Appraisal mission departure                              0211112002                 12/02/2003
Negotiations                                             07/15/2002                 02/09/2004
Planned Date of Effectiveness                            12/30/2002


Prepared by:
Ministryo fLands, Physical Planning and Surveys


Preparation assistance:


Bank staff who worked on the projec included:
        Name                                             Speciality
Rogier van den Brink                    Task Team Leader
Jorge Munoz                             first TTL, Agricultural Economist
Stanley Hiwa                            second TTL, Agriculture and Land Reform
Shem Migot-Adholla                      thirdTTL, LandPolicy and Administration
John W. Bruce                           Land Law, Policy and Administration
Kanagasabai Loganathan                  Financial Management
Jayne Kwengwere                         Processing
Melanie Jaya                            Team Assistance, Processing
Meseret Kebede                          Team Assistance, Processing
Francis M'Buka                          Social Development
Caesar Chidawanyika                     Agriculture and Land Reform
Nginya Mungai Lenneiye                  Institutional Development
Hope Phillips                           Operations
P.C. Mohan                              Development Communication
Johnstone Nyirenda                      Procurement
Tesfaalem Gebreiyesus                   Procurement
Tijan Sallah                            Agricultural Economic and Rural Development
Michael John Webster                    Economic and FinancialAnalysis
Aziz Bouzaher                           Environment
Donald Mphande                          FinancialManagement and Analysis
Muthoni Kaniaru                         Legal
Rajat Narula                            Disbursement
Sylvester Kofi Awanyo                   Procurement




                                                  - 72 -

                            Annex 8: Documents in the Project File*
              MALAWI: Community-Based Rural Land Development Project


A. Project Implementation Plan

 1. Malawi Community-Based Rural Land Development Project: Pilot Project Document. Ministry of
    Lands, Physical Planning, and Surveys. May, 2003.
2. Malawi Community-Based Rural LandDevelopment Project: Project ImplementationManual.
3. Malawi Community-Based Rural LandDevelopment Project: Land Development Handbook.
4. Malawi Community-Based Rural LandDevelopment Project: LandAcquisition Handbook.
5. Malawi Community-Based Rural LandDevelopment Project: District Land Administration Handbook.
6. Malawi Community-Based Rural LandDevelopment Project: Capacity-BuildingHandbook.
7. Malawi Community-Based Rural Land Development Project: Financial Management Systems and
    ProceduresManual.
8. Malawi Community-Based Rural Land Development Project: Procurement Manual.
9. Malawi Community-Based Rural Land Development Project: Administration and Management
    Handbook.
10. Malawi Community-Based Rural Land Development Project: Environmental Impact Assessment
    Report (Vol. 1-4)
11. Malawi Community-Based Rural Land Development Project: Baseline Poverty Assessment Report.
12. Malawi Community-Based Rural Land Development Project: Rural Public and Private Land Supply
    Report.
13. Malawi Community-Based Rural Land Development Project: Monitoring and EvaluationFramework.
14. Malawi Community-Based Rural Land Development Project: Draft Resettlement Policy Framework
    Paper.
15. Malawi Community-Based Rural Land Development Project: Logframe.
16. Malawi Community-Based Rural Land Development Project: Environment and Social Analysis Report.

B. Bank Staff Assessments
Mission Aide-memoires, Appraisal MeetingAide-memoire December 2-12, 2003

C. Other

 1. Government of Malawi : MalawiNational LandPolicy, January 17, 2002.
2. Government of Malawi: The Presidential Commission of Inquiry on Land Policy Reform, 31 March
    1999 (Vol. I).
3. Government of Malawi: The Presidential Commission of Inquiry on Land Policy Reform, 31 March
    1999 (Vol. 11).
4. Government of Malawi: Malawi Land Reform Program Implementation Strategy (2003 - 2007).
5. Government of Malawi: Chapter 57:Ol Land Laws of Malawi.
6. Consultant Report for the Socio-cultural Appraisal December 2-12, 2003 by PiersonNtata.
7. Consultant Report on Development of M& E System for the Project by Michael Aliber
*Including electronic files




                                                - 73 -

                                              Annex 9: Statement of Loans and Credits
                            MALAWI: Community-Based Rural Land Development Project
                                                                  27-Oct-2003
                                                                                                                           Difference between expected
                                                                                                                                    and actual
                                                                       Original Amount in US$ Millions                            disbursements'
Project ID   FY   Purpose                                          IBRD         IDA                  GEF    Cancel. Undisb.       Orig   Frm Rev'd
PO73821     2004 Multi-Sectoral AIDS Project (MAP)                    0.00        0.00                 0.00    0.00   36.26         0.00      0.00

PO75911     2003 MASAF Ill                                            0.00       32.80                 0.00    0.00   63.37         0.91      0.00

PO78408     2003 FIN. MGMT. TRANSPARENCY,ACCOUNTABlLi                 0.00       23.70                 0.00    0.00   21.75        -2.58      0.00
P080368     2003 EMERGENCY DROUGHT RECOVERY PROJECT                   0.00       29.00                 0.00    0.00   19.35        -8.28      0.00

PO70235     2001 Regional Trade Fac. Proj.. Malawi                    0.00       15.00                 0.00    0.00   12.05         4.69      0.00

PO73832     2001 TA - ADJUSTMENT(FRDP ill)                            0.00        3.00                 0.00    0.00     2.27        1.95      0.00

PO35917     2001 Muianje Mt. Biodiversity Consewation Pr              0.00        0.00                 6.75    0.00     6.97        4.76      0.00

PO63095     2000 Privatization and Utility Reform Project             0.00       28.90                 0.00    0.00   25.03       16.92       0.00

PO36038     1999 Pop./Family Planning                                 0.00        5.00                 0.00    0.00     2.25        2.10      0.34

PO01666     1999 ROAD MAIN. 8 REHAB                                   0.00       30.00                 0.00    0.00   14.15       12.49       0.00

PO49599     1999 MASAFll                                              0.00       66.00                 0.00    0.00     2.73        3.59      0.00

POOl670     1998 Secondary Education                                  0.00       48.20                 0.00    0.00   19.00        18.40      0.00

POOl667     1995 NAT WATER DEV                                        0.00       79.20                 0.00    0.00     4.93       13.51      0.00

                                                           Total:    0.00       360.80               6.75      0.00   230.09       68.45      0.34




                                                                     -  74 -

                                         MALAWI
                                    STATEMENT OF IFC's
                                 Heldand DisbursedPortfolio
                                       June 30 - 2003
                                     InMillions US Dollars


                                                      Committed                      Disbursed
                                                    IFC                            IFC
FY Approval    Company                        Loan   Equity   Quasi  Partic  Loan   Equity  Quasi  Part
1999           AEF KabulaHotel                0.64     0.00    0.00    0.00  0.64    0.00    0.00  0.C
1997           AEF Maravi                     0.21     0.00    0.00    0.00  0.21    0.00    0.00  0.c
1996           AEF Mwaiwathu                  0.00     0.81    0.00    0.00  0.00    0.81    0.00  0.C
1998           AEF UfuluGarden                0.20     0.00    0.00    0.00  0.20    0.00    0.00  0.c
2000           NICO                           0.00     1.04    0.00    0.00  0.00    1.04    0.00  0.C

                    Total Portfolio:          1.05     1.85    0.00    0.00    1.05   1.85    0.00  0.



                                                 Amrovals Pendine Commitment

FY Approval   Company                           Loan     Equity    Quasi    Partic


              Total PendingCommitment:           0.00      0.00     0.00     0.00




                                             -75 -

                                               Annex 10: Country at a Glance
                     MALAWI: Community-Based Rural Land Development Project

                                                                  Sub-
POVERTYand SOCIAL                                               Saharan   Low-
                                                        Malawi   Africa income     Development diamond*
2002
Population,mid-year (millions)                             10.7    688    2,495                 Life expectancy
GNI per capita (Atlas method, US$)                         180     450     430   I                     T
GNI (Atlas method, US$billions)                             1.9    306    1,072

Average annual growth, 1996-02

Population (%)                                              2.2     2.4     1.9
Laborforce (%)                                              2.0     2.5     2.3    GNi
                                                                                   per
Most recent estimate (latest year available, 1996-02)                              capita
Poverty (% ofpopulationbelow nationalpoverty line)           65
Urban population (% of totalpopulation)                      15      33     30
Life expectancyat birth (years)                              38      46     59
Infantmortality (per 1,000live births)                     112     105      81
Child malnutrition(% of children under 5)                    25                         Access to improvedwater source
                                                                                         --
Access to an improvedwater source (% ofpopulation)           57      58      76
                                                                                l
Illiteracy(% ofpopulation age 15+)                           36      37      37
Gross primary enrollment (% of school-agepopulation)       137       86     95                  Malawi
    Male                                                   139       92     103                  Low-incomegroup
    Female                                                 135       80      87

KEY ECONOMICRATIOS and LONG-TERMTRENDS
                                                  1982    1992    2001    2002
                                                                                    Economicratios'
GDP (US$ billions)                                  I.3     1.8     1.7     1.9
Gross domestic investmenffGDP                      26.4    19.9     0.9    12.4                      Trade
Exportsof goods and sewiceslGDP                    21.1    23.2    28.6    25.6
Gross domestic savingslGDP                         20.5     0.7   -10.3    -5.8                        T
Gross national savingslGDP                         16.5     4.1    -5.3     5.6

Current account balancelGDP                       -10.1   -15.6   -12.6   -24.0
Interest paymentslGDP                               2.6     1.7     0.6     1.5
Total debt/GDP                                     66.6    95.0   169.1   151.7
Total debt servicelexports                         40.9    21.5    14.9    17.4
Present value of debffGDP                                          88.0
Presentvalue of debffexports                                      289.2                           Indebtedness
                                      1982-92  1992-02    2001    2002  2002-06
(average annualgrowth)                                                                    -.-,    Malawi
GDP                                       2.9       3.5    -4.2     I.8     5.6
GDP per capita                           -0.2       1.4    -6.2    -0.2     3.6           -Low-incomeqrouo


STRUCTUREof the ECONOMY
                                                  1982    1992    2001    2002     Growth of investment and GDP (%)
(% of GDP)
Agriculture                                        41.1    38.8    36.2    36.5
Industry                                           21.1    31.5    16.3    14.8
   Manufacturing                                   13.6    21.2    11.3     9.9
Services                                           37.9    29.7    47.5    48.7

Private consumption                                63.1    85.2    92.0    86.9
Generalgovernmentconsumption                       16.4    14.1    18.3    19.0
Importsof goods and selvices                       27.0    42.5    39.8    43.8

                                               1962-92  1992-02   2001    2002     Growth of exports and imports (%)
(average annualgrowth)                                                                                                  1
Agriculture                                         1.1     7.9    -6.3     2.7    30

Industry                                            4.3     0.5   -10.8    -7.4    15
   Manufacturing                                    4.4    -1.4   -14.2   -11.4
Services                                            3.8     2.5    -0.7     4.3     0


Privateconsumption                                  3.9     5.2     2.2    -3.1   -15

Generalgovernmentconsumption                        5.8    -1.o     9.1     8.0   -30
Grossdomestic investment                            0.5   -14.9   -68.7 1,125.7
Importsof goods and services                        3.4    -0.4     5.5    19.3




                                                               - 76 -

PRICES and GOVERNMENTFINANCE                                                                                           I
                                        1982   1992    2001   2002    Inflation(%)
Domesticprices
(% change)                                                              T
Consumerprices                           9.7   23.8    27.2    14.9   60

Implicit GDP deflator                   14.3    13.3   25.2    17.5   40

Government finance                                                    20

(% of GDP, includes current grants)                                    0
Current revenue                         18.4   20.7    18.4    18.7            97    98       99      00        01    02
Current budget balance                   -1.2   -5.9   -5.9    -7.5           -GDP        deflator   *CPI
Overall surplusideficit                 -12.0  -13.9  -14.6   -15.4

                                                                      " ' " T I
TRADE
                                        1982   1992    2001   2002
(US$millions)                                                          Export and import levels (US$ mill.)

Total exports (fob)                             397     441    421
 Tobacco                                        286     236    246
 Tea                                             30      36     45
 Manufactures                                    28      60     60
Total imports(cifl                              756     566    796
 Food                                            63      34     41
 Fuel and energy                                 47      68     97
                                                                                                                        I
 Capitalgoods                                   278     217    317
                                                                              96   97    98     99     00      01
Exportprice index (1995=100)                     100     85     85
Importprice index (1995=100)                     95      91     91                   Exports           Imports
                                                                                                                    O2
Terms of trade (1995=?00)                        105     93     93

BALANCEof PAYMENTS
                                        1982   1992    2001   2002
(US$ millions)                                                         Current account balanceto GDP (Oh)

Exportsof goods and services             263    416     483    487
importsof goods and services             340    764     672     916
Resource balance                         -77    -346   -169    -429

Net income                                -70    -39     -33    -37
Net currenttransfers                      20     101      10     10

Currentaccount balance                  -127    -284   -212    -456

Financingitems (net)                     134    284     200     347
Changesin net reserves                     -6      0      12    109    30

Memo:
Reservesincludinggold (US$ miliions)      54     47     203     162
Conversionrate (DEC,local/US$J            1.1    3.6   72.2    76.7

EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS                                                                                        I
                                        1982   1992    2001   2002
(US$ millions)                                                         Composition of 2002 debt (US$ mill.)
Total debt outstandingand disbursed      865   1,709  2,855   2,885
  IBRD                                     73     74       4      2                  F:9  G:46   A 2
  IDA                                    177     919   1,877  1,941

Total debt service                       108     103      76     89
  IBRD                                      4     16       4      2
  IDA                                       2     10      35     17

Compositionof net resourceflows
  Official grants                                153      98    235
  Officialcreditors                        58    108      74     20
  Privatecreditors                        -16     -2       0      0
  Foreigndirect investment                         0      28     38
  Portfolioequity                                  0       0      0

World Bank program                                                                                                      I
  Commitments                                             15     53    A . IBRD                          E Bilateral
                                                                                                             ~



  Disbursements                           48      86    108      51    B IDA      D -Other multilateral  F Private
                                                                                                          -
                                                                           .
                                                                           ~



  Principalrepayments                       2     13      27      7    C IMF                             G Short-term
                                                                                                              ~




  Net flows                               46      73      81     44
  Interestpayments                          4     13      12     12
  Net transfers                           42      60      69     32

ueveiopmenr tconomics                                                                                             Y/3/U3




                                                     -77  -

              Additional Annex 11 Environmental and Social Analysis (ESA)
              MALAWI: Community-Based Rural Land Development Project

1. OVERVIEW


Background:

   With 60% o f its population living below the poverty line, an agricultural sector providing 85% o f
   employment, but characterized by very low levels o f productivity (despite adequate agro-climatic
   conditions), and a highly skewed asset distribution, Malawi is embarking on a novel and ambitious land
   reform program aimed at removing fundamental (and highly interdependent) constraints to agricultural
   and rural development. These constraints include: (i)severely unequal land distribution, land
   degradation, demographic pressure, and social tensions; (ii) land market failure and the collapse o f the
   large, unprofitable, and poorly managed estates (predominantly tobacco estates); and (iii)
                                                                                            economic and
   social management characterized by top-down and centralized approaches to development, and
   excluding the majority o f rural and poor communities from decision-making and benefits o f
   development programs.

   At the request o f Government of Malawi, and as part o f its strategy to reduce poverty through a
   combination o f land reform (using a market-based redistribution approach) and institutional
   strengthening, the World Bank (through IDA), agreed to support the preparation and finance the
   implementation o f a pilot land reform program, through the Community Based Rural Land
   Development Project (CBRLDP).

   Objective:

   The present annex summarizes the Environmental and Social Analysis (ESA) conducted by the
   Ministry o f Lands, Physical Planning and Surveys (MLPPS) as part o f the preparation of CBRLDP.
   Since the project i s expected to be funded by IDA, the ESA was guided by the requirements o f the
   World Bank's environment and social safeguard policies (under the umbrella Operational Policy 4.01:
   Environmental Assessment, 1999 and its various Annexes), as well as the Malawi Environmental
   Policy and Legislation Requirements (Environmental Management Act o f 1996 and Environmental
   Management Guidelines o f 1997).

2. PROJECTMALAWI COMMUNITY-BASED RURAL LAND DEVELOPMENT
PROJECT(CBRLDP)

   ProjectBeneficiaries:

   CBRLDP i s designed to increase the incomes o f about 15,000 poor rural families by implementing a
   decentralized, community-based and voluntary approach to land reform in 4 pilot districts. Such an
   approach will empower communities to manage their own land and agricultural assets, and enhance
   and ensure food and income security among participating farming households.

   ProjectArea:

   Designed as a first phase o f a longer term program, the project will pilot the land reform and



                                                  - 78 -

   community empowerment approach in only one part o f the country. The project areas targeted for
   acquiring land (through purchasing from willing sellers, or from existing government estates, or
   donations) are farming areas with under-utilized estates within four southem districts: Machinga,
   Mangochi, Mulanje and Thyolo (see Annex 12 for project map).

   Project Components:

   The project will support the strategic objectives o f equitable and efficient land reform and poverty
   reduction through the implementation o f four complementary components:


    1. Land Acquisition and Farm Land Development, with direct community involvement in the
       identification and negotiation o f the land transactions. Community proposals for acquiring land
       and farm development would be reviewed and approved-taking into account legal, technical,
       environmental, and poverty reduction criteria-by         a district-level multi-stakeholder entity (the
       existing District Executive Council, augmented with key stakeholders) and the National Technical
       Advisory Council, established under MASAF.            The sources o f land include: (i)leasehold or
       freehold land offered by willing sellers; (ii)Govemment-administered land (e.g. the so-called
       "re-entered estates which failed to comply with leasehold covenants); and (iii)private donations.
       Farm development costs will finance individual benefits, consisting o f settlement costs and
       establishing agricultural production. Communal infrastructure will be not be eligible for financing
       underthis component, butwill be eligible for financing under MASAF.
   ii. LandAdministration. Beneficiarieswillreceive secure,formaltitletotheir landundertheproject
       through decentralized land administration services provided by the regional office in Blantyre. The
        specific property rights arrangements will be decided by communities, including the registration o f
        community property or individual plots. A simple, demand-driven and cost-effective approach to
       land administration will be piloted.
   iii. Capacity-Building will finance public information campaigns, community mobilization,
       participatory rural appraisal, training and technical support to communities, district and national
       participating institutions and stakeholders. This will include financing environmental and social
        impact assessments and action plans. Policy analysis, and some basic infrastructure at the district
        and national levels would also be supported.
   iv. Project management and M&E will finance project administration, coordination, supervision,
        monitoring and evaluation. The M&E framework will include the use o f qualified NGOs and/or
       private firms to assist project monitoring and evaluation ineach o f the Districts. The M&E system
        will measure changes "before and after", and "with-without" along two dimensions: (a)
        social/welfare o f beneficiaries; and (b) productivity and environmental condition o f the land.

3. ENVIRONMENT AND SOCIAL ISSUES

   On the EnvironmentalSide, potential issues that justify conducting an environmental analysis, and
   the preparation o f a screening and review process to be incorporated into the project implementation
   manual, and to be funded and implemented through the project, include: possible location o f farms to
   be purchased near natural habits or critical ecosystems areas, environmental health o f project
   beneficiaries and their communities, and sustainability o f land use and agricultural management
   practices on all newly acquired farms.

   More specific risks identifiedby the environmental analysis include:

    i.acquisitionoffarms thatmayencroach(orborder)onnationalparksorprotectedareas,wetlands,


                                                     - 79 -

         or other sensitive ecosystems;
     11. impacts that may arise from individual shelter rehabilitation or setup (including location, access to
    ...  drinkingwater, and sanitation for the new farm owners);
    111. increased use o f agro-chemicals, either as part o f a "starter pack" or, over time, through improved
         incomes and access to informationand extension services; and
    iv. land use and cropping practices that may exacerbate land degradation, loss of biological diversity,
         or poor water management, that may already be ongoing on farms to be acquired through the
         project.

  On the Social Side, while the project will support the purchase o ffarms available on the marketor inthe
  public sector for the benefit o f poor/landless farmers and other vulnerable groups, the project will involve
  no involuntary land acquisition, or any form o f restriction o f livelihoods or loss of access to protected
  areas or other natural resource reserves. However, the acquisition o f new land by poor and vulnerable
  groups, particularly in an area where the new farm owners may be outsiders (e.g. from a different district
  or area where they currently live) may result in social tensions. Thus, the important emphasis in the
  project-as    a fundamental design feature-on       community development and integration in order for
  beneficiaries to access project funds, all through the initial phase o f information dissemination, group
  formation and application submissions (pre-qualification), until the preparation, appraisal, and approval
  o f a detailed Farm LandDevelopment Plan (FLDP).

4. COMPLIANCE WITH MALAWI'S LEGAL AND INSTITUTIONAL FRAMEWORK:

    National EIA Regime. The basic environmental legislation under which CBRLDP has been prepared
    i s the Environment Management Act (EMA), supported by the National Environmental Action Plan
    (NEAP) and the National Environmental Policy (NEP), all approved in 1996.

    CBRLDP has been reviewed and cleared by the Director o f Environmental Affairs (DEA), in
    accordance with the provisions o f the Environment Management Act o f 1996 (EMA). Section 24 o f
    the Law calls for the integration o f environmental concerns into the socioeconomic development plans
    and, specifically for the preparation o f Environmental Impact Assessment (EIA) for any projects as
    directed by the Director o f Environmental Affairs (DEA) in consultation with the lead agency. An
    inter-agency Technical Committee on the Environment provides the DEA with the necessary expertise
    and advice inthe EIA decision-making process.

    Section 24(1) o f EMA, list the types o f projects for which an environmental impact assessment i s
    mandatory or may be required. List A describes the projects for which EIA is mandatory while List B
    contains development projects for which an EL4 may be required (Guidelines for Environmental
    Impact Assessment in Malawi, December 1997).

    Under the EMA, the Director i s empowered to require changes to a project if in his or her view it will
    cause significant and irreparable injury to the environment. Decisions o f the Director may be appealed
    to the Environmental Appeals Tribunal, established under Section 70 o f the EMA.

    Public consultation is an integral component o f the EIA requirements and guidelines are available on
    methods o f public consultation. In particular, EMA requires that access to information is maintained
    by making available for public review all formal EIA documents.




                                                     - 80 -

   District Level Authority for EIA and Enforcement of the Guidelines. The EMA requires that
   environment and natural resources management be integrated in any development planning including at
   the district level. Each district is required to develop a District Environmental Action Plan (DEAP)
   which is integrated into the District Development Planning system (DDP). The authority o f the district
   i s provided for in Sections 19, 20 and 23 o f the EMA. The most significant factor is that no
   development activity should be undertaken in a district outside the DEAP. Effectively, this means all
   projects in any one district need to integrate environmental issues. The effective system for integrating
   such issues i s the EIA process, which would be accompanied by requisite district level capacity to
   implement desired environmental management responsibilities.

   Clearance of CBRLDP. Since CBRLDP will not involve any investment sub-projects, DEA review
   concluded that all project activities are likely to fall below the thresholds set out in the Malawi
   "Prescribed List o f Projects for which EIA is mandatory". However, to manage the potential
   cumulative impacts o f CBRLDP-funded, on-farm activities in the pilot districts, DEA approved the
   ESA and the environmental screening and review process that will be incorporated into the project
   process framework and implementation manual.

5. COMPLIANCE WITH WORLD BANWIDA SAFEGUARDPOLICIES:

   EnvironmentalAssessment (OP 4.01) is the main policy triggered by the project, resulting in the
   preparation of an environmental assessment in the form o f an Environmental and Social Analysis
   (ESA), and a environmental management plan including, an Environmental and Social Screening and
   Review Process (ESSRP), a Pest Management Plan (PMP), Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E), and
   institutional strengthening, all funded and implemented as part o f the project.

   The ESA covers: baseline conditions both in Malawi, in general, and more specifically, in four o f the
   pilot districts in the south o f the country (Mulanje, Thyolo, Machinga, and Mangochi); policy and
   institutional issues; potential social and environmental issues (related mainly to community
   development, human health and farming); and a process framework to identify and mitigate the
   potential risks and enhance the potential benefits o f project activities. Furthermore, because the project
   uses a demand-driven process for acquiring farms, both as part o f appraising their viability (at the time
   o f purchase), and later, as part o f preparing their detailed Farm Development Plans (FDPs), using
   Rapid Rural Appraisal techniques, a farm-level environmental assessment will be conducted and-if
   need be-more     specific mitigation measures would be incorporated inthe FDPs.

   Pest Management (OP 4.09). Because one o f the key aims o f the project is to help poor and
   vulnerable groups in Malawi own farm-land and improve their livelihoods, the farm development part
   o f the LAFD grant is designed to also help these groups acquire basic production technology that may
   involve agro-chemicals, seeds, tools and implements, etc. Therefore, the Pest Management Policy i s
   triggered and a Pest Management Plan has been developed and incorporated into the Environmental
   Management Plan o f the project. The PMP, as designed, has a dual objective:

     i.toenhancethecapacityoftheprojectbeneficiariestousepesticidesinaneconomicandsafeway
        (ensuring that banned pesticides or agro-chemicals in WHO classes IA, 1B and I1 will not be
        acquired by farmers), and introduce them to Integrated Pest Management (IPM) on a pilot
        basis--for which technical capacity will be established in project districts through training o f
        trainers; and
   ii.toidentifykeystrategicandinstitutionalissuesatthenationalandlocalgovernmentlevels,inorder


                                                    -81 -

        to promote movement towards the development and implementation o f a Pest Management Policy.

   NaturalHabitats(OP 4.04) is not triggered, since the project will not involve any infrastructure or
   land development that would impact negatively biodiversity, or any natural habitats o f any significance.
   Moreover, through ESSRP, the project will specifically screen potential farms to be purchased by poor
   communities for the existence or connection with potential natural habitat issues, and will promote
   sustainable land use practices as part o f the FDPs.

   Forests Policy (OP 4.36) is not triggered,as the project will not involve any specific forestry related
   activities. However, new farmers will be encouraged to sustainably use forest resources that may be on
   their new farms, and include tree planting as part o f their farm plans (FLDPs), both for economic and
   ecological reasons.

   Involuntary Resettlement (OP 4.12) is not triggered because, while the project will support the
   purchase o f farms available on the market for the benefit o f poor/landless farmers and other vulnerable
   groups, the project will involve no involuntary landacquisition or any form o f restriction o f livelihoods,
   or involuntary restrictions o f access to legally designated parks and protected areas. This is ensured
   through the following project design features:

    i.farmspurchasedfromthemarketwillbeunencumberedandfreeofanylegalandfinancialclaims
       or any other liens;
   ii.farmswithencroachers,orsubjecttoanyformofunresolvedlabordisputes,willnotbeeligiblefor

  ...  purchase and payment by the project;
  111. the farm development grant (which is part o f the first project component) will be used for
       individual benefits only, allowing farmers to set up shelter, and basic amenities, and to enable them
       to start agriculture production; and
  iv. The project will not fund any community infrastructure.            Instead, if they express the need,
       communities will be supported in the preparation o f proposals to be submitted to MASAF (which
       uses a community-driven approach to support a variety o f community socioeconomic and
       infrastructure sub-projects).

IndigenousPeoples(OD 4.20) is not triggered,as no self-identified or otherwise known indigenous or
tribal populations are known to reside inthe project area, that would require a special development plan.
The ESA concluded that the poorest and most vulnerable people in the four districts where the project
will operate, cut across all ethnic groups, includinggroups that have migratedfrom Mozambique over the
years.

Safety of Dams (OP 4.37, BP) is not triggered, as the project will not support any communal
infrastructure, including any dams or water storage structures.

Projects on InternationalWaterways (OP 7.50) is not triggered, as the project will not involve any
activities pertaining to water resources. The only possible uses o f water resources will be confined to
those already inexistence on the purchased farms, including drinking, and on farm use.

Cultural Property (OP 11.03) is not triggered, as the project will involve no construction or
infrastructure o f any kind. However, groups acquiring new farms through the project will be sensitized
to the issues.




                                                   - 82 -

  Projects in Disputed Areas (OP 7.60) is not triggered as the project will operate within the sovereign
  borders (in the southern part) o f Malawi.

6. PROJECT CLASSIFICATION

   The proposed CBRLDP represents a novel pilot approach to land reform, whereby a significant
   number o f poor households will have access to farmland through a voluntary and market-driven land
   acquisition process. The project will be undertaken on estates previously used for agricultural
   purposes, but now largely under-utilized. Any protected areas and ecologically or culturally vulnerable
   sites will be excluded from acquisition and resettlement, while only those beneficiaries who form their
   groups/communities on a voluntary and inclusive basis will be eligible. Similarly, land will only be
   acquired from a willing seller or an existing government farm, and possibly a donation.

   Qualifying beneficiaries will be given grants to buy land that is either available on the market, free o f
   any encumbrances, or land which is already part o f publicly owned estates. Moreover, the grant to be
   provided by the project will include a portion that would be used for resettlement expenses, basic
   shelter and amenities, as well as the purchase o f basic tools and inputs to start farming.

   It is expected that the project will not have any significant environmental or social impacts, and will in
   fact contribute to the sustainable development o f the rural sector inMalawi through: (i)  increases in the
   incomes o f poor households, and reduction in poverty; (ii)improved agricultural productivity and
   sustainable land management practices; (iii)   improved community empowerment, inclusion, and social
   cohesion; and (iv) mitigation o f localized distortions around the land issue.

   However, although the project will not finance or support any communal infrastructure, and will focus
   mainly on individual household benefits (which may include, shelter, drinking water, pit latrines, and
   livestock kholas, as well as agricultural inputs and basic technology), it has been classified as "B"
   (according to World Bank OP/GP 4.01). This classification has been assigned largely to enhance
   potential positive impacts, and to ensure that: (i) the acquisition o f farms does not encroach on national
   parks or protected areas, wetlands, and sensitive ecosystems, or any sites o f cultural or archeological
   value; (ii)  FDPs incorporate sustainability principles and the "new community farm-owners" take
   advantage o f capacity-building support available through the project, including a pilot program on
   Integrated Pest Management (PMP); (iii)the renovatiodconstruction of household shelter and other
   amenities (e.g., pit latrines) are undertaken in accordance with sound environmental and social
   principles; and (iv) that capacity for dealing with safeguard issues is built among public institutions in
   charge o f implementing the project, particularly at the local District Economic Committees (DECs)
   level and community levels, thus contributing to enhancing the capacity o f local institutions and the
   government's decentralization program.




                                                    - 83 -

7. PARTICIPATORYAPPROACH:

   Despite the fact that the project would not have any significant environmental impacts, and would not
   involve any resettlement or restriction o f livelihoods, the preparation o f the ESA used a participatory
   process, conducted inthree stages, and aimed at facilitating a broad-based dialogue and transparency in
   project development and identification o f key environmental and social issues. Moreover, the extensive
   consultations conductedhelped inform the final project design.

   Phase 1: Preparation (scoping) workshop December, 2002, Blantyre. This first workshop, which
   brought together district staff in Blantyre (a neutral district not part o f the project), reviewed the
   project concept and initial design, and helped identify the main potential environmental and social
   issues to be discussed by communities, and incorporate them inthe TORs for the ESA.

   Phase 2: First Stakeholders Workshop and Community Field Visits (December 13, 2002). This
   Workshop, which involved community representatives, district staff from all the four pilot districts, as
   well as    the central government officers, was organized with two main objectives: (i)to present,
   discuss, and get feedback on the project concept with the communities within the pilot areas; and (ii)  to
   identify data sources, site selection for field visitshurveys, and finalization o fthe SEA'STORs.

   The results and recommendations o f the Workshop were then discussed with communities in different
   localities during field visits. The same issues which were discussed with the district staff formed the
   checklist for discussion and data collection with community members in the four districts. In addition
   to interviews with the local people, technical officers from government, nongovernmental organizations
   and members o f the private sector were also consulted in each district, including, District
   Commissioners (DC's),        Environmental District Officers (EDO),           Directors o f Planning and
   Development (DPD), NGO representatives with an interest in environmental issues, staff responsible
   for lands, Land Husbandry Officers, staff from Ministries o f Fisheries and Forestry, Agriculture, the
   Meteorological Department and Tea Estates representatives. Opinion leaders' views were also sought
   during the process, including traditional leaders, local politicians and religious leaders, and other key
   informants depending on the area o f inquiry.

   Inaddition to seeking feedback and views on the project concept and initial design, the discussions with
   communities and field surveys focused on: (i)assessing potential bio-physical and socioeconomic
   impacts o f the project; (ii)collecting sufficient local data to assess the likely environmental impacts o f
   different community investments (this option was to be initially included in the project, but was later
   left to MASAF); and (iii)  identify practical environmental mitigation measures and improvements.

   Phase 3: A second workshop for District Staffand Traditional Leaders (January 24-25, 2003). A
   two-day workshop was organized to present the findings and recommendations o f the ESA, and to
   comment on a summary draft report which had been distributed to potential participants prior to the
   workshop. Participants were drawn from a wide range o f stakeholders, including district and
   community level participants (three Traditional Authorities attended, one from each district). Most o f
   the participants were individuals who had been consulted during field visits. The workshop provided
   the stakeholders with additional opportunity to identify themselves with the findings and enhance the
   sense o f ownership o f the recommendations and systems.

8. ANALYSIS OF ALTERNATIVES:




                                                     -  84-

   Since the specific farm areas that would be acquired and settled under the project are not known in
   advance, and will be determined only through a demand driven process, the ESA included a broad
   analysis o f alternatives, qualitatively comparing four options in terms o f potential environmental and
   social impacts, using information collected from field surveys, secondary sources, and consultations
   with communities and local officials.        The alternatives considered included: (i)no project; (ii)
   alternative districts for the pilot phase; (iii)alternative areas within the districts; and (iv) alternative
   land redistribution schemes.

   The SEA concluded that the "no project" alternative was the least desirable because o f the prevailing
   situation characterized by social tensions resulting from highly skewed land distribution, encroachment
   into privately and state owned properties, and associated pressures and conflicts over natural resources.
   Furthermore, the analysis o f alternatives also helped refine project design by pointing out the
   desirability o f focusing on acquisition o f land that is free o f encroachment, legal claims, and other
   encumbrances, and by allowing beneficiary communities to decide on the property rights regime to use
   for their new farms.

9. MITIGATION OF POTENTIAL SOCIAL AND ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACTS:

   Because there are no significant environmental and social issues which warrant a separate and detailed
   Environmental Management Plan (EMP), an Environmental and Social Screening and Review Process
   (ESSRP) was designed in consultation with the main project stakeholders, including the Environmental
   Affairs Department (which cleared the ESA documentation), to be incorporated into the Project
   Implementation Manual (PIM) (see summary table 11.2 below).

   Social issues. As indicated previously, the project does not trigger any o f the Bank's Social Safeguard
   Policies. However, both during the application phase (when eligible communities present a general plan
   o f the new farm location and how they intend to develop it) and during the acquisition phase (when
   beneficiary communities prepare a detailed Farm Land Development Proposal in order to access the
   balance o f their household grants), ESSRP (using a simple "safeguards matrix") will be used to screen
   for social issues, related to transparency and inclusion, conflict resolution, and safeguards. The only
   potential (non-safeguard) risk identified by the ESA i s the potential conflict that may arise from new
   land beneficiary communities settling in next to existing communities. This risk will be mitigated
   through several features incorporated inproject design, including:

    i.transparencyandextensivecommunicationandinformationcampaigns aboutprojectbenefitsand
        eligibility criteria;
   ii.extensive consultations within both receiving and beneficiary communities during the
        pre-qualification phase, facilitated by Community Oversight Committees; and
   iii.the use of conflict resolution mechanisms to be fbnded under the project's capacity building
        component, as the need arises.

Moreover, by design the project will, in fact, contribute significantly to social development outcomes inthe
form o f
    i.access to land and economic empowerment of thousands of the poorest and most vulnerable
        Malawians, through a self-selected, market-based, and demand-driven approach, offering a better
        alternative than "encroachment" and "squatting."
   ii.community development, conflictresolution,andsocialcapitalformationamonghundredsofnew
        communities o f farm owners, through improvement in household conditions, farm development
        plans, as well as capacity buildingand access to knowledge and information;


                                                     - 85 -

   iii.supportforthenewcommunitiesinthepreparationofplanstoenablethemtoaccessothersources
         o f local development funding (particularly from MASAF), for production intensification, access to
         credit, commodity marketing, and communal infrastructure; and
   iv. a more efficient and equitable land redistribution and administration system that would
         significantly contribute to increasing agricultural productivity and help reduce poverty in Malawi,
         when the pilot phase is replicated throughout the country.

Finally, in order to adequately address the social risks discussed above, and build the capacity o f local
government institutions, the project will fund a full time Social Development Specialist position in every
pilot district.

EnvironmentalIssues:

The screening process involves essentially three key steps :

Stepl: Screeningfor natural habitat and suitability of farm land to be acquired. When proposals are
presented to the (DECS), the standard application form will include information on the location and past
use o f the farm, as well as an outline o f the intended use o f the new farm proposal for the acquisition o f
farms that may encroach (or border) on national parks or protected areas, wetlands, or other sensitive
ecosystems.

Step 2: Screeningfor impacts that may arisefrom individual shelter rehabilitation or setup (including
location, access to drinkingwater, and sanitation for the new farm owners)

Step 3: Screening FDPs for potential use of agro-chemicals, and the sustainability of land use and
croppingpractices that may exacerbate land degradation, loss o f biological diversity.

The screening is undertaken by DEC staff using an adequately trained technical specialist already in place
(such as, District Land Officer, extension officer, etc.), or by hiring a qualified private sector service
provider.

The screening is done using simple checklists, included in the Project Implementation Manual (see Table
11.2 below).

Monitoring and Evaluation:

Given the nature o f impacts and issues to be encountered during project implementation, an Environmental
Monitoring System (EMS) has been designed. It is based on two principles:

     i.TheEMSwillnotfocus onmonitoringandreportingoneithergeneralenvironmental andsocial
         conditions in the four pilot districts, or the impacts from individual farm activities (this would be a
         vastly unrealistic, expensive and not very useful exercise). Rather, the EMS will track a small
         number o f indicators related to: (i)  the sustainability o f the FDPs and adoption o f sound land use
         practices, and (ii) environmental health conditions o f the beneficiary households and their
                             the
         communities; and (iii) process indicators.
                                other
    ii.The Environmental Monitoring Plan will be an integral part of the Project Monitoring and
         EvaluationSystem.

The EMS has initially been designed to carry out monitoring and evaluation o f the trends inthe adoption o f



                                                       - 86 -

processes and practices o f the beneficiary groups and their host communities in relation to environmentally
and socially important issues that might arise in the pilot period. In addition, implementation o f mitigation
measures will be monitored.

A key goal in the CBRLDP process is that the FDP be community-driven and, therefore, represent
consensus o f the beneficiaries' opinion on the practices at their farm. Each FDP will be unique reflecting
the group's strategy for development and opinions on environmental "hot spots" and ecosystems at risk.
Each farm must have a mini-EMP derived from the specific mitigation measures outlined in that group's
application.

Inpractice, it is likely that current critical issues, and the indicators that characterize them and will remain
important elements o f the EMS whatever strategy and EMP emerge from each FDP. Thus, the EMS design
is flexible and adaptable, assimilating new monitoring needs and discarding old ones as environmental
circumstances and priorities change. The project will collate the information from each farm and provide a
broad picture o f what i s happening to the environment inthe farm surroundings.

A number of processes have been put inplace to ensure appropriate environmental management practices
are followed in the project. These processes are essential for at all levels o f the project. The EMS covers
three groups o f indicators (with details given inthe main ESA report):

     i.Processindicatorsatthevillage,district,andnationallevels
     ii.Socioeconomicandwellbeingindicators(partofthecoreindictorstobemonitoredbyprojectasa
    ...  whole); and
    111. Adoption o f management practice indicators

Estimated Cost and Implementation Schedule for the EMP. The estimated budget and schedule are
provided inthe Project Implementation Plan, and is summarized in Table 11.1 below.

Project Supervision. This will be part o f overall project supervision, as provided in the Project
Implementation Manual.




                                                        -87 -

Annex Table 11.1 Summary of EnvironmentalManagementPlan

 EMPComponent              Key Activities                             Institutional
                                                                      Responsibility

  Community preparation        Environmental and Social Screenin
  o f FDPs

                               Environment and social mitigation        DEC, DESC
                               plan at farm level

  Implementation o f FDPs   e Extension service support

                            e Trainingiawareness                        DEC, DESC

                            e Gender & Environment                      (NGOs)

                            e Other activities on demand


  Capacity building         e Environmental Social Developmen
                                                                     ~

                               expertise at district level

                            e Traininglawareness

                            e Other activities on demand


  Pilot Pest Management     e Farm level pilot I P M program            DEC, DESC, I P M
  Plan                                                                  sub-committees
                            e Strengthening national capacity for                          600,000
                               PMP implementation

  M&E (part o fproject      e Data collection, analysis, and            DEC, DESC, P M U   400,000
  M&E)                         reporting




                                                      - 88 -

Annex Table 11.2. Main Steps of Environmentaland Social Screening & Review Process


 Stages o f Project        Responsibility          Corresponding                Responsibility
                                                   Environmental and Social
                                                   Safeguards
  Information               District                 Ensurethat vulnerable
  dissemination             Commissioner             groups are reached:         Community1
                                                                                 Social
                                                   0 Use o f local language      Development
                                                   0    Appropriate media,       Officer
                                                     including radio
                                                   0    Given enough time to
                                                     organize themselves
  Pre-qualification          DEC o f the district    Ensurevulnerable groups     Lands Officer
                             o f origin              are able to prepare and
                                                      submit good applications
                             Lands Officer
   Standard Application      Lands Officer in        What are the potential      Lands Officer
  Form                       district o f origin     environmental issues at

 1Farm location                                      that farm
 1 Sales agreement
   FieldAppraisal            Lands officer leads      MiniFarmESA using
                             field appraisal team     checklist, report on:      Field Appraisal
                             inreceivingdistrict   0 physical environmental      Team
                                                      issues
                                                   0  social issues such as
                                                      encroachment
   Appraisal decision        Lands Officer            Appraisal decision to      Lands officer
                                                      community incorporating
                                                     the farm ESA results
   DEC approval              DEC o f the              Check on completeness o f  DEC
                             receiving district       environmental checklist

   Approval by National      Project
   Technical Advisory        Management Unit
   Committee
   Detailed Farm             Beneficiary groups       Checklist to evaluate      FieldAppraisal
   Development Proposal      FAT ledby Lands          environmental issues       Team
                             Officer
   Approval                                                                     )EC and NTAC
   Implementation,           Beneficiary          I   Monitor compliance with    Environment and
   Monitoring & Evaluation   groups,                  environmental guidelines   Communitylsocial
                                                                                 Development
                                                                                 Specialist, Lands
                                                                                 officer




                                                 - 89 -

                                        Additional Annex 12
    Detailed Description of MASAF 3 Community Development Projects Component
               MALAWI: Community-Based Rural Land Development Project


1. MASAF3 PROJECTCYCLE

Goal:

The CDP component will aim at improving community access and accessibility to socioeconomic services
in urban and rural areas (CMPs), and raising incomes for poor households through cash transfers (Local
Authority Managed Projects or LAMPs).

Objectives:

The major objectives o f CDP are to:

     i.increasethestockoftheruralandperi-urbansocioeconomicassetsforserviceprovision;
    ii.increase accessto basic socioeconomic services inbothurbanandruralareas ona sustainable
        basis;
   iii.transfer cashincomestotheindividualsintargetedpoorandvulnerablehouseholds intheurban,
        peri-urbanand rural areas through labor-intensive public works; and
   iv. enhance participatory development management capacities at community and district levels.

GuidingPrinciples:

The following principles will guide the CDP:

     i.Activeparticipationofthebeneficiariesatthecommunitylevelinthepre-topostsub-projectcycle
        stages
    11. The sub-projects supported are within the community service packages and adhere to sector norms
   ...  and standards
   111. Equitable participation o f women and men inproject management
   iv. Participation o fthe youth throughout all project cycle processes
    V.  Community contribution for CMPs o f at least 20% o f the total sub-project cost, except for capital
        intensive sub-projects such as water, where the contributionwill be at least 10%
   vi. Self targeting under LAMPs through payment o f a wage rate 20% below the market, and linked to
        a defined task
   vii. Utilization, under LAMPs, o f appropriate labor based technologies that are gender sensitive
   ...
  v111. The unskilledlabor proportion o f LAMPs is at least 40%




                                                   - 90 -

Target Groups:

The LAs, upon receipt o f the IPF, will convene a meeting to determine resource targeting based on levels o f
existing service delivery for CMPs and the socioeconomic status o f the district for LAMPs. The status o f
existing service delivery will be assessed against the MDG service coverage and consideration o f other
funding sources for the districts to enable the LAs to decide on the amount o f resources that should be
allocated to a particular service package in pursuit o f MDG indicator targets. In the LAMPs, the VAM
will be used in addition to poverty maps to identify the poorest areas and those under consumption stress.
Additionally poor households identified through wealth rankingwill be targeted.

Activities:

For CMPs, the sub-projects to be supported will fall under health, education, and water and sanitation, and
mustbe includedunder the community service package for that sector.

ImplementationArrangements:

Under the CDP, communities will manage sub-projects, while LAs will be responsible for managing the
LAMPs. The steps for the pre- to post sub-project cycle are described below briefly, and given in more
detail inthe CDP Handbook.

Pre-sub-project cycle. Open-ended PRAs will be undertaken by the DEC, through the CDAs and other
members o f the AECs, to ascertain community needs, and to produce a list o f community priorities. These
inturnwill feed into the District Development Plan. Facilitators at community level include the CDA and
other trained cadres. Those District Plans which were formulated without the PRA or a village action plan
(VAP), will be supported by M A S A F to undertake the PRA or VAP.

Sub-projectcycle:

Through the open-ended PRA process, if there are activities identified by communities which might be
eligible for MASAF support, then the community will enter into the sub-project cycle.

Extended PRAs will be undertaken to arrive at a confirmed community sub-project proposal which is in
line with the community service packages. For the LAMPs, communities will carry out participatory
community based targeting to identify the needy household using participatory social ranking and
stratification techniques. It is at this stage that possible environmental effects excluding resettlement, if
any, and the necessary mitigatory aspects will be discussed. Preliminary costing will be undertaken, and
the community will democratically elect a Project Management Committee (PMC). Election to positions
will not be based on political, religion or kinshipfactors, but on social merit and acceptability inthe eyes o f
the wider public. The PMC will be accountable to the people that elect it, and responsible for preparing the
application for submission to the LA. The application form will indicate the number o f the PIF submitted
by the community, as well as the date o f submission.

Appraisal. The application submitted to the LAs will be subjected to an appraisal process to ensure that it
meets the criteria for funding by MASAF. The first step will be a desk appraisal which checks if the
following have considered the following:

     i.Completenessoftheapplicationform;
    ii.Whethertheapplicationfitswithinthescopeofthecomponent;


                                                     - 91 -

    iii.Whethertheapplicationmeetsthedistrictdevelopmentobjectivesandsectornorms;
    iv. Environmentaland mitigation measures;
     v. Confirmation that the sub-project will not lead to resettlement; and
    vi. The application is inline with the community service packages.

The field appraisal confirms that the proposal is a community priority, the findings o f the desk appraisal,
ascertains the technical feasibility, the communities' capacity and readiness to implement the sub-project.
Due to the specialized nature o f the LAMPS, the DEC will appoint a technical committee for purposes o f
taking leadership inappraisal, costing, monitoring and providingtechnical advice for implementation. The
following, among other things, will be assessed:

      1. Whether the community participated    fully inneeds identification;
    ...11.Ifthe proposal is ahighpriority for the community;
    111.  Whether different groups inthe community were represented;
    iv. Understandingo f the community about the sub-project;
     V.   Confirmation o f no involuntaryresettlement;
    vi. Availability o f community contribution (for CMPs); and
    vii. Arrangements for operation andmaintenance.

Costing. The DEC will carry out detailed costing o f the sub-projects which includes the community
contribution as well as environmental mitigation measures requiring financing. In the case o f complex
sub-projects such as flood control, consultants may need to be engaged for this activity. The SOBOQs will
assist LAs and PMCs inthe costing exercise.

Approval. A summary report o f all sub-projects which have been successfully appraised and costed will
be reviewed by the LA for approval in accordance with the LA threshold: US$20,000 equivalent for IDA
contribution to the CMPs, and US$40,000 equivalent for IDA contribution to LAMPs. Notwithstanding
LA approval, these will be submitted to MASAF for NTAC confirmation before fundingwill be approved
by the Board. MASAF will be sampling applications received to ensure that principles and criteria in the
Operational Manual have been applied to the approved sub-projects. Communities will be informed o f the
approval by the DEC, including information relating to logistical arrangements to prepare the communities
for implementation.

Implementation. Prior to launching the sub-project, the DEC, with support from the ZO, will provide
training to the PMC. Selected Group Village Heads and foremen for the LAMPs will also be trained.
Arrangements for the launching ceremony, which should take place within two weeks o f the training, will
be agreed to by the DEC, ZO, Village Heads and PMC. See the Training Handbook for more detail.

All sub-projects will have a launch ceremony with participation o f the community and other key
stakeholders including traditional, civic and political leaders. The DEC will go through the Financing
Agreement to ensure that the roles and responsibilities o f the respective parties are clear. The community
will be presented with the first tranche for their sub-project (in the case o f CMPs) with which they will
open a project bank account. A procurement plan will be prepared for each sub-project which will guide
the procurement activities relating to specific project milestones. Training for asset management will be
providedduringthis phase. Procurement will be undertaken inaccordance with the CDP handbook.

Monitoringand supervision will be undertaken by the technical staff at LA level, with support from the
ZO or FO. The LAs will use the LA-PPIMS to monitor and report on progress on a monthly and quarterly



                                                     -92 -

basis

Any unused funds or savings realized by the PMC will be returnedto MASAF once the sub-project has
been completed. This situation should rarely occur since funding for the third tranche will be based on
assessed funding required for completion. Once a sub-project is completed, an inauguration ceremony
will be held to officially commission the asset, and a completion certificate         will be presented to the
community. The Asset Management Committee will sign an Asset Maintenance Agreement during the
ceremony which formalizes the arrangements made for maintenance o f the asset. PMCs in LAMPs could
manage the non-wage component o f sub-projects with PMC managed accounts.

Flow of Funds. The funding for sub-projects will be provided intranches o f 40%, 30%, 30%. Inorder to
access the second tranche, the PMC will prepare a justification report when 70% o f the first tranche has
been expended, which accounts for the funds spent to date. To access the third tranche, 100% o f the first
tranche and 70% o f the second tranche must be justified, and a mid-term assessment report must
accompany the request. Third tranche will be based on funds needed to complete the sub-project. These
reports will be submitted to the LA, which will review the submission to ensure completeness prior to
submission to MASAF. Funds for the CMPs will be transferred directly to their bank account, while funds
for the LAMPs will be transferred into a dedicated MASAF bank account at the district level. Receipts for
CMPs will be maintained at the community level in a paper based system, andreceipts for LAMPs will be
retained at LA level.

Post Completion Activities. Approximately six months after the inauguration, or when communities
report completion, the DEC will organize for relevant sectoral experts or consultants appointed by MASAF
to evaluate the completed sub-projecv`facility on the basis o f the following criteria:

     i.Technicalperformance: theextenttowhichtheconstructionorequipmentfunctionssatisfactorily;
     ii.Utilization: theextentofuseofthefacilityorservice;
    iii.Beneficiaries: analysisofthenumberandcompositionofpeoplebenefitingfromthesub-project
        and the beneficiaries' own assessment o f the value o f the asset and the return on their investment;
    iv. Community obligation: the degree to which the community has met its obligations to manage,
        maintain and repair equipment or structures, collect user fees and promote the use o f services;
     v. LNsector obligation: the extent to which the LA or sector met its agreed to obligation (staff,
        operating costs or other inputs);
    vi. Environmentmitigation. Assess whether the measures have been fully applied;
   vii. Skills developed duringthe course o f implementation; and
  viii. Overall assessment o f impact: which will capture lessons learned and propose future actions.

The outcome o f this evaluation will be a report which will be submitted to MASAF's TAP directorate.




                                                    - 93 -

2. MASAF 3 PROCUREMENTARRANGEMENTS
              -

Introduction:

Goods, works and services to be funded by IDA will be procured according to the Development Financing
Agreement, and the annual procurement plan, covering the requirements, prepared by MASAF and
approved by IDA. Procurement for all IDA financed goods and works will be carried out in accordance
with the Bank's "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published in January
 1995 and revised in January and August 1996, September 1997, and January 1999 (the Guidelines).
Consultant services financed by IDA will be procured in accordance with the Bank's "Guidelines:
Selection and Employment of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers published in January 1997, and
revised in September 1997, January 1999, and May 2002 (the Consultant Guidelines). In addition to
complying with the World Bank Guidelines, procurement will also comply with the Public Procurement Act
o f 2003. In the event o f a conflict between these, the regulations o f the World Bank will prevail. In all
cases IDA'Sstandard bidding documents and evaluation forms will be utilized. An update o f General
Procurement Notice for all International Competitive Bidding (ICB) and Quality and Cost Based Selection
(QCBS) contracts, which are still outstanding, will be published on an annual basis in the United Nations
Development Business (UNDB).

ProcurementMethods:

All procurement for works, goods and services and consultancies for MASAF activities, which will utilize
IDA funding, shall comply with the Development Financing Agreement, described briefly below, with
detailed procedures described in the Procurement Handbook, the component handbooks, and the
Community Managed Projects Handbook. Failure to do so could result in activities being ineligible for IDA
funding. Procurement methods under the Project will be applied as follows:

1. InternationalCompetitive Bidding (ICB). All goods estimated to cost US$lOO,OOO equivalent or
    more will be procured on the basis o f ICB, and a Specific Procurement Notice for each tender will be
   published inUNDB.
2. National Competitive Bidding (NCB). The same principles o f ICB apply to NCB, except that
    publication o f a Specific Procurement Notice in UNDB not required, and advertising may be limited to
    the national press or official gazette. Eligible foreign firms will be allowed to participate if they so
    desire. Goods estimated to cost less than US$lOO,OOO equivalent per contract, up to an aggregate o f
    US$450,000 can be procured through NCB.
3. Shopping(InternationalandNational). This method is based on comparing price quotations obtained
    from at least three suppliers to ensure competitive prices, and is an appropriate method for procuring
    readily available off-the-shelf goods or standard specification commodities that are small in value.
    Shopping may be used to procure goods estimated to cost less than US$30,000 equivalent per contract,
   up to an aggregate not to exceed US$3,000,000.
4. Force Account. Works under LAMPSwhich meet the requirements o f paragraph 3.8 o f the Guidelines
   costing US$9,000,000 equivalent or less in the aggregate may, with IDA'Sprior agreement, be carried
   out by Force Account inaccordance with paragraph 3.8 o f the Guidelines.
5. CommunityParticipation. Goods, works and services required in CDPs, SSPs, and COMSIC shall be
   procured through community participation utilizing combination o f methods and inthe manner described
   below         with details provided in the Procurement Handbook, the component handbooks, and the



                                                    - 94 -

   Community Project Management Handbook.
6. Local shopping (for Goods and Works) - Under this method, communities shall solicit quotations
   from at least three qualified suppliers/contractors based on simplified quotation forms that include a
   description of the goods or works, detailed specifications and, where possible, drawings. All quotations
    shall be made in writing. Quotations shall be opened at the same time and to the extent possible in the
   presence o f the PMC. Members o f the community wishing to attend the opening ceremony should be
   allowed to do so without limitation. As a general rule, the supplier/contractor who offers the lowest
   price shall be awarded the contract. All contracts shall be on a lump sum fixed price basis and in the
   form described inthe Procurement Handbook.
7. Local Bidding(for Goods and Works). Under this method the communities will advertise bids locally
   using media such as in local newspaper, radio, posting notices at strategic places, circulating such
   notices or reading them out in community meetings or other public gatherings. The advert will
   principally target suppliers and contractors within the vicinity o f the beneficiary community. The
   request for bids shall spell out the work or goods needed, the criteia for selection and the deadline for
   submission of bids. Bids shall be opened in a public ceremony attended to the extent possible by bidders
   and community members. After opening, bids will be examined by a committee appointed by the
   community. Bids will be examined to determine whether they meet minimumspecifications mentioned in
    the bidding documents (experience, quality o f works, equipment, services offered and delivery dates).
    Bids that meet the minimum requirements will be retained for further evaluation and the bidder who
   meets minimumrequirements and offers the lowest bid shall be selected. The award and amount shall be
   announced to all bidders. All contracts with successful bidders shall be on lump sum fixed price basis
   and inthe form prescribed inthe Procurement Handbook.
8. Direct contractingjoff shelf purchases- Under this method, a supplier or contractor will be chosen
   without using competitive biddingdescribed above. Direct contracting shall be used when the cost to the
   community o f another procedure would be disproportionately high relative to the value o f the
   procurement itself, and where only one supplier/contractor is available locally. To the extent possible,
   the contract price agreed with the supplier shall be within local market rates or established estimates as
    shown ina Unit Price Database maintained by the Local Assemblies or M A S A F Field Offices.
9. Force Account- This method o f procurement may be the most practical method for constructing works
   which include small and scattered or in remote locations for which qualified construction firms are
    unlikely to bid at reasonable prices. It is expected that activities under the LAMP, which provides a
    safety net for the poor and CMP where the community provide labour but only requests for materials,
    fall into this category and may be procured utilizing this method. Under this method, the community will
    implement the sub-project using its own resources (skilled and unskilled labor, materials and equipment)
    and may subcontract part o f the sub-project.
10. Procurement of Small Works. Works under LAMPS estimated to cost US$25,000 equivalent per
    contract may be procured under lump-sum, fixed-price contracts awarded on the basis o f quotations
   obtained from three (3) qualified domestic contractors inresponse to a written invitation. The invitation
    shall include a detailed description o f the works, including basic specifications, the required completion
    date, a basic form o f agreement acceptable to IDA, and relevant drawings, where applicable. The
   award shall be made to the contractor who offers the lowest price quotation for the required work, and
   who has the experience and resources to complete the contract successfully.
11. Consultant Services. Consultant services will be procured following the Consultant Guidelines. The
   main method used will be Quality and Cost Based Selection (QCBS).               Other methods may include
   Least-Cost-Selection for contracts         less than US$100,000; Selection Based on Consultants
    Qualifications for contracts estimated to cost less than US$50,000 per contract, Single Source
    Selection, with IDA'Sprior approval, for contracts estimated to cost less than US$lOO,OOO per contract,
   and Individual Consultants.



                                                     - 95 -

PriorReview by IDA:

For goods and works, all ICB, the first two contracts under NCB, and the first three contracts under
National or International Shopping shall be subject to prior review. For consultant services, each contract
for the employment o f firms estimated to cost the equivalent o f US$lOO,OOO or more, the first three
contracts under Selection Based on Consultants' Qualifications and all proposed single source consultants
are subject to IDA'Sprior review. The procedures set forth inparagraphs 2, 3 and 5 o f Appendix 1 to the
Consultant Guidelines shall apply to contracts proposed for Single Source Selection for consulting firms.
With respect to each contract for the employment o f individual consultants to be selected on a sole source
basis, or estimated to cost the equivalent o f US$50,000 or more, the report on the comparison o f the
qualifications and experience o f the candidates, the qualifications, experience, terms o f reference and terms
o f employment o f the consultants shall be furnished to the Association for its prior review and approval,
and the contract awarded only after said approval has been given. Paragraph 3 o f Appendix 1 to the
Consultant Guidelines will also apply to these contracts.

Managementof ProcurementActivities:

The MASAF Procurement Manager will be responsible for ensuring the annual placement o f the General
Procurement Notice as well as placing Specific Procurement Notices in UNDB and other media.
Procurement o f equipment, vehicles, supplies and services for MASAF will be the responsibility o f the
MASAF MU. MASAF ZOs will be responsible for (a) ensuring that communities and districts receive
appropriate training, documentation and guidance, (b) ensuring that documentation is maintained by the
communities, and LAs, as appropriate, (c) monitoring contracts entered into by the communities and
districts at the local level, and, if necessary (d) providing clarification on the appropriate tendering process
for works, goods and services at the district level and below.


3. MASAF3 FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT AND ACCOUNTABILITY
               -

Introduction:

MASAF will continue to use its existing Financial Management System (FMS) to implement MASAF 3.
The Director o f Finance, who reports to the ED, has the overall responsibility to ensure that clearly defined
and transparent disbursement and financial management systems, controls and procedures are put in place
for efficient and effective delivery of MASAF. The FMS will also have well defined reporting systems to
facilitate the production o f quarterly and annual financial statements for submission to M A S A F
Management, the Board and Donors.

FinancialManagement:

The development o f a district based MIS (LA-PPIMS) at LA level will be a major link o f the financial
management systems at MU and community level including other implementing agencies. A Paper Based
System (PBS) will be used to track the inflows (receipts) and outflows (expenditures) at community and
other implementing agency levels. The PBS will also be used to track and feed into the production o f
physical progress reports that will be used at LA and MU levels, The MASAF paper-based system will
continue to provide adequate information to meet MASAF and donor requirements. The system will be
simple enough to be usedand maintainedby the community andother implementing agencies. The MUwill
maintainaccounting records inaccordance with sound accounting practices. The records will be maintained


                                                      - 96 -

on a computerized platform to ensure efficiency inprocessing transactions and reporting.

Disbursement:

The MASAF FMS will ensure that adequate internal controls including segregation o f duties,
authorization, reconciliation, and validation o f procurement processes are in place to ensure that resources
are used for the purposes intended. The LA-PPIMS, through the certification process, will provide the basis
for initiating the disbursements o f funds to sub-projects.     The Financial Management and Accounting
Handbook provides details on the systems, procedures and controls governing disbursement in accordance
with the Development Financing Agreement (DFA), Memorandum o f Understanding and Government
Finance Act.

Flow of Resourcesfrom MASAF to Target Groups:

Funding to projects will be released intranches of 40%, 30% and 30% of the project budget except under
SSP and COMSIP where activity based tranching will be used. A Justification Report o f the expenditures
incurred will be submitted as a precondition for the release o f the second tranche once at least 70% o f the
first tranche i s spent. The third tranche will be released when 100% o f the first tranche and at least 70% o f
the second tranche are successfully justified, and on production o f a mid-term assessment report showing
that the tranche is adequate to complete the sub-project. These released tranches will be followed up by
formal communications to DEC and zones that in-turnwill notify the respective PMCs.

For the CMPs, funds will be transferred directly from MASAF to the Community Project Bank Accounts.
PMCs will be responsible for management o f projects activities.

For LAMPS, funds will be transferred into a designated MASAF Bank Account maintained by the Local
Authorities. Under this arrangement, the LAs are entrusted with the responsibility to manage funds and
implement labour intensive public works.

For the SSPs, funds will be transferred into a designated MASAF Bank Account managed by PIAs
(NGO/CBO/CSO). The PIAs are entrusted with responsibility to manage funds and implement projects on
behalfo f vulnerable and marginalized groups incollaboration with PSCs.

For COMSIP projects, funds will be transferred directly into Community Project Bank Account for
infrastructure projects, and to a designated MASAF Bank Account maintained by the Local Authorities for
implementation o f capacity building interventions.         PMCs will be responsible for management o f
infrastructure projects.

Capacity enhancement initiatives are cross-cuttings interventions to be managed through the Transparency
and Accountability Component. MASAF will centrally manage these activities from the MU. Depending
on the implementation arrangement for the activity, funds for TAP may be channeled to a designated
MASAF Bank Accounts managed by the LAs or Zone Bank Account.

Accounting Standards, FinancialandManagementReporting:

The MASAF Programme Financial Statements will be prepared in accordance with the International
Accounting Standards (IAS). MASAF will adopt the Financial Monitoring Report (FMR) based system in
the implementation o f MASAF 3. In order to achieve this, the MASAF FMS has been designed to allow
linkage to technical and operational data from LA-PPIMS through a paper trail.


                                                       -97 -

InternalControlArrangements:

The intemal control systems and procedures defined and articulated in the Financial Management and
Accounting Handbook provide reasonable assurance to the attainment o f the MASAF Accounting
objectives of:

 1. Effectiveness and efficiency o f MASAF operations;
2. Reliability and credibility o f financial reporting environment;
3. Compliance with applicable laws and regulations; and,
4. Adherence to various agreements between the Government o f Malawi and donors.

AuditingArrangements:

MASAF policies on institutional govemance include undertaking o f internal and extemal audits. The audits
are aimed at:

 1, Ensuringaccountability and transparency across all MASAF 3 implementation levels;
2. Ensuringthat the MASAF 3 management framework (the project delivery mechanism) is functioning to
     the required standards;
3. Safeguarding assets from various types o f risks; and
4. Complying with the provisions o f the various donors financing agreements, statutory requirements and
     intemal rules and regulations.

External Auditing. The responsibility for conducting extemal audit services rests with the Auditor
General in line with the Public Audit Act, the Public Finance Management Act and the Development
Financing Agreement. The Auditor General may augment hisher capacity through subcontract
arrangements to firms o f accountants registered with the Society o f Accountants in Malawi or to other
professional firms or individuals to undertake specialized work. The Auditor General shall conduct the
audits following the Supreme Auditing Institutions Standards o f Auditing and specific terms o f reference
approved by the Donors. The audited reports shall be submitted to the Donors, through the Treasury, not
later than 30th December o f each year.

Internal Auditing. Intemal auditing activities for MASAF will be undertaken by two functional
structures:

 1. Through an Intemal Audit Unit based at the MU. The Unit, headed by Director o f Audit, will report to
     the ED on all matters o f audit, and to the MASAF Board on special matters o f concern to the Board.
     The Unit will also coordinate external audit efforts. The scope o f the units work will cover all areas
     and operations utilisingM A S A F funds where-so-ever applied.
2. (Working in collaboration with the MASAJ? Intemal Audit Unit, the Internal Audit Units o f those
     Organizations or operations utilizing M A S A F funds will undertake audits o f M A S A F activities
     pertaining to their organizations. The Units shall report their findings to their management but shall
     share such findings with the MASAF MUinternal audit unit.

General responsibilities to Audit Activities. The general audit responsibilities to be observed for all
institutions, their departments, and individuals utilizing MASAF funds are to:




                                                      - 98-

1. Cooperate with the teams conducting audits and to provide all relevant informationwhether requested
   or not; and
2. Act on the audit findings in an appropriate manner including addressing the weaknesses identified in
   the audit reviewsexpeditiously.




                                                -99 -

                                               Additional Annex 13
                         Choice of Pilot Districts and the Costs of Scaling-Up
                   MALAWI: Community-Based Rural Land Development Project

The choice o f the four districts was informed by the need to address the simmering tensions around the land
issue in Malawi. The history of the carving out o f estates from customary lands, combined with the current
juxtaposition o f idle, unused estates with overcrowded lands has resulted in localized tensions.     These
tensions sometimes express themselves through encroachments or invasions, and cases o f extreme violence
have been recorded.

The districts most affected by the tensions and encroachments at the moment are the districts o f Mulanje
and Thyolo-districts with very high population densities (see Tables 1 and 2). While there are other
districts with high population densities in the Southern Region, the encroachment problem i s not as severe
as in Mulanje and Thyolo (for example, Chiradmlu and Phalombe). Blantyre and Zomba show high
densities as they are urban centers. As shown in the map, Mulanje and Thyolo are two o f the highest
density districts inthe country.

Table 1. Districtspopulation densities. 1977. 1987. 1998
  I<eginflixtrirt                 landAmi      Isgulrltnn
                                               - 19518        1QL7
  M alawI                           W376           1a4         8?                sp
  NorthernR@un                      26331          46          34                2 1
                                                                                   -
  ChiH p                            4.288          29          23
  Kaioiga                           3\35.;         58          44                2
  Kumphi                            4,769          27          2c                  3
  Nkheis 5a:E.                      4.0@           4:          31                26
  Mrinua                             0.43          58          25                30
  CentrnlRcglorr                    35.592         114         81                $0
  K~SllllglI                        7,878          bo          41                25
  Nkhohkata                         4.259          54          37                22
  Ntcliisi                          1,655          10          73                S 3
  Dowa                              3.04           13s         I06               &I
  ";allinn                          2.190          11 1        86                b0
  LIlnngae                          6,I59          217         Iom               109
  MChirJI                           3.j56          95          74                47
  D&lts                             3,624          I33         I11               82
  Ntc1ie.i                          3.424      -   108         Ios               b6
  Southern Reylm                    31,7?3         144        125                87
  Mongochi                          6.273          96          75                48
  h.lBChinga                        3,771          97          66                52
 Balahs                             2.193          1 1 5       91                b7
 Zombl                              2Sgo          209         102               I08
 ChiradZUlLi                         '767         307         275               230
 Blaitre                            2.012         389          I98               191
  Mwamn                             2.295          f.0         53                2 1
 Tliyol3                            I,71s         267         25 I               188
 M~ilar~e                           2.056         7ox         204                150
 rhalonihe                          1.394          I 6 0      156                122
 Cliikuawa                          4.753          7'          67                I 1
 Nsnqe                              1,941       -  100        I05
 Source: Chaloza et al(2003)    ural Public an6 'rivate Land Supply. Studyfor the Ministry of
           Lands, Planning and Physical Surveys




                                                           - 100-

Table 2. Map of Districtpopulationdensities




There i s a close correlation between small cultivated area and poverty, for example, 74% of poor
smallholdings cultivate < 0.5ha. In addition, the average farm size inthe Southem Region i s smaller than
other regions (Table 3) (and 66% o f poor households are located inthe Southern Region) and the farm size
of the target beneficiary group (the poor) is 0.5 ha (Table 3). FA0 estimate that most poor households in
the Southern Regionhave holdings < 0.3ha.




                                                    - 101-

 Table 3. Farm Characteristics by Region

1              I    Average Land holding     I
                           Hectares
 Northern      I            0.93
 Central                     1.13



 Average                    0.92
 Source: Integrated Household Survey, 1998

 Table 4. Farm characteristics by farm size


                                                          Farm size quintile
                                    Smallest           Yd            3'd           4'h      Largest
  Average No. o f plots owned            2              3              3            4           5
  Average plot size inha                0.3            0.4           0.5           0.6         0.6
  Average farm size in ha               0.5            0.9            1.3           1.8        3.0
  Source: IFPRIiAPRUMalawi Smallholder Farmer Survey, 1998.



 Even within these very densely populated districts, there are lands available for redistribution. In Thyolo,
 unused estates exist, which could be bought by the beneficiaries o f the project. In Mulanje, there are also
 estates for sale, but these are often already under cultivation. Given the prominence o f tea, outgrowers
 schemes could be envisaged and financed under the project.

 Two other districts were chosen to complement Thyolo and Mulanje. These are the districts o f Machinga
 and Mangochi. There is already some natural migration from Thyolo and Mulanje to Machinga, which has
 an ample supply o f idle estates. Mangochi is somewhat hrther away, but has a substantial number o f
 unusedestates.

 Even though relatively less densely populated, both Machinga and Mangochi have significant numbers o f
 land-poor households, implying a substantial potential for land redistribution within these districts.

 All inall, the scope for inter-district migration is limited, but the choice o f the pilot districts does offer this
 option. Whereas the four districts speak a common language -Lomwe- there are ethnic differences, and
 hence the social aspects o f inter-district migrationneed to be handled with the utmost care.

 There are currently three projects under preparation in the Ministry o f Lands, each focusing on different
 pilot districts, distributedevenly over the country:

      i.AfDB-assisted project, involvingthe titling ofcustomary lands inthree districts where there is
          potential demand for such titling (Rumphi in the North; Kasungu in the Centre; and Chiradzulu in
          the South);
     ii.EU-assistedproject,involvingcapacity-buildingfordecentralizationofLandAdministrationinthe
          districts o f Mzimba inthe North, Salima inthe Centre, and Mwanza inthe South.
    iii.WB-assistedlandredistributionproject, involvingthetwodistrictswiththehighestincidence of
          encroachments, and two districts with a substantial supply o f unused estates and localized land


                                                       -102-

         pressures,

Ifscaled-up, a national project would probably target Chiradzulu(land scarce district, highestpopulation
density), Zomba and Chikwakwa inthe South, and, Nkhotakota, and Mchinji in the Centre as these districts
also experience problems with encroachment. As ground rents and land tax increase over the following
years (as committed by the Government), estate owners will have a further incentive to sell un- or
under-utilized lands, thus increasing the supply o f land for redistribution.

Throughout the country, the number o f land-poor families that could benefit from a scaled-up project are
estimated as follows: if we consider smallholders with less that 0.5 ha as land constrained (at most 20% o f
all smallholders (see table 3 above) i.e. less than 360,000 families), and assume most smallholders do not
rely on farming as their primary source o f income (as indicated by higher non-farm sources o f income). In
addition, the rental market that will expand due the increased land tax and ground rents will also make
more land available for rental. A rough estimate o f the potential beneficiaries o f a scaled up project would
then be 100,000. If we apply the uniform ceiling used in the pilot ($1050) and add in the administration
and other overhead costs, a scaled-up project may require in the order o f $120 million over 20 years i.e. $6
million per year.




                                                    - 103  -

                    Additional Annex 14: Social-cultural Appraisal Summary
                MALAWI: Community-Based Rural Land Development Project

The four pilot districts can be divided into two socially differentiated areas. Thyolo and Mulanje are
principally Lomwe and Mag'anja by ethnic origin, even though traces o f Yao are also found. Christianity
predominates as the main religion in these two districts. By contrast, Machinga and Mangochi are
predominantly Yao by ethnicity and Muslimby religion.

While the rural population in all pilot districts relies on farming as a predominant livelihood activity, there
are significant differences interms o f off-farm economic opportunities. Seasonal work on tea plantations in
Thyolo and Mulanje is a source o f income for many people. In Machinga and Mangochi off-farm income
opportunities are more limited, and center around fishing along the lakeshore areas, and the making o f
mats, baskets and other handicraft items.

Because o f the history o f the carving out o f the many tea plantations from customary lands, Thyolo and
Mulanje have more acute land shortages for smallholder farmers than Machinga and Mangochi. However,
at a micro level, there are people with inadequate land inall the four districts.

The key uniting social factor i s that the whole pilot area i s matrilineal by descent. This means that
customary land, which constitutes more than 60 percent o f the total land area, is passed on in succession
following matrilineal descent rules. Land in a matrilineal society belongs to a lineage, led by the oldest
maternal uncle (i.e the oldest brother o f the sisters). The lineage leader distributes landto the sisters. When
daughters reach marrying age, land is transferred from the mother to the daughters. If the mother has not
enough land to distribute to her daughters, she seeks the assistance o f the lineage leader to provide her with
more land, if available.    Even when the daughters have married they still keep rights to land. Their
husbands cultivate the land with them but they have no inheritance rights. In fact, the husbands are
regarded as "strangers" who, upon dissolution o f marriage, must return to their home village. However, if
husband and wife seek permission to live in a "neutral" location, as inthe case o f the CBRLDP where they
will buy leasehold land, ownership rights can be decided by the family on its own, viz. whether to give
rightsto the husband, wife, orjoint.

Chiefs settle most o f the land disputes, although a limited number o f them find their way to the District
Commissioner.

Next to the similarity o f matrilineal descent, there are differences with regard to other cultural and
traditional beliefs. For example, initiation ceremonies for girls and boys are different as well as a range o f
beliefs regarding birth, family life and death.

The socio-cultural appraisal o f the project involved an assessment o f whether the design had taken into
account the main relevant socio-cultural factors to ensure that potential areas o f conflict were adequately
addressed. As a result o f the appraisal, and the lessons from previous experience, the following changes
were introduced inthe design o fthe project, andreflectedinthe Project Implementation Manual:

1. The principle that the project would support only voluntary movement o f people was more clearly and
    emphatically articulated. It was pointed out that large movements across districts, especially between
    Mulanje/Thyolo and MachingalMangochi would likely generate social problems. The M&E system
    will monitor these movements closely, if and when they occur, and suggest immediate resolution to
    possible problems.



                                                      - 104-

2. The need for wide consultations with receiving communities, including, especially where inter-district
   migration i s concerned, the involvement o f political leaders, was more clearly articulated.
3. The original requirement for beneficiaries to relinquish title to customary land in their originating
   community was scrapped. Such pieces o f land are already too small, by definition, and are likely to be
   left to relatives to cultivate.    In addition, it was going to be almost impossible to enforce this
   requirement.
4. Project design attempts to minimize the risk that (a) the formation process o f self-selected groups of
   potential beneficiaries marginalizes certain categories o f vulnerable individuals, and (b) the
    self-selected groups are regarded as not legitimate by the rest o f the community.
5. The design includes encouraging the formation o f a village-level committee to facilitate project
   processes from a social perspective.

This committee, called the Community Oversight Committee, would comprise between ten and twenty
members. The following guidelines would be issued:

1. Membership would be equally dividedbetweenmenand women.
2. Members o f the COC would be democratically elected at a village meeting or a meeting o f several
   participating villages.
3. Where there are several participating villages, membership will be in proportion to the number o f
   villages taking into account the size o f population o f the different villages.

The COC would:

1. Receive orientation from the Lands Officer, makingit become very conversant with eligibility criteria;
2. Keep records o f groups information, including membership of such groups;
3. Advise forming groups o f potential problems that might lead to rejection duringthe Participatory Rural
    Appraisal (PRA) stage;
4. Discuss with groups issues arising from the process o f group formation, and feed these issues into the
    PRA stage;
5. Provide information to inquiring individuals regarding groups in formation to assist those who have
   problems linkingthemselves to a group;
6. Inform the community, at a village meeting, about any forming groups and the composition o f their
    membership. Any complaints about the group formation process and disagreements regarding
    composition will be resolved inmutually agreeable ways;
7. Facilitate the formation o f the Project Management Committee;
8. Participate inthe Field Appraisal; and
9. Receive, address and refer complaints from individuals in beneficiary groups, where the PMC i s in
    conflict o f interest.

Where populations have moved beyond their own community, the need for prior agreement on the sale o f
land and re-settlement between beneficiaries and receiving communities i s included into the approval
procedures

Social-cultural aspects were also introduced inthe monitoring and evaluation framework, including:

1. distribution o fbenefits across different social groups;
2. qualitative assessments of economic and social well-being o f communities left by beneficiaries,
   especially that of vulnerable individuals left behind;
3. assessment o f access to social facilities by beneficiary groups and receiving communities;


                                                    -105  -

4. assessment of social harmony within and between beneficiary groups and receiving communities;
5, identification of unanticipated social issues and recommendations for addressing them;
6. assessment of land-related disputes, ifthey occur; and
7. other disputes.


~
    Stage in Project Cycle                            Social Issues and Actions
    Sensitization                                To bring awareness to the community about the project.
                                                 To ensure that communities have correct and complete
                                                 information about the project necessary for deciding
                                                 on whether to participate. To initiate the formation o f Community
                                                Oversight Committees.
    Project Identification                       Community Oversight Committee works with potential
                                                 beneficiaries to assess their needs and to form groups.
                                                 COC finalizes pre-qualification o f beneficiary groups.
                                                 COC facilitates the election o f PMCs
    Farm Plan                                    To confirm that the farm plan was prepared with the
                                                 participation o f all beneficiaries. To ensure that there are no
                                                disagreements among members o f the beneficiary group on the farm
                                                plan.
    Field Appraisal                              Community Oversight Committee Exists, or is not necessary.
                                                 Community Oversight Committee was elected democratically by the
                                                community and people are happy with its composition. Beneficiary group
                                                members are eligible. Group formation i s proceeding smoothly without
                                                 significant social tensions. Receiving community is informed about the
                                                 intention to buy land in their area by other communities and have no
                                                complaints or hostilities against the idea o f new settlers. Receiving
                                                 community has no complaints about the farm plan
    District Approval                             There are no reasonable complaints regarding eligibility and selection
                                                  process. There are no complaints or hostility from receiving
                                                  communities about `outsiders' intention to buy land in their area.
    P M U N T A C                                 Confirms District Approval.
    M & E                                         Distribution o f benefits across different social groups.
                                                  Access to social facilities by communities. Social harmony within and
                                                  between beneficiary groups and receiving communities. New social
                                                  issues, with recommendations for addressing them.




                                                    - 106-

                        AdditionalAnnex 15: Pilot Districts MAP
                                                             --
                MALAWI:Community-Based Rural Land Development Project


Pilot Districts Map MALAWI Community-Based Rural Land Development Project IBRD 32815
                   -                                                     -




                                            - 107-


