                                    Document of
                                The World Bank


                                                        Report No: ICR2265



          IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT
                       (IDA-H0810 IDA-H5270)



                                         ON A

                                     GRANT

                    IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 18.1 MILLION
                        (US$27 MILLION EQUIVALENT)

                         AND AN ADDITIONAL GRANT

                     IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 6.4 MILLION
                        (US$10 MILLION EQUIVALENT)

                                     TO THE

                             REPUBLIC OF MALAWI

                                         FOR A

        COMMUNITY-BASED RURAL LAND DEVELOPMENT PROJECT



                                  March 30, 2012




Sustainable Development Department
Agriculture and Rural Development Unit
Country Department AFCS3
Africa Region
                      CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                (Exchange Rate Effective January 31, 2012)

                      Currency Unit = Kwacha (MKw)
                            MKw 163 = US$1
                           US$ 1.5500 = SDR 1

                              FISCAL YEAR


                  ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

ADMARC     Agricultural Development and Marketing Corporation
ASWAp      Agricultural Sector Wide Approach
ASWAp-SP   Agricultural Sector Wide Approach Support Project
BG         Beneficiary Group
CAS        Country Assistance Strategy
CBRLDP     Community Based Rural Land Development Project
CEM        Country Economic Memorandum
DGA        Development Grant Agreement
EIA        Environmental Impact Assessment
EIRR       Economic Internal Rate of Return
EMP        Environmental Management Plan
EPA        Extension Planning Area
ESA        Environment and Social Analysis
ESMF       Environment and Social Management Framework
ESSRP      Environmental and Social Screening and Review Process
EU         European Union
FAO        Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations
FISP       Farm Input Subsidy Programme
GIS        Geographic Information System
GoM        Government of Malawi
ha         Hectare
GPS        Global Positioning System
HH         Household
IDA        International Development Association
IEC        Information – Education – Communication
km         Kilometer
LA         Local Assembly
LDF        Local Development Fund
MAIWD      Ministry of Agriculture, Irrigation and Water Development
MASAF   Malawi Social Action Fund
M&E     Monitoring and Evaluation
MDGS    Malawi Growth and Development Strategy
MFDP    Ministry of Finance and Development Planning
MKw     Malawi Kwacha
MLHUD   Ministry of Lands, Housing and Urban Development
MLGRD   Ministry of Local Government and Rural Development
MT      Metric Ton (1,000 kg)
MVAC    Malawi Vulnerability Assessment Committee
NAO     National Audit Office
NPV     Net Present Value
NSO     National Statistics Office
OP/BP   Operational Procedures/Bank Policies
PAD     Project Appraisal Document
PDO     Project Development Objective
PIM     Project Implementation Manual
PMP     Pest Management Plan
PMU     Project Management Unit
PVA     Poverty and Vulnerability Assessment
SIL     Specific Investment Lending
SLWM    Sustainable Land and Water Management




                   Vice President: Obiageli Katryn Ezekwesili
                 Country Director: Kundhavi Kadiresan
                  Sector Manager: Karen McConnell Brooks
             Project Team Leader: Hardwick Tchale
                ICR Team Leader: Olivier Durand
                                 REPUBLIC OF MALAWI
                       Community-Based Rural Land Development Project



                                                       CONTENTS




Data Sheet
  A. Basic Information........................................................................................................ i
  B. Key Dates .................................................................................................................... i
  C. Ratings Summary ........................................................................................................ i
  D. Sector and Theme Codes ........................................................................................... ii
  E. Bank Staff ................................................................................................................... ii
  F. Results Framework Analysis ..................................................................................... iii
  G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs ................................................................... iv
  H. Restructuring (if any) ................................................................................................. v
  I. Disbursement Profile .................................................................................................. v

Main Document
  1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design ............................................... 1
  2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes .............................................. 6
  3. Assessment of Outcomes .......................................................................................... 13
  4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome......................................................... 19
  5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance ..................................................... 20
  6. Lessons Learned ....................................................................................................... 22
  7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners .......... 23

Annexes
  Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing .......................................................................... 25
  Annex 2. Outputs by Component ................................................................................. 26
  Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis ................................................................. 29
  Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes ............ 38
  Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results ........................................................................... 41
  Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results................................................... 44
  Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR ..................... 45
  Annex 8. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders ....................... 55
  Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents ...................................................................... 56
A. Basic Information
                                                                          Community-Based
Country:                Malawi                  Project Name:             Rural Land
                                                                          Development Project
                        P075247                                           IDA-H0810,IDA-
Project ID:                                     L/C/TF Number(s):
                        P115226                                           H5270
ICR Date:               03/30/2012              ICR Type:                 Core ICR
                                                                          GOVERNMENT OF
Lending Instrument:     SIL                     Borrower:
                                                                          MALAWI
Original Total
                        XDR 18.10M              Disbursed Amount:         XDR 22.79M
Commitment:
Revised Amount:         XDR 24.50M
Environmental Category: B
Implementing Agencies: Ministry of Lands, Housing and Urban Development (MoLHUD),
Private Bag 111, Lilongwe.
Cofinanciers and Other External Partners: None

B. Key Dates
                                                                               Revised / Actual
     Process             Date             Process              Original Date
                                                                                   Date(s)
Concept Review:       07/20/2001     Effectiveness:             07/12/2004        07/12/2004
Appraisal:            12/02/2003     Restructuring(s):
Approval:             04/13/2004     Mid-term Review:           11/30/2007        03/30/2007
                                     Closing:                   06/30/2009        09/30/2011

C. Ratings Summary
C.1 Performance Rating by ICR
Outcomes:                                       Satisfactory
Risk to Development Outcome:                    Moderate
Bank Performance:                               Satisfactory
Borrower Performance:                           Satisfactory

C.2 Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance (by ICR)
         Bank                   Ratings          Borrower              Ratings
Quality at Entry:       Satisfactory       Government:         Moderately satisfactory
                                           Implementing
Quality of Supervision: Satisfactory                           Satisfactory
                                           Agency/Agencies:
Overall Bank                               Overall Borrower
                        Satisfactory                           Satisfactory
Performance:                               Performance:



                                            -i-
C.3 Quality at Entry and Implementation Performance Indicators
    Implementation                           QAG Assessments
                             Indicators                                           Rating
     Performance                                 (if any)
 Potential Problem Project                         Quality at Entry
                           Yes                                             None
at any time (Yes/No):                              (QEA):
 Problem Project at any                            Quality of
                           Yes                                             None
time (Yes/No):                                     Supervision (QSA):
DO rating before
                           Satisfactory
Closing/Inactive status:

D. Sector and Theme Codes
                                                                  Original             Actual
Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Central government administration                                      5                   4
General agriculture, fishing and forestry sector                      89                  89
Sub-national government administration                                 6                   4
Public administration – Agriculture, fishing and forestry                                  3


Theme Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Decentralization                                                      17                  12
Land administration and management                                    33                  38
Participation and civic engagement                                    17                  13
Rural markets                                                         33                  26
Social analysis and monitoring                                                            5
Tax policy and administration                                                             3
Personal and property rights                                                              3

E. Bank Staff
        Positions                       At ICR                              At Approval
Vice President:            Obiageli Katryn Ezekwesili           Callisto E. Madavo
Country Director:          Kundhavi Kadiresan                   Hartwig Schafer
Sector Manager:            Karen Mcconnell Brooks               Richard G. Scobey
Project Team Leader:       Hardwick Tchale                      Rogier van den Brink
ICR Team Leader:           Olivier Durand
ICR Primary Author:        Olivier Durand




                                               - ii -
F. Results Framework Analysis

Project Development Objectives (from Project Appraisal Document)
To increase the incomes of about 15,000 poor rural families by implementing a
decentralized community-based approach to land acquisition and farm development in
four districts.

Revised Project Development Objectives (as approved by original approving authority)
To increase the agricultural productivity and incomes of about 15,000 poor rural families
through the implementation of a decentralized, voluntary community-based land reform
program on eligible land in the Project districts.

(a) PDO Indicator(s)

                                                        Original Target               Actual Value
                                             Baseline                     Formally
                                                         Values (from                  Achieved at
                Indicator                     Value                       Revised
                                                           approval                   Completion or
                                             (20081)                    Target Values
                                                         documents)                   Target Years
Increase in real incomes of
participating families as compared
to those of control groups and of   4,530                         n/a     11,330         30,500
such families prior to the project
(Malawi Kwacha /month).
Increase in agricultural            Maize:
productivity of participating
                                     450                                   1,500         1,800
families as compared to that of                                   n/a
such families prior to the Project Tobacco:
(Kilograms/hectare).                 300                                   1,000          800

(b) Intermediate Outcome Indicator(s)

                                        Original Target               Actual Value
                                                          Formally
                                         Values (from
                                             Baseline                  Achieved at
             Indicator                                    Revised
                                           approval
                                              Value                   Completion or
                                                        Target Values
                                         documents)                   Target Years
Component 1 – Land Acquisition and Farm Development
Number of farm families
established on land acquired       0          n/a          15,000        15,142
through the project.
Component 2 – Land Administration
Number of beneficiary groups
which have received appropriate    0          n/a           452           666
documentation of land ownership.
Number of Land Registries
                                   0          n/a            32            32
computerized and functional.


1
    Baseline value at time of AF appraisal


                                                        - iii -
                                                     Original Target               Actual Value
                                                                       Formally
                                          Baseline    Values (from                  Achieved at
                Indicator                                              Revised
                                           Value        approval                   Completion or
                                                                     Target Values
                                                      documents)                   Target Years
Reduced number of days taken to    118        n/a           110                                      90
register a land transfer.         (2008)
Component 3 – Capacity Building
Number and quality of farm
development proposals by eligible
beneficiary communities and/or
                                    0         n/a          33,000                               33,428
hectares of land received,
reviewed, approved and fully
disbursed.
Increased number of staff trained
in surveying and registration of
                                    0         n/a            30                                      702
land parcels including monitoring
and collection of land tax/rent.
Component 4 – Project Management, Monitoring and Evaluation
                                                                                               4 quarterly
Improved timeliness and quality of                                              Quarterly
                                                                                                 reports
reports generated by the M&E                 n/a              n/a            reports per year
                                                                                              submitted on
system.                                                                          on time
                                                                                                  time
                                                                              Complete and
                                                                               acceptable     Final impact
Timely and acceptable project
                                             n/a              n/a                impact        assessment
impact evaluation report.
                                                                               assessment       delivered
                                                                                  report

G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs
                                                                                              Actual
            Date ISR
    No.                                DO                               IP                Disbursements
            Archived
                                                                                          (USD millions)
     1     06/29/2004             Satisfactory                Satisfactory                           0.00
     2     11/30/2004             Satisfactory                Satisfactory                           1.29
     3     12/16/2004             Satisfactory                Satisfactory                           1.29
     4     06/28/2005             Satisfactory                Satisfactory                           1.42
     5     11/07/2005             Satisfactory            Moderately Satisfactory                    2.93
     6     12/30/2005             Satisfactory            Moderately Satisfactory                    3.28
                                  Moderately
     7     06/29/2006                                   Moderately Unsatisfactory                           7.18
                                 Unsatisfactory
                                  Moderately
     8     12/11/2006                                     Moderately Satisfactory                           9.78
                                 Unsatisfactory
    9      04/27/2007             Satisfactory                      Satisfactory                           11.48
    10     11/26/2007             Satisfactory                      Satisfactory                           17.60



2
    Includes staff trained at MSc, Diploma and certificate levels (see Table 4 in Government ICR).


                                                     - iv -
 11    02/13/2008         Satisfactory              Satisfactory                      18.20
 12    06/15/2008     Moderately Satisfactory   Moderately Satisfactory               22.89
 13    11/30/2008     Moderately Satisfactory   Moderately Satisfactory               24.83
 14    06/09/2009         Satisfactory          Moderately Satisfactory               26.76
 15    12/10/2009         Satisfactory              Satisfactory                      27.00
 16    06/15/2010         Satisfactory              Satisfactory                      28.44
 17    03/16/2011         Satisfactory          Moderately Satisfactory               33.22
 18    11/03/2011         Satisfactory          Moderately Satisfactory               34.74

H. Restructuring (if any)

                        ISR Ratings at   Amount
                Board   Restructuring Disbursed at
Restructuring                                          Reason for Restructuring &
               Approved                Restructuring
   Date(s)                                                 Key Changes Made
              PDO Change DO      IP       in USD
                                         millions
                                                     Additional financing,
                                                     reformulation of PDO and
 10/27/2009       Y       S     MS           27.00
                                                     change to performance
                                                     indicators.

If PDO and/or Key Outcome Targets were formally revised (approved by the original approving
body) enter ratings below:
                                                            Outcome Ratings
Against Original PDO/Targets                                   Satisfactory
Against Formally Revised PDO/Targets                           Satisfactory
Overall (weighted) rating                                      Satisfactory

I. Disbursement Profile




                                            -v-
1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design
1.      Malawi's agriculture remains dualistic. At independence in 1964, it inherited an
agriculture sector comprising a few, large foreign-owned, export-oriented estates and a
dominant smallholder sector of mostly poor, subsistence farmers. Colonial laws allowed
estates to obtain the full value of export sales, but prevented smallholders from producing
burley tobacco which is the most lucrative export crop. These laws also forced
smallholders to sell through the parastatal, the Agricultural Development and Marketing
Corporation (ADMARC). The situation has improved, but much still needs to be done
with respect to improved distribution and more efficient utilization of land, and more
effective support to smallholders. About 84 percent of agricultural value-added comes
from about 1.8 million smallholders who on average own 1 hectare (ha) of land.
2.      Land pressure is particularly severe in the south of Malawi (where average
holdings can be as low as 0.1 ha). About 1.1 million hectares of land are held in some
30,000 estates, with an average size of landholding ranging between 10 and 500 ha. Land
distribution is sharply unequal, and overcrowded arable land exists next to under-used
land parcels. It is estimated that one third of arable land is under-utilized, while
household surveys demonstrate a direct link between poverty and access to land. In
addition, Malawi's history of the carving out of large-scale farms (estates) from
customary land, combined with increasing land pressure, has led to the emergence of
localized tensions around land, sometimes expressing themselves through encroachments
and invasions.

1.1 Context at Appraisal
3.      The Community-Based Rural Land Development Project (CBRLDP) was
designed to make a start in addressing emerging social conflicts related to unequal access
to land by piloting a government assisted, community-driven land transfer program to
land-deprived small scale farmers. Malawi is a landlocked country with an average
population growth rate of 3.3 percent per year. It remains significantly dependent on
agriculture which contributes about 36 percent to Gross Domestic Product (GDP),
employs 85 percent of the work force, and contributes 90 percent of foreign exchange
earnings.
4.      Therefore, one of the key constraints to improved smallholder productivity is the
small and declining land holding sizes. In 2002, a new National Land Policy (NLP) was
adopted by the Government of Malawi to correct some of the historical land issues and
inequality. The favourable policy environment, together with the availability of land for
sale by willing estate owners, provided an opportunity for the introduction of a land
redistribution project based on voluntary land transfers between landowners (willing
sellers) and the land-poor (willing buyers). The CBRLDP aimed at addressing this
challenge with a particular focus on reducing unequal land distribution, land market
failure and land administration weaknesses, while supporting decentralization,
community participation and programmatic approaches. The project was aimed at
piloting a government assisted, voluntary and community-based land reform approach.




                                           -1-
5.      In the Bank 2003 Country Assistance Strategy (CAS), the CBRLDP was
identified as an operation with high strategic importance towards contributing to the
second CAS pillar to “establish a platform for sustainable poverty-reducing growth?.
Linkage was also established with the 2004 Structural Adjustment Credit that included
land elements, namely the dissemination of the Government’s Land Policy adopted in
2002, the drafting a new Land Bill and the raising and improvement of collection of
leasehold rents, and the future implementation of a land tax on freehold land as incentives
to the release of unused land to the market (rental or sale). Bank involvement in the
proposed operation relied on extensive experience and lessons learned from community-
driven development land reform in Brazil.

1.2 Original Project Development Objectives and Key Indicators (as approved)
6.      The original Project Development Objective (PDO) as stated in the Development
Grant Agreement (DGA) was “to increase the incomes of about 15,000 poor rural
families through the implementation of a decentralized, voluntary community-based land
reform pilot program on eligible land in the Project districts?3.
7.      The Project outcome indicators were defined as follows:
        (a) Incomes of participating families compared to control groups (“with-
            without?) and pre-project income levels (“before-after?);
        (b) Increased and sustainable agricultural production on participating farms
            (“with-without? and “before-after?); and
        (c) The effective evaluation of the piloted approach.

8.      The original key performance indicators are presented in the following table:
Table 1 - Original key performance indicators
Original intermediate results           Original intermediate result indicators
Component 1 – Land Acquisition and Farm Development
Land acquired, number of                 Number of farm families established on land acquired
beneficiary families achieved and         through the project.
agricultural production achieved.
                                         Amount, speed and cost of land acquisition (per
                                          beneficiary family and per hectare).
                                         Speed and cost of establishment of agricultural
                                          production (per beneficiary family and per hectare).




3
  It should be noted that the PDO in the original PAD was slightly different from the DGA in terms of
formulation, but not in substance: “to increase the incomes of about 15,000 poor rural families by
implementing a decentralized, community-based and voluntary approach to land reform in four districts in
southern Malawi?. The PDO in the PAD annex 1 is also different: “To increase the incomes of about
15,000 poor rural families by implementing a decentralized, community-based approach to land
acquisition and farm development in four Districts?.

                                                 -2-
Original intermediate results         Original intermediate result indicators
Component 2 – Land Administration
Decentralized, transparent land        Number of beneficiary groups or beneficiaries which
administration system in place.         have received appropriate documentation of land
                                        ownership.
                                       Number, speed and cost of titles, cautions and hectares
                                        registered and sketch maps completed.
Component 3 – Capacity Building
Capacity to implement community        Number and quality of land acquisition and farm
driven land acquisition and farm        development proposals by eligible beneficiary
development exists or is created.       communities and/or hectares of land (i) received; (ii)
                                        reviewed; (iii) approved; and (iv) fully disbursed.
Component 4 – Project Management, Monitoring and Evaluation
Monitoring and evaluation system       Timeliness and content of reports generated by M&E
provides appropriate information        system.
for effective project management
and scaling-up decision after pilot
project completion.

9.      Project outputs were defined as:
(a)    Providing access to resources for land acquisition and farm development to about
       15,000 poor beneficiary families;
(b)    Providing beneficiaries with secure title to the land acquired through the piloting
       of decentralized land administration;
(c)    Building capacity at community, district and national levels to implement a
       community-driven approach to land reform; and
(d)    Implementing a monitoring and evaluation system to assess project inputs, outputs,
       and outcomes, and provide a sound basis for the decision to scale-up the project.

1.3 Revised PDO (as approved by original approving authority) and Key Indicators,
and reasons/justification
10.    The PDO was slightly revised in October 2009 when processing an additional
financing to include the “agricultural productivity? dimension. The revised PDO is “To
increase the agricultural productivity and incomes of about 15,000 poor rural families
through the implementation of a decentralized, voluntary community-based land reform
program on eligible land in the Project districts.?
11.     The additional financing gave the opportunity to refine the PDO level indicators
as follows: (i) the income indicator (a) to be reported as real and not nominal income in
order to control for price increases or inflation in the income changes; (ii) the outcome
indicator on increased production (b) was changed to “increased agricultural productivity?
to align it with the revised the PDO; and (iii) the third outcome indicator (c) was moved
to the intermediate result indicator level as it was more aligned to component 4 outputs.


                                              -3-
12.     Four new intermediate results indicators were added to better track progress
achieved in strengthening land administration capacity. Two original intermediate results
indicators were dropped as they were deemed difficult to monitor and measure, namely
“Amount, speed and cost of land acquisition per beneficiary family and per hectare? and
“Speed and cost of establishment of agricultural production per beneficiary family and
per hectare?.
13.    The revised outcome and intermediate results indicators are summarized in the
following table:
Table 2 – Revised outcome and intermediate results indicators
Refined outcome indicators
 Increase in real incomes of participating families as compared to those of control groups and
  of such families prior to the project (Malawi Kwacha/month).
 Increase in agricultural productivity (maize and tobacco yield) of participating families as
  compared to that of such families prior to the Project (Kilograms/hectare).
Revised intermediate results      Revised intermediate result indicators
Component 1 – Land Acquisition and Farm Development
Land acquired, number of           Number of farm families established on land acquired
beneficiary families achieved.      through the project.
Component 2 – Land Administration
Decentralized land,                Number of beneficiary groups which have received
transparent administration          appropriate documentation of land ownership.
system in place.
                                   Number of Land Registries computerized and functional
                                    (28 Districts, 3 Regions and 1 national).
                                   Reduced number of days taken to register a land transfer.
Component 3 – Capacity Building
Capacity to implement              Number and quality of farm development proposals by
community driven land               eligible beneficiary communities and/or hectares of land
acquisition and farm                received, reviewed, approved and fully disbursed.
development exists or is
created.                           Increased number of staff trained in surveying and
                                    registration of land parcels including monitoring and
                                    collection of land tax/rent.
Component 4 – Project Management, Monitoring and Evaluation
Monitoring and evaluation          Improved timeliness and quality of reports generated by the
system provides appropriate         M&E system.
information for effective
project management and             Timely and acceptable project impact evaluation report.
scaling-up decision after pilot
project completion.




                                              -4-
1.4 Main Beneficiaries
14.     The primary beneficiaries of the Project were defined as poor, land-poor and food
insecure families from the pilot districts. The original project was initially implemented
in four pilot districts (Mulanje, Thyolo, Machinga, and Mangochi), then extended in
October 2008 to two other districts (Balaka and Ntcheu) as requested by the Government
of Malawi (GoM). Beneficiaries were to be self-selected according to democratic and
local customary principles, and with the capability to farm. The objective was to support
15,000 land poor households among the 1.8 million smallholders who on average own
less than 1 hectare of land. Land administration services and staff represent a second
important category of Project beneficiaries whose capacities were to be strengthened
through training and equipment. This second category received a stronger attention under
the additional financing.

1.5 Original Components (as approved)
15.        The Project had the following four components:
(a) Land Acquisition and Farm Development (US$16.78 million4) implemented with
    direct community involvement through identification, negotiation and acquisition of
    land and the preparation of farm development proposals, approved by a district-level
    multi-stakeholder entity, taking into account legal, technical, environmental, and
    poverty reduction criteria. These sub-projects are carried out through the award of
    land acquisition and farm development grants to project beneficiaries who are the
    poor, landless and food insecure households from the pilot districts.
(b) Land Administration (US$8.00 million) to facilitate the transfer of secure title to the
    beneficiaries by supporting the strengthening of land administration institutions in
    the project area.
(c) Capacity Building (US$6.19 million) to support public information campaigns,
    community mobilization, participatory rural appraisal, training and technical support
    to communities, district and national participating institutions and stakeholders, as
    well as environmental and social impact assessments and policy analysis.
(d) Project Management, Monitoring and Evaluation (US$8.81 million) for overall
    project administration, coordination, supervision, monitoring and evaluation.

1.6 Revised Components
16.        There was no revision to the Project components.

1.7 Other significant changes
17.     The original Project was initially implemented in four pilot districts (i.e., Mulanje,
Thyolo, Machinga, and Mangochi). In October 2008, Government requested for an
amendment to the DGA to include two other districts (i.e., Balaka and Ntcheu) into the
pilot project. In May 2009, a six-month extension of the Project closing date was granted
from June 30, 2009 to December 31, 2009 to give time to prepare an additional financing.

4
    Original Grant and additional financing.

                                               -5-
18.     In October 2009, the Project benefitted from an additional grant of US$10 million
to cover an over-run related to the costs of relocating 1,000 households to reach the initial
target of 15,000 households, as well as to provide additional funding to the Capacity
Building component to strengthen the capacity of the land administration institutions, and
further support required reform of the legal framework for land administration. The
additional grant came with the reformulation of the PDO and the revision of the results
framework presented above. It included a new extension of the closing date to September
30, 2011.

2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes
2.1 Project Preparation, Design and Quality at Entry
19.     Project preparation was sound and relied on solid background analyses developed
with other donors for the Presidential Land Commission of Inquiry for Land Reform in
1999. These helped prepare the Land Policy adopted by the GoM in 2002 and translated
into the Malawi Land Reform Programme Implementation Strategy (2003-2007). The
CBRLDP constituted one of the key components of this strategy and helped anchor the
Project in the right institutional set-up and get support from the Government.
20.     The approach proposed for the CBRLDP came from the experience of the “Land
reform and poverty alleviation pilot project? developed in Brazil. As part of the
preparation process, a Malawi Delegation, led by the Minister of Lands, visited Brazil in
2002. The Brazilian experience had achieved convincing results with the establishment of
family-scale farms but on a much larger scale than proposed in the case of Malawi. It
provided the core “community-driven land transfer? principle of the CBRLDP and the
following implementation guidance to target land-deprived small-scale farmers 5: (i) A
community-based approach to land distribution is considerably more expedient and less
costly than the traditional administratively-led process; (ii) Self-selection of project
participants has proven effective in pin-pointing the landless rural poor; (iii)
Complementary investment sub-projects should be provided concurrently with land
allocation; and (iv) Concurrent and ex-post monitoring and evaluation are critical to
identify bottlenecks and make adjustments in the course of project implementation.
21.     Within the Bank, the design of this critical operation was closely scrutinized,
especially because the Bank was considering increased engagement in the region and was
carefully monitoring what was going on in Zimbabwe at the time. It was the Bank's first
redistributive land reform project in the Africa region 6 and it was the first in the world to
use Bank funds for land acquisition and this triggered a change of a decades-old policy.
To this effect, the project required an exception to the Bank’s prohibition on
disbursement against Land (under Para 2(b) of OP 12.00 on Disbursement). This
exception was granted by the Managing Director in March 2002 and a Land Committee



5
  However, beneficiaries in Brazil acquire land through loans and receive grants for farm development;
beneficiaries in Malawi receive grants for buying land and for farm development.
6
  The first project effectively implemented, since a pilot in Zimbabwe although approved, was never
implemented.

                                                  -6-
was established to supervise application. This Land Committee reviewed the project on
July 29, 2002 and highlighted the key issues the project needed to pay careful attention to.
22.      Project design also drew lessons from past Government experience with the
redistribution of land bought from private estates. The most recent one was the Makande
Estate which was bought by GoM from Lohnro Agribusiness Limited in 2001 for
redistribution to the landless in Thyolo District. This Makande experience was jeopardized
by political interference and corruption and resulted in social tensions and violence. It
convinced the GoM of the need to develop a more peaceful and sustainable land
redistribution process that is transparent, voluntary, legal, and resource-supported.
23.     The key issues to be addressed were then clearly identified, namely the highly
unequal distribution of land, land market failure, community-driven development and land
administration weaknesses. Based on lessons learned from Brazil and past Malawi
experiences, a set of core concepts and principles was agreed with the GoM as part of Project
appraisal insisting on the decentralization process and community empowerment, the
selection of land to be redistributed, the assistance package provided to resettled farmers and
the legal modalities. The proposed principles aimed at mitigating some environmental risks,
such as using land in protected or fragile areas, unsuitable land for agriculture, as well as
social risks, such as elite capture, beneficiary self-selection and voluntary process, and
integration of new settlers in communities. The critical design and implementation principles
are shown in Box 1.
Box 1: Core project design and implementation principles
   Land distribution will take place only on farm land acquired from willing sellers, on land
    transferred from government administration, or on land acquired through private donations;
   The project will explicitly exclude protected or fragile areas, or areas with restricted/limited
    agricultural potential;
   Beneficiaries will be self-selected, formed in groups on a voluntary basis, and subject to pre-
    defined eligibility criteria;
   Implementation will be decentralized through the existing District Assembly institutions,
    consistent with the Decentralization Policy;
   Project resources for land acquisition and farm development will be transferred directly to
    beneficiaries and will be managed by them;
   Land given to a beneficiary household should be sufficient to meet subsistence and economic
    viability;
   Beneficiaries will decide the property regime under which they will hold the land (i.e.,
    leasehold, freehold or customary estate);
   Enhanced capacity at all levels is a pre-requisite for successful implementation of the project;
   Lessons leant from the pilot districts will determine the scope of future interventions.
Source: Project Appraisal Document, World Bank, 2004
24.     Critical risks to Project implementation were clearly identified and relevant. The
risk of failure by the GoM to timely adopt some key land policy measures (ground rents
and land tax to suppress speculation in land prices) was well assessed and proved to be
one of the critical elements that hampered Project implementation. The same occurred
with the risk of insufficient land available for redistribution. Policy measures proposed
under parallel adjustment operations were relevant but not enough to mitigate those risks.

                                               -7-
25.      The capacity of the land administration to properly and timely carry out the land
titling process for resettled farmers was however a bit overestimated and remains one the
critical limiting factors to scaling-up. The original project design had also included the
provision of social amenities to resettled households but it was decided that the Malawi
Social Action Fund (MASAF) 7 should, in collaboration with the District Assemblies
facilitate the provision of these amenities, through the District Development Planning
Framework. Relevant linkages were established to effectively deliver through MASAF
the land acquisition and farm development (LAFD) grant to relocated beneficiaries but
modalities were not sufficiently clarified for the provision of social amenities. MASAF in
particular had its own implementation modalities whereby local governments were
responsible for prioritizing social investments. These local government priorities did not
always match the project resettlement schedules and it was therefore not possible for
resettled communities to quickly access additional funds to build social infrastructure.
Integration of resettled communities into the local development planning structures was
also slow and limited. This left relocated households facing hardships in terms of access
to water, health services and education. Water supply was thus included in the LAFD
fund granted to relocated households but this led in some cases to a reduction of the share
available for real farm development and productive activities. Solutions were eventually
found under MASAF and with other Projects and NGOs on a case by case basis so that in
the end few BGs were left with no social services. In summary, the project design should
have considered the decentralized approach to MASAF priority setting and agreed with
local authorities on giving priority to infrastructure and social services for resettled
communities, or come up with an alternative way to finance these investments through
the project.

2.2 Implementation
26.     The Project experienced a slow start and low disbursement for over a year due
mainly to the late recruitment of Project staff, late acquisition of logistical means and
poor communication. Estate owners, for instance, were initially skeptical with the
Project approach and most of them doubted Government’s credibility to honour payments
for land acquisition, and perceived the Project as mere Government ploy to repossess
land. Misconceptions on Project objectives were amplified by the high turnover of
information, education and communication (IEC) specialists. Obviously, the low rate of
literacy among targeted beneficiaries did not facilitate the IEC process. To speed up
implementation and improve Project perception, the decision was quickly taken to
decentralize Project staff to get information dissemination and operational activities
closer to beneficiaries and estate owners. The communication strategy was also revised
from outsourcing to internally producing IEC tools. This quickly resulted in speeding up
implementation with a first batch of land acquisition and farm development subprojects
ready for execution. After the initial four beneficiary groups (BGs) had paid for their
farms and relocated in November 2005, the negative perception changed and more estate
owners came forward and offered their land for sale.


7
  MASAF is a Social Action Fund financed by the Bank through an Adaptable Program Loan (APL) whose
first phase became effective in the mid-1990s.

                                              -8-
27.    Thereafter, Project implementation performance had been satisfactory but the
following lingering issues remained that hampered implementation and affected Project
achievements:
(i)      Inconsistent land policy decisions: Although the Government adopted a new
         land policy in 2002, the new land law which was intended to create a favorable
         environment for the development of land markets was never enacted. This has
         resulted in inconsistencies in Government’s land policy decisions, such as the
         moratorium on payments of the land rents, the non-application of regulations that
         empower the Government to repossess leased land that is underutilized or an
         inappropriate taxation policy of freehold land that could encourage the release of
         such land. To help solve this issue, the Project commissioned a land tax study to
         review and discuss with various stakeholders the inclusion of land tax provisions
         in the draft Land Bill. A new graduated land rent structure was prepared and is
         now implemented on all leased land, including tobacco farms, thus superseding
         the moratorium. The Project supported the drafting of the land bill, including
         extensive consultations, but its enactment is still pending.
(ii)     Availability of land: Poor land policy decisions led to reduced land availability
         for the Project. The availability of suitable land in Machinga and Mangochi
         Districts started declining and prices started rising, threatening Project targets
         achievement. In the Thyolo and Mulanje Districts, no land was proposed for
         transaction by estate owners8. In addition, the GoM failed to provide 4,000 ha of land
         as initially planned. Based on a study commissioned to explore land availability, the
         Project geographic coverage was expanded in October 2008 to cover two additional
         Districts (Ntcheu and Balaka).
(iii)    Weak capacities of the Land administration services: From the beginning of
         implementation, the Project was unable to conduct timely search in the land and
         deeds registries since land records at district, regional and national levels are
         manually-based and most of the records are in disarray. Then, the registration and
         titling of land transactions was extremely slow due to the lack of a computerized
         system. The lack of modern surveying equipment such as GPS affected the
         delivery of proper surveying services to the Project in particular and the public in
         general. Capacity constraints for surveying held up for months the issuance of
         group titles to Project beneficiaries (65 percent of the relocated BGs had received
         titles in June 2009). The Project provided training and equipment but capacity in
         surveying and registration are still low and remain a critical constraint to land
         reform and potential scaling-up. The 2009 additional financing helped fix some of
         the capacity gaps.
(iv)     Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) deficiencies: Inadequate technical capacity
         at the PIU and District levels significantly delayed the operationalization of the
         Project M&E and the establishment of a sound Management Information System
         (MIS). The delayed operationalization of the MIS affected the initial data capture,


8
 In these Districts, most private land is held by multi-national companies growing teas and other high-
value tree crops which proved to be unwilling to release land.

                                                   -9-
       storage and analysis and the timeliness and precision of monitoring
       implementation progress by project staff. It also affected their ability to provide
       feedback data for decision making and to propose correction to implementation,
       measure impacts and publish implementation reports. In addition, the first
       independent impact evaluator failed to produce an acceptable set of baseline data,
       methodology for monitoring, and evaluate Project impact. Another independent
       evaluator finally managed to collect data around the fourth year of Project
       implementation, to provide a good set of economic and financial analyses and to
       finalize the overall project impact evaluation.
(v)    Project management: Towards the mid-term of Project implementation, some
       issues of salaries and conditions of service emerged in addition to delayed
       renewal of contracts. While, the GoM took time to clarify and solve these
       contractual arrangements, staff morale was affected and some activities were
       slowed down.

2.3 M&E Design, Implementation and Utilization
28.     At closure, the Project M&E system was rated satisfactory. It started from a low
base and was still a bottleneck at mid-term review mainly due to inadequate technical
capacity at the Project Management Unit (PMU) and District level. The initial design laid
out clearly the types of data and analyses that would be required throughout Project
implementation but was vague on the exact institutional set-up. More specifically, the
linkage with the MIS to provide reliable data on the land acquisition and farm
development was not formally designed and it took time to become fully operational.
The mid-term review (MTR) mission provided key recommendations as part of an action
plan to bring the MIS and the M&E systems up to full operation.
29.     The project eventually managed to undertake a first beneficiary baseline survey
for the first 50 BGs which had just relocated or were about to relocate in 2006. Later on,
with the operationalization of the MIS, the project managed to provide regular data and
reports. The project also contracted out key independent studies on topical issues
including independent project impact evaluations that were useful in monitoring project
implementation and results on the ground.
30.      Although implementation started in 2004, the first substantial number of
beneficiaries was relocated in 2005. In 2006, a first impact evaluation was conducted for
the first relocated beneficiary groups. In 2007, a second impact evaluation created a panel
data set of approximately 1,500 households. Follow-up surveys were further conducted in
mid-2007 and in November 2008 which led to the creation of a panel data set. However,
only 47 percent of the households were interviewed in the baseline survey, thus failing to
create a panel data set suitable for the analysis. In 2008, the Independent Evaluation
Group (IEG) of the Bank noted some data gaps and the small sample size of the
households. IEG eventually contracted out an independent evaluator which helped
improve the data and sample size. Then a full annual household survey was conducted for
the third year, building on the baseline sample to construct a panel data set. Finally, based
on the established data panel, a final independent impact evaluation was conducted in
2010 and 2011 which provides a sound economic analysis of the Project impact on
relocated households.

                                           - 10 -
31.     The M&E system was originally conceived as a classic Project M&E system and
its integration to the Ministry of Lands, Housing and Urban Development (MoLHUD)
was not clearly envisaged and anticipated. At the end of the Project, the project database
and MIS have been left under the responsibility of the Department of Policy and Planning
in MoLHUD for purposes of future use in the design of any scale-up land reform
program as well as further medium and long term impact evaluation of CBRLDP.

2.4 Safeguard and Fiduciary Compliance
32.     The CBRLDP was classified as an environmental category B operation which
required partial assessment. It triggered two safeguard policies, i.e., Environmental
Assessment and Pest Management, given the focus on agriculture and the expectation
that farmers would use inputs, including fertilizer and pesticides. The initial Environment
and Social Analysis (ESA) concluded that the Project was not expected to have any
significant environmental or social impacts and would in fact contribute to the sustainable
development of the rural sector in Malawi through piloting an approach to land reform
which would: (i) increase the income of poor households; (ii) improve agricultural
productivity and sustainable land management practices; (iii) strengthen community
empowerment, inclusion, and social cohesion; and (iv) mitigate the localized tensions
around the land issue.
33.     Environment impact: At appraisal, a number of risks linked to the acquisition of
farms that could encroach or be too close to protected areas, national parks, wetlands and
other sensitive areas were identified. The Project implemented the ESSRP to ensure that
farms that would be a potential environmental risk were excluded. Implementation
adhered to strict environmental and social safeguards. To comply with the policies, the
project implemented an environmental management plan (EMP) and identification of
project sites (farms) closely followed the environmental and social screening process. As
part of the EMP, an integrated pest management plan (PMP) was developed and use of
these tools was facilitated through a capacity strengthening plan.
34.     The project also developed a number of manuals focused on specific issues such
as prevention and control of human/animal conflicts. The 2009 Bank supervision mission
concluded on safeguard compliance that the screening procedure was sufficiently applied
as it ensured that land acquired was free from encroachment. The ESSRP adopted the
definition of safe distance from the relevant legislative provisions (Forestry Act and
Wildlife Policy) for protected areas and this led to using 5-10 km, as a buffer zone
between beneficiary settlements and protected areas. However, due to lapses in
enforcement, there are leasehold titles, not under the project, that are issued on land that
is too close to protected areas. Capacity gaps in the Department of Forestry and National
Parks and Wildlife contributed to limited protection of reserves. In a few areas where this
was identified under the project, corrective measures were taken during implementation.
35.     Social issues: There were no major negative social impacts and conflicts as a
result of relocations to newly acquired farms. The settlement approach involved purchase
of farms from willing sellers and voluntary settlement of beneficiaries. All the land
acquired by the beneficiaries was bought from voluntary sellers. Former estate workers
had not been forced to leave the acquired farms and, in cases where they had expressed a
desire to join the Project, they were subjected to eligibility criteria and allowed to join the

                                            - 11 -
Project. In some cases, estate owners gave away part of the estate to surrounding
communities before selling.
36.     A few disputes between beneficiary groups and surrounding communities erupted
over boundaries. Some surrounding communities did not initially recognize estate
boundaries. The absence of beacons to mark estate boundaries exacerbated the problem
as local communities took advantage of the situation. There were also disputes between
the beneficiary groups and estate owners whereby some estate owners came back to
claim part of the land or some trees on the already paid for land.
37.     Activities were undertaken to mitigate emerging social issues such as disputes
over farm boundaries and inequitable sharing of farm land, including demarcation of
estates into 2 ha land parcels; reaffirmation of estate boundaries; replacement of beacons;
training in conflict management; and development of guidelines for sharing vacated land.
38.     Fiduciary: Overall the project adhered to terms of fiduciary compliance, and
performed satisfactorily with respect to compliance to financial covenants through
regular and timely submission of financial reports and annual audits. Audit Reports were
submitted slightly late but were always unqualified. Despite some delays, procurement
was rated moderately satisfactory to satisfactory throughout the implementation of the
project. Some issues emerged with community procurement and were fixed through
training, closer supervision and technical audits.

2.5 Post-completion Operation/Next Phase
39.    Through its IEC program and its social approach, the Project ensured that BGs
will be fully integrated in their relocation area and able to develop productive activities
and interact with other communities in the neighborhood. The Agricultural Development
and Marketing Corporation (ADMARC), Auction Holdings Limited (tobacco) and other
produce vendors or service providers will remain present and available to the relocated
households. It is expected that district councils will incorporate the needs of beneficiary
groups and surrounding communities as regards to social amenities in their development
plans. Furthermore, the Project supported the participating district councils to develop
project proposals detailing the issues affecting Project beneficiaries and surrounding
communities which could be submitted to non-governmental organizations, the Local
Development Fund and other possible financiers for financial assistance.
40.     Based on the promising results of this pilot experience of land acquisition and
redistribution for smallholders, the GoM is willing to scale up the approach to the entire
country with an objective of resettling at least 100,000 households. A concept note has
already been communicated to the Bank and a feasibility study was about to start but was
not initiated as it would not have been completed before project closure.
41.     The Bank is willing to support this GoM’s commitment to address one of the most
critical constraints to productivity increase and to agricultural growth. To keep the
momentum and the capacity established under the CBRLDP while addressing some of
the critical prior actions, the scaling-up strategy should be gradual and phased looking
first at a quick replication of the approach to the benefit of around 20,000-25,000
households using all the CBRLDP features that have worked effectively. Looking at the
unused and already encroached estates could be an option to start a follow-up operation.

                                          - 12 -
42.     While contemplating the preparation of a new land redistribution project, the
Bank is already committed to help the Government address some of the critical elements
required for a more ambitious scaled-up investment. The recently approved additional
financing to the Agricultural Sector Wide Approach – Support Project (ASWAp-SP) will
for instance provide support to further strengthen the Land Administration services and to
thoroughly analyze the issue of land availability, as well as other issues such as fiscal
sustainability. Detailed activities will include:
(i)    Strengthen existing land administration structures at district, regional and national
       level through training, provision of equipment, cleaning of land records,
       modernization of land and deeds registries, and reorganizing lands registries.
       Training in land parcel surveying, physical planning, valuations and registration.
       Procurement of the required equipment such as GPS, mapping and GIS software,
       for field staff, as well as satellite imagery to undertake a comprehensive study of
       land availability in the country.
(ii)   Studies and analyses with a particular focus on: land availability to update the
       land records obtained in the mid-1990s; provision of credit for farm development
       as the basis for a scaled-up land reform program; and environmental and social
       impact assessment.
43.     The Bank will also continue monitoring the adoption of the new Land Bill.
Although CBRLDP proved that the voluntary and community-based approach to land
reform can be implemented without the ideal policy framework, having the right land
taxation incentives in place would however facilitate land release and thus increase land
availability for a scaled-up operation.

3. Assessment of Outcomes
3.1 Relevance of Objectives, Design and Implementation
44.     The PDO was and remains highly relevant to Malawi’s overall development
objectives. It has two constitutive elements of high relevance to the country: (i) increase
the incomes of poor rural families; and (ii) promote a participatory approach to land
redistribution as a means for the poor rural households to increase their incomes.
Reducing poverty by increasing incomes remains obviously of high importance. Poverty
remains widespread and concentrated in rural areas despite the good economic growth of
the recent years. According to the 2007 Malawi Poverty and Vulnerability Assessment
(PVA), 52.4 percent of the population lives below the poverty line and 22 percent is
classified as ultra poor or unable to meet recommended food needs.
45.     High population density and poverty have led to significant human pressure on
the environment and degradation of Malawi’s natural resource base, notably land and
forests. According to the National Statistics Office census data, population density has
grown from 43 inhabitants per square kilometer in 1966 to 139 in 2008. With this
growing population, customary land has become more fragmented and the land holding
sizes have declined. Average land size holding per household in Malawi is 1.2 ha while
the average land per capita is 0.33 ha. More than half of the agricultural households
cultivate less than one hectare. The growing population increases the land area under
cultivation, reduces the average land size holding and exploits forests and woodlands for

                                          - 13 -
firewood and charcoal production. The resulting deforestation, run-off, flash floods, soil
erosion and sedimentation, are serious threats to the environment and natural resource
base for future production. Over the last 20 years, 80 percent of the production growth
has been achieved through expansion of crop areas. Intensification through productivity
increase as stated in the PDO is thus of high urgency as well.
46.     The need to address land issues is one of the top priorities of the GoM. The
Malawi Growth and Development Strategy (MGDS) recognized land as a critical factor
of production and an important source of livelihood, while highlighting the numerous
land challenges, including increased demand for land emanating from rapid population
growth, high rate of urbanization and insufficient public awareness on land laws. The
GoM’s objective is to ensure equitable access to land and tenure security; efficient
management and administration system; and an ecologically balanced use of land and
land-based resources. The promotion of sustainable agricultural land management
practices is also one of the three strategic pillars of the GoM’s Agricultural Sector Wide
Approach (ASWAp) investment framework.
47.    The Project design and implementation approach were also original and relevant.
The participatory and voluntary approach has proved to be appropriate to the Malawi
context and highly relevant to avoid social conflicts on a highly sensitive issue. The
government assisted, community based land distribution model (willing seller-willing
buyer principle) is perceived as essential to a successful and sustainable land reform
program as it lowers transaction cost and land prices while efficiently distributing land. The
land acquisition and farm development methodology has also proved to be well
elaborated and efficient to help agricultural households relocate and restart a new farm.
The only major design flaw was the lack of attention to the provision of social amenities.
The project was too much relying on other projects or other funding mechanisms.
48.     The land reform agenda and land administration capacity strengthening remain
fully relevant as well, despite the relative modest achievements on those two fronts. As
generally observed in any sector and country, reforms and capacity building take time to
shape and yield result on the ground. These efforts should be sustained as currently
proposed under the ASWAp-SP additional financing.
49.     If the Project succeeded to deliver the planned outputs and to achieve its expected
outcomes (see next section 3.2), it failed to establish a fully operational and sustainable
monitoring information system. Project data and analyses have not really been integrated
to or incorporated by the MLHUD.

3.2 Achievement of Project Development Objectives
50.     The Project has fully achieved its PDO by succeeding in increasing both the
incomes and the agricultural productivity of 15,000 rural families through the proposed
decentralized, voluntary community-based land reform approach. As shown in the table
below, the achievement of the key performance indicators has surpassed the target
values: (i) incomes of relocated families have been multiplied by 6 as compared to
control groups; and (ii) yields for maize and tobacco have reached an average level 50 to
60% higher as compared to control groups in the surrounding areas; average maize and



                                            - 14 -
tobacco yields have been multiplied by 4 and 2.6 respectively as compared to the
previous situation of the relocated households.
Table 3 – Achievement of PDO indicators
                                          Baseline Value                           Value Achieved at
              Indicator                                        Target Values
                                              (2008)                                  Completion
Increase in real incomes of
participating families as compared                                                   30,500 Malawi
to those of control groups and of
                                               4,530               11,330
                                                                                    Kwacha /month
such families prior to the Project.
Increase in agricultural                     Maize:
productivity of participating               450 kg/ha           1,500 kg/ha            1,800 kg/ha
families as compared to that of             Tobacco:
such families prior to the Project.         300 kg/ha           1,000 kg/ha             800 kg/ha
Source: PAD, GoM’s ICR and Final Independent Evaluation Report by Italtrend.

51.     The successful achievement of the PDO stemmed from the following results and
outputs attributable to the Project: (i) the successful relocation of 15,142 households
(against a target of 15,000) and the effective implementation of some 666 land
acquisition and farm development plans (LAFD) on 33,428 ha against a target of 33,000
ha under component 1; (ii) each household has received approximately 2.2 ha on which
to farm and reside, expanding from an average land holding size of less than 0.5 hectare
before participating in the Project; (iii) security of land tenure has been provided to 663
beneficiary groups against a target of 452 through the issuance of land title transfer
registration; and (iv) a slight reduction in the number of days for land registration transfer
thanks to training and equipment provided by the Project to the land administration
services.
52.     Beneficiary households reported that due to improved production of maize, their food
self sufficiency improved significantly. Maize stocks lasted 3.6 months in average before
relocation, but now last 10.7 months after relocation. This production increase is a direct
result of the land holding size increase, but the concomitant productivity increase
observed on relocated households is probably influenced by Project interventions
(provision of fertilizers and improved seeds for instance) combined with other factors,
such as favorable weather conditions, post-fallow cultivation and technical advice
provided by extension services9.

3.3 Efficiency
53.    Detailed economic and financial analyses were prepared at appraisal and revised
at mid-term review to quantify the economic benefits of the project. These analyses were
based on the assumption that the primary economic benefits as a result of the Project
accrue from increased agricultural productivity due to the redistributed land and the use
of improved crop varieties and agricultural inputs, as well as the distributional benefits


9
  The Project hired six extension workers who complemented the public officers in the provision of
extension services to beneficiaries as well as surrounding communities.

                                                 - 15 -
gained from increasing the incomes of about 15,000 poor and land poor rural families.
They were based on two representative farm models related to the agro-climatic zones
within the four pilot districts and anticipated to be established by smallholders under the
project: subsistence farmers (80 percent) and semi-commercial farmers (20 percent).
54.     Even under conservative assumptions, ignoring the indirect, non-measurable
benefits of the Project (reduction of social tensions for instance), the end-of-project
internal rate of return (IRR) and net present value (NPV) are higher than those estimated
at appraisal (including costs for capacity building and land administration). The results
indicate that the Project was financially and economically viable under all scenarios
tested given the positive net present values. The economic rate of return (ERR) of 20
percent was based on the actual build-up of the 15,142 households under the Project.
Table 4 – Summary of the economic and financial analysis
                                          Baseline (PAD)              2011 (ICR)
Financial Rate of Return                        13%                       17%
Economic Rate of Return                         15%                       20%
Financial NPV                             US$0.7 million            US$7.6 million
Economic NPV                              US$4.1 million            US$14.2 million
Source: PAD and Final Independent Evaluation Report by Italtrend.

55.     As the Project was piloting new approaches to land redistribution, in particular,
land transactions (willing buyer and willing seller) and community-driven approaches, a
high proportion of the total Project costs (47 percent - see section 57) were allocated to
“overhead costs? i.e., costs not in the land acquisition and farm development component.
The analysis considers the Project net benefit for the land acquisition and farm
development (which was allocated 53 percent of the grant), and the results indicate that
the economic benefits are much higher and significantly higher than the appraisal
estimates.

Table 5 – Economic and financial analysis for the land acquisition and farm
development component
                                          Baseline (PAD)              2011 (ICR)
Economic Rate of Return                         27%                       32%
Financial Rate of Return                        30%                       38%
Financial NPV                            US$11.9 million            US$18.9 million
Economic NPV                             US$15.1 million            US$25.2 million
Source: PAD and Final Independent Evaluation Report by Italtrend.


56.     The Project spent 53 percent of the financial resources for land acquisition and
farm development. The Project management used 32 percent of the Project resources,
while 8 percent and 7 percent were spent on capacity building and land administration,
respectively. The share of actual expenditures diverged substantially from the planned
expenditures. Specifically, the planned share of 21 percent for project management
                                                - 16 -
increased to 32 percent in the actual expenditure, with the cost for vehicle operating costs,
per-diems and other travel expenses effectively doubling, and this was exacerbated by the
project area being located over 200km from Lilongwe (or over 100km from Blantyre)
where the project implementation team was located. As a consequence, the share of
expenditure for the other three components declined. The reasons indicated for the
increase in the budget allocation for Project management were mainly the rise in fuel
price, in costs for hotel accommodation and for vehicle maintenance. However, it should
be noted that no funds were re-allocated from the LAFD grant (because they were “ring-
fenced? at design), preserving field investments and support to relocated farmer
households.

3.4 Justification of Overall Outcome Rating
57.     Rating: Overall project outcome is rated as satisfactory. This rating is based on
the high relevance of the Project objectives and the achievement of the Key Performance
Indicators, as well as a good overall economic rate of return. Two minor shortcomings
have been highlighted above and can be summarized as follows: (i) The improvement of
the land administration efficiency has been tangible but remains limited and far from
optimal (capacity building is still required and will be provided by the ASWAp-SP
additional financing); and (ii) the provision of social amenities to relocated households
and the supporting policy measures have been inadequate. However, the provision of
social amenities was not part of the project as per the design, and out of control of the
implementation team.

3.5 Overarching Themes, Other Outcomes and Impacts
(a) Poverty Impacts, Gender Aspects, and Social Development
58.     Targeting and beneficiary selection: Average land holding size of Project
beneficiaries before relocation was 0.4 hectare, much lower than the control groups
(between 1.1 and 1.5 ha) as measured by the final independent evaluation. Average maize
yields of households to be relocated were also much lower than those of the surrounding
families. This suggests that the Project approach to beneficiary selection has been
efficient in targeting the poorest households that should be candidate for relocation. Most
of those poor families had to sell their work force, after the relocation some of them
became employers of occasional waged workers.
59.    Effect on diversification: As a result of the increased landholding, resettled
households started growing a wide range of crops, including maize, tobacco, groundnuts,
sweet potatoes, cassava, and pigeonpea. Impact studies indicate that after relocation, the
ownership of large livestock remained low, but that there was a rise in the proportion of
beneficiary households owning chickens, with a much higher increase over time in the
number of livestock units owned by households as compared to the control groups.
60.     Gender: Out of the 15,142 beneficiary households, 3,687 (24 percent) were
female-headed. It should be noted that participation of women in the Project was higher
than this rate, as women took also part to IEC and training activities. Even though crop
production and incomes were not different from those of male-headed households,
female-headed households generally had problems in opening up new gardens,
constructing shelters/houses, among others and they had to hire men to assist them. The
                                           - 17 -
GoM’s own ICR recommends that future projects might consider providing additional
resources to disadvantaged beneficiaries such as female-headed, orphan headed, elderly
headed households.
61.     Land disputes and tensions: It is a positive achievement that the Project did not
encounter any political interference, land access disputes or other social tensions
confirming the relevance of the Project approach to land acquisition based on the willing
seller - willing buyer principle. Land being a sensitive matter, it was well known at
Project design that movement of people from one area to another could lead to some
social tensions. Extensive public awareness campaigns and training sessions contributed
to avoid misconception and prevent social conflicts. All relevant institutions or structures
at district level (District Councils, magistrates, the police, traditional leaders and
Community Oversight Committees in both the sending and receiving areas) had
benefitted from training on conflicts management and resolution. In general, the Project
had been implemented with very few instances of land disputes between beneficiaries and
surrounding communities and within the beneficiary groups. Outstanding boundary
demarcations within and between beneficiary groups were attended to by the Project
Land Surveyor, assisted by Government Land Surveyors and Physical Planners.
62.     Spillover effects: According to different studies, the Project has not had
significant spillover impact on the vacated areas or on the surrounding areas where
beneficiaries have been relocated. It should be noted however that there was a slight
increase in the average holding size from 0.6 ha to 0.9 ha as neighbors were able to take
over pieces of land left behind by relocated Project beneficiaries.
63.     Access to social services: As per its initial design, CBRLDP did not provide for
social amenities to resettled households. After relocation, beneficiary communities were
to apply to MASAF through the District Assemblies (DA) for the provision of
community assets such as boreholes, access roads, schools and clinics in line with
MASAF principles and criteria for demand driven development and community
participation. In very few cases though, MASAF provided such community infrastructure
to project beneficiaries and surrounding communities on time (see section 2.1 –
paragraph 25). Solutions were found for the most pressing need for access to potable
water through utilization of part of the Land Acquisition and Farm Development (LAFD)
grant. The disbursement proportions for the farm development grant were changed in
order to provide more funds for the first payment part of which could be used by
communities to cater for the provision of potable water. As a result of this change, about
102 boreholes, 189 protected shallow wells and 28 piped water installations were
provided for domestic use by beneficiaries and the surrounding communities. However,
access to health facilities remains a challenge for communities which have been relocated
in very remote areas.

(b) Institutional Change/Strengthening
64.     Land administration capacity: Throughout implementation, the surveying
procedures and processing of survey data to produce deed plans was slow and seriously
affected the issuance of group land title transfers. Training and survey and office
equipment have been provided by the Project and capacities have improved and are
expected to remain beyond Project closure. However, there is need to pursue training

                                           - 18 -
activities and equipment of District services, including the full computerization of the
land registries, to enhance the efficiency of land titling transactions. The Project
provided financial support to MLHUD for consultative meetings and IEC campaigns
related to reforms in land law. The University of Malawi received some modern survey
equipment and desktop computers for use in training undergraduates in surveying,
physical planning and land economy.

(c) Other Unintended Outcomes and Impacts (positive or negative)
65.    Recovery of bad debts: As the Project was not supposed to buy estates with
encumbrances, the owners agreed that outstanding debts should be recovered at source
before the transactions were completed with Project beneficiaries. As such, the Project
contributed to recover more than US$1 million of arrears in land rent due to the
Government and in outstanding loans due to commercial banks.
66.      Land price increase: As per recommendation of the Bank’s Land Committee,
project’s impact on land price changes was closely monitored and a land market study
was commissioned. It confirmed that the demand created by the Project had a significant
impact of the price of land over the three first years of Project implementation: while the
project was developing its approach and sensitizing stakeholders, land prices first
doubled from an initial level of US$50-55 per hectare then stabilized around US$110 per
hectare and remained at this level until Project closure. The study recommended the
inclusion of 2 additional districts (Ntcheu and Balaka) to the original four pilot districts in
order to relieve the pressure on land prices. In the Mulanje and Thyolo Districts, the
increase in land prices was however not sufficient or still below the reservation price to
facilitate to the release of freehold land by private tea and coffee estates.

3.6 Summary of Findings of Beneficiary Survey and/or Stakeholder Workshops
67.    There were no beneficiary surveys or stakeholder workshops but the Project
prepared a compilation of beneficiary success stories that are presented in the GoM’s ICR
and included in annex 4. The Malawi Government’s ICR was discussed at a broader
stakeholder conference held as part of the final implementation support mission.

4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome
68.     Rating: The risk to development outcome is rated moderate. Resettled
households have received land titles and are fully secured on their new land holding.
Both the 2009 IEG impact evaluation and the final independent impact evaluation
provides econometric analysis that shows a significant improvement of well-being of
beneficiary households, especially in land size, agricultural output, crop productivity,
food security, assets holdings and agricultural income. In general, these impacts are
significant but they slightly decrease over time, with the exception of assets value.
69.    Resettled households’ productivity level and food security, as for any other
smallholder households in Malawi, will rely on rainfall and, especially in the Southern
Region on the occurrence of dry spells. A risk of bad harvest will thus persist as long as
improved technologies (such as drought resistant varieties) and resilient farming
techniques are not adopted by Project beneficiaries. In that sense, the on-going Bank-
funded ASWAp-SP contributes to technology dissemination and a recently approved

                                            - 19 -
additional financing will expand the coverage of research and extension services
provided to farmers to access new technologies and sustainable land and water
management techniques.
70.     The econometric analyses conducted does not provide reassuring evidence with
respect to the Project long term impact on durable productivity increases and total income
improvement, as well as on sustainable access to social services such as schools, health
and water facilities. Project beneficiaries have been resettled in remote areas on former
private estates that were located far away from neighboring secondary towns or even
villages. As a consequence, households are far from basic social services but also far
from reliable markets and formal or informal social support networks. This may explain
the limited prospect on the long run. The ASWAp-SP AF will ensure that resettled
households receive adequate extension services, including market oriented advice, and
will help them better connect to market opportunities through contract farming
arrangements.

5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance
5.1 Bank Performance
(a) Bank Performance in Ensuring Quality at Entry
71.     Rating: Satisfactory. The Bank team brought a wealth of experience and
knowledge to help the GoM design this pilot experience in Malawi. Despite the
complexity and sensitivity of land issues in Africa in general and in Malawi in particular,
the design remained simple, well conceived and straightforward, focusing primarily on
relocating poor agricultural households. The proposed government assisted, voluntary
and community-based approach was innovative and quite risky for the country but it
proved to be fully relevant and in the end fully efficient. The preparation phase took time
(almost two years) but the Bank took the time required to agree with the GoM on the
approach and to lay out some key principles for implementation.
72.     The only design shortcoming relates to the inadequate attention to the provision of
social services and the delayed implementation of land policy reforms. The provision of
social amenities was logically left to other social projects within the framework of the
overall decentralized development planning framework. However, it was clear during
implementation that the District Assemblies, due to their limited resources, and existing
already agreed investment priorities could not adequately cater for the development of all
the project areas, and particularly for the rapid increase in investments required for the
resettled areas.

(b) Quality of Supervision
73.    Rating: Satisfactory. The Project benefitted from a close monitoring and
implementation support by the country office. Supervision continuity was provided with
supervision missions twice a year, low TTL turnover and presence of a co-TTL then TTL
in the country office. The Bank pro-activity and flexibility to quickly adjust Project
design and implementation arrangements, and provide additional funding should be
highlighted. From the early beginning, ISRs flagged key issues related to M&E, policy
decision or access to water for relocated communities.

                                          - 20 -
(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Bank Performance
74.     Rating: Satisfactory. Based on the performance ratings at entry and during
supervision, the overall Bank performance is rated satisfactory. It reflects a well
designed and relevant operation with respect to country development priorities, as well as
a close and professional implementation support provided to the Project.

5.2 Borrower Performance
(a) Government Performance
75.     Rating: Moderately satisfactory. The rationale for this rating is that although the
GoM's was not entirely successful in passing specific legislation, it managed to
successfully implement the project, as designed, under existing legislation. The
enactment of the new land bill was dependent on political will in Parliament and
therefore not entirely under the control of the Government. At the time difficult land
policy issues, such as the moratorium on land tax collection or the non-application of
regulations that empower the Government to repossess leased land that is underutilized,
were being discussed which made the passage of any land law difficult. In fact many of
the policy proposals, that could have ended up in the law were indeed not consistent with
the Project orientation and requirements. Passage of a law with provisions not consistent
with the requirements of the project could have been more detrimental to land reform
than the status quo.
76.     Within GoM, MLHUD was the official head of the Project and provided Project
leadership and policy guidance on land administration and management services. It
housed the PMU, assisted the Project with vehicles during the first two years and when
need arose provided funds in lieu of 4,000 ha of land pledged to the Project; provided
funds for a six month no cost extension; and actively participated in the joint
implementation support missions. MLHUD was not always proactive in solving some
emerging Project management or implementation issues (staff recruitment and conditions
of services, provision of social amenities, land administration delays, etc.). The Ministry
was however fully successful in implementing this complex as well as socially and
politically sensitive project in a weak institutional context with limited competences on
the ground at the beginning of the project.
77.     The other key Malawi Government stakeholders in the Project included the
Ministry of Finance, Ministry of Agriculture, Irrigation and Water Development and the
Ministry of Local Government and Rural Development (MLGRD). All ministries, both
at the centre and local levels, were very supportive of the Project and provided guidance
that enabled the Project team to achieve commendable progress.
78.    Although the GoM was in the beginning sceptical on the applicability of the
proposed principles, it did manage to apply them over the course of the Project. In the
end, the GoM has fully adopted the voluntary and community-based land reform
approach developed under CBRLDP and fully adheres to its key principles while
preparing for a scale-up operation as described above (see section 2.5).




                                          - 21 -
(b) Implementing Agency or Agencies Performance
79.     Rating: Satisfactory. The PMU had highly dedicated staff that was proactive and
responsive to Project implementation issues. As evidenced in the Project implementation
performance, it fully contributed to the PDO achievement. The PMU adhered to
implementation procedures and guidelines, maintained good working relationship with
both the donor and the government, successfully supervised independent Project impact
evaluation, filed audited financial statements, maintained financial integrity, filed
financial monitoring reports with the Bank, timely production and submission of annual
progress reports. The PMU failed however to deliver an operational and efficient MIS.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Borrower Performance
80.    Rating: Satisfactory. Based on the combination of the two ratings above, overall
Borrower performance is rated as satisfactory. It reflects a real Government’s
willingness to facilitate land redistribution from private estates to smallholder producers
based on a sound adherence to Project objectives and approaches.

6. Lessons Learned
81.     Overall, the CBRLDP experience confirmed the relevance and replicability of the
core project design and implementation principles (presented in box 1 page 7). The
following lessons should be highlighted as key for any scaling-up operation in Malawi or
similar investments in other countries in Africa:
82.      The voluntary community-based approach to land reform prevents social
tensions and political interferences but requires time and sound capacity building
efforts: The pilot Malawi experience developed under CBRLDP confirms the relevance
of the overall voluntary community-based land approach. Land reform aiming at
redistributing freehold or underutilized private land to smallholder producers is feasible
through this methodology that prevents political interferences and preserves social peace.
It requires however, sound and large scale efforts in terms of information, education and
communication to avoid misconception on land reform objectives and to prevent
misinformation among stakeholders. The process was successful because it was initiated
on the ground at the grassroots level not from the central level. By involving from the
very early stages local authorities, traditional leaders and District-level public services,
the process was fully pragmatic and efficient. Rural communities have strong social
networks which make them hide some crucial information about prospective beneficiaries
applying to participate. This calls for adequate lead-time to be factored in to assess the
eligibility of the beneficiaries.
83.     Beneficiaries prefer to relocate within or close to their original homes: It was
learnt that, while beneficiaries need land, the majority preferred to relocate within their
original homes or close to their original homes. One of the key factors that act as a
disincentive to relocate is the need to preserve cultural and social ties that get to be
weakened when the relocation happens further and across cultural lines. The importance
of socio-cultural factors should not be undermined in the design of subsequent projects in
order to reduce disputes that might arise from divergent cultural practices. Any replicate
operation on a larger scale should avoid transgressing social boundaries between regions.

                                           - 22 -
84.     The willing seller – willing buyer principle is replicable as it minimizes
political interference, corruption and disputes. It facilitates the integration of the resettled
households within receiving communities. Under CBRLDP experience, even though
there was capacity limitation at the beginning with Land Administration services, land
transactions from surveying to titling proved to be much faster than other land
redistribution methods such as expropriation.
85.     There is a need for a supportive policy environment and efficient Land
administration services: The CBRLDP experience confirms the need for a sound
conducive policy and regulatory environment. Policy measures must be consistent with
the objective of facilitating or stimulating land release on the market for acquisition by
smallholders. These include consistent rent collection of leased land by the Government
and consistent taxation of freehold/unused land, enforcement of lease covenants to
recover abandoned or under-utilized estates. A sound capacity building program for land
services (training and equipment) should be prepared and implemented upfront as a pre-
requisite to avoid delays with land surveying and registration that could discourage
beneficiaries and reduce the credibility of the land reform. This includes a modernization
of the existing land registries and clear assessment of land availability by District.
86.     Land reform programs should be embedded within broader rural
development support (social and technical): As described above, resettlement of
smallholders occur in most cases on remote estates located far from basic social services.
Coordination with projects or decentralized services that can provide social amenities is
not always effective and easy to implement, nor is the integration of resettled
communities is local development planning processes. Provision of social amenities
should therefore be part of the resettlement package offered to relocated communities.
This package should also include provision of market-oriented agricultural advice as
existing public agricultural extension agents are not always available for newcomers.
Experience shows also that resettled people are generally more receptive to changes and
innovations and could more quickly adopt new technologies and cropping practices.
Fully dedicated private extension agents as part of the resettlement package could yield
quick result on productivity improvement and diversification of farming systems.

7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners
(a) Borrower/implementing agencies
87. The implementation completion results report prepared by the PMU and the
MLHUD on behalf of the Borrower is summarized in annex 7.
88.     By letter dated March 16, 2012, the MLHUD Principal Secretary commented on
the Bank draft ICR recognizing that it “has very well captured key issues pertaining to
the project. Among them is the issue of how the project started, on a weak note, but ended
with remarkable achievements and also that the Bank will support this Ministry to up-
scale the project by funding preparatory activities like studies, training and equipment
procurement through the ASWAp-SP - Additional Financing.?
89.   In this letter, MLHUD however asked the Bank to consider reviewing the
Government’s performance rating. It was felt that despite the weaknesses, rightly pointed

                                             - 23 -
out in the draft ICR in justification of the moderately unsatisfactory rating, the GoM put
efforts and provided intensive support to Project implementation. Therefore, rating
government performance as satisfactory would better reflect these efforts and
achievements.
90.      The ICR review meeting discussed this issue and agreed that the Government’s
performance rating should be upgraded to moderately satisfactory and the overall
Borrower performance rating to satisfactory. As explained in section 5.2, this indeed
better reflects GoM’s success in implementing a complex and sensitive Project in a weak
institutional context with limited competences, despite not being fully successful in
improving the policy framework.


(b) Cofinanciers
Not applicable.

(c) Other partners and stakeholders
Not applicable.




                                          - 24 -
Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing

(a) Project Cost by Component (in US$ Million equivalent)
                                                             Additional     Total Project Initial    Actual/Latest
                                      Appraisal Estimate                                                                  Percentage of
           Components                                    Financing Estimate        Costs               Estimate
                                        (US$ millions)                                                                     Appraisal
                                                           (US$ millions)     (US$ millions)         (US$ millions)
1 – Land Acquisition and Farm
                                                15.55                1.23              16.78                 16.39                98%
Development
2 – Land Administration                          4.00                4.00                8.00                 6.50                81%
3 – Capacity Building                            4.26                1.93                6.19                 5.22                84%
4 – Project Management,
                                                 5.97                2.84                8.81                 9.84              111%
Monitoring and Evaluation
               Total Project Costs              29.78               10.00              39.78                 37.95               95%
Project Preparation Facility                     0.57                0.00               0.57                  0.52               91%
       Total Financing Required                 30.35               10.00              40.35                 38.47               95%
Source: Estimates from GoM’s ICR, Project M&E and financial management data

(b) Financing
                                                                       Additional Financing Total Project    Actual/Latest
                                    Type of   Appraisal Estimate                                                              Percentage of
       Source of Funds                                                       Estimate        Initial Costs     Estimate
                                  Cofinancing   (US$ millions)                                                                 Appraisal
                                                                         (US$ millions)     (US$ millions)   (US$ millions)
Borrower                             Parallel              1.50                    0.0            1.50            1.09           73%
Local Communities                    Parallel              1.28                    0.0            1.28            1.28          100%
IDA Grant                            Parallel             27.57                  10.00          37.57           36.01            96%
                          Total                           30.35                  10.00          40.35           38.47            95%
Source: Estimates from GoM’s ICR, Project M&E and financial management data




                                                                      - 25 -
Annex 2. Outputs by Component

Component 1 – Land Acquisition and Farm Development
                                   Baseline
Activities and Output Indicator                     Target        Results      Achievements
                                    Value
Beneficiary farms/households          0                 15,000    15,142           101%
Beneficiary groups which have
received appropriate                     0               452       641             147%
documentation of land ownership.
Number of households in BGs
                                         -          15,000-       14,725             -
with land titles
Acquired land                            0              33,000    33,428           101%
Farm development proposals
                                         0               452       666             147%
(subprojects)
Source: GoM’s ICR and Project M&E data

Number of water point installations financed by BGs and other organizations
                        Boreholes               Shallow wells     Piped water installations
     District         BG       Other            BG       Other      BG
                                                                              Other sources
                   financed sources          financed sources    financed
    Mangochi          14        33               65        -         -               -
    Machinga          46         8              117        -        17               -
     Balaka            0         1                2        -         9               -
     Ntcheu            0          -               5        -         5               -
     Totals           60        42              189        -        31               -
Source: GoM’s ICR and Project M&E data

Component 2 – Land Administration

Trained staff:

 Masters in Land Surveying                                                    1
 Masters in Urban Planning                                                    1
 Masters in Geo-Informatics                                                   3
 Masters in Land Administration/Real Estates                                  1
 Masters in Land Economy                                                      1
 Diploma in Land Administration                                               6
 Certificate course in GPS/GIS Training of Trainers                           30
 Certificate course in database design, management and networking             27
 Training in land registries management                                       31
 Training in modern computerized valuation techniques                         19
Source: GoM’s ICR and Project M&E data


                                               - 26 -
List of major equipment procured and issued out

 Equipment                                          Organization
                                                     The
                                       Physical  Polytechnic
                  Lands     Surveys
                                       Planning     of the   PMU Districts Total
                Department Department
                                      Department University
                                                  of Malawi
 4x4
                     4              0               0              0    11   6    21
 vehicles
 Server              2              0               0              0    1    9    12
 Desktops           25             11               6              10   36   12   100
 UPS                25             11               6              10   36   12   100
 Laptops             3              2               1              0    20   5    31
 Software            0              5               0              0    2    0     5
 Desk Jet
                    11              3               0              1    1    0    16
 Printer
 Office Jet
                     1                                                  1    2     4
 Printer
 PABX                1              0               0              0               1
 Photocopiers        7              2               1              0              10
 Fax
                     2              0               0              0               2
 machines
 GPS sets            0              4               1              2    1          8
 Hand held
                                                                        1    4     5
 GPS sets
 Total
                     0              6               0              1               7
 stations
 Theodolite          0              2               0              1    1          4
 AO plotter          0              2               0              1               3
 AO scanner          0              1               0              0               1
 Diazo
                     0              4               0              0               4
 printer


Source: GoM’s ICR and Project M&E data




                                           - 27 -
Component 3 – Capacity Building

Training provided to various Project stakeholders
                                                          Level and number of participants
Type of training
                                                    National    District  Community        Total
PRA training                                           5          56           0            61
Conflict resolution                                   10          20           0            30
Procurement methods                                   18           8           0            26
Team building                                         38          20           0            58
Ethics                                                38          20           0            58
Video production                                       5           6           0            11
MSc (various fields of the land economy)               7           0           0            7
Diploma in Land Administration                         6           0           0            6
Certificate course in computerized valuation
                                                      13           6            0           19
techniques
Certificate course in use of modern GIS and GPS       27           3            0           30
Training in Sun Accounting System                      9           5            0           14
Certificate course in database design,
                                                      23           4            0           27
management and archiving
Use of hand-held GPS                                  14           0             0           14
Use of Surpac survey software                         10           0             0           10
Sun accounting system                                  7           2             0            9
Policy makers course                                   2           0             0            2
Financial management and Procurement                  30          16           1,286       1,332
Conflict/dispute management and resolution             2          18             0           20
Conflict/dispute management and resolution             0          40            26           66
Cluster training in finance and procurement            0           0          10,483      10,483
Monitoring & evaluation                                2            9            0           11
Human resource management                              1            0            0            1
Secretarial management                                 6            0            0            6
Crop storage                                           0          145         12,600      12,745
Plant based pesticides                                 0           19           874         893
Problem animal control                                 0           15          1,700       1,715
Water management & sanitation                          0            0           989         989
HIV/AIDS mitigation                                    0            0          6,000       6,000
Land redistribution                                    9            2            0           11
Resource mobilization and fund raising                 0           45            0           45
Local Environmental Management Plan                    0           40           396         436
Study tours                                           40           20            0           60
ICT training                                          11            7            0           18
Legal skills for paralegals                            3            0            0            3
South - South visit                                    1            1            0            2
Property management                                    6            0            0            6
Source: GoM’s ICR and Project M&E data




                                            - 28 -
Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis

Project costs and funding sources
1-      The Project internal reports indicate that the total income budget for the Project
was originally US$28,958,940 with IDA financing US$27,000,000 and Malawi
Government financing US$1,958,940. In December 2005, the financing arrangement for
the Project was amended to allow IDA to finance 100 percent of all Project costs. This
reduced the Malawi Government contribution to US$304,192. Following the amendment
in financing arrangements, there was a reduction of income available to the Project by
US$1,654,748 because IDA financing still remained at US$27,000,000. The GoM made
the following contributions as evidence of commitment to the Project: US$304,192
before retrofitting, US$571,429 for land acquisition in lieu of the 4000 ha pledged at
Project design. During the July-December 2009 period, when Additional Financing to
the Project was being processed, GoM contributed US$785,714. The total Government
contribution was, therefore, US$1,661,335. Hence the total budget of the original phase
of the pilot Project was around US$29.0 million.
2-      In 2007 the MTR mission conducted an economic and financial analysis of the
Project to quantify the Project benefits based on actual information collected during the
first three years of implementation. The analysis was based on the assumption that
primary economic benefits of the Project accrue from increased agricultural productivity
due to the redistributed land and the use of improved crop varieties and agricultural
inputs, as well as the distributional benefits gained from increasing the incomes of about
15,000 poor and land poor rural families. This analysis was only a partial analysis
because two important benefits had not been included: (i) the relieving of the negative
externalities associated with tensions around the land issue, and (ii) the value in piloting
new approaches to land redistribution and community-driven approaches. These were
left out because there were minimal tensions around the land issues hence less
externalities from potential tensions.
3-      The analysis was based on two representative farm models i.e., subsistence
farmers (80 percent) and semi-commercial farmers (20 percent), based on agro-climatic
zones within the six pilot districts. The internal rate of return for each of these farm
models was calculated, taking into account all financial and economic costs and benefits.
The change in household income, due to own-consumption and cash sales of crop surplus
were examined. The analysis aggregates from the individual farm models to determine
Project benefits, based on a Project benefit build-up as beneficiary households enter the
Project. The Project costs were based on the cost estimates that result from the detailed
Project costing. The sensitivity of results to changes in key assumptions was analyzed to
test the robustness of the results. Finally, the fiscal impact of the Project was assessed.
Two farm models were considered:
   Subsistence model: Eighty percent of targeted beneficiaries were expected to grow
    primarily food crops for their own consumption and a small proportion of cash crops.
    The crops and cropping pattern were expected to differ between agro-climatic zones,
    however the average smallholder, based on aggregate data from the six districts, was


                                           - 29 -
       assumed to include some quantities of local and hybrid maize, groundnuts, sweat
       potatoes, pigeon peas (in intercrop with maize), cassava and sorghum;
      Semi-commercial model: Twenty percent of beneficiaries were expected to grow a
       higher proportion of cash crops in agro-climatic zones where this was possible, in
       addition to some food crops. Expected crops were: hybrid maize, tobacco (especially
       burley), sweet potato, cassava, rice, cotton, chillies and paprika. In the original model,
       this category comprised 10 percent of the farmers, with another 10 percent allocated
       to the commercial group which was assumed to grow tea. In this analysis, the two
       categories were combined because none of the Project beneficiaries had grown tea.
       Mostly, this was because the resettlement only took place in Mangochi, Machinga,
       Balaka and Ntcheu where agro-ecological conditions and marketing constraints, did
       not support the growing of tea.
4-      The updated analysis was based on the same original farm models but subjected
to sensitivity analysis to assess the robustness of the earlier findings. Furthermore, the
analysis used the actual information collected during the five years of the Project
implementation and used the actual beneficiary build-up of 15,142 beneficiaries and a
total land size 33,428 ha. The other key improvement in the model related to the
inclusion of livestock production, in particular, goats and chickens. The earlier analyses
excluded livestock valuation because it was assumed that beneficiaries were just in the
process of acquiring livestock. The inclusion of livestock valuation in the present analysis,
had led to a slight change in household incomes while no changes were observed in the
major economic and financial indicators.
5-      It was assumed that in the first year all beneficiaries would grow hybrid maize
obtained from the Project’s farm development grant. However, the land area allocated to
maize was reduced from 0.6 ha to 0.5 ha reflecting the actual area that was allocated to
maize by beneficiaries in the first year. The land for maize increased to 0.6 ha in the
second year and remained constant over the years. The consultant diverged from the
earlier analysis by conducting a sensitivity analysis taking into account the following:
(i)       Asset accumulation: The major asset included in the present analysis was the
          accumulation of livestock (poultry and goats) over the years. They focused on
          livestock assets due to their productive nature and potential contribution to
          household income.
(ii)      Actual beneficiary build up: An analysis was conducted based on the actual
          beneficiary build-up. By December 2010, 15142 households had relocated.
          About 455 households relocated in year one, 4067 relocated in year two, 3,700 in
          year three, 4,434 in year four, 1,488 in year five and 998 in year six.
(iii)     The different proportion of beneficiaries in each farm model: The consultant
          ran a model in which the proportion of semi-commercial households was adjusted
          from 20 percent to 30 percent. The change in the proportion of households under
          the semi commercial model was fairly consistent with the actual data as about 30
          percent of the households grew at least one of the cash crops such as tobacco,
          cotton, cassava.



                                               - 30 -
6-     Based on the explanations above, three key scenarios were considered in the
analysis:
-   Baseline Scenario I: Maintaining the full target of 15,000 households, but with a 12
    month extension with cost without livestock as in the earlier MTR analysis and with
    the same proportion of households in each of the farm models as in the MTR (20
    percent in the semi-commercial model and 80 percent in the subsistence model).
-   Scenario II: Using the actual build-up of households of up to 15,142 with costs
    including livestock, with the same proportion of households in each of the farm
    models as in the MTR (20 percent in the semi-commercial model and 80 percent in
    the subsistence model).
-   Scenario III: Using the actual build-up of households of up to 15,142 households,
    but with a different proportion of households in each model (30 percent in the semi-
    commercial model and 70 percent in the subsistence model).

Summary of key economic and financial indicators
7-      The results indicated that the Project was financially and economically viable
under all scenarios tested given the positive net present values; the financial and
economic rates of returns were above the 12 percent threshold. The economic rate of
return (ERR) based on the actual build-up of the 15,142 households under the Project
returned an economic rate of return of 20 percent (the same as the 20 percent reported by
the MTR) which was still above the 12 percent threshold.
8-     Changing the proportion of households under subsistence and semi-commercial
models produced significantly better results. When the proportion of semi-commercial
households was raised to 30 percent, the economic rate of return was 22 percent which
was higher than the 20 percent obtained under Scenario I.
9-     Based on these indicators, scenario III seemed to be more favourable because of
the larger number of beneficiaries participating in semi-commercial agriculture.
Apparently this scenario was consistent with the actual situation in the Project area as 30
percent of the households participated in the growing of at least one of the commercial
crops (tobacco, cotton, rice or cassava). The summary economic and financial
performance indicators are presented in Table 11.
Table 11: Summary results
                       Scenarios                        NPV (US$ million)   Rate of Return (%)
 Scenario I: Maintaining the full target of 15,000
 households, but with a 12 month extension with cost      Financial 7.3       Financial 17
 without livestock (20% in the semi-commercial model     Economic 13.3        Economic 20
 and 80% in the subsistence model)
 Scenario II: Using the actual build-up of 15,142
 households with costs including livestock, with 20%      Financial 7.6       Financial 17
 in the semi-commercial model and 80% in the             Economic 14.2        Economic 20
 subsistence model
 Scenario III: Using the actual build-up of 15,142
                                                          Financial 9.5       Financial 17
 households but with 30% in the semi-commercial
                                                         Economic 17.6        Economic 22
 model and 70% in the subsistence model
Source: Independent Impact Evaluation - Italtrend

                                               - 31 -
Main Assumptions
10-    The consultant adopted all the assumptions used in the earlier analysis during the
midterm review which included:
-      The actual yield estimates from the beneficiaries as well as input and output
       prices had been used.
-      A 20 year time horizon was considered for the full Project build-up of costs and
       benefits based on an individual farm-level horizon of 15 years.
-      Current income levels (and assumed “without Project? incomes) were assumed to
       be US$100 per family per year, of which own consumption was a component.
-      Beneficiaries in the subsistence model derived a small proportion of their income
       from off-farm employment (mainly as ganyu labor, as is the current situation)
       which was come into effect by year 3, once shelter and basic infrastructure had
       been constructed.
-      It was assumed that no credit was available for smallholders.
-      Smallholder production yields of all crops were expected to increase by 2 percent
       per year as productivity performance and technology adoption increased.
-      Input costs include fertilizer, seeds, establishment costs and farm implements.
       Output prices were assumed low quality, farm gate prices. All yield data was
       based on the previous impact evaluation study.
-      Family labor was valued at the informal labor (ganyu) rate of MK10/day, the
       opportunity cost in the remote rural areas where alternative gainful employment
       was scarce.
-      The land price was assumed to be fixed throughout the four districts at US$175/ha.
       The Project was assumed not to affect the price of land. Adjustments in land tax
       and ground rents (expected to be part of the new Land Policy when it gets
       codified into law) were expected to contain any possible price escalation. Land
       prices had been increasing but on average, they still remained below the price
       assumed in this analysis.
-      A discount rate of 12 percent was used, in line with the figure recommended by
       the Ministry of Economic Planning and Development This discount rate was used
       to convert the stream of future net benefits to their NPV.
-      Significant distortions in the economy in input costs (e.g., fertilizer) and output
       prices were assumed to be minimal. Therefore, financial and economic costs and
       prices were assumed to be virtually the same (except for a minor taxable
       proportion of input costs).
-      The non-farm multiplier from the linkage effect of a change in farm cash on the
       local economy was assumed to be 1.5.
11-     Costs accruing at the family level include the grant for land acquisition (US$315),
settlement allowance (US$84), farm development (US$651) i.e. total of US$1,050.
Benefits included in the analysis were: the net cash derived from crop sales (i.e., sold
output less purchased inputs), family consumption of own production and a nominal
valuation of the asset accumulation from the sweat equity in the shelter and basic
infrastructure.

                                          - 32 -
12-     Overall Project costs included the total per family grant (15,000 beneficiaries at
US$1050) and “overhead costs? of land administration (US$2.1m), capacity building
(US$3.5m), Project management and M&E (US$5.8m). US$100,000 per year was
estimated as the ongoing overhead cost after the Project was completed. This attracted an
additional cost estimated at US$3.58 million (US$2.00 million and US$1.58 million
being proposed additional funds for operational expenses and LAFD component,
respectively). This was included in the analysis. Therefore, the total direct Project cost
was US$31.2 million.
13-     This analysis had included benefits from capital accumulation such as livestock
production, in particular, goats and chicken which were the dominant livestock among
beneficiaries. The following benefits were not included in the analysis because they were
either difficult to value, or due to unavailability of reliable data: (i) value of land
improvements expected, for example, some smallholders planted fruit trees which yielded
benefits; (ii) value contributed by social infrastructure constructed under MASAF i.e.,
schools, clinics, roads. It was not clear what number of these activities were completed
and it was difficult to include them in the analysis; (iii) expected health improvements
(lower morbidity and less health costs) associated with improved nutrition, water supply
and sanitation; and (iv) other benefits associated with increased security of tenure, for
example, increased investments in home and consequent capital accumulation.
14-     The build-up of beneficiaries had been uneven across Project districts. In fact, all
the settlement had occurred in Mangochi, Machinga, Balaka, and Ntcheu Districts. While
a sensitivity analysis was conducted using the actual aggregate build-up of beneficiaries
annually for the Project, this was not disaggregated by district. As such, the analysis had
not taken into consideration the actual differential build-up across districts but rather the
aggregate build-up of relocated households each year.

Financial and economic benefits
15-     The net financial and economic benefit from the individual farm models that
represented the net benefit stream for the land acquisition and farm development
component are shown in Table 12. These are based on Scenario II in which benefits from
livestock were included and based on the actual build-up of beneficiaries and under the
assumption of 80 percent subsistence and 20 percent semi-commercial households. The
breakdown of the overhead costs was as developed in the Project costing. Project net
benefits then subtract out the overhead cost from the net benefit stream from the farm
models.
Table 12: Benefit build-up for Project (US$ million)
                                                                                                                             economic benefit




Year
        Net benefit from




                                                                                                         financial benefit
                           benefit land and




                                                                   Overhead costs
                            Net economic
         land and farm
          development




                            development




                                                                                                            Project net



                                                                                                                                Project net
                                              administrat




                                                                       Proj. Man.
                                                            Capacity
                                                            Building




                                                                                    Ongoing
                                farm




                                                                                              Subtotal
                                                                        & M&E



                                                                                    o/heads
                                                Land

                                                 ion




 1         (1.0)               (0.9)            1.38        0.56          1.87                3.8        (4.8)               (4.8)
 2         (2.8)               (2.7)            0.50        0.76           1                  2.3        (5.0)               (4.9)
 3         (4.1)               (3.9)            0.50         0.9          0.87                2.3        (6.4)               (6.2)


                                                                 - 33 -
  4        (1.9)        (1.5)      0.50      0.78      0.99              2.3     (4.2)     (3.8)
  5         1.6          2.2       0.50       0.7      0.99              2.2     (0.6)      0.0
  6         4.8          5.6                                    0.1      0.1      4.7       5.5
  7         5.4          6.5                                    0.1      0.1      5.3       6.4
  8         5.7          6.8                                    0.1      0.1      5.6       6.7
  9         5.8          7.0                                    0.1      0.1      5.7       6.9
 10         6.0          7.2                                    0.1      0.1      5.9       7.1
 11         6.1          7.4                                    0.1      0.1      6.0       7.3
 12         6.2          7.6                                    0.1      0.1      6.1       7.5
 13         6.4          7.8                                    0.1      0.1      6.3       7.7
 14         6.6          8.0                                    0.1      0.1      6.5       7.9
 15         6.7          8.2                                    0.1      0.1      6.6       8.1
 16         6.9          8.4                                    0.1      0.1      6.8       8.3
 17         7.0          8.5                                    0.1      0.1      6.9       8.4
 18         7.1          8.6                                    0.1      0.1      7.0       8.5
 19         7.1          8.7                                    0.1      0.1      7.0       8.6
 20         7.1          8.7                                    0.1      0.1      7.0       8.6
Total      86.6        108.1       3.4        3.7       5.7     1.5     14.3     72.3      93.8
NPV        18.9        25.2        2.9        3.0       4.8     0.7     11.1      7.8      14.2
Source: Final Independent Evaluation Report by Italtrend.

16-     Tables 13 and 14 show the summary results of the cost-benefit analysis. Financial
and economic costs were assumed to be the same because financial costs are generally
free of taxes and transfer payments. However, only financial benefits include a small
component of incremental taxes (derived from tax on agricultural inputs) and the linkage
effects of changes in farm income since economic benefits had to be net of
taxes/subsidies and transfer payments such as interest. These benefits had little impact on
the subsistence model, however were much greater in the semi-commercial.
Table 11: Cost-benefit analysis results- based on Scenario II (80% / 20%)
                                          Subsistence         Semi-commercial      Total Project
Proportions of households (%)                       80%                  20%                100%
Number of households                              12,114                3,028              15,142
Uniform grant ceiling                          US$1,050              US$1,050
Area per households                                   2ha                 2ha
Total area                                      24,227ha              6,057ha            30,284ha
Land price                                        US$175               US$175
Area under cultivation                              1.5ha                1.8ha
Annual revenue/ ha planted                        US$165               US$422
Financial analysis
NPV of total costs                              US$1,289              US$1,289           US$13.0
NPV of total benefits                           US$2,366              US$3,825           US$20.6
NPV of net financial benefits                   US$1,078              US$2,536            US$7.6
Economic analysis
NPV of incremental taxes                          US$14                 US$15             US$0.2
NPV of linkage effects                           US$232               US$1,405            US$6.3
NPV of net economic benefits                    US$1,324              US$3,957           US$14.2
FRR                                                  28%                  42%                17%
ERR                                                  28%                  55%                20%
Source: Final Independent Evaluation Report by Italtrend.

                                                 - 34 -
Table 12: Cost-benefit analysis results based on Scenario III (70% / 30%)
                                           Subsistence      Semi-commercial   Total Project
Proportions of households (%)                     70%                  30%             100%
Number of households                           10,599                 4,543           15,142
Uniform grant ceiling                       US$1,050               US$1,050
Area per household                                 2ha                  2ha
Total area                                   21,199ha               9,085ha        30,284ha

Land price                                     US$175               US$175
Area under cultivation                           1.5ha                1.8ha
Annual revenue/ ha planted                     US$165               US$422

Financial analysis
NPV of total costs                           US$1,289             US$1,289         US$13.0
NPV of total benefits                        US$2,366             US$3,825         US$22.5
NPV of net financial benefits                US$1,078             US$2,536          US$9.5

Economic analysis
NPV of incremental taxes                       US$14                US$15           US$0.2
NPV of linkage effects                        US$232              US$1,405          US$7.9
NPV of net economic benefits                 US$1,324             US$3,957         US$17.6

FRR                                                28%                 42%             18%
ERR                                                28%                 55%             22%

17-     As the Project was piloting new approaches to land redistribution, in particular,
land transactions (willing buyer and willing seller) and community-driven approaches, a
high proportion of the total Project costs (43 percent) are for “overhead costs? i.e., costs
not in the land acquisition and farm development component. The analysis considers the
Project net benefit for just this component, and the results indicate that the economic
benefits were much higher.
Table 13: Project net benefits for the land acquisition component
Land acquisition and farm development component- 80% subsistence 20% semi-
commercial based on Scenario II
Financial     NPV                                      US$18.9 Million
              FRR                                           32%
Economic      NPV                                      US$25.2 Million
              ERR                                           38%
Land acquisition and farm development component- 70% subsistence 30% semi-
commercial based on Scenario III
Financial     NPV                                      US$20.8 Million
              FRR                                           33%
Economic      NPV                                      US$28.7 Million
              ERR                                           40%
Source: Final Independent Evaluation Report by Italtrend.



                                                 - 35 -
18-    The results presented in Table 15 are for scenario II (Land acquisition and farm
development component- 80 percent subsistence 20 percent semi-commercial) and
scenario III (Land acquisition and farm development component – 70 percent subsistence
30 percent semi-commercial). The net benefits were much higher for scenario III than for
scenario II.
19-     This analysis adopted assumptions proposed by the MTR team for comparisons of
the present results. The MTR team found that the LAFD component, which was the key
component for the Project was economically and financially viable since it generated
positive financial and economic net present values and the rates of return were all well
above the threshold of 12 percent. These results were consistent with the MTR findings
in that the LADF component was found to generate ERR and FRR of 33 percent and 40
percent, respectively, suggesting that there was a much higher return for every dollar
spent in LAFD, mainly due to the resulting higher productivity of the land.


Farm income analysis
20-     Increases in farm incomes in the two models for the two scenarios (80 percent
subsistence and 70 percent subsistence) were quite substantial as shown in Table 16.
This was mainly attributed to a sharp rise in consumption (at least compared to the initial
levels). Moreover, the impact evaluation results indicated that the majority of
beneficiaries had been able, even in their first year of production, to produce substantial
marketable surplus for most of the crops. As such there was significant increase in cash
income accruing primarily from crop sales coupled with a small proportion from off-farm
labour.
Table 14: Changes in family income
Family Income Compared to base year                   Subsistence     Semi-      Weighted
                                                                    commercial   average
80% subsistence 20% semi-commercial
Year 3 (%)                                                  249        261         251
Year 6 (%)                                                  272        512         320
Year 15 (%)                                                 352        650         411
Household consumption of own maize (kg)                     669        123
Annual days family labor per farm (year 5)                  116        145
70% subsistence 30% semi-commercial
Year 3 (%)                                                  249        261         253
Year 6 (%)                                                  272        512         344
Year 15 (%)                                                 352        650         441
Household consumption of own maize (kg)                     669        123
Annual days family labor per farm (year 5)                  116        145
Source: Final Independent Evaluation Report by Italtrend.




                                                 - 36 -
21-     Graphs in figures 1 and 2 present the rise in family income due to farm cash
income, and off-farm employment over the Project life for the two household categories.
Farm cash income for subsistence households sharply declined in year two of the
resettlement before rising again in the third year. The sharp drop in the cash income in
the second year was compensated by a rise in earnings from non-farm income while
aggregate consumption continued to rise. Subsistence households also derived substantial
incomes from off-farm sources throughout the years. Semi-commercial households had
fairly stable incomes from farm cash in the first two years and in the long run, both
subsistence and semi-commercial households benefit from the Project as portrayed by
increasing farm cash incomes and aggregate consumption.
Figure 1: Subsistence household model – Family income over Project life and compared
without Project

                                              Total family income - subsitence                                                                                    Family income compared to without project

                          $500                                                                                                                                   $500




                                                                                                                            Income (including consumption) ($)
                          $450                                                                                                                                   $450
 Family income ($/year)




                          $400                                                                                                                                   $400
                          $350                                                                                                                                   $350
                          $300                                                                                                                                   $300
                          $250                                                                                                                                   $250
                          $200
                                                                                                                                                                 $200
                          $150
                                                                                                                                                                 $150
                          $100
                                                                                                                                                                 $100
                           $50
                                                                                                                                                                  $50
                            $0
                                                                                                                                                                   $0
                                 1   2    3      4   5    6    7     8     9   10   11     12   13     14    15
                                                                                                                                                                        1   2   3   4   5    6    7     8     9 10 11 12 13 14 15
                                                                   Years                                                                                                                              Years

                                         Off farm employment         Farm cash           Consumption
                                                                                                                                                                                        With Project            Without project




Figure2:Semi-commercial household model – Family income over Project life and compared
without Project

                                         Total family income - semi-commercial                                                                                   Family income compared to without project


                          $800                                                                                                                                   $800
                                                                                                                     Income (including consumption) ($)
 Family income ($/year)




                          $700                                                                                                                                   $700

                          $600                                                                                                                                   $600

                          $500                                                                                                                                   $500
                          $400                                                                                                                                   $400
                          $300                                                                                                                                   $300
                          $200                                                                                                                                   $200
                          $100                                                                                                                                   $100
                           $0
                                                                                                                                                                  $0
                                 1   2    3      4   5    6    7     8     9   10   11     12   13     14    15
                                                                                                                                                                        1   2   3   4   5    6   7     8    9   10 11 12 13 14 15
                                                                   Years                                                                                                                           Years

                                         Off farm employment         Farm cash           Consumption                                                                                    With Project            Without project




                                                                                                            - 37 -
Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes

(a) Task Team members
                                                                     Responsibility/
          Names                        Title                 Unit
                                                                       Specialty
Lending
                         Task Team Leader, Senior
Rogier van den Brink                                        AFTS1 TTL(appraisal)
                         Economist
                         First TTL, Sr Land
Jorge Munoz                                                 AFTS1 TTL
                         Administration Specialist
                         Second TTL, Agriculture and
Stanley Hiwa                                                AFTS1 TTL
                         Land Reform
                         Third TTL, Land Policy and
Shem Migot-Adholla                                          AFTS1 TTL
                         Administration
                                                                    Land Law and
John W. Bruce            Senior Counsel                      LEG
                                                                    Policy
                                                                    Financial
Kanagasabai Loganathan   Financial Management Specialist AFTFM
                                                                    Management
Jayne Kwengwere          Team Assistant                     AFTS1   Processing
Melanie Jaya             Team Assistant                     AFTS1   Processing
Meseret Kebede           Team Assistant                     AFTS1   Processing
Francis M'Buka           Social Development Specialist              Social conflict
                         Agriculture and Land Reform
Caesar Chidawanyika                                         AFTS1 Land reform
                         Specialist
                                                                    Institutional
Nginya Mungai Lenneiye   Sr. Social Protection Specialist   AFTH1
                                                                    Development
Hope Phillips Volket     Senior Operations Officer          AFTH1   Operations
                                                                    Development
P.C. Mohan               Consultant                         AFTS1
                                                                    Communication
Johnstone Nyirenda       Procurement Specialist             AFTPC   Procurement
Tesfaalem Gebreiyesus    Procurement Specialist             AFTPC   Procurement
                                                                    Rural
Tijan Sallah             Lead Operations Officer            AFTS1
                                                                    Development
                                                                    Economic and
Michael John Webster     Young Professional                 AFTS1   Financial
                                                                    Analysis
Aziz Bouzaher            Lead Environment Specialist        AFTS1   Safeguards
                                                                    Financial
Donald Mphande           Financial management specialist    AFTFM
                                                                    Management
Muthoni Kaniaru          Legal                              LEGAF   Legal
Rajat Narula             Sr. Finance Officer                LOAG    Disbursement
Sylvester Kofi Awanyo    Procurement                        AFTPC

                                       - 38 -
                                                                       Responsibility/
         Names                            Title                 Unit
                                                                         Specialty

Supervision/ICR
Sylvester Kofi Awanyo        Lead Procurement Specialist       EAPPR   Procurement
Hans P. Binswanger           Consultant                        AFTP1   M&E design
Mary C.K. Bitekerezo         Senior Social Development Spec    AFTCS   Safeguards
Aziz Bouzaher                Lead Environmental Specialist     ECSS3   Safeguards
John W. Bruce                Consultant                        MNSPS
Frank Fulgence K.                                                      Operational
                             Operations Adviser                AFTAR
Byamugisha                                                             design
                             Senior Rural Development
Watson C. Chidawanyika                                         AFTAR TTL
                             Specialist
Simon B. Chenjerani
                             Senior Procurement Specialist     AFTPC Procurement
Chirwa
                                                                       Financial
Fenwick M. Chitalu           Financial Management Specialist AFTFM
                                                                       management
Lungiswa Thandiwe
                             Senior Environmental Specialist   AFTEN Safeguards
Gxaba
                                                        AFTS1-
Stanley Hiwa                 Sr. Agric. Economist                      TTL
                                                          HIS
Wedex Ilunga            Senior Procurement Specialist    AFTPC         Procurement
                                                        AFTS1-
Ebrahim Mohamed Jassat Senior Social Development Spec                  Safeguards
                                                          HIS
Annie Kaliati Jere      Team Assistant                  AFMMW          Team support
Grace Ingrid Chilambo   Team Assistant                  AFMMW          Team support
Chrissie Kamwendo       Senior Operations Officer       AFMMW          Operations
Guo Li                  Senior Agriculture Economist    AFTAR          Operations
Francis Kanyerere                                                      Financial
                        Financial Management Specialist AFTFM
Mkandawire                                                             management
Prasad C. Mohan         Lead IEC Specialist              AFTDE         IEC design
                        Sr Financial Management                        Financial
Donald Herrings Mphande                                 AFTFM
                        Specialist                                     management
David Rohrbach          Senior Agriculture Economist    AFTAR          Operations
Tijan M. Sallah         Manager                          AFRCP         Operations
                                                                       TTL(2007 -
Hardwick Tchale              Senior Agriculture Economist      AFTAR
                                                                       completion)
Hawanty Page                 Senior Program Assistant          AFTAR   Team support
Pascal Tegwa                 Senior Procurement Specialist     AFTPC   Procurement
Gert Johannes Alwyn Van      Lead Financial Management                 Financial
                                                               AFTFM
Der Linde                    Specialist                                management
Hope C. Phillips Volker      Senior Operations Officer         EASHH   Operations
Rogier J. E. van den Brink   Lead Economist                    EASPR   TTL(approval)

                                          - 39 -
(b) Staff Time and Cost
                                    Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)
                                                             USD Thousands
    Stage of Project Cycle
                                   No. of staff weeks     (including travel and
                                                             consultant costs)
Lending
  FY02                                    13                       64.89
  FY03                                    11                       52.87
  FY04                                    93                      380.08
                          Total:         117                      497.84
Supervision/ICR
  FY05                                    39                      118.80
  FY06                                    39                      122.62
  FY07                                    53                      146.79
  FY08                                    51                       92.93
  FY09                                    51                        0.00
 .FY10
  FY11
                          Total:         233                      481.14




                                      - 40 -
Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results

Success stories
1. Household of Ms Asiyatu James
Ms. Asiyatu James of Ngatala village, Traditional Authority Chimwala in Mangochi
district, is now all smiles as she can afford a peaceful sleep in her permanent house which
is very clean and tidy. Being a single parent, it was only a dream that one day she would
have a permanent house with corrugated iron sheets. That dream has been achieved
through Kudzigulira Malo Project.
Ms. Asiyatu James has five children but her main worry was how to feed the children and
where to accommodate them mainly during the rainy season since her house was very
temporary in nature. She was doing farming on her small piece of land but hardly
produced enough to last her family a season. This compelled her to join Kudzigulira
Malo Project so that she should have adequate land of her own and her children. She
therefore joined other members who formed Nywenywe Trust and purchased part of
Chigoti estate at Ngatala village.
After getting her 2 hectare piece of land, she went straight into tobacco farming as one of
the cash crops that could give her more income. Within the first season, she produced 15
bales of tobacco and every season the number of bales has not gone down below 10. This
has made her to realize enough income which has helped her construct the permanent
house. Annually she is able to not less than MK 150,000.00 as profit.
Apart from tobacco, she is also growing groundnuts, maize, cassava and sweet potatoes
to supplement her income. Food security has been attained as she has enough maize all
year round. More income is also derived from animal farming and she currently has 10
goats and some local chickens. She now leads a different life compared to some
surrounding households who depend on ganyu for survival due to small land holding and
are not able to produce adequate food crop and income from cash crops.

2. Household of Mr. Gresam Mwechumu of Ngatuwanya Beneficiary Group
Mr Gresam Mwechumu, who hailed from Mpita village, Traditional Authority Mlomba is
married and blessed with twelve children. Before relocation, the family was cultivating a
small piece of clan land as such it did not harvest enough for the family consumption and
income. When the family heard of the intention of the estate owner to sell part of his
Mpira estate through Community Based Rural Land Development Project, they agreed to
participate and successfully qualified as beneficiaries. The family was amongst members
of Ngatuwanya trust that relocated on Mpira estate in 2006.
Using the proceeds from his two hectare plot, Mwechumu managed to buy a plot at
Mlomba trading centre, where he has constructed several structures being used as
dwelling house, grocery, barber shops and rented out to other traders. His compound is
supplied with electricity which apart from lighting, he also uses to run his fridge.
Amongst other notable assets which the family procured include Digital Satellite
television set and pushing bikes.


                                          - 41 -
On education, the family supports 4 children who were in various forms at secondary
schools. He also sponsored one son with passport and transport to work in South Africa
and currently is in the process to assist the second son with the same. On the sources of
income which enabled the family to have this break-through, the family has broken the
odds of considering tobacco as the main source of cash in the farming sector. The family
has never grown tobacco and does not dream of doing so. The family testifies that
cassava was a magic crop which enabled them to realize high income from a small piece
of land. He recalls that in 2010 he was able to realize MK85,000.00 from a very small
piece of land. He was all praises to the Project for introducing cassava seed multiplication
and wished if it could do more to reach many beneficiaries. The family only grows
enough maize for food and concentrates on cassava, livestock and selling of groceries as
sources of cash. Mlomba Trading Centre has benefited from a number of beneficiary
groups that used the proceeds from their 2 hectare plots to establish businesses and
facilitate growth of the centre.

3. Household of Daudi Kamphepo of Mkongomwa Beneficiary Group
Mr. Daudi Kamphepo came from Lucius village in Machinga District and relocated on
Chigumukire estate in 2006 as one of the 17 families belonging to Mkongomwa trust.
Kamphepo has one wife, 3 female and 2 male children making a total of 7. He had about
0.5 of an acre before relocation amidst other economic bottlenecks which led to perpetual
household food insecurity. He claims the Project transformed his life beyond his
imagination and is determined to sustainably utilize the land for greater achievement.
Amongst the assets, Mr. Kamphepo has acquired because of the Project include a motor
bike, television screen, push bike and a radio. He built modern house, roofed with
corrugated iron sheets and is currently molding bricks to build other structures. Mr
Kamphepo has livestock i.e. 10 goats, over 40 chickens, 8 guinea fowls, and 60 pigeons,
courtesy of the Project
On food security, he is an icon both within and outside the trust and never experiences
months of food shortages since he joined the Project. For instance, in the years 2008/09
season he produced and purchased 22 and 10 tobacco bales respectively and realized
close to MK500,000 from the sales of agricultural proceeds. Since 2008 the family he has
been harvesting maize in excess of 100 bags of 50kg each. In 2010/11 the family
harvested 60 bags of cassava, around 20bags of pigeon peas and 110 bags of maize. He,
however, lamented of the low tobacco prices in the 2010/11 season.
Mr. Kamphepo is paying school fees for his son who is in form one at Chikweo
Community Day Secondary School. An examination of the son’s school report indicated
that he is a gifted child who had been scooping position one in class. The father however
said he is currently searching for a better school and claimed that he could afford school
fees of up to MK30,000.00 per term. This showed that the family was capable of
spending more on education. General assessment of the Kamphepo family indicated that
the family had made tremendous improvement in the socio-economic status after
benefiting from the land redistribution Project. The appearance of the family members
also testified their good health status which was attributed to improved dietary habits. He
owes his success to the prudent utilization of the land and grant provided by the Project.


                                               - 42 -
4. Access to Potable Water - Collaboration between District councils and
beneficiaries.
The Project provided funding for farm development to individual families of the Trusts in
form of grants. The funds were particularly for purchase of land and farm inputs such as
fertilizers, farm implements and hiring labor. However, the major challenge in the
relocated areas has been inadequate social amenities such as potable water.
The beneficiaries from Hau and Phikani clusters which relocated in 2009 have however a
success story to tell about their determination in changing a seemingly gloomy water
situation in the area to the present uninterrupted flow of piped water. The beneficiaries
from Hau cluster comprise of Mthetsanjala, Hau and Nsipe Trusts and relocated on
Riviridzi estate with a total of 61 farming families. While the Phikani cluster comprise of
Nangolongonda and Riviridzi Trusts and relocated on Domwe estate with a total of 35
farming families.
The unavailability of water on the newly relocated areas piled a lot of problem to the
beneficiaries of both Hau and Phikani clusters. The water scarcity forced women to walk
over three kilometers in order to draw water from the nearest water points and this
negatively affected their planned farming activities. One day relocated beneficiaries came
up with a solution to their water problem. The beneficiaries came up with a proposal of
tapping water from the existing Mpira water Project which supplies water to the adjacent
villages. The idea was unanimously agreed as the only best way of solving the apparent
water problem in the area.
As a way of implementing the proposed water Project, the relocated beneficiaries agreed
to provide labour by digging trenches from the connecting point of the existing Mpira
water Project pipe line (about three kilometers) to the designated supply points where
stand pipes were to be erected for each Trust. The beneficiaries also agreed to take
advantage of their financial grant for farming allocated to them by the Project and use
part of it towards procurement of necessary materials for the proposed water Project. In
order to support the brilliant idea, the District Council pledged to provide the necessary
technical expertise for the success of the Project.
Work at both beneficiary clusters was carried out between May and July 2010. By this
time, the laying of pipes, pipe connections and erection of stand pipes at all designated
supply points were successfully done. The District Council then facilitated the formation
and training of water management committees so that the new facilities are sustainably
managed.
Currently the beneficiaries from both Hau and Phikani clusters are enjoying the usage of
potable water for drinking, cooking, washing and molding bricks. Beneficiaries have
clearly expressed positive sentiments regarding the successful implementation of piped
water Project which has resulted in increased access to safe water and improved
sanitation in the area. Beneficiaries can now access potable without hassles and the
majority of them have embarked on molding of bricks with the intention of constructing
permanent houses.




                                          - 43 -
Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results
Not applicable




                                  - 44 -
Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR

1-     Key factors affecting implementation and outcomes
The Project had been successfully implemented and this was attributed to many factors at
various levels: preparation, design and implementation.
Project Preparation, Design and Quality at Entry
The Project preparation, design and quality at entry had their strengths and weaknesses.
Strengths
Strong background analysis: The general Project preparation was based on well done
analysis, lessons and experience from previous land reform programmes implemented in
other countries such as Brazil and Malawi Government’s Makande Resettlement
Programme in Thyolo district.
Project design flexibility: The Project design provided for flexibility to minimize
operational risks. The flexibility allowed for adjustments in the course of Project
implementation in order to attain the development objectives.
MASAF experience: The link to MASAF provided the opportunity to benefit from the
experience and successes of MASAF which was familiar with community participation
approaches to development funding.
Establishment of PMU: The idea of having a PMU as an implementing agency was good.
It fostered speed, commitment, quick decision making and output oriented spirit. The
establishment of PMU enabled recruitment of staff who were well trained and
experienced.

Weaknesses
Combination of land acquisition and farm development: The combination of land
acquisition and farm development processes under one component exerted competing
demands as personnel working under the component had to attend to both. The situation
worsened when it was established that government extension system was inadequate. The
demands were later on balanced by the engagement of agricultural extension and water
and sanitation technicians on temporary basis and creation of additional positions of
Lands Project Officers through conversion of other posts.
Provision of social amenities/communal infrastructure: The Project design assumed that
funding for social infrastructural needs such as potable water, primary schools, health
facilities and access roads would be provided to Project beneficiaries through institutional
arrangements with MASAF. This did not happen as the two programmes did not work
out implementation modalities. For estates which could be made available for the Project,
assessment of health, education facilities and access roads should be done prior to
relocation of beneficiaries and where they are absent, they should be provided prior to
relocation or soon after relocation for use by beneficiaries and surrounding communities
taking into consideration sector norms. Provision for water should be part of the Project
financing while other services could be financed from other sources such as government,
civil society organizations, private organizations, etc.

                                           - 45 -
Provision of extension, marketing and credit services: Inadequate capacity in district
councils to provide extension services (agriculture, forestry, environmental management,
health, water and sanitation) negatively affected utilization of Project inputs and
beneficiary households’ efforts, hence compromised outcomes. The Project should have
provision for extension services.
Cadastral surveys: The Project implicitly assumed that all estates had clear boundaries
and confirmed hectarage. However, this was not the case, therefore during
implementation all estates had to be surveyed to confirm boundaries and hectarage. This
brought in additional costs as the assignment was not initially budgeted for and also
delayed the title transfer registration. It is recommended that budget for cadastral surveys
and physical planning for group and individual land parcels should be part of future
project budget.
Project implementation
The following are the factors which contributed to the successful implementation of the
Project.
Participatory approach: The Project design promoted participatory approach. Various
stakeholders, including beneficiaries, traditional leaders, district officials, government
ministries and departments, were actively involved in all processes of Project
implementation. This promoted transparency, ownership and accountability of the
Project.
Donor and government commitment: There was commitment from donor and government
as evidenced by timely interventions on a number of issues such as financing, Project
extension, etc.
Dedication of Project staff: Despite a number of challenges in Project implementation,
Project implementing personnel were dedicated to see the Project to its completion.
Support from various organizations/institutions: Various institutions such as district
councils, non-governmental organizations, faith-based organizations, political leaders,
community based organizations, and traditional leaders supported the Project
implementation morally and materially. For example, some organizations provided
extension services, farm inputs and credit to the beneficiaries while others provided
potable water facilities like boreholes.
Establishment of Project implementation unit: Establishment of the Project management
unit made the staff to concentrate on Project activities although recruitment of staff was
staggered putting much pressure on available staff.
Capacity building initiatives: Capacity building initiatives, which ranged from provision
of relevant equipment and training for various institutions including beneficiaries,
traditional leaders, government ministries and departments, the Polytechnic of the
University of Malawi and district councils financed by the Project contributed a lot to the
success of the Project.
The following section discusses challenges and how they were addressed:


                                           - 46 -
Inadequate IEC messages: At the beginning of the Project implementation, there were a
lot of misconceptions and skepticism about the Project. This was due to inadequate
information, education and communication (IEC) campaigns due to delayed recruitment
and high turnover of IEC Specialists. With assistance of the personnel from Malawi
Broadcasting Corporation, the Project mounted intensive sensitization campaigns for
potential beneficiaries, traditional leaders, landlords/estate owners, etc, which led to a
change in attitude towards the Project. This led to high demand from potential
beneficiaries and supply of land by estates owners which made the Project to meet its
targets.
Low literacy rate among beneficiaries:Low literacy rate among potential beneficiaries led
to misconceptions about the Project and inappropriate decision making regarding use of
farm development funds and technology adoption. Agricultural extension and water and
sanitation technicians were engaged to assist the Project beneficiaries and surrounding
communities. The Project also financed activities of non-Project extension personnel in
the Project areas to ensure they adequately served both Project beneficiaries and
surrounding communities.
No offers of land for sale in Thyolo and Mulanje districts: While it is reported in the
Project Appraisal Document that there were idle or underutilized estates in Thyolo and
Mulanje, not many estate owners offered their land for sale to the Project. Three owners
offered their estates to the Project but all the estates had serious encroachment issues. In
addition, those who were perceived to be underutilizing it was not a guarantee that they
could sell the estates to the Project because they were not asked if they could sell to the
Project as such, no estate was available for the Project. Potential beneficiaries from these
districts were assisted to get land in other pilot districts. This definitely contributed to the
limited participation of potential beneficiaries because of long distances to relocate.
Declining availability of suitable arable land: Due to declining availability of suitable
farm land in Machinga and Mangochi, the Project was extended to Balaka and Ntcheu
after a Land Availability, Land Market and Prices Study. This enabled the Project to
reach the target of 15,000 farm families with ease.
Manual lands registries: Manual operation and paper based filing and archiving of lands
registries significantly delayed searches for land information. Initiatives to improve the
situation such as computerization of land records of land registries and deeds registry.
Performance of independent Project evaluators: The performance of one of the
independent Project impact evaluators was unsatisfactory. As a fall-back position, the
Project prepared an interim report and two other firms were engaged to complete the
assignment.
Enforcement of land policy instruments: Enforcement of policy instruments such as
intensification of land rent collection and establishment of equitable land rent structure
was inadequate as such they did not have positive impact regarding release of
underutilized estate land. Nevertheless, the Project operated within the existing land-
related laws. During the Project period, all the land-related laws, however, were reviewed
by the Malawi Law Commission and a report was published. The processes to table the
land bill in Parliament had started at the time of producing this ICR.


                                             - 47 -
Sun Accounting System: The Project was required to use Sun Accounting System as an
accounting database and Vision as a financial reporting package. However, its application
was not full till the final years of the Project. The Project, however, managed to produce
acceptable accounts using Microsoft Excel during the first years of implementation.


2-     Safeguards and Fiduciary Compliance
The Project implementation paid attention to environmental and social safeguards and
complied with fiduciary requirements as discussed below.
Environmental safeguards: Some of the environmental safeguards coordinated during
Project implementation were: Tree planting, integrated pest management (IPM),
establishment of clean cassava nurseries, promotion of environmental management plans,
soil and water conservation, and human-animal conflict management. More than 800,000
trees had been planted in the Project areas. During the 2010-11, the Project distributed
255,000 tree seedlings to about 120 beneficiary groups for planting. An assessment done
in April 2011 established a survival rate of 70 percent for trees planted in the 2010-11
rainy season. There were no major negative social impacts and conflicts as a result of
relocations to newly acquired farms. The settlement approach involved purchase of farms
from willing sellers and voluntary settlement of beneficiaries. All the land acquired by
the beneficiaries was bought from willing sellers. Former estate workers had not been
forced to leave the acquired farms and, in cases where they had expressed a desire to join
the Project, they were allowed so that they could also benefit from the Project after
meeting the eligibility selection criteria.
Social safeguards: There were no major negative social impacts and conflicts as a result
of relocations to newly acquired farms. The settlement approach involved purchase of
farms from willing sellers and voluntary settlement of beneficiaries. All the land acquired
by the beneficiaries was bought from voluntary sellers. Former estate workers had not
been forced to leave the acquired farms and, in cases where they had expressed a desire
to join the Project, they were subjected to eligibility criteria and allowed to join the
Project. In some cases, estate owners gave away to surrounding communities part of the
estate before selling. Some activities were undertaken to mitigate emerging social issues
such as disputes over farm boundaries and inequitable sharing of farm land, included
demarcation of estates into 2.0ha land parcels; reaffirmation of estate boundaries,
replacement of beacons; training in conflict management; and development of guidelines
for sharing vacated land.
Procurement: Despite the initial delay in preparing and approving the first procurement
plan, subsequent procurement plans were revised accordingly and appropriate procedures
were followed in procuring goods and services.
Financial management: The Project requested for funds from the World Bank to disburse
to beneficiaries and settle obligations to suppliers and service providers on time. Finance
monitoring reports (FMRs) were prepared every quarter and submitted to the Bank
through the Ministry of Finance on time. The Project submitted audited financial
statements and management letters to the World Bank which were generally with
unqualified audit opinion within six months after the end of a financial year.

                                          - 48 -
3-     Post-completion Operation/Next Phase
At all times, the Project involved stakeholders at ministry, district and beneficiary
group/village levels in implementing activities. In this manner, capacity was built to
continue with post-completion operations. Receiving district councils incorporated the
needs of beneficiary groups and surrounding communities as regards social amenities in
their development plans. Furthermore, the Project supported the participating district
councils to develop project proposals detailing the issues affecting Project beneficiaries
and surrounding communities which could be submitted to non-governmental
organizations, the Local Development Fund and other possible financiers for financial
assistance.
The Agricultural Development and Marketing Corporation (ADMARC), Auction
Holdings Limited and other produce vendors were key buyers of farm produce and would
continue to provide such marketing services.
It is recognized in the Project Appraisal Document (PAD) that land redistribution was to
be scaled up across the country. However, in view of the sensitivity of land issues it was
felt important to pilot the land acquisition and redistribution approach on a smaller scale
to learn some lessons. Now, a scale-up to the Project would be desirable as the pilot
phase had generated a lot of demand for land and there were estate owners who had
offered their farms for sale. The Government submitted a Concept Note on the same to
the Country Office of the World Bank for consideration to fund a scale-up Project.

4-     Assessment of outcomes
The Malawi Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper (MPRSP), the Country Economic
Memorandum (CEM) and Country Assistance Strategy highlighted land reform activities
as core elements for promoting pro-poor growth. The Project development objectives
were in line with all these strategies and remained very relevant as they were consistent
with Malawi’s current development priorities as espoused in the Malawi Growth and
Development Strategy (MGDS). The MGDS recognizes that land is the basic factor of
production as well as source of livelihood for the majority of Malawians and inadequate
access to land had been identified as one of the critical factors contributing to poverty in
the country. Therefore, increasing secure and equitable access to land is a key component
of the Government’s strategy to reduce poverty.
Target beneficiary households: A total of 15,142 households had relocated against a
target of 15,000, representing 101 percent; acquired 33,428 ha against 33,000,
representing 101 percent; and group land title transfer registration of 641 against 666,
representing 96 percent (Table 4). Each household had received approximately 2.2 ha on
which to farm and reside.
Security of land tenure: Out of the 15,142 households from 666 beneficiary groups,
14,725 households from 641 beneficiary groups had secure group land titles totalling
32,274.8 ha.
Increased agricultural productivity: As a result of the land acquisition and farm
development grants, the primary Project beneficiaries were able to realize higher crop
productivity. Impact evaluation data showed that maize productivity had improved from

                                           - 49 -
456kg/ha at baseline to 1,800kg/ha and tobacco yield from 323 kg/ha to 800kg/ha,
respectively after participating in the Project.
Food self-sufficiency: As a result of the increased agricultural productivity, household
food self-sufficiency improved from about 4 to 10 months.
Household incomes: Annual household nominal incomes for beneficiary households
improved from an average of MK18,700 at baseline to MK30,500 after participating in
the Project. Following the change in income levels, significant household asset
accumulation such as decent housing, radios and bicycles had been observed.
Enhanced capacity and skills: Various survey and office equipment was provided to
technical departments in the Ministry of Lands, Housing and Urban Development. This
facilitated faster processing of land surveys and registration of titles. Various cadres of
staff underwent formal and informal training within the country and abroad, notable ones
being 7 officers who acquired master of science degrees in land-related fields universities
and another six who obtained diplomas in land administration from the Natural Resources
College in Malawi. Staff from participating district councils, beneficiaries and
surrounding communities attended various capacity building sessions. The Polytechnic of
the University of Malawi also received some modern survey equipment and desktop
computers for use in training undergraduates in surveying, physical planning and land
economy. Beneficiaries were also trained in various fields for smooth Project
implementation.
Access to potable water: Through Project grants and resources from non-governmental
organizations, about 102 boreholes, 189 protected shallow wells and 28 piped water
installations were provided for domestic use to the primary beneficiaries but also
surrounding communities.
Support to land law reform: The Project sponsored a feedback session, facilitated by
the Malawi Law Commission on Report of the Law Commission on the Review of the
Land-Related Laws and a consultative meeting on the Ministry’s contribution towards the
second Malawi Growth and Development Strategy.
Social infrastructure: The Project had no budget for provision of social amenities such
as schools, access roads, boreholes. These were expected to be provided under MASAF 3.
However, implementation modalities were not discussed and agreed upon as a result,
there were no or inadequate social/communal amenities to cater for Project beneficiaries.
As solution, part of farm development funds were used to access potable water; MASAF
provided resources for primary school blocks, teachers’ house, boreholes, grinding mills,
and access roads. Other organizations also came in to provide similar services.
Efficiency: Results from independent Project impact evaluation showed that with about
15,142 households benefiting from the Project and 30 percent practising semi-
commercial agriculture while the remaining 70 percent in subsistence agriculture, the
financial rate of return (FRR) of 17 percent and the economic rate of return (ERR) of 22
percent were above the threshold of 12 percent. This meant the return was higher for



                                          - 50 -
every unit of the resource (US$) spent. The Project was, thus financially and
economically viable.
Poverty Impacts, Gender Aspects and Social Development: Impact evaluation data
showed that maize productivity had improved from 456kg/ha at baseline to 1,800kg/ha
and tobacco yield from 323 kg/ha to 800kg/ha. As a result of the increased agricultural
productivity, food insecurity was reduced and annual household incomes improved from
an average of MK18,700 to MK30,500. Significant household asset accumulation had
also been observed. The Project provided for potable water through grants on farm
development and the Additional Financing. Participating district councils developed
project proposals for construction of schools, access roads and environment conservation.
Some non-governmental organizations provided 42 boreholes and extension services to
Project beneficiaries. About 102 boreholes, 189 shallow wells and 31 piped water
installations had been provided in the Project areas serving Project beneficiaries and
surrounding communities.
Out of the 15,142 beneficiary households, 3,687 (24 percent) were female headed. The
participation rate was at par with national trends regarding participation of female headed
households in voluntary development programmes. It should be noted that participation
of women in the Project was higher than this rate. Female-headed households generally
had problems in opening up new gardens, constructing shelters/houses, among others and
they had to hire men to assist them. Future projects might consider providing additional
resources to disadvantaged beneficiaries such as female-headed, orphan headed, elderly
headed households. However, through visual observations, crop production and incomes
were not different from those of male-headed households.
Land disputes/tensions: Land being a sensitive matter, it was well known at Project
design that movement of people from one area to another could lead to some social
tensions. During Project implementation, land disputes were adequately monitored and
attended to. In general, the Project had been implemented with minimal land disputes
between beneficiaries and surrounding communities and within the beneficiary groups.
Towards the end of the Project, all relevant institutions or structures at district level were
taken through land conflicts management and resolution training as one way of building
capacity for post Project period. The participants included officials from District Councils,
magistrates, the police and traditional leaders. Outstanding boundary demarcations within
and between beneficiary groups were attended to by the Project Land Surveyor, assisted
by Government Land Surveyors and Physical Planners.
Institutional Change/Strengthening: The Project provided financial support to the
Ministry of Lands, Housing and Urban Development for consultative meetings and IEC
campaigns related to reforms in land law. Furthermore, various survey and office
equipment was provided to technical departments: Lands, Surveys and Physical Planning
in the Ministry of Lands, Housing and Urban Development. This facilitated faster
processing of land surveys and registration of titles. The Polytechnic under the University
of Malawi also received some modern survey equipment and desktop computers for use
in training undergraduates in surveying, physical planning and land economy.



                                           - 51 -
Legal framework: The Malawi Government reviewed its land-related laws to ensure the
legal framework would effectively support the implementation of the Malawi National
Land Policy. The Project had provided financial support to the Ministry of Lands,
Housing and Urban Development to carry out some activities related to the review of the
land related laws.

Other Unintended Outcomes and Impacts
Recovery of bad debts: A number of estate owners had debts with various
institutions/organizations such as government, financial institutions and private
associations. Most of the debts were in the category of bad debts. As the Project was not
supposed to buy estates with encumbrances, the owners agreed that outstanding debts
should be recovered at source before the transactions were completed with Project
beneficiaries. In the process, the Project helped to recover monies for these organizations.
Inadequate availability of social amenities: Right from the outset, the Project was not to
provide communal infrastructure or amenities. As such, communal infrastructure was to
be provided through MASAF. However, during the first years of settlement, this did not
work and majority of Project beneficiaries lacked social amenities. During one of the
Project implementation support missions, a decision was made that part of the
beneficiaries’ farm development funds should be used for provision of potable water.
This improved access to potable water to beneficiaries and surrounding communities but
it reduced the financial resources which were meant for farm development. In some cases,
other institutions/organizations were requested to come in and assist with potable water
facilities. Furthermore, the district councils incorporated the needs of the beneficiaries
and surrounding communities in their development plans.
Surveying of estates: During the Project design it was assumed that farm sizes and
boundaries were well known through cadastral surveys. However, during implementation
it was found that cadastral surveys had not been done for almost all estates. The Project
had to conduct surveys for all the estates which were to be acquired by the beneficiaries.
This exercise was not budgeted for. To speed up the confirmation of estate sizes a Project
implementation support mission recommended the purchase of hand held Geographical
Position System equipment for the districts.
Assessment of outcomes: The attainment of key Project outcomes (beneficiaries,
hectarage, productivity and incomes) surpassed the targets as such the achievement is
rated Satisfactory.
Assessment of Project risks at appraisal, mid-term and at evaluation: Mitigation
measures for risks identified at the Project design were generally effective; hence, the
risks were not a threat to the achievement of the Project development objectives.
However, the following had been identified as risks to sustainability of Project
development outcomes.

5-     Assessment of Bank and Borrower performance
Assessment of the Banks performance: The Bank as a development partner provided
Project implementation support through financing, supervision of Project progress,

                                           - 52 -
identification of implementation bottlenecks and coming up with practical solutions to
address the identified constraints. The Bank provided sound Project implementation
support that facilitated in turning around what would have been a problem Project. More
specifically, this was demonstrated through the Bank’s pro-activity in working with
Government to amend the DGA to provide practical solutions to address issues. The
Bank also agreed with Government to (i) retrofit its contribution when Government was
having fiscal problems; (ii) granting approval to extend the Project to two additional
districts; (iii) granting of a no cost extension and provision of funds under Additional
Financing; (iv) supporting the implementation of the Project through a PMU; (v)
approval of converting some positions to match the workload in other areas; (vi) approval
of revised procurement plans to accommodate items which were not in the original
procurement; (vii) promoting flexibility of the Project design which allowed these
changes to be accommodated. Despite these achievements, there were some areas on
which decisions were unfavourable to the Project implementation process. These
included delayed approval of the first procurement plan, recommendation to stagger
employment of key Project staff, delayed effectiveness of Additional Financing, omission
to include provision of social amenities and credit in the Project contrary to similar
projects funded by the Bank, for example in Brazil. Overall, the performance of the Bank
is rated Moderately Satisfactory.
Assessment of Government performance: All ministries were very supportive of the
Project and provided the leadership that enabled the Project team to achieve
commendable progress. Government through MoLHUD housed the PMU for the first two
years; assisted the Project with vehicles during the first two years and when need arose;
provided funds in lieu of 4,000ha of land pledged to the Project; provided funds for a six
month no cost extension; timely clearing of Finance Monitoring Reports; actively
participated in the joint Malawi Government/World Bank Project implementation support
missions; accepted supervision missions and chaired wrap up meetings; and acted on
issues raised in management letters. Government departments at district level actively
participated in the implementation of Project activities. The National Audit Office
provided cost effective services in auditing the Project accounts. The Local Development
Fund (formerly MASAF) ably managed and disbursed the LAFD Grants. There were
some weaknesses on the side of Government. For example, Government dragged on the
enactment of the land bill; agreed to retrofit counterpart contribution which casted doubts
on commitment to the Project and lengthy recruitment procedures for Project staff.
Overall, the performance of the Government is rated Moderately Satisfactory.
PMU Performance: The PMU had a delegated authority from the MLHUD to manage
public resources to achieve specific development objectives as agreed between the GoM
and IDA and in accordance with the provisions of the Project Implementation Manual.
The PMU had highly dedicated staff who were proactive and responsive to Project
implementation issues as demonstrated or evidenced in the Project implementation
performance. For example, the targets were met, disbursement was at 90 percent at the
end of the Project, it adhered to implementation procedures and guidelines, maintained
good working relationship with both the donor and the government, successfully
supervised independent Project impact evaluation, filed audited financial statements with
the Bank, maintained financial integrity, filed Financial Monitoring Reports with the

                                          - 53 -
Bank, timely production and submission of annual progress reports. PMU had inadequate
interpersonal skills, especially in the early years of the Project, though the situation
improved in the later years. Having turned around a problem Project into a success story,
the overall performance of the PMU is rated as Satisfactory.

6.     Lessons learned
The main lessons learnt for implementing the Project were as follows:

? It is possible for people to relocate from one area to another area provided social
  amenities and support services are available or provided.
? While land reform programme addresses the issue of equitable land access and
  subsequently increases agricultural production, incomes, food security; on its own
  does not improve the overall beneficiary welfare. Access by beneficiaries to social
  amenities and other services such as potable water, education and health facilities,
  passable roads, agricultural inputs and produce markets, credit, extension services
  should always complement land reform programs in an integrated manner. Integrated
  development planning with land as an entry point is the best approach to uplifting the
  welfare of rural communities.
? Community based and voluntary land redistribution programme is feasible and cost
  effective compared to other forms of land redistribution as this approach promotes
  voluntary participation and minimizes political interference and social tensions.
? Adequate capacity in land administration and management services is a pre-requisite
  for a land reform programme. Reliable land-related statistics should be easy and
  quick to extract by modernizing land registries. Adequate number of staff with
  relevant skills and knowledge in various fields of land administration and
  management services is crucial.
? Land reforms require conducive policy environment and political will to support the
  development of land markets. The environment should have policy instruments which
  are easy and effective to implement to address land related issues like release of
  underutilized land into the land markets; and the policy instruments should be
  supported by a sound legal framework. It is only land reform programmes to which
  government is supportive legally, technically and financially that are successful.




                                         - 54 -
Annex 8. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders
Not applicable




                                   - 55 -
Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents


Italtrend, 2011 – Independent Project Impact Evaluation of Community-Based Rural
        Land Development Project – Lilongwe, Malawi

Republic of Malawi, 2005 – Project Implementation Manual for the Community-Based
      Rural Land Development Project – Ministry of Lands, Housing and Urban
      Development – Lilongwe, Malawi

Republic of Malawi, 2011 – Implementation Completion Results Report for the
      Community-Based Rural Land Development Project – Ministry of Lands,
      Housing and Urban Development – Lilongwe, Malawi

Republic of Malawi, 2011 - The Agriculture Sector Wide Approach - Malawi’s
      prioritized and harmonised agricultural development agenda – Ministry of
      Agriculture, Irrigation and Water Development – Lilongwe, Malawi

Republic of Malawi, 2010 – Malawi Demographic and Health Survey in 2010 – National
      Statistics Office – Zomba, Malawi

World Bank, 2004-2011 – Various aide-memoires of supervision missions for the
      Community-Based Rural Land Development Project

World Bank, 2004-2011 – Implementation Status and Results Reports for the
      Community-Based Rural Land Development Project

World Bank, 2004 - Project Appraisal Document for the Community-Based Rural land
      Development Project - Report No 28188-MAI - Washington DC.

World Bank, 2010 – Country Economic Memorandum – Seizing Opportunities for
      Growth through Regional Integration and Trade – Report No 47969-MW –
      Washington, DC




                                      - 56 -
                                                                                                                                                                                          IBRD 39199
             32°E                                                            34°E
                                                                                                                                            MALAWI
                                       TANZ A NIA
                                       TAN ZA NI A
                                                                                                      COMMUNITY-BASED
                           To
                                                Song
                                                     we
                                                                   To
                                                                  Mbeya                            RURAL LAND DEVELOPMENT
                        Tunduma
                                                  Chitipa                                               PROJECT AREAS
                                                                             Karonga
                                                                                                           THYOLO         PROJECT DISTRICTS                                 RIVERS
 10°S                                                  Chisenga
                                                                                                           NTCHEU         ADDITIONAL PROJECT DISTRICTS                      MAIN ROADS
                                                                    KA RO N
                                                                    KAR ON GA
                                           To             C HI
                                                          CHI T I PA                                                      CITIES AND TOWNS                                  RAILROADS
                                         Muyombe
                                                             Nykia                     Chilumba                           DISTRICT CAPITALS                                 DISTRICT BOUNDARIES
                                                           (2,606 m)
                                                                                                                          REGION CAPITALS                                   REGION BOUNDARIES
                                                                   Chelinda          Mkondowe
                                              To                                                                          NATIONAL CAPITAL                                  INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
                                            Muyombe                              Livingstonia
                                                           Katumbe
                                                                 PH I
                                                            R UM PHI
                                                                          Rumphi

                                                                                        Ruarwe
                                                                    BA
                                                             M ZI M B A




                                                                        s.
                                                      Kafukule
                                                                               Mzuzu


                                                                   Mtn
                                                        Euthini
                                                                                        Nkhata
                                                      NORTHERN
                                                      NORT HERN                          Bay
        ZAMBIA                                                    a
                                                                          KH ATA
                                                                        N KHATA
                                                                Viphy

                                                                           B AY
                                                Mzimba                  Chinteche                 (MALAWI)

                                                                                         Lake Mala
 12°S                                                                                                                                                                                               12°S
                                                                   Luwawa

                                          To
                                        Lundazi
                                                                    Nkhunga
                                                                                                  wi

                                              Kaluluma

                                              KASUNGU                                    Nkhotakota
                                                          Kasungu
                                                                              NKHOTAKOTA
                                                                                                                                        MOZAMBIQUE
                                                                       CH IS
                                                                   N T CHI S I
                                                                              Ntchisi
                                                C E N T R A L
                                   MCHI NJ I
                                   MCHINJI                 DO WA
                                                           DOWA              Dowa S AL I M A
                                                                                         MA            Makanjila
                                               Bua




                      To            Mchinji
                    Chipata                                                         Salima

 14°S                                                                   LILONGWE                                                                                                                    14°S
                                                      Namitete                                                  Monkey
                                                                                                                Bay
                                                        LI L ON GW E
                                                        LIL     GW                   DE DZA
                                                                                        D ZA                                               To
                                   To                                                                                                    Cuamba
                               Furancungo                                                                   MANGOCHI
                                                                                        Dedza
                                                                                                                            Mangochi
                                                                                       To
                                                                                    Ulongwe
                                                                                                   NTCHEU       SOUTHERN
                                                                                                                                                       To
                                                                                                                                                     Cuamba
                                                                                                       Ntcheu Balaka
                                                                                                                                ACH IN G A
                                                                                                                              M ACHI N GA
                    0   20     40      60     80 100 Kilometers
                                                                                                              BALAKA
                                                                                                                              Machinga
                                                                                                                    ire
                                                                                                                   Sh




                    0         20        40           60 Miles                                                                            Lake
                                                                                                                    ZO MB
                                                                                                                    ZOM B A             Chilwa
                                                                                               M WAN ZA                       Zomba
                                                                                       To                      Lirangwe
                                                                                      Tete               BLANTYRE                      PHALOMBE
                                                                                               Mwanza                     Chiradzulu
                                                                                                    Blantyre    CHIRADZULU    Phalombe
                                                                                                                     MULANJE
16°S                                                                                          Chikwawa            Mulanje     Sapitwa                                                              16°S
                                                                                                             THYOLO          (3,002 m)
                                                                                                                   Thyolo
                                                                                               CH I KWAWA
                                                                                               CHI K WAWA                                          To
                                                                                                                                                 Liciro
        MALAWI
                                                                                                       N’gabu
                                                                                                                             To
                                                                                                                            Morire
                                                                                                                NSANJE

                                                                                                                            Nsanje

                                                 MOZAMBIQUE                                                                          This map was produced by the Map Design Unit of The World Bank.
                                                                                                                                     The boundaries, colors, denominations and any other information
                                                                                                                                     shown on this map do not imply, on the part of The World Bank
                                                                                                                         To
                                                                                                                    Vila de Sena     Group, any judgment on the legal status of any territory, or any
                                                                                                                                     endorsement or acceptance of such boundaries.

             32°E                                                            34°E                                                                36°E
                                                                                                                                                                                               APRIL 2012
