Page  1
CONFORMED COPY 
 
IDA GRANT NUMBER H081 MAI 
 
Development Grant Agreement 
 
(Community-Based Rural Land Development Project) 
 
between 
 
REPUBLIC OF MALAWI 
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
Dated  June 30, 2004 
 
Page  2
IDA GRANT NUMBER H081 MAI 
DEVELOPMENT GRANT AGREEMENT
 
AGREEMENT, dated  June 30, 2004, between REPUBLIC OF MALAWI (the 
Recipient) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the 
Association). 
WHEREAS (A) the Association has received from the Recipient a letter dated 
February 12, 2004, describing a program of land policy reform (hereinafter referred to as 
the Program), and declaring the Recipient’s commitment to the execution of the Program; 
(B)  
the Recipient, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and priority of 
the project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement (the Project), has requested the 
Association to assist in financing the Project;  
(C) 
the Association was authorized, under Resolution No. 549 adopted on 
September 29, 2002, by the Board of Governors of the International Bank for 
Reconstruction and Development (the Bank), to use the funds transferred to the 
Association out of the Bank’s fiscal year 2002 net income to provide financing in the 
form of grants as well as loans, and the Executive Directors of the Association have 
determined that the development grant set forth in Section 2.01 of this Agreement (the 
Grant) is consistent with such policies; and 
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter
alia
,
of the foregoing, 
to extend the Grant to the Recipient upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement; 
NOW THEREFORE, the parties hereto hereby agree as follows: 
ARTICLE I 
General Conditions; Definitions 
Section 1.01 (a) The following provisions of the General Conditions Applicable 
to Development Credit Agreements of the Association, dated January 1, 1985 (as 
amended through October 6, 1999), with the modifications set forth in paragraph (b) of 
this Section (the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement: 
(i) Article 
I; 
(ii) Article 
II; 
(iii) Section 
3.01; 
(iv) 
Sections 4.01 and 4.05; 
Page  3
-
2
-
(v) Article 
V; 
(vi) 
Sections 6.01, 6.02, 6.03, 6.04 and 6.06; 
(vii) 
Section 8.01 (b); 
(viii) Article 
IX; 
(ix) 
Article X;  
(x) 
Article XI; and  
(xi) 
Sections 12.01, 12.02, 12.03 and 12.04. 
(b) 
The General Conditions shall be modified as follows: 
(i) 
the term “Borrower”, wherever used in the General Conditions, 
means the Recipient; 
(ii) 
the term “Development Credit Agreement”, wherever used in the 
General Conditions, means this Agreement; 
(iii) 
the term “Credit” and “credit”, wherever used in the General 
Conditions means the Grant; and 
(iv) 
the term “Credit Account”, wherever used in the General 
Conditions, means the Grant Account. 
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the context otherwise 
requires, the several terms defined in the General Conditions and in the Recitals to this 
Agreement have the respective meanings therein set forth and the following additional 
terms have the following meanings: 
(a) 
“Beneficiary Group” means a group of individuals who meet the 
eligibility criteria set forth in the PIM (as hereinafter defined) and organize themselves 
into a legally recognized entity for purposes of the purchase of Eligible Land (as 
hereinafter defined) under Part A of the Project; 
(b) 
“CBRLD Project Steering Committee” means the Community Based 
Rural Land Development Project Steering Committee referred to in paragraph (a) (iii) of 
Section I of Schedule 4 to this Agreement; 
(c) 
“District” means a local government area established pursuant to the 
Regional and District Boundaries and Place Names Act, Chapter 18:04 of the laws of the 
Recipient; 
Page  4
-
3
-
(d) 
“District Assembly” means a local authority constituted pursuant to the 
Local Government Act, Chapter 22:01 of the laws of the Recipient; 
(e) 
“District Executive Committee” means a committee established pursuant 
to the Local Government Act, Chapter 22:01 of the laws of the Recipient, and referred to 
in paragraph (e) of Section II of Schedule 4 to this Agreement; 
(f) 
“Eligible Categories” means category (1) with respect to the Special 
Account-MASAF (as hereinafter defined) and categories (2), (3), (4) and (5) with respect 
to Special Account-MOLPPS (as hereinafter defined), as set forth in the table in Part A.1 
of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;  
(g) 
“Eligible Expenditures” means the expenditures for goods, works, 
consultants’ services and the LAFD Subprojects (as hereinafter defined), referred to in 
Section 2.02 (a) of this Agreement; 
(h) 
“Eligible Land” means land within the Project Districts (as hereinafter 
defined) that is sold by willing land estate owners, provided by the Recipient, or 
voluntarily donated by private individuals for purposes of Part A of the Project; 
(i) 
“EMP” means the environmental management plan dated November 18, 
2003, approved by the Association, and comprising an environmental, social screening 
and review process, a pest management plan, and a monitoring and evaluation system; 
(j) 
“Financial Monitoring Report” or “FMR” means each report prepared in 
accordance with Section 4.02 of this Agreement; 
(k) 
“LAFD Grant Agreement” means a Land Acquisition and Farm 
Development Grant Agreement to be entered into between a Beneficiary Group and the 
MASAF-MU (as hereinafter defined), and referred to in paragraph (g) of Section II of 
Schedule 4 to this Agreement; 
(l) 
“LAFD Subproject” means a subproject under which a Beneficiary 
Group purchases land and uses it for productive purposes in accordance with the 
provisions of the PIM (as hereinafter defined); 
(m) 
“LAFD Subproject grant” means a grant to be provided to a Beneficiary 
Group for the purchase of land, a settlement allowance and working capital for farm 
development activities; 
(n) 
“MASAF” means the Malawi Social Action Fund, established on July 1, 
1995, as a semi-autonomous unit in the Recipient’s Office of the President and Cabinet; 
(o) 
“MASAF-MU” means the Malawi Social Action Fund Management Unit 
established on July 1, 1995 in the Recipient’s Office of the President and Cabinet; 
Page  5
-
4
-
(p) 
“MOLPPS” means the Recipient’s Ministry of Lands, Physical Planning 
and Surveys; 
(q) 
“NTAC” means the National Technical Advisory Committee, chaired by 
a
representative of the Recipient’s Ministry of Finance and comprising representatives 
from the Recipient’s MOLPPS, Ministry of Education, Science & Technology, Ministry 
of Health, Ministry of Water Development, Ministry of Transport & Public Works, 
Ministry of Commerce & Industry, Ministry of Agriculture, Irrigation & Food Security, 
Ministry of Gender and Community Services, Ministry of Local Government, the 
National Local Government Finance Committee, and the Executive  Secretary of Council 
for Non-Governmental Organizations in Malawi, established to approve LAFD 
Subproject proposals prepared by potential Beneficiary Groups; 
(r) 
“PIM” means the Project Implementation Manual, acceptable to the 
Association, setting forth inter
alia
the Project’s institutional arrangements, and the 
procurement, financial management and disbursement procedures to be followed during 
Project implementation, as the same may be amended from time to time with the 
concurrence of the Association; 
(s) 
“PMU” means the Project Management Unit established within 
MOLPPS for the purposes set forth in paragraph (a) ii of Section I of Schedule 4 to this 
Agreement; 
(t) 
“Project Districts” means the Districts of Mulanje, Thyolo, Machinga 
and Mangochi within the Recipient’s territory, and such other Districts as may be agreed 
upon by the Recipient and the Association; 
(u) 
“Project Preparation Advances” means the project preparation advances 
granted by the Association to the Recipient pursuant to the respective letter agreements 
signed on behalf of the Association on February 4, 2002 and on March 12, 2004, and on 
behalf of the Recipient on April 18, 2002 and April 14, 2004; 
(v) 
“Report-based Disbursements” means the Recipient’s option for 
withdrawal of funds from the Grant Account referred to in Part A.5 of Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement; 
(w) 
“Special Account-MASAF” means the special deposit account opened 
for withdrawals made in respect of expenditures made under Part A of the Project, and 
referred to in Part B of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; 
(x) 
“Special Account-MOLPPS” means the special deposit account opened 
for withdrawals made in respect of expenditures made under Parts B, C and D of the 
Project, and referred to in Part B of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and 
Page  6
-
5
-
(y) 
“Special Accounts” means the Special Account-MASAF and the Special 
Account-MOLPPS. 
ARTICLE II 
The Grant
 
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to make available to the Recipient, on the 
terms and conditions set forth or referred to in this Agreement, the Grant in an amount in 
various currencies equivalent to eighteen million one hundred thousand Special Drawing 
Rights (SDR 18,100,000). 
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Grant may be withdrawn from the Grant 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for: (i) land, 
goods, works and services for LAFD Subprojects under Part A of the Project; and (ii) 
expenditures made (or, if the Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services for carrying out Parts B, C and D of the Project. 
(b) 
Promptly after the Effective Date, the Association shall, on behalf of the 
Recipient, withdraw from the Grant Account and pay to itself the amount required to 
repay the principal amount of the Project Preparation Advances withdrawn and 
outstanding as of such date and to pay all unpaid charges thereon. The unwithdrawn 
balance of the authorized amount of the Project Preparation Advances shall thereupon be 
canceled. 
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 2009, or such later date as the 
Association shall establish. The Association shall promptly notify the Recipient of such 
later date. 
Section 2.04. (a) The Recipient shall pay to the Association a commitment charge 
on the principal amount of the Grant not withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be set 
by the Association as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of one-half of 
one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum. 
(b) 
The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date sixty days after 
the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to the respective dates on which amounts 
shall be withdrawn by the Recipient from the Grant Account or canceled; and (ii) at the 
rate set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date and at such other rates 
as may be set from time to time thereafter pursuant to paragraph (a) above. The rate set as 
of June 30 in each year shall be applied from the next date in that year specified in 
Section 2.04 of this Agreement. 
(c) 
The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as the 
Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of any kind imposed by, or 
in the territory of, the Recipient; and (iii) in Dollars or in such other eligible currency or 
Page  7
-
6
-
currencies as may from time to time be designated or selected pursuant to the provisions 
of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions. 
Section 2.05. Commitment charges shall be payable semiannually on January 1 
and July 1 in each year. 
ARTICLE III 
Execution of the Project
 
Section 3.01. (a) The Recipient declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry out Part 
A
of the Project through the MASAF-MU and Parts B, C and D of  the Project through 
the MOLPPS, with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate 
administrative, environmental, financial, land and technical practices, and shall provide, 
promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources required for the 
Project. 
(b) 
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section 
and except as the Recipient and the Association shall otherwise agree, the Recipient shall 
carry out the Project in accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in 
Schedule 4 to this Agreement. 
Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, procurement of the 
land, goods, works and consultants’ services required for the Project and to be financed 
out of the proceeds of the Grant shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to this 
Agreement. 
Section 3.03. For the purposes of Section 9.06 of the General Conditions and 
without limitation thereto, the Recipient shall: 
(a) 
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Association, and 
furnish to the Association not later than six months after the Closing Date or such later 
date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Recipient and the Association, a plan 
for the future operation of the Project; and 
(b) 
afford the Association a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with 
the Recipient on said plan. 
Section 3.04. The Recipient shall provide its counterpart contribution to the 
Project in a timely manner in the form of land for Part A of the Project in such amounts 
as shall have been agreed to with the Association. 
ARTICLE IV 
Financial Covenants
 
Page  8
-
7
-
Section 4.01. (a) The Recipient shall establish and maintain a financial 
management system, including records and accounts, and prepare financial statements in 
accordance with consistently applied accounting standards acceptable to the Association, 
adequate to reflect the operations, resources and expenditures related to the Project. 
(b) The 
Recipient 
shall: 
(i) 
have the financial statements referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section and the records and accounts for the Special Accounts 
for each fiscal year, commencing with the fiscal year in which 
the first withdrawal under the Project Preparation Advance was 
made, audited, in accordance with auditing standards acceptable 
to the Association, consistently applied, by independent auditors 
acceptable to the Association; 
(ii) 
furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any case 
not later than six months after the end of each such year, (A) 
certified copies of the financial statements referred to in 
paragraph (a) of this Section for such year as so audited, and (B) 
an opinion on such statements, records and accounts and report 
of such audit, by said auditors, of such scope and in such detail 
as the Association shall have reasonably requested; and 
(iii) 
furnish to the Association such other information concerning 
such records and accounts and the audit thereof, and concerning 
said auditors, as the Association shall from time to time 
reasonably request. 
(c) 
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Grant 
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure or on the basis of the 
reports referred to in Part A.5 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement (Report-based 
Disbursements), the Recipient shall: 
(i) 
ensure that all records (contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts 
and other documents) evidencing such expenditures are retained 
until at least one year after the end of the fiscal year in which the 
last withdrawal from the Grant Account was made;  
(ii) 
enable the Association’s representatives to examine such 
records; and 
(iii) 
ensure that such reports or statements of expenditure are included in any 
audit that the Association may have requested pursuant to  paragraph (b) 
of this Section. 
Page  9
-
8
-
Section 4.02. (a) Without limitation upon the Recipient’s progress reporting 
obligations set out in paragraph 4 of Section III of Schedule 4 to this Agreement, the 
Recipient shall prepare and furnish to the Association a Financial Monitoring Report, in 
form and substance satisfactory to the Association, which: 
(i) 
sets forth sources and uses of funds for the Project, both 
cumulatively and for the period covered by said report, showing 
separately funds provided under the Grant and explains variances 
between the actual and planned uses of such funds; 
(ii) 
describes physical progress in Project implementation, both 
cumulatively and for the period covered by said report, and 
explains variances between the actual and planned Project 
implementation; and 
(iii) 
sets forth the status of procurement under the Project, as at the 
end of the period covered by said report. 
(b) 
The first FMR shall be furnished to the Association not later than 45 
days after the end of the first calendar quarter after the Effective Date, and shall cover the 
period from the incurrence of the first expenditure under the Project through the end of 
such first calendar quarter; thereafter, each FMR shall be furnished to the Association not 
later than 45 days after each subsequent calendar quarter, and shall cover such calendar 
quarter. 
ARTICLE V 
Remedies of the Association
 
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (l) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional event is specified, namely, that a situation will have arisen which 
will make it improbable that the Program or a significant part thereof will be carried out. 
 
Page  10
-
9
-
ARTICLE VI 
Effectiveness; Termination 
Section 
6.01. The following events are specified as conditions to the 
effectiveness of the Grant within the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of the General 
Conditions: 
(a) 
the Recipient has appointed the following key staff under terms of 
reference acceptable to the Association and in accordance with the provisions of Section 
II of Schedule 3 to this Agreement: the Project manager, the finance manager and the 
procurement specialist; and 
(b) 
the Recipient has advertised the position of the Project’s independent 
evaluator in accordance with the provisions of Section II of Schedule 3 to this 
Agreement, for purposes of Part D of the Project. 
Section 6.02. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is hereby 
specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions. 
Section 6.03. This Agreement shall continue in effect until the Grant has been 
fully disbursed and the parties to this Agreement have fulfilled their obligations 
hereunder. 
Page  11
-
10
-
ARTICLE VII 
Representative of the Recipient; Addresses
 
Section 7.01. The Minister of Finance of the Recipient is designated as 
representative of the Recipient for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General 
Conditions. 
Section 
7.02 The following addresses are specified for the purposes of 
Section 11.01 of the General Conditions: 
For the Recipient: 
Ministry of Finance  
 
P.O. Box 30049 
 
Capital City 
 
Lilongwe 3 
 
Malawi 
 
Cable 
address: 
 Telex: 
  Facsimile: 
 
FINANCE 
 
 44407 
MI 
 265-1-789173 
 
Lilongwe  
For the Association: 
International Development Association 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
United States of America 
Cable 
address: 
Telex: 
  Facsimile: 
INDEVAS 248423 
(MCI) 
 
(202) 
477-6391 
Washington, D.C. 
  64145 (MCI) 
Page  12
-
11
-
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly 
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective 
names in Lilongwe, Republic of Malawi, as of the day and year first above written. 
 
REPUBLIC OF MALAWI 
 
/s/ Goodall Gondwe 
 
By 
Authorized Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
/s/ Hartwig Schafer 
By 
Authorized Representative 
Page  13
-
12
-
SCHEDULE 1
 
A. 
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Grant 
1. 
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Grant, the allocation of the amounts of the Grant to each Category and 
the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category: 
 
Amount of the 
 
Grant Allocated 
% of 
 
(Expressed in 
Expenditures 
 Category
SDR Equivalent
)
to be Financed
(1) 
LAFD Subprojects 
            9,500,000 
 
100% of amounts  
 
disbursed 
 
(2) 
Goods                                              1,210,000                    100% of foreign 
 
expenditures 
 
80%
of local 
 
expenditures 
 
(3) 
Consultant                                       1,440,000                     100% of foreign 
 Services 
 
expenditures 
and 
 
80%
of local 
 
expenditures 
 
(4) 
Training and Workshops                1,590,000 
 
100% of foreign 
 
expenditures 
 
80%
of local 
 
expenditures  
 
 
(5) 
Operating Costs 
2,680,000 
85% in 2004/05 
 
80%
in 2005/06 
 
75%
thereafter 
 
(6) 
Refunding of 
510,000 
Amount due pursuant 
 
Project Preparation 
 
to Section 2.02 (b) of 
 Advances 
 
this 
Agreement 
 
(7) Unallocated 
1,170,000 
 
_________
TOTAL 18,100,000 
 
========  
Page  14
-
13
-
2. 
For the purposes of this Schedule: 
(a) 
the term “foreign expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of 
any country other than that of the Recipient for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of any country other than that of the Recipient;  
(b) 
the term “local expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of the 
Recipient for goods, works or services supplied from the territory of the Recipient; and 
(c) 
the term “Operating Costs” means the incremental costs incurred by the 
Recipient in the implementation, management and supervision of the Project for salaries 
and benefits for contractual staff, per diems, office supplies, vehicle fuel, maintenance  
and insurance for motor vehicles, office equipment and furniture, utilities and office rent, 
but excluding the salaries of the Recipient’s civil servants. 
3. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement.  
4. 
The Association may require withdrawals from the Grant Account to be made on 
the basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures under contracts for: (a) goods 
costing less than $150,000 equivalent per contract; (b) services of individual consultants 
costing less than $50,000 equivalent per contract; (c) services of consulting firms under 
contracts costing less than $100,000 equivalent per contract; (d) training and workshops; 
(e) Operating Costs; and (f) the LAFD Subprojects, all under such terms and conditions 
as the Association shall specify by notice to the Recipient. 
5. 
The Recipient may request withdrawals from the Grant Account to be made on 
the basis of reports to be submitted to the Association in form and substance satisfactory 
to the Association, such reports to include the FMR and any other information as the 
Association shall specify by notice to the Recipient (Report-based Disbursements). In the 
case of the first such request submitted to the Association before any withdrawal has been 
made from the Grant Account, the Recipient shall submit to the Association only a 
statement with the projected sources and applications of funds for the Project for the 
quarter following the date of such request. 
B. 
Special Accounts  
1. 
The Recipient may open and maintain in Dollars two special deposit accounts 
(Special Account-MASAF and Special Account-MOLPPS) in a commercial bank 
acceptable to the Association, on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association, 
including appropriate protection against set-off, seizure and attachment. 
2. 
After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special 
Accounts have been opened, withdrawals from the Grant Account of amounts to be 
deposited into the Special Accounts shall be made as follows: 
Page  15
-
14
-
(a) 
if the Recipient is not making Report-based Disbursements, withdrawals 
shall be made in accordance with the provisions of Annex A to this Schedule 1; and  
 
(b) 
if the Recipient is making Report-based Disbursements, withdrawals shall 
be made in accordance with the provisions of Annex B to this Schedule 1.
 
3. 
Payments out of the Special Accounts shall be made exclusively for Eligible 
Expenditures.  For each payment made by the Recipient out of the Special Accounts, the 
Recipient shall, at such time as the Association shall reasonably request, furnish to the 
Association such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made 
exclusively for Eligible Expenditures. 
4. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part B.2 of this Schedule, the Association shall 
not be required to make further deposits into the Special Accounts:  
 
(a) 
if the Association, at any time, is not satisfied that the reports referred to 
in Part A.5 of this Schedule 1 adequately provide the information required for Report-
based Disbursements;  
 
(b) 
if the Association determines at any time that all further withdrawals for 
payment of Eligible Expenditures should be made by the Recipient directly from the 
Grant Account; or 
 
(c) 
if the Recipient shall have failed to furnish to the Association, within the 
period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit reports 
required to be furnished to the Association pursuant to said Section in respect of the audit 
of: (A) the records and accounts for the Special Accounts; or (B) the records and 
accounts reflecting expenditures with respect to which withdrawals were Report-based 
Disbursements or were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, as the case may 
be.  
5. 
The Association shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special 
Accounts in accordance with the provisions of Part B.2 of this Schedule if, at any time, 
the Association shall have notified the Recipient of its intention to suspend in whole or in 
part the right of the Recipient to make withdrawals from the Grant Account pursuant to 
Section 6.02 of the General Conditions. Upon such notification, the Association shall 
determine, in its sole discretion, whether further deposits into the Special Accounts may 
be made and what procedures should be followed for making such deposits, and shall 
notify the Recipient of its determination. 
6. 
(a) 
If the Association determines at any time that any payment out of the 
Special Accounts was made for an expenditure which is not an Eligible Expenditure, or 
was not justified by the evidence furnished to the Association, the Recipient shall, 
promptly upon notice from the Association, provide such additional evidence as the 
Association may request, or deposit into the respective Special Account (or, if the 
Page  16
-
15
-
Association shall so request, refund to the Association) an amount equal to the amount of 
such payment.  Unless the Association shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the 
Association into the Special Accounts shall be made until the Recipient has provided 
such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may be. 
 
(b) 
If the Association determines at any time that any amount outstanding in 
the Special Accounts will not be required to cover payments for Eligible Expenditures 
during the six-month period following such determination, the Recipient shall, promptly 
upon notice from the Association, refund to the Association such outstanding amount. 
 
(c) 
The Recipient may, upon notice to the Association, refund to the 
Association all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Accounts.  
 
(d) 
Refunds to the Association made pursuant to subparagraph (a), (b) or (c) 
of this paragraph 6 shall be credited to the Grant Account for subsequent withdrawal or 
for cancellation in accordance with the provisions of the Development Grant Agreement. 
Page  17
-
16
-
Annex A 
to 
SCHEDULE 1 
Operation of Special Accounts When Withdrawals Are Not 
Report-based Disbursements 
 
1. 
For the purposes of this Annex, the term “Authorized Allocation” means: 
(i)  
in respect of Special Account-MASAF, an amount equivalent to 
$1,200,000 to be withdrawn from the Grant Account and 
deposited into the Special Account-MASAF pursuant to 
paragraph 2 of this Annex; and 
(ii) 
in respect of Special Account-MOLPPS, an amount equivalent to 
$700,000 to be withdrawn from the Grant Account and deposited 
into the Special Account-MOLPPS pursuant to paragraph 2 of 
this Annex. 
2. 
Withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to 
replenish the Special Accounts shall be made as follows:  
 
(a) 
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Recipient shall furnish 
to the Association a request or requests for deposit into the respective Special Account of 
an amount or amounts which in the aggregate do not exceed the Authorized Allocation. 
On the basis of each such request, the Association shall, on behalf of the Recipient, 
withdraw from the Grant Account and deposit into the respective Special Account such 
amount as the Recipient shall have requested.  
 
(b) 
For replenishment of the respective Special Account, the Recipient shall 
furnish to the Association requests for deposit into the respective Special Account at such 
intervals as the Association shall specify. Prior to or at the time of each such request, the 
Recipient shall furnish to the Association the documents and other evidence required 
pursuant to Part B.3 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for the payment or payments in 
respect of which replenishment is requested. On the basis of each such request, the 
Association shall, on behalf of the Recipient, withdraw from the Grant Account and 
deposit into the respective Special Account such amount as the Recipient shall have 
requested and as shall have been shown by said documents and other evidence to have 
been paid out of the respective Special Account for Eligible Expenditures. Each such 
deposit into the respective Special Account shall be withdrawn by the Association from 
the Grant Account under one or more of the Eligible Categories. 
3. 
The Association shall not be required to make further deposits into the respective 
Special Account once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Grant minus the total amount 
of all outstanding special commitments entered into by the Association pursuant to 
Page  18
-
17
-
Section 5.02 of the General Conditions shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of 
the respective Authorized Allocation. Thereafter, withdrawal from the Grant Account of 
the remaining unwithdrawn amount of the Grant shall follow such procedures as the 
Association shall specify by notice to the Recipient. Such further withdrawals shall be 
made only after and to the extent that the Association shall have been satisfied that all 
such amounts remaining on deposit in the respective Special Account as of the date of 
such notice will be utilized in making payments for Eligible Expenditures. 
Page  19
-
18
-
Annex B 
to 
SCHEDULE 1 
Operation of Special Accounts 
When Withdrawals Are 
Report-based Disbursements 
 
1. 
Withdrawals from the Grant Account shall be deposited by the Association into 
the Special Accounts in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement. 
Each such deposit into the Special Accounts shall be withdrawn by the Association from 
the Grant Account under one or more of the Eligible Categories.  
2. 
Upon receipt of each application for withdrawal of an amount of the Grant, the 
Association shall, on behalf of the Recipient, withdraw from the Grant Account and 
deposit into each respective Special Account an amount equal to the lesser of: (a) the 
amount so requested; and (b) the amount which the Association has determined, based on 
the reports referred to in Part A.5 of this Schedule 1 applicable to such withdrawal 
application, is required to be deposited in order to finance Eligible Expenditures during 
the quarter following the date of such reports. 
Page  20
-
19
-
SCHEDULE 2 
Description of the Project 
The objective of the Project is to increase the incomes of about fifteen thousand 
(15,000) poor rural families through the implementation of a decentralized, voluntary 
community-based land reform pilot program on Eligible Land in the Project Districts. 
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications thereof 
as the Recipient and the Association may agree upon from time to time to achieve such 
objectives: 
Part A
:
Land Acquisition and Farm Development Subprojects
Carrying out of LAFD Subprojects, through the acquisition and development of 
land by Beneficiary Groups. 
Part B
:
Land Administration
Strengthen
ing the Recipient’s land administration system through the 
development of the capacity of the MOLPPS at both the national and the local 
government levels to assist the Beneficiary Groups in the purchase and transfer of land 
acquired under the Project, through the provision of training, acquisition of equipment 
and vehicles, and Operating Costs. 
Part C
:
Capacity Building
Carrying out capacity building activities targeted at the PMU, MOLPPS, District 
Executive Committees, traditional community leaders, civil society organizations, 
professional associations, Beneficiary Groups and vulnerable groups such as women and 
the destitute including the: (i) dissemination of Project related information and 
procedures; (ii) establishment of a land data base and publication of a Project Districts 
news letter; and (iii) provision of support to Beneficiary Groups in the land acquisition 
and development process through mobilization of Beneficiary Groups, carrying out of 
participatory rural appraisals, farm assessments and purchase negotiations, preparation of 
farm development proposals, environmental impact assessments and pest management 
techniques. 
Part D
:
Project Management, Monitoring and Evaluation
1. 
Project Management, including administration, coordination and supervision of 
activities to be implemented under the Project. 
2. 
Design and implementation of a monitoring and evaluation system to assess inter 
alia
:
(i) the number and cost of farms acquired under the Project by Beneficiary Groups; 
Page  21
-
20
-
(ii) number of poor, rural families that benefit from the Project; and (iii) the speed with 
which Beneficiary Groups commence agricultural production on purchased land. 
*
*
*
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 2008. 
Page  22
-
21
-
SCHEDULE 3 
Procurement 
Section I
.
Procurement of Good and Works
Part A
:
General
Goods and works shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Section 
I
of
the “Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits” published by 
the Bank in January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996, September 1997 and 
January 1999 (the Guidelines) and the following provisions of Section I of this Schedule. 
Part B
:
International Competitive Bidding
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods shall be procured 
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of the Guidelines 
and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto. 
Part C
:
Other Procurement Procedures
1. 
National Competitive Bidding
Goods estimated to cost more than $30,000 equivalent and less than $150,000 
equivalent per contract may be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the Guidelines. 
2. 
International or National Shopping
Goods estimated to cost less than $30,000 equivalent per contract may be 
procured under contracts awarded on the basis of international/national shopping 
procedures in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines. 
3. Direct 
Contracting
Goods which should be procured as an extension of an existing contract or must 
be purchased from the original supplier to be compatible with existing equipment or are 
of a proprietary nature or must be procured from a particular supplier as a condition of a 
performance guarantee and costing $1,000,000 equivalent or less in the aggregate, may, 
with the Association's prior agreement, be procured in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraph 3.7 of the Guidelines. 
Page  23
-
22
-
4. Community 
Participation
Procurement for the LAFD Subprojects under Part A of the Project shall be 
carried out in accordance with procedures acceptable to the Association set forth in the 
PIM. 
Part D
:
Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
1. Procurement 
Planning
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to bid for contracts, the proposed 
procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to the Association for its review and 
approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the 
Guidelines. Procurement of all goods and works shall be undertaken in accordance with 
such procurement plan as shall have been approved by the Association, and with the 
provisions of said paragraph 1. 
2. Prior 
Review
With respect to: (a) the first two LAFD Subprojects in each of the Project 
Districts; and (b) the first two contracts for goods procured under National Competitive 
Bidding procedures, the first three contracts procured under National/International 
Shopping procedures, and thereafter each contract estimated to cost the equivalent of 
$150,000 or more, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the 
Guidelines shall apply. 
3. Post 
Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. 
Section II
.
Employment of Consultants
Part A
:
General
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of 
Sections I and IV of the “Guidelines:  Selection and Employment of Consultants by 
World Bank Borrowers” published by the Bank in January 1997 and revised in 
September 1997, January 1999 and May 2002 (the Consultant Guidelines), paragraph 1 
of Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 thereto and the following provisions of this Section. 
Part B
:
Quality- and Cost-based Selection
1. 
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, consultants’ services shall 
be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of 
Page  24
-
23
-
the Consultant Guidelines, and the provisions of paragraphs 3.13 through 3.18 thereof 
applicable to quality- and cost-based selection of consultants. 
2. 
The following provision shall apply to consultants’ services to be procured under 
contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of the preceding paragraph: the short 
list of consultants for services estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per 
contract, may comprise entirely national consultants in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraph 2.7 and footnote 8 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
Part C
:
Other Procedures for the Selection of Consultants
1. Least-cost 
Selection
Services for audits or other activities estimated to cost less than $100,000 
equivalent per contract may be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.6 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
2. 
Selection Based on Consultants’ Qualifications
Services estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per contract may be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 
and 3.7 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
3. 
Single Source Selection
Services which are estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per contract, 
may, with the Association's prior agreement, be procured in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraphs 3.8 through 3.11 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
4. Individual 
Consultants
Services of individual consultants for tasks that meet the requirements set forth in 
paragraph 5.1 of the Consultant Guidelines shall be procured under contracts awarded in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 5.1 through 5.3 of the Consultant 
Guidelines. 
Part D
:
Review by the Association of the Selection of Consultants
1. Selection 
Planning
A
plan for the selection of consultants, which shall include contract cost 
estimates, contract packaging, and applicable selection criteria and procedures, shall be 
furnished to the Association for its review and approval prior to the issuance to 
consultants of any requests for proposals.  Such plan shall be updated annually during the 
execution of the Project, and each such updating shall be furnished to the Association for 
its review and approval.   
Page  25
-
24
-
2. Prior 
Review
(a) 
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more, the procedures set forth in 
paragraphs 2, 3 and 5 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply. 
 
(b) 
With respect to each contract for the employment of individual 
consultants estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more, the report on the 
comparison of the qualifications and experience of candidates, terms of reference and 
terms of employment of the consultants shall be furnished to the Association for its prior 
review and approval.  The contract shall be awarded only after the said approval shall 
have been given. The provisions of paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant 
Guidelines shall also apply to such contracts. 
3. Post 
Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall 
apply. 
 
Page  26
-
25
-
SCHEDULE 4 
Implementation Program
 
Section I
:
Project Implementation Generally
Project Management
The Recipient shall
:
(i) MASAF-MU
:
maintain the MASAF-MU until the completion of the Project for 
purposes of the implementation of Part A of the Project, 
including the procurement and financial management aspects, 
and shall to this end, appoint thereto staff with qualifications, 
experience and terms of reference acceptable to the Association.  
(ii) PMU
:
maintain throughout Project implementation the PMU
 
and 
appoint thereto staff having experience and qualifications 
satisfactory to the Association.  The PMU shall be responsible 
for the implementation of Parts B, C and D of the Project, and 
shall collaborate, as necessary, with the MASAF-MU with 
respect to the implementation of Part A of the Project. 
(iii) 
CBRLD Project Steering Committee
:
maintain through out Project implementation the CBRLD Project 
Steering Committee to oversee the overall implementation of the 
Project. 
(b) 
The Recipient shall carry out the Project in accordance with procedures 
set forth in the PIM and the EMP, and except as the Association shall otherwise agree, 
shall not amend or waive any provisions thereof if such amendment or waiver, may in the 
opinion of the Association, materially or adversely affect the implementation of the 
Project. 
Section II
:
LAFD Subprojects: Eligibility Criteria and Procedures
(a) 
Potential Beneficiary Groups shall submit a proposal to receive funds for 
the purchase of land under the Project to the land officer in the relevant Project District 
who shall make a preliminary desk appraisal of the proposal taking into account the 
agreed eligibility criteria specified in the PIM, including confirmation that the members 
of the Beneficiary Group are: (i) Malawian citizens; (ii) poor and do not own or own 
Page  27
-
26
-
insignificant portions of land insufficient to support their subsistence; and (iii) willing to 
farm and capable of undertaking the LAFD Subproject as a group. 
 
(b) 
A pre-qualified Beneficiary Group shall identify a farm for purchase, 
from the Eligible Land, negotiate the sale price with the existing land owner and enter 
into a provisional sale agreement.  The Beneficiary Group shall also draw up a 
preliminary farm plan which shall describe inter
alia
:
(i) the nature of the proposed 
agricultural production; (ii) a basic land use and environmental plan; (iii) the form of 
legal entity under which the Beneficiary Group proposes to acquire the farm; and (iv) the 
property regime under which the Beneficiary Group proposes to hold the land. 
 
(c) 
The Beneficiary Group shall submit the provisional sale agreement and 
farm plan to the relevant District land officer who shall upon receipt thereof issue a 
public notice announcing the intended sale and inviting anyone with a prior claim to the 
land to declare their interest therein within twenty-one (21) days of issuing such notice. 
 
(d) 
The District land officer shall lead a team to carry out a field appraisal 
during which the said team shall inter
alia
:
(i) confirm that the proposed Beneficiary 
Group meets the agreed eligibility criteria as set forth in the PIM; (ii) review the 
provisional sale agreement, farm purchase price and farm plan; (iii) review the 
environmental and social aspects affecting the proposed land purchase; and (iv) carry out 
a
preliminary determination as to whether the land title is free of any encumbrances and 
not subject to any prior claims, pending the expiration of the notice issued under 
paragraph (c) of this Section II.  
 
(e) 
The District land officer shall submit all proposals with a positive 
outcome at field appraisal stage to the District Executive Committee which shall inter
alia
assess the following: (i) that the Beneficiary Group has met the agreed eligibility criteria 
set forth in the PIM; (ii) that the proposed sale price is fair and reflective of prevailing 
market conditions; (iii) the validity of the proposed farm plan; (iv) the environmental and 
social aspects and proposed mitigation measures; (v) that the twenty-one (21) day notice 
issued by the District land officer under paragraph (c) of this Section II has lapsed 
without any objections to the proposed land purchase being made by any party; and (vi) 
the key communal infrastructure that could be financed from the MASAF. 
 
(f) 
Land acquisition and farm development proposals approved by the 
District Executive Committee will be submitted to the PMU for submission to the NTAC 
for final approval. 
 
(g) 
Following NTAC approval, the Beneficiary Group shall enter into the 
LAFD Grant Agreement with  the MASAF-MU which shall have terms and conditions 
which shall include the following: 
 
(i) 
details of the proposed land purchase; 
Page  28
-
27
-
(ii) 
five per cent (5%) of the remaining LAFD Subproject grant after  
payment for the land purchase is made shall be provided to the 
Beneficiary Group as a settlement allowance and the remainder 
as farm development working capital to be disbursed in three 
tranches of forty per cent (40%), thirty per cent (30%) and thirty 
per cent (30%), respectively; 
(iii) 
the Beneficiary Group shall implement the LAFD Subproject 
with due diligence and efficiency, in accordance with the PIM 
and sound technical, financial, environmental and managerial 
standards; 
(iv) 
the Beneficiary Group shall establish a project management 
committee to manage the implementation of the farm 
development activities; 
(v) 
a detailed farm development plan; 
(vi) 
the obligations of the Beneficiary Group including the provision 
of at least ten per cent (10%) of the farm development portion of 
the LAFD Subproject grant as a cash or in-kind contribution, and 
implementation of any required environmental management 
measures; 
(vii) 
the Beneficiary Group shall maintain adequate records reflecting 
the operations, resources and expenditures incurred under the 
LAFD Subproject in accordance with sound accounting practices 
acceptable to the Association; 
(viii) 
the land, goods, works and services financed from the proceeds 
of the grant shall be procured in accordance with the procedures 
set forth in Schedule 3 to the Development Grant Agreement, 
and used exclusively for the implementation of the LAFD 
Subproject; and 
(ix) 
the right of the Recipient to inspect by itself, or jointly with the 
Association, if the Association shall so request, the land, goods, 
works and operations thereof, and any relevant records or 
documents.  
(h) 
Once the LAFD Grant Agreement is duly signed by the parties thereto, 
the MASAF-MU shall issue Bank cheque to the seller of the land and property ownership 
shall be transferred to the Beneficiary Group in its selected legal form. The Beneficiary 
Group shall subsequently receive its settlement allowance and farm development working 
capital, in accordance with the terms of the said LAFD Grant Agreement.  
Page  29
-
28
-
Section III
:
Progress Reviews/Monitoring and Evaluation
1. 
Annual Procurement Plans
:
The Recipient shall provide to the Association during each year of Project 
implementation a procurement plan to be submitted no later than May 15 of each such 
year. 
2. 
Semi-annual financial audits
:
Without limitation to the provisions of Article IV of this Agreement, the 
Recipient shall carry out an additional financial audit half-way into each Project fiscal 
year.  The  financial audits of the Project shall be used as a basis for the preparation of an 
action plan to strengthen the Project’s system of financial management at the community, 
District and national levels. 
3. Independent 
Evaluator
:
The Recipient shall appoint an independent evaluator for the Project within six 
months of the Effective Date of this Agreement. 
4. Mid-term 
Review
:
The Recipient shall: 
 
(a) 
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and 
evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with indicators set forth in Schedule 5 to this 
Agreement, the carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof; 
 
(b) 
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Association, and 
furnish to the Association, on or about September 30, 2006, a report integrating the 
results of the monitoring and evaluation activities performed pursuant to paragraph (a) of 
this Section, on the progress achieved in the carrying out of the Project during the period 
preceding the date of said report and setting out the measures recommended to ensure the 
efficient carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof during 
the period following such date. The report would be used as the basis for discussions 
during the mid-term review carried out on the date set forth in paragraph (c) below; and 
(c) 
review with the Association, by December 31, 2006, or such later date as 
the Association shall request, the report referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section, and, 
thereafter, take all measures required to ensure the efficient completion of the Project 
and 
the achievement of the objectives thereof, based on the conclusions and recommendations 
of the said report and the Association’s views on the matter. 
Page  30
-
29
-
SCHEDULE 5 
Performance Monitoring Indicators 
1. 
Number of poor, rural families settled on farms acquired through the Project. 
2. 
The number of hectares of land acquired, and the cost and speed of land 
acquisition, for each Beneficiary Group. 
3. 
The speed and cost of commencing agricultural production on purchased land for 
each Beneficiary Group. 
4. 
Changes in the income levels of families participating in the Project. 
5. 
Changes in agricultural production levels. 
6. 
Number of Beneficiary Groups that have received land ownership title 
documentation. 
7. 
Number of hectares of land registered, the speed and cost of the land registration 
process, and the number of sketch maps completed. 
8. 
Number and quality of land acquisition and farm development proposals received 
from eligible Beneficiary Groups, number of LAFD Subprojects approved, and the 
number of LAFD Subprojects with LAFD Subproject grants fully disbursed and 
accounted for. 
9. Ti
meliness and quality of content of the reports generated from the Project’s 
monitoring and evaluation system.
 
