Report No. PID7121
Project Name                     Argentina-Fourth Social Protection (+)
Project
Region                           Latin America and Caribbean Region
Sector                           Social Assistance, Other Social Sector
Project                          ARPE6058
Borrower(s)                      The Argentine Republic
Implementing Agency              Secretaria de Dessarrollo Social (Social
Development Secretariat)
Environment Category             B
Date PID Prepared                December 1, 1998
Projected Appraisal Date         August 1998
Projected Board Date             October 15, 1998
1. Country and Sector Background
Demand-driven Approach and the Ability to Participate. The objectives of the
Argentine Government's social policy in recent years have been to satisfy the
basic needs of the population and to provide opportunities for participating
in the process of economic development to overcome the various causes and
manifestations of poverty. Successful implementation of such a policy would
require the type of program administration that can respond to diverse needs
and demands at the local level in a transparent and participatory manner, and
would depend on the ability of the intended beneficiaries, particularly the
poor, to take advantage of the opportunities presented.
Social Sector Information. The Government has also employed the strategy to
provide an overall policy and institutional framework by establishing
standards, encouraging the application of sound criteria and using a
combination of moral suasion, institutional support and dissemination of best
practices to improve spending at the provincial level. Several Bank and IDB
supported operations, in the area of health, education and economic
management, are directly helping the provinces. A high priority has been
placed on improving the availability and the quality of social indicators and
information of program beneficiaries, to effectively target poor and
vulnerable groups, to identify their unmet needs, and to design and implement
effective systems to satisfy those needs.
Social Protection I. Within the above-mentioned context, in 1995 the
Government requested the Bank's support in establishing FOPAR, a pilot Social
Investment Fund, which was expected to design and test mechanisms to build
capacities of the poor in identifying and prioritizing needs, designing and
implementing small projects accordingly, and mobilize resources to carry out
such projects in a participatory manner. Another request was made to support
the establishment of SIEMPRO, a mechanism that would contribute to the
improved design and implementation of social programs by making information
more widely available, by carrying out the analyses and evaluations of
policies and programs, and by strengthening the capacity of provincial and
national agencies in information management and analysis as well as policy and



program evaluation. In response, Bank-financing was provided to FOPAR and
SIEMPRO under the Social Protection I (SP I), along with other targeted
interventions.
2. Objectives
The primary objectives of the Project would be to assist the Argentine
Government in: (i) building capacities in poor communities to better manage
the process to improve their welfare; (ii) providing poor communities with
technical assistance and grants for beneficiary-identified small scale
subprojects that would meet specific needs; and (iii) improving the focus and
management of social programs by improving the availability and quality of
social sector specific information, the capacity to effectively target social
services to the poor, and the methodologies to monitor and evaluate social
sector programs.
The above-mentioned objectives would be pursued through the following two
programs within the Social Development Secretariat (SecretarUa de Desarrollo
Social; SDS). First, the Participatory Social Investment Fund (Fondo
Participativo de Inversi6n Social; FOPAR), established under the SP I as a
two-year pilot program, would expand its operations. The main objective of
the Fund is to build institutional capacity among the poor, and simultaneously
to provide them with means to meet specific necessities. It is important to
recognize that FOPAR has defined its subprojects not only as the means to
satisfy specific needs of the poor, but also as the training vehicle to build
and strengthen the ability to identify, define and prioritize their needs, and
then mobilize and manage resources to design, implement and operate their own
projects.
Second, the Technical Assistance for the Improvement of Social
Information and Monitoring and Evaluation of Targeted Social Programs (Sistema
de Informaci6n, Evaluaci6n y Monitoreo de Programas Sociales; SIEMPRO) would
enter into the second phase to establish itself as a catalyst in changing the
focus and management of social programs by improving the accessibility and
quality of information, promoting transparency, participation of the civil
society and appropriate targeting of social services to the poor.
3. Rationale for Bank's Involvement
The Bank's support has facilitated the provisions of knowledge and expertise
to FOPAR/SIEMPRO (see also 8. Lessons learned).
4. Description
FOPAR-2: would have the following three subcomponents
(a) Community Subprojects: Through the provision of technical and financial
assistance, FOPAR would support the identification, design and implementation
of small-scale subprojects in the poor communities in approximately 170
poorest districts in ten northern provinces and in a southern region. The
average size of subprojects is estimated to be around US$ 47,000 equivalent,
and approximately 2,000 subprojects would be supported during a four-year
period. Eligible types of subprojects are defined in the FOPAR Operational
Manual, including construction of multi-purpose community centers, latrines
and other rudimentary sanitation facilities, rudimentary water systems (hand-
pumps and vats), pedestrian bridges and other minor civil works, training
programs for leadership building and vocational skills, preservation of
cultural heritage, environmental management, and community-network building.
- 2 -



(b) Knowledge and Methodology Transfer and Capacity Building. Under this
subcomponent, FOPAR would promote participatory approaches through educational
campaign, seminars and workshops and the provision of technical assistance to
interested government agencies and programs at both central and local levels.
Technical assistance would be given based on a concrete technical assistance
agreement between FOPAR and the beneficiary agency, and would cover topics
such as targeting, operational modalities and MIS. In addition, FOPAR would
actively support the development of poor communities' capacity to manage
beneficiary-identified small scale subprojects though promotion, evaluation
and supervision of community subprojects.
(c) Project Management. Under this component, FOPAR would establish and
operationalize four new provincial units (UPFs) and provincial participatory
councils in the north, and several regional units and a regional council in
the southern region. This subcomponent would also support day-to-day
operation of FOPAR, internal staff training and capacity building, project
administration, audits and monitoring and evaluation.
SIEMPRO-2:
SIEMPRO would continue to promote transparency, participation of the
civil society and appropriate targeting of social services to the poor through
the following subcomponents: (a) Social Information Base - the improvement of
the social information-base for timely monitoring and analysis of the
situation of the poor and vulnerable groups; (b) Evaluation and Monitoring -
the development of appropriate methodologies and systems for targeting,
monitoring and evaluation (ex-ante/ex-post) of social programs, and evaluation
studies on a demand-driven basis; (c) Capacity Building of Provinces - the
dissemination and transfer of developed methodologies and social information
systems to appropriate national and provincial agencies, and (d) Social Policy
Analysis - the provision of assistance to the SDS to establish priorities and
assure coordination of social programs directed to the poor.
5. Financing
Total ( US$m)
Government                       42.1
IBRD                             90.8
IDA                              0
Total Project Cost               132.9
6. Implementation
Implementation period: FOPAR - 48 months (January 1999 - December 2002) /
SIEMPRO - 39 months (January 1999 - March 2002)
Institutional and implementation arrangements for both FOPAR and SIEMPRO
would remain essentially unchanged. Both programs would continue to be hosted
within the Social Development Secretariat (SDS), which in turn, provides
administrative support to the programs.
7. Sustainability
The Argentine Government has frequently expressed its intentions to fund
FOPAR and SIEMPRO without external financing in the future. Given that these
programs' overall fiscal impact is very small, and that they are both proving
their worth, their sustainability-potentials are high. Considering the
- 3 -



presidential election scheduled towards the end of this year, however, the
concrete plans for sustaining FOPAR and SIEMPRO would have to be discussed
with the new administration. The best opportunity to for such discussions
would be the mid-term review. As for FOPAR subprojects, there are many
encouraging signs. Based on social, technical and economic considerations, a
recent ex-post evaluation concluded that 80t of the infrastructure-type
subprojects within the sample had medium-to-high chance of sustainability.
However, considering the relatively short experience of FOPAR and the small
sample size, the sustainability of subprojects would require continuous
monitoring through periodic ex-post evaluations.
8. Lessons learned from past operations in the country/sector
FOPAR:
Cautious and conservative approach during the initial phase pays off. During
its early days, FOPAR concentrated on internal institution building, and at
the same time, maintained a very cautious attitude in subproject appraisal and
approval. In fact, the number of subprojects approved during the first year
was only 55. By the end of the second year, however, FOPAR had accelerated
the pace of implementation by 15 times, and approved 751 new subprojects,
making the cumulative total to 806, of which 179 had completed and 584 were in
execution. FOPAR, through its rigid appraisal process, also established the
reputation that it adheres to its operational principles, in particular,
community participation and transparency (for example, more than 50; of the
reasons for disapproval were inadequate participatory measures). This
reputation has been effective in buffering the potential of political
interference, and helped ensure that resources are allocated to the areas of
greater need or beneficiary-determined priorities.
Investing in the Management Information System pays off. One of the pay-offs
of concentrating on internal institution building during the initial year --
even at the expense of the speed of subproject processing -- materialized as a
highly effective management information system (MIS), which is often
considered in Latin America and the Caribbean as one of the best MIS
implementation in a SIF. The system was one of the key factors to enable the
above-mentioned rapid efficiency gain as well as the effective targeting. The
technological foundations of the system are rather modest. Also, the system
does not provide any eye-catching but non-essential features like colorful WEB
pages. It is unique, however, in its design and implementation process.
FOPAR hired a private consulting firm to carry out thorough business-process
engineering. This firm observed and worked closely with FOPAR staff of all
levels, and designed detailed data structure and information flow models.
Subsequent system development was carried out with close consultations with
the users (i.e. FOPAR managers and staff); and the system developers (i.e. the
MIS Staff) and the users literally worked side-by-side. In other words, from
the very beginning, FOPAR's MIS developed with the organization's management
and control mechanisms. This process obviously helped identify and overcome
inefficiencies and weakness of FOPAR's operational procedures and
organizational structure. In addition, FOPAR's national coordinator has been
exceptionally supportive and committed to the development of an effective MIS
and its use by the staff. This is almost a textbook example of good (but
often neglected) MIS development and operation regardless of the type of
business or organization (SIF or otherwise).
Formulation of core-beneficiary group increases the chance of participation.
- 4 -



FOPAR is similar to the SIF in Peru (FONCODES) and several African countries
(Zambia and Malawi) in the sense that beneficiaries are formed into groups (in
Argentina, they are called NUBs - Nucleo de Beneficiarios), which serve as the
focal point for subproject preparation and implementation. This has allowed
for participation by communities and beneficiaries which are often excluded
from development initiatives. For example, 59t of NUB members are women;
among urban areas, 36t are under 24 years old and 11    are adolescents.  About
60- of NUB members have no prior experience in participating in systematic
organizational activities that concern the welfare of their own communities.
Necessity to redefine the benefits of social investment funds. Through field
visits during Bank supervision missions and the ex-post evaluation, it has
become clear that FOPAR has generated significant "spill-over" benefits,
including the building of empowerment skills (learning to organize and speak
out, belief that the poor can improve their conditions, confidence in dealing
with government officials, banks and other institutions), institutional skills
(identification of needs, planning and budgeting, handling of contracts,
financial administration) and the transfer of skills and experience to other
community groups (for example, Bank supervision mission members had several
opportunities to sit in self-initiated meetings among NUBs to learn from each
other). In the words of the mayor of a small city in the north, the effect
FOPAR is having makes it easier for the municipal government to serve poorer
areas.
Such benefits are compelling when witnessed on the ground but difficult
to capture in statistics, and may have a significant and lasting effect on a
community or group's ability to address poverty conditions beyond the actual
benefits from the infrastructure or services contained in a subproject. For
example, most members of the communities served by FOPAR have had hardly any
contact with formal financial institutions. There were a number of cases that
local bank tellers refused to attend to the community representatives, denied
the request to open an account, or rejected (even destroyed, in some cases)
FOPAR-issued checks presented by the community representatives. As a result,
FOPAR -- to help the community member establish credibility in the eyes of the
local bank tellers -- modified its procedure and now sends a UPF staff to
accompany the community representatives when they go to a local bank for the
first time to open an account and deposit the first disbursement check.
Having beneficiaries administer resources can lead to lower unit costs, curb
on potential corruption in subproject implementation, and foster flexibility
and creativity. Record keeping, procurement and financial management by the
beneficiaries have been exceptionally good. Two critical factors have been:
(a) training of supervisors to provide on-going technical assistance to
beneficiary groups on administering subproject execution; and (b) incentives
for monitoring by the community -- FOPAR staff explain administrative
requirements to the entire community group (not just the representatives) and
NUBs are required to keep open records which any member of the community can
see. Shopping for materials and withdrawal of funds are always done by more
than one NUB representative. In most cases, the NUB has chosen to self-manage
infrastructure, in part to get more value for money by avoiding contractors
fees. As such, unit costs are coming in significantly lower than similar
projects. Community-execution of subprojects also allows greater flexibility
and creativity. For example, many communities have voluntarily developed and
adopted a scheme to provide paid-work to poorer members. In a rural
indigenous community where jobs are scarce, the community decided to pay twice
- 5 -



the number of laborers at half the budgeted cost as a way of distributing
income more evenly among the community and giving youth construction work
experience.
Experience of Project Competition. Drawing on the experience of FOSIS in
Chile, FOPAR, unlike other SIFs in Latin America and the Caribbean, uses
project competitions (concursos de proyectos). In accordance with the
targeting criteria of FOPAR, CPP (Provincial Participatory Council) selects
eligible disadvantaged neighborhoods and poor districts. A period of
approximately three months is designated for communities to identify their
needs, form beneficiary groups (i.e. NUBs) and seek technical support in the
presentation of subprojects. FOPAR promoters actively assist in this process,
from organizing community meetings, orienting groups in subproject formulation
and identifying technical resources available to NUBs (since geographical
areas are pre-selected, promotion efforts can be highly targeted). The
experience with the project competition reveals both advantages and
disadvantages over the first-come, first-serve alternative, which is more
commonly used in other SIFs in Latin America and the Caribbean. On the
positive side, (a) it orders the pipeline and sends clear signals to
beneficiary groups regarding the rules of the game (how much money is
available, time frame which an approval can be expected, etc.) and thereby
avoids the tremendous buildup up of subprojects waiting to be evaluated like
many other SIFs experience; (b) it facilitates the contracting of technical
experts to review an entire package of similar subproject proposals, and hence
promotes the selection of the 'best' subprojects rather than just the first to
be received; (c) it allows for the opening and closing of windows for certain
subproject types and priority beneficiaries; and (d) since eligible
neighborhoods and rural areas are specified in the competitions, targeting can
be refined and redirected annually. On the negative side, it tends to make
the pipeline lumpy. For instance, large packages of subprojects tend to cause
operational bottlenecks, such as when they enter contracting and approval
stages. Administrative systems and personnel must be structured to handle the
peaks, which may reduce overall administrative efficiency versus a smoother
pipeline flow. In addition, presentation deadlines may work against proposals
from weaker groups. FOPAR would continue to use the competitive mechanism,
but would schedule the competition cycle in such a way to minimize peaks and
down-time, and improve the technical assistance to weaker communities.
The above-mentioned lessons coincide with international experience with
SIFs, discussed at the forums of SIFs like the International Workshop on
Social Fund at the World Bank Headquarters in May 1997 participated in by over
70 funds managers from all over the world, and documented in the following and
many other literature:
Narayan, Deepa and Katrinka Ebbe, 1997. Design of Social Funds:
Participation, Demand Orientation and Local Organizational Capacity (World
Bank Discussion Paper No. 375)
"Portfolio Improvement Program: Review of the Social Funds Portfolio", Quality
Assurance Group (QAG), the World Bank, March 1997.
Carvalho, Sonya, 1994. Social Funds: Guidelines for Design and Implementation
(Human Resources Development and Operations Policy Working Paper)
Gopal, Gita and Alexandre Marc, 1994. World Bank-Financed Projects with
Community Participation: Procurement and Disbursement Issues (World Bank
Discussion Paper No. 265)
"Ten Years of Social Fund Activities in Bolivia" (OED Precis, May 1997)
- 6 -



"A Success and Challenge: AGETIP in Senegal" (OED Precis, May 1997)
Barientos, Jorge, 1998. "A practical approach for designing community-based
operations - with special reference to social funds".
SIEMPRO
Through the course of SIEMPRO, it has become evident that one of the most
valuable contribution of the program is its technical assistance to the
provinces. SIEMPRO would continue strengthening this line. On the other
hand, in some instances, SIEMPRO experienced difficulties in obtaining
necessary cooperation and access to information in carrying out the evaluation
of programs outside the SDS. Consequently, during the first year, SIEMPRO
would concentrate on the evaluation of the program inside the SDS. The
evaluation of the programs outside the SDS would be demand-driven.
Furthermore, to ensure that SIEMPRO's products would serve the needs of
stakeholders as well as to improve the coordination with partnership agencies
like INDEC, SIEMPRO would form an Advisory Council consisting of the
representatives from social sector agencies, partnership agencies, the
academic and NGO communities. In addition, SIEMPRO would take advantage of
the Bank's expertise in poverty analysis and social surveys. The Bank would
be also instrumental in transferring lessons and experience from other clients
as well as the OECD countries.
9. Program of Targeted Intervention (PTI)      See descriptions of FOPAR's
experience under Section 8. in the above.
10. Environment Aspects (including any public consultation)
Issues     :   The SP IV has been assigned a B category.    FOPAR
subprojects are expected to remain small (the expected average size is
$47,000; the average during the pilot phase was US$38,000), and most of the
environmental impacts should be predictable and subsequently avoided or
mitigated with common practice. Sections of FOPAR Operational Manual and
Project Presentation Guides concerning the environment have been reviewed by
Bank staff and found acceptable.
11. Contact Point:
The InfoShop
The World Bank
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone No. (202)458 5454
Fax No. (202) 522 1500
Hideki Mori, Task Team Leader
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington D.C. 20433
Telephone:   (202) 458-1571
Fax:   (202) 614-0365
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain activities and/or
components may not be included in the final project.
-7 -



Processed by the InfoShop week ending December 4, 1998.
- 8 -



Annex
Because this is a Category B project, it may be required that the borrower
prepare a separate EA report. If a separate EA report is required, once it is
prepared and submitted to the Bank, in accordance with OP 4.01, Environmental
Assessment, it will be filed as an annex to the Public Information Document
(PID) .
If no separate EA report is required, the PID will not contain an EA annex;
the findings and recommendations of the EA will be reflected in the body of
the PID.
9



