                                        Document of
                                     The World Bank




                                                                  Report No: 36071

                         IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
                                        (SCL-43980)

                                            ON A

                                           LOAN

                           IN THE AMOUNT OF US$90.75 MILLION

                                          TO THE

                                   ARGENTINE REPUBLIC

                                          FOR A

                           FOURTH SOCIAL PROTECTION PROJECT




                                        June 27, 2006




Human Development Sector Management Unit
Argentina, Chile, Paraguay and Uruguay Country Management Unit
Latin America and the Caribbean Region

                           CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                      (Exchange Rate Effective April 22, 2006)

                             Currency Unit = Argentine Peso
                                 ARS 3.06 = US$ 1
                                     US$ 1 = ARS 3.06

                                   FISCAL YEAR
                             January 1 -   December 31

                      ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS




CAS            Country Assistance Strategy
CY             Calendar Year
EDS II         Segunda Encuesta de Desarrollo Social
               (Second Social Development Survey)
FOPAR          Fondo Participativo de Inversión Social
               (Participatory Social Investment Fund)
GDP            Gross Domestic Product
MDS            Ministerio de Desarrollo Social
               (Ministry of Social Development)
SDS            Secretaría de Desarrollo Social
               (Secretariat of Social Develpment)
SIEMPRO        Sistema de Información, Evaluación y Monitoreo
               de Programas Sociales
               (System for Information, Evaluation and
               Monitoring of Social Programs)




                           Vice President:    Pamela Cox
                         Country Director     Axel van Trotsenburg
                           Sector Director    Evangeline Javier
         Task Team Leader/Task Manager:       Theresa P. Jones

                                        ARGENTINA
                             AR: Fourth Social Protection Project


                                         CONTENTS




                                                                               Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                     1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                    1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry          2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                             5
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                               8
6. Sustainability                                                                   9
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                  11
8. Lessons Learned                                                                13
9. Partner Comments                                                               15
10. Additional Information                                                        15
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                              16
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                              19
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                              21
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                              22
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components              24
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                 25
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                             26
Annex 8. Executive Summary of the Project Completion Report prepared by FOPAR     27
Annex 9. Project Execution Tables                                                 32

Project ID: P006058                                                  Project Name: AR: Fourth Social Protection Project
Team Leader: Theresa Jones                                           TL Unit: LCSHS
ICR Type: Core ICR                                                   Report Date: June 27, 2006


1. Project Data
                   Name: AR: Fourth Social Protection Project                     L/C/TF Number: SCL-43980
   Country/Department: ARGENTINA                                                          Region: Latin America and the
                                                                                                     Caribbean Region

        Sector/subsector: Other social services (55%); General water, sanitation and flood protection sector (20%);
                            Roads and highways (15%); Sub-national government administration (10%)
                  Theme: Participation and civic engagement (P); Social analysis and monitoring (P); Rural services and
                            infrastructure (S); Access to urban services and housing (S); Other social protection and risk
                            management (S)


  KEY DATES                                                                  Original               Revised/Actual
           PCD: 04/28/1998                                     Effective: 09/15/1999                09/15/1999
     Appraisal: 08/05/1998                                         MTR:
      Approval: 10/15/1998                                      Closing: 06/30/2003                 12/31/2005



    Borrower/Implementing Agency:          REPUBLIC OF ARGENTINA/MINISTERIO DE DESARROLLO SOCIAL
                      Other Partners:      Consejo Nacional de Políticas Sociales

STAFF                           Current                                        At Appraisal
Vice President:                 Pamela Cox                                     Shahid Javed Burki
Country Director:               Axel van Trotsenburg                           Myrna L. Alexander
Sector Director:                Evangeline Javier                              Xavier Coll
Team Leader at ICR:             Theresa Jones                                  Hideki Mori
ICR Primary Author:             Marcela Ines Salvador; Jorge C.
                                Barrientos


2. Principal Performance Ratings

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly Unlikely,
HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)

                           Outcome:        S
                      Sustainability:      L
   Institutional Development Impact:       M
                 Bank Performance:         S
            Borrower Performance:          S


                                                      QAG (if available)             ICR
                                  Quality at Entry:                                  S
                     Project at Risk at Any Time: No

    3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry

    3.1 Original Objective:
    The primary objectives of the Fourth Social Protection Project (SP IV) were to assist the
    Argentine Government in: (i) building capacities in poor communities to better manage the
    process to improve their welfare; (ii) providing poor communities with technical assistance and
    grants for beneficiary-identified small scale subprojects that would meet specific needs; and (iii)
    improving the focus and management of social programs by improving the availability and quality
    of social sector specific information, the capacity of effectively targeting social services to the
    poor, and the methodologies to monitor and evaluate social sector programs.

    The objectives of SP IV were pursued through two programs in the Social Development
    Secretariat (SDS), which later became the Ministry of Social Development (MDS). First, the
    Participatory Social Investment Fund (FOPAR), piloted under the first Social Protection project
    (Ln. 3957), was to expand its operations. The main objective of the Fund was to build
    institutional capacity among the poor, and simultaneously to provide them with means to meet
    specific necessities. For FOPAR, subprojects were not primarily the means to satisfy specific
    needs of the poor, but more importantly, were a training vehicle to build and strengthen their
    ability to identify, define and prioritize needs, and then mobilize and manage resources for their
    own projects. Second, the System of Information, Evaluation, and Monitoring of Social
    Programs (SIEMPRO), also financed under the first Social Protection Project, was to enter into
    the second phase to establish itself as a catalyst in changing the focus and management of social
    programs by improving accessibility and quality of information, promoting transparency,
    participation of civil society and targeting of social services to the poor.

    3.2 Revised Objective:
    Although project objectives were not revised, it is important to point out, as explained in more
detail in section 3.4, that FOPAR project components were revised significantly in response to the
collapse of the Argentine economy in 2001/2002. While the FOPAR methodology was maintained
(grants to eligible communities and organizations), the focus of the component shifted from
longer-term capacity building of poor communities to enabling specific community-based
organizations (community kitchens) to respond effectively in the short-run to the surge in demand for
their services and to maintain social capital in the face of the social and political emergency. The
revision in project components did not alter the project objectives, but it did modify both the
subproject implementers (from groups formed of residents of poor communities to community-based
organizations) and the type of subproject implemented (from community centers and sanitary facilities
to feeding services of community kitchens).

    3.3 Original Components:

    Component 1: FOPAR (US$114.8 million)

    (a) Community Subprojects (US$99.1 million): Through provision of technical and financial
    assistance, FOPAR was to support the identification, design and implementation of small-scale
    subprojects in the poor communities in the approximately 170 of the poorest districts in the
    country, expanding its operations from six northern provinces during its pilot phase to ten
    northern provinces and poor communities in six southern provinces. It was expected that 2,000


                                                       - 2 -

subprojects would be supported under the project. Eligible subprojects included construction of
multipurpose community centers, latrines and other rudimentary sanitation facilities, rudimentary
water systems, pedestrian bridges and other minor civil works, training programs for leadership
building and vocational skills, preservation of cultural heritage, environmental management, and
community-network building.

(b) Knowledge and Methodology Transfer and Capacity Building (US$1.9 million):
FOPAR was to promote participatory approaches through educational campaigns, seminars and
workshops, and provide technical assistance to interested government agencies and programs. In
addition, FOPAR was to actively support the development of poor communities' capacity to
manage beneficiary-identified small-scale subprojects through promotion, evaluation and
supervision of community subprojects. This subcomponent also was to support the institutional
strengthening of FOPAR through monitoring and evaluation, audits, internal staff training and
capacity building.

(c) Project Management (US$13.8 million): FOPAR was to establish four new provincial units
and provincial participatory councils in the north, and several regional units and a regional council
in the southern region. This subcomponent was also to support the day-to-day operation of
FOPAR, internal staff training and capacity building, project administration, audits and monitoring
and evaluation.

Component 2: SIEMPRO (US$14 million)
SIEMPRO was to continue to promote transparency, participation of civil society and targeting of
social services to the poor through the following subcomponents: (a) Social Information Base -
the improvement of the social information base for timely monitoring and analysis of poor and
vulnerable groups; (b) Evaluation and Monitoring - the development of appropriate
methodologies and systems for targeting, monitoring, and evaluation of social programs, and
evaluation studies on a demand-driven basis; (c) Capacity Building of Provinces - the
dissemination and transfer of methodologies and social information systems to national and
provincial agencies, and (d) Social Policy Analysis - the provision of assistance to the SDS to
establish priorities and assure coordination of social programs directed to the poor.

3.4 Revised Components:
In early 2002 the Government requested the Bank to revise the project in the context of the Social
Emergency Program, which was geared to provide the material support needed to avoid the most
deleterious impacts of the economic and social crisis on the poor and vulnerable. An important
activity of community- based groups, which became more critical and demanded during the crisis,
was the operation of community kitchens, usually together with other services provided to poor
children and the elderly. The idea was to build on this institutional capacity to mobilize self-help,
provide sustenance to the vulnerable and maintain social capital.

The Government requested that the Social Protection IV Project be amended to include among
the typologies of subprojects eligible for FOPAR grants community kitchens, including the
provision of daily food rations, for vulnerable groups such as pregnant women, poor children and
the elderly. The



                                                 - 3 -

Government believed that the sharp increase in indigence required a change from a longer-term
focus to the short-term priorities of ensuring access to food and the maintenance of social capital.
The Bank did not consider the revised project as a nutrition intervention. Rather, Bank financing
of food was an exceptional, temporary measure to help respond to the crisis by channeling
resources to needy households, particularly children.

Providing grants for community kitchens through FOPAR was consistent with project objectives
and met the Bank criteria at the time for financing food expenditures. First, given the crisis during
2002 in Argentina, the financing of community kitchens was an essential and integral part of the
project. Second, financing for food was not available from other donors, nor from local
resources. Third, the intervention was judged to be cost-effective and its design incorporated
effective targeting mechanisms and adequate monitoring to minimize leakages. The project set
out feasible and cost-effective means of providing food, and adequate standards for the nutritional
content of the rations were set out in the revised operational manual. The evaluation and
selection process for subproject proposals was designed to direct financing to organizations with a
proven ability to reach poor children, pregnant women, and the elderly. The project was
"self-targeted" to the poor, as the better off were unlikely to use community kitchens.
Arrangements to monitor and supervise service delivery to ensure that it reached the intended
beneficiaries were agreed with the Bank.

The Government of Argentina requested the amendment on March 2, 2002 and countersigned it
on June 2, 2002. The amendment added an expenditure category for food expenditures to which
eventually nearly US$60 million was assigned, and expanded the typologies of subprojects which
could be supported by FOPAR to include the operation of community kitchens. The Government
also requested to expand the geographic focus of FOPAR to a national one to reflect the change
in the level and reach of extreme poverty throughout the country. Since the revised component
did not amount to a restructuring, the Country Director signed the amendment. FOPAR
maintained its objective of building institutional capacity among the poor, and simultaneously
providing them with means to meet specific necessities. A President's Memorandum entitled
"Argentina ­ Proposed Amendment to Restructure the Portfolio to Support the Finance of the
Emergency Program" (September 30, 2002, R2002-0189) informed the Board of the adjustments
to the Bank program, including the revision in the Social Protection IV Project. The SIEMPRO
component was not revised, but in mid-2002 the agency was moved from the Ministry of Social
Development to the National Council for the Coordination of Social Policy in the office of the
Chief of Cabinet.

3.5 Quality at Entry:
Quality at entry is rated satisfactory. The objectives of the project were consistent with CAS priorities.
The Social Protection IV Project supported two priorities set out in the CAS (Report No. 16505-AR): the
first was enhanced social development, including poverty alleviation and human development; and the
second was improved performance and institutional capacity of government, particularly subnational
governments, to deliver key social, infrastructure, and environmental services. The project was a poverty
targeted intervention with a geographical targeting mechanism based on poverty maps identifying the
population with unsatisfied basic needs. The project was designed to strengthen the capacity of public
agencies (the Secretariat for Social Development, provincial and local governments) to analyze the needs of
the poor and rural communities and to develop and implement strategies to assist them. The priority of the



                                                     - 4 -

project for the Government was demonstrated by the good performance during the pilot phase and, second,
by their wish to accelerate preparation of a follow-up operation in order to avoid a gap after the end of the
pilot.

The project was consistent with Bank safeguard policies. During project preparation, a social assessment
was carried out and the project appraisal document discussed how indigenous issues were considered in
FOPAR operating procedures. Bank expert staff reviewed and approved the sections of FOPAR's
operational manual concerning the environment. The design of the project was reasonable, particularly
considering the successful pilots. In addition, project preparation stressed learning from the previous
experience. Bank staff drew upon an independent ex-post evaluation of a group of FOPAR subprojects
and interviews with key stakeholders of SIEMPRO. The assumptions of the main risks were reasonable.
The substantial risk identified that a new government could change the strategy was realized, although
mitigation measures (monitoring of budget allocations, rephasing of the project) were not fully effective.
The analysis correctly foresaw the risk (modest) that changes in conditions could change the value seen by
beneficiaries in the original outputs of the FOPAR subprojects. In this case, the identified risk mitigation
measure - adjustment of the types and the contents of outputs - was effective.

4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs

4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:
The project's outcome is assessed as satisfactory because of the favorable rating for FOPAR.
Slower than expected implementation through the end of 2001 initially limited FOPAR's
achievements, but beginning in 2002, FOPAR demonstrated a positive role in building the
capacity of community-based organizations and provided grants enabling community kitchens to
improve the quality and to expand the coverage of feeding services (See Table 1 in Annex 9).
Information on results comes from several sources. First, SIEMPRO organized two qualitative
studies (December 2003 and October 2004) examining the influence of the program on
management of feeding services, the institutional capacity of community organizations and
sustainability. Community kitchens were randomly selected among approved subprojects in 2 sets
of "paired" similar municipalities, one in which the program was operating and the other where
financing had not started. The results showed that for community kitchens with FOPAR support:

   l Quality was higher because of the incorporation of products recommended for their
         nutritional content, the higher coverage and regularity of the service and more knowledge
         about balanced menus.
   l Were better equipped and had slightly better infrastructure.
   l Had a higher proportion of technical and professional staff.
   l Few depended solely on FOPAR resources, but some had reduced efforts to obtain other
         resources. Those which had been in existence longer were more confident of continuing
         the service in the absence of FOPAR.
   l Administration of the activity was better because they kept a register, did more forward
         planning, used their resources better and coordinated more effectively the tasks of the
         people working in the kitchen.

A qualitative study carried out in 2005 in 4 cities using focus groups of workers or managers of
the community kitchens, showed that the support provided by FOPAR had strengthened
institutional capacity, particularly among the smaller organizations, and had improved the quality



                                                    - 5 -

of feeding services. The latter impact was due to the provision of adequate financing for each
food ration, the training and technical assistance provided on nutrition and food preparation, and
on average, the good administration by the community kitchens. The community kitchen staff
credited the experience of administering resources for strengthening their capacities. There was
widespread recognition of the impartiality of the program, its sense of responsibility and strict
control. They voiced concerns over sustainability given the share of financing represented by
FOPAR for most community kitchens. Quantitative indicators also suggest improvements in
capacity. The share of expenditures of the community kitchens accounts which were "observed"
for mistakes by FOPAR staff, fell from about a quarter of their transfers in 2003 to about 7
percent within about a year and stayed at roughly that level. In addition, 220 organizations
legalized their status and others were assisted to open bank accounts.

Although SIEMPRO completed most activities envisaged at the time of project approval (See
Table 4 in Annex 9), the objective of becoming a catalyst in changing the focus and management
of social programs was not achieved because its role and profile diminished.

4.2 Outputs by components:
Component 1: FOPAR
(a) Community Subprojects. Nearly 500 subprojects of the type originally envisaged in the
project, totaling US$ 22 million were financed during 1998-2001 (See Table 2 in Annex 9) and
FOPAR extended its activities to 8 provinces in the North. Although plans were made to extend
to another two Northern provinces and agreements were signed with provinces to begin work in
the southern region, these activities was never implemented owing to budget restrictions (See
Table 1 in Annex 1). FOPAR was supposed to commission no later than January 31, 2000, and
annually thereafter, annual independent technical audits of its subprojects, in accordance with
terms of reference acceptable to the Bank. However, because of the slow implementation of the
component, no ex-post technical audits were carried out.

During 2002-2005,1500 subprojects totaling nearly US$70 million financed 3000 community
kitchens covering an estimated 450,000 beneficiaries. (See Table 3 in Annex 9). The scope of
FOPAR financing of community kitchens was determined based on an analysis of the distribution
of the extreme poor in 22 of the largest urban areas. The first call for proposals in 2002 covered
17 cities and the second call for proposal in 2003 covered 3 cities; two cities declined to
participate. FOPAR also financed nearly 600 projects totaling about US$3 million to support
productive activities associated with the community kitchens. An ex-post review of a sample of
these projects noted the necessity for technical assistance to support the implementation of these
activities, as well as the difficulties in commercializing their activities.

(b) Knowledge and Methodology Transfer and Capacity Building: Most of the spending
associated with this component until the end of 2001 was related to activities to support the
beneficiary organizations to prepare subproject proposals, promotional activities and evaluation.
There were also some isolated examples of knowledge and methodology transfer activities with
Government agencies, but fewer than initially expected. Under the restructured FOPAR, most
capacity building took place as part of the supervision of the community kitchens (including audits
of their accounts) and is not reflected in this subcomponent. Most of the training courses
arranged after 2002 concerned supervision, how to prepare accounts and how to address any


                                                  - 6 -

shortcomings. Only about a third of the resources initially allocated to this component was spent.


(c) Project Management: During the period up to 2001, Bank supervision reports commented
on the ability of FOPAR to reduce their administrative costs in response to budget restrictions.
After 2002, FOPAR commissioned 3 reports to examine the impact of the program on the
community kitchens which had participated and an ex-post review of a sample of productive
projects financed. After the restructuring, FOPAR opened offices in most of the large cities
where it provided financing to the community kitchens. A shortcoming in project management
was the fact that audit reports were persistently submitted late.

Component 2: SIEMPRO
(a) Social Information Base. The main accomplishment was carrying out the Second Social
Survey in 2001. However, mainly because the 2000 Census was delayed to 2001, a national
sample frame could not be prepared in time for the survey. Thus the sample frame was not
expanded as had been envisaged. SIEMPRO published 10 studies using data from the second
Social Survey, on topics such as affiliation in the health system and utilization of health services,
informality, and young children. In addition, the data base was made available to numerous
academics and others for analysis.

(b) Evaluation and Monitoring. During project implementation, SIEMPRO regularly prepared
reports on overall social spending, trends in the programs managed by the Ministry of Social
Development and monitoring reports on social programs. SIEMPRO prepared or contributed to
evaluations on FOPAR, child development programs, projects financed by international
nongovernmental agencies, a microcredit program sponsored by the Ministry of Social
Development, grants for productive activities for social program beneficiaries, and published a
review of national food programs.

(c) Capacity Building of Provinces. By project closing 8 more provincial agencies had been
established, including the province of Buenos Aires for a total of 18. SIEMPRO trained staff at
the provincial level, sponsored post-graduate courses in social policy and management, and
organized numerous seminars and workshops to promote the exchange of ideas and experiences
among the participating provinces.

(d) Social Policy Analysis. SIEMPRO provided support to the SDS (subsequently Ministry of
Social Development) through numerous studies of poverty trends, studies on the elderly,
performance of the labor market and analysis of spending and coverage of the social programs
financed in the Ministry. During the crisis, at the request of authorities of the Ministry,
SIEMPRO staff prepared a series of provincial "situation reports" (See Table 4 in Annex 9, List
of Principal Products by Area). Through their sponsorship of the Observatorio Social and other
work, SIEMPRO encouraged the participation of civil society, particularly academic institutions
(See Table 3 in Annex 1 for a summary of the above outputs).

4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
N/A




                                                 - 7 -

4.4 Financial rate of return:
N/A

4.5 Institutional development impact:
Impact is assessed as modest at grass root levels and on the Ministry of Social Development and
it likely to continue over time. First, the project had a positive impact on strengthening the ability
of grass root organizations. The evidence for this is clearer after 2002 with the organizations
managing community kitchens, but is likely to have occurred as well initially given the
demonstrated capacity and experience of FOPAR. In both cases, the project gave special
attention to improving management capabilities through training programs and technical
assistance. The assessment as only modest reflects the lack of evaluations prior to 2002, and to
the fact that FOPAR worked with established community organizations after 2002 with capacity
building limited to specific activities, particularly food service management and accounting.

Second, the project had a modest impact on the way the recently established MDS developed its
management processes. The MDS was starting to consolidate its structure when the crisis struck
in late 2001. It was called to play an important role in addressing the impact of the crisis,
launching and managing programs for the poorest sectors of the population. The experience that
FOPAR had gained earlier, with its territorial structure, was also relevant for managing these
programs. Additionally, the project was instrumental in enhancing the capacities of MDS for
dealing with financing from international institutions and for creating an environment of
transparency and accountability for allocating and managing resources. With regard to the latter,
the role of the evaluation council (a small group of representatives of NGOs and professional
organizations) which was part of FOPAR operating procedures from 2002 on was important.
Compared to other attempts in Argentina to establish consultative councils, this experience was
more positive. Council members, who reviewed projects being proposed for financing by the
implementation unit, had a control function. Both the unit and the members agreed that the
council protected FOPAR from political pressures.


5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome

5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:
The main factor affecting implementation outside of the control of the implementing agency was
the deteriorating economic performance which resulted in increasingly stringent restrictions on
government spending and the use of loan funds.

5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
Several factors subject to government control affected the project. First, by the time the project
started after a gap of nearly a year between approval and effectiveness, the government was in the
midst of a major change after presidential elections. Although the new government upgraded the
Social Development Secretariat to a Ministry, there were several changes in ministers and
generally little political commitment for either FOPAR or SIEMPRO. Political considerations
also appeared to become more important than technical ones. Organizational changes caused
problems in project administration, for example, the split in administration and operations.
Second, an economic and social crisis brought Argentina to the brink of collapse in 2002. GDP
shrunk by a cumulative 20 percent during a four year period, 11 percent in 2002 alone. The social



                                                     - 8 -

impact of the crisis was enormous and poverty increased dramatically. According to official
statistics, the share of poor grew to nearly 60 percent of the population, rising between 2000 and
2002 from 12 to 22 million. The number of extreme poor nearly doubled to 10.4 million, about
30 percent of the population. Third, in early 2003, the transitional government decided to move
SIEMPRO from the Ministry of Social Development to the National Council for the Coordination
of Social Policies.

5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
The quality of the staff was high at the beginning of the project. However, starting in 2000,
human resource capacity began to deteriorate because the Government's commitment to both
components started to decline. This changed after 2002 in the case of FOPAR, but continued to
worsen for SIEMPRO. Project monitoring reports were adequate and submitted to the Bank on a
timely basis. There were some difficulties with bureaucratic delays. For example, nearly 3 months
lapsed between the presentation of subprojects for community kitchens and their evaluation and 4
months lapsed between evaluation and the first disbursement (See Table 2 in Annex 1). In spite
of declining political and financial support, SIEMPRO implemented its work program to the
extent possible.

5.4 Costs and financing:
The major change in costs was the creation of the food expenditures category, which at project
closing represented about 70% of loan expenditures for the FOPAR component. During the first
three years of the project implementation (1999-2001), there were significant implementation and
disbursement delays. The project closed December 30, 2005, two and a half years after the
original closing date. The delay is accounted for by a combination of factors including: the initial
delay in effectiveness; the effect of budget restrictions on the pace of project execution during
1999-2001; and providing time to allow time for the implementation of new actions at the
beginning of 2002. Finally, additional extensions were provided in order to take into account the
fact that the community kitchens were able to stretch their financing over a longer that expected
period of time.

6. Sustainability

6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:


Overall, sustainability is classified as likely because of the rating for the FOPAR
component. This rating relates to the assessment of the organizations, including FOPAR and the
community based groups which participated in the project, not to the intervention of financing
feeding services through community kitchens. This was an emergency response and as such was
not intended to be sustained. The argument for financing community kitchens, based on social
assessments, was that financing existing community based organizations could be an effective
mechanism to channel resources to the extremely poor and to promote social solidarity during the
crisis. It was considered that the high levels of extreme poverty would drop as the economy
recovered. That has happened with annual economic growth averaging 9 percent during
2003-2005, unemployment rates have fallen and the rate of extreme poverty has been halved from
its peak in 2002.

The design of the emergency response incorporated features to prevent a dependency on loan


                                                     - 9 -

financing. The project financed only existing institutions. Out of the total of 448,000
beneficiaries covered by the project, a relatively small portion (30 percent) were new clients. The
larger share were existing users of the community kitchens who benefited from improvements in
nutritional standards and service dependability. The financing provided by FOPAR was modest ­
the number of beneficiaries amounted to 15 percent of the extremely poor in large urban centers.
Extensions of financing incorporated reductions in the level of resources provided to the
community kitchens per Bank recommendation. The monthly number of beneficiaries rose from
20,000 in October 2002, when the first financing became available to a peak of about 425,000 in
August 2004, and since then has dropped to 350,000 as of the end of 2005.

Implementation of an exit strategy was difficult. First, because of dependable access to cash
(instead of periodic in-kind donations or less reliable sources of financing) some institutions
lessened efforts to mobilize resources and FOPAR financing ended up meeting a relatively large
share of beneficiary organizations' requirements. Second, there are indications that in some cases,
the improvements in quality and reliability of services caused an increased demand. Third, the
Government has not moved fully from a focus on the emergency to a more comprehensive,
longer-term social policy, so the transfers have not been subsumed into another program.
Fourth, the experience so far in the area of productive projects is not promising in terms of
making a significant contribution to the sustainability of the community kitchens, although the
experience is still relatively new. Finally, the Government had a longer time period in mind for
an exit strategy and decided to continue to finance the program (which continues to decline
slowly) during 2006 using national resources.

In regard to the sustainability of FOPAR as an agency, the implementation of the emergency
program under the project strengthened its institutional capacity by providing experience in
carrying out a different type of activity, working on a larger scale, and dealing with different types
of organizations. It has a favorable record within the context of other activities of the Ministry of
Social Development that appears to be recognized by the authorities. There is also evidence that
the members of the community based organizations believe that their participation in FOPAR
strengthened their capacity and gave them skills primarily in the areas of management, handling of
finances, and moving to more formal legal status. This should contribute positively to their
sustainability in the long term.

The sustainability of SIEMPRO is assessed as unlikely. The original objective of using
SIEMPRO to create a space to promote a high quality, evidence-based dialogue on poverty
reduction and social policy and programs, has been diminished by several factors, including
budget restrictions, instability in its institutional "home", and the fact that a comprehensive
medium/long-term social policy to replace the programs put in place to address the emergency is
still being developed. SIEMPRO now reports to the National Council for the Coordination of
Social Policy, which focuses its efforts on the control, rather than monitoring of social policy.
SIEMPRO may continue, but with a less public, strategic mandate. In the meantime, some
believe that similar capacity has been created in other ministries and in the provinces, reducing the
need for SIEMPRO.

6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
Since the project closed, the Government has financed FOPAR and SIEMPRO. In addition, both


                                                   - 10 -

receive other international financing, FOPAR through a project of 12 million euros from the
European Community and SIEMPRO, through a project of the Inter-American Development
Bank (IDB). The financing from the European Community is focused on helping those
community based organizations participating in FOPAR that want to implement an "institutional
project" (through technical assistance, infrastructure, and equipment) focused on non-feeding
activities. Effectively, in most aspects (staff, financial resources) the situation of FOPAR has not
changed substantially since the project closed. There are preliminary discussions taking place
within the Government to continuing work with community-based organizations, but expanding
the focus to services other than feeding, such as after-school assistance, child-care services, and
elderly care. The past experience of FOPAR would provide a basis for other regular operations
involving community development in the future. The IDB financing for SIEMPRO relates
primarily to the operation of a proposed proxy means instrument.

7. Bank and Borrower Performance

Bank
7.1 Lending:
Bank performance was satisfactory. The project was consistent with the Government's
development priorities and with the CAS. During preparation, the Bank team incorporated a
wide range of skills (community-based operations, engineering, environment, economic policy and
research, and social scientists). Bank appraisal of the commitment by Government and the
capacity of the implementing agency was straightforward as the project continued the institutional
arrangements which had proven effective during the pilot phase. Lessons were incorporated from
the pilot, as well as from similar projects in other countries. The Bank team combined staff who
had participated in the pilot phase or had experience in similar projects. The design of the project
was not overly complex and an adequate implementation plan and performance indicators were
developed. The size of the project was consistent with execution under the pilot. A roughly 40
percent increase in the pace of FOPAR's activities was envisaged, not out of line with its
experience and build up of capacity during the pilot, while SIEMPRO's level of activities was to
remain about the same. The Borrower highlighted the good relations with the Bank, in particular,
productive technical discussions, including on methodologies and evaluation, in the case of
SIEMPRO. The Borrower mentioned the willingness of the Bank to listen and adjust its original
ideas, for example by aligning procurement procedures with the needs of working with
community based organizations. The Borrower stated that the Bank assisted effectively with
preparation of the project and protected the government team against political pressure.

7.2 Supervision:
Bank performance was satisfactory. There was sufficient continuity and time spent on
supervision by Bank staff and consultants and an appropriate skill mix, i.e. reflecting the needs of
both FOPAR and SIEMPRO, although most attention focused on FOPAR. The Bank team
received substantial support from the field office. Reporting on project implementation was
timely and complete. Performance ratings were realistic, during the first phase distinguishing the
main issue as worsening fiscal problems, not performance of the implementing agencies. In the
case of SIEMPRO, the main focus through 2001 was the technical aspects of the second Social
Survey, the main activity financed by the project. Staff was proactive, initially suggesting
modifications in the FOPAR component to adjust to the worsening fiscal situation.



                                                  - 11 -

The Bank team reacted fairly quickly to the Government's request in early 2002 to re-orient the
FOPAR component. The Government first indicated its desire to modify the project in late
January and the Bank sent the amendment to modify the FOPAR component to the Government
for signature on April 11, 2002. Nevertheless, some representatives of the Borrower complained
that the Bank was slow and by insisting on normal Bank procedures, did not take into account the
crisis. After the adjustments were completed, the Borrower has a more favorable opinion of the
Bank, highlighting the high standard of dialogue, attempts to reorient the program for the
longer-run, and ensuring that norms and procedures were followed. In general, the Borrower felt
that the supervision of the Bank had a positive impact on quality. In the case of SIEMPRO,
representatives of the Borrower highlighted the learning which took place as a result of Bank
participation. However, the Borrower felt that the Bank should have insisted on the publication
and access of the public to data, reports, etc. of SIEMPRO and should have followed up more
closely the delays in the undertaking of the Social Survey.

7.3 Overall Bank performance:
Overall Bank performance was satisfactory. The project was consistent with the government's
development priorities, with the CAS and with safeguard policies. The skill mix and experience of
the Bank team which assisted the Borrower with project preparation was adequate. Lessons were
incorporated from the pilot phase as well as from similar projects in other countries. The design
of the project was not overly complex and an adequate implementation plan and performance
indicators were developed. The size of the project was appropriate. There was sufficient
continuity and time spent on supervision by Bank and consultancy staff and an appropriate skill
mix. Supervision reporting was timely and explained fully the main factors affecting
implementation. Performance ratings were realistic. Staff was sufficiently proactive and received
support from the field office.

Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
Performance was highly satisfactory. The technical teams were highly competent and SDS
management was highly committed to both components. Staff were dedicated, experienced and
capable, with a high degree of continuity with the pilot phase. The contribution of the Borrower team to
key aspects of project design - technical, financial, institutional, environmental and sociological factors -
was substantial and contributed to fast preparation (8 months).

7.5 Government implementation performance:
Overall, performance was satisfactory, given the experience of FOPAR from 2002 onwards.
Between the approval of the project in late 1998 and the end of 2001, implementation was
seriously affected by the delay in effectiveness as well as worsening shortfalls in budgetary
allocations. This led to delays on agreed actions such as the expansion of FOPAR activities to
other parts of the country and the second Social Survey. The Borrower's political support to both
components started to decrease in 2000 because FOPAR and SIEMPRO were seen as programs
of the former Government. The new Government maintained the programs, but with an
insufficient and uncertain level of financing, making it difficult to plan. Between 2000-2001,
numerous changes in management at the newly-formed Ministry of Social Development led to
further delays as the authorities took time to become familiar with the project. There were some
indications that as the economic crisis worsened in 2001, the objective criteria used to allocate
resources for FOPAR were relaxed. Funds were increasingly allocated to respond to specific


                                                      - 12 -

situations or negotiations with organizations or provincial authorities. Beginning in 2002, the
performance in the case of FOPAR improved significantly. The counterpart team which
discussed the new approach for FOPAR with the Bank and developed the new strategy and
operating procedures was high-quality, committed, and efficient. They provided clear directions
and were decisive. Access to necessary budgetary resources was no longer a problem for
FOPAR.

Implementation of SIEMPRO was negatively affected in 2001 by uncertainty caused by the
discussions to create a new social agency which would include SIEMPRO. That institutional
change never happened, but in mid 2002 the Government moved SIEMPRO from the Ministry of
Social Development to the National Council for Coordination of Social Policy within the office of
the Chief of the Cabinet. The Council was still finding its role which weakened the institutional
base for SIEMPRO. The council is perceived as having relegated SIEMPRO to a secondary role,
which in turn has led to a loss of capacity in the agency. Because of the reluctance of previous
governments to publish SIEMPRO data and analysis, SIEMPRO also lost the benefit of feedback
and interchange on their work with national experts and universities.

7.6 Implementing Agency:
Performance was satisfactory. Within the constraint of lower than expected resource allocations through
2001, FOPAR and SIEMPRO functioned well (See Table 1 in Annex 1). Bank supervision missions
commented on the fact that both agencies took reasonable actions to rationalize expenditures. There was
good collaboration with FOPAR during the reorientation of the project and excellent technical support.
The quality of FOPAR staff was high. Several continued to make strong contributions to the
implementation of the activities of the community kitchens, even though this represented a major change in
the previous FOPAR model. Administrative staff was of high quality and facilitated the work of FOPAR,
including a high number of disbursements to community organizations. Nevertheless, after the
reorientation of the project to finance community kitchens, delays were greater than had been anticipated in
the project cycle. For both calls for proposals, there was a 7 months gap between the date of subproject
presentation and disbursement (See Table 2 in Annex 1). For the productive subprojects, it proved difficult
to move from a style of working on a smaller-scale with lengthy up-front work to a larger scale and tighter
deadlines.

7.7 Overall Borrower performance:
The rating is satisfactory, although performance varied through time and by component. Borrower
performance during project preparation was highly satisfactory as the technical teams were highly
competent and SDS management was highly committed to the two components. For FOPAR,
prior to the reorientation of project activities, the component was affected by the faltering
commitment of the Government and lack of provision of adequate budgetary allocations.
SIEMPRO was similarly affected but to a lesser degree up to 2001. Government implementation
performance for FOPAR improved significantly beginning in 2002, but worsened for SIEMPRO.
The performance of the implementing agencies is rated as satisfactory. Both agencies functioned
as well as could be expected given budget restrictions and weak Government implementation
performance prior to 2002.

8. Lessons Learned

There are six principal lessons learned from the project.



                                                     - 13 -

1.      Procurement arrangements need to be in line with the nature of the business
processes used by projects. Community subprojects supported by FOPAR originally used
procurement arrangements well suited to the nature of the investments. Most subprojects were
small civil works and grants were managed directly by the community procuring materials and
using, primarily, voluntary labor. Procurement arrangements were under the community
participation mode. When the project was refocused to finance the new typology of community
kitchens, the same procurement arrangements were adopted. Procurement of goods continued to
use local shopping requesting three quotations. This approach was adequate for small
rehabilitations and purchasing of equipment and utensils. But the bulk (over 80 percent) of
expenditures was now for procurement of supplies on a regular (weekly or monthly) basis.
Requesting three formal quotations from local businesses so often proved impractical. Quickly,
local businesses refused to issue such quotations when occasional or no orders were expected.
The project failed to recognize that the business processes used by community kitchens were
completely different from those used for the activities originally financed by FOPAR grants.
During the discussion of the reorientation of the project, no review was undertaken of the
commercial practices of the community kitchens, in part because of the emergency context. In
retrospect, this situation should have led to different procurement arrangements. These would
probably have needed to be in line with commercial practices used for periodic purchases of
goods in small quantities, while preserving the principle of economy and efficiency. An alternative
approach would have helped the project respond faster to the emergency in a simpler, more
flexible manner.

2.      Although necessary, it can be difficult to implement an exit strategy for
interventions that support emergency programs, even after the crisis subsides. It was
difficult for FOPAR to put in place an exit strategy, although the Bank team focused on this issue
and insisted on declining amounts of financing for the community kitchens. The implementing
agency had little incentive to actively define and implement an exit strategy, particularly as staff
felt that they had been successful in carrying out the project and in developing new effective
instruments which should be maintained. Most community kitchens continued to demand the
resources of the project, in part because FOPAR financing had displaced previously available
alternate sources and given them a reliable (and preferable) source of financing. The
Government's timetable for an exit strategy was longer than that of the Bank, and longer than the
time available in the project. The Government also considered that FOPAR assistance had
enabled some community kitchens to strengthen other activities (childcare, after school activities,
etc.) which could be a reasonable basis for further support. In responding to a crisis situation, it is
difficult for ministries and implementing agencies to focus on medium- term strategies for
addressing poverty as opposed to emergency programs.

3.      It would be preferable that projects involving a high number of small, simple
transactions (food purchases) be disbursed according to results (outputs or outcomes)
rather than inputs. This would imply certification that implementing bodies have the
managerial ability and processes to deliver the services involved, complemented by audits.
The Borrower and the community kitchens complained that Bank procedures were cumbersome,
especially the needs for 3 quotations and reviews of receipts for recurrent, standard expenditures.



                                                 - 14 -

It might have made more sense to monitor instead the number and quality of meals provided,
measured according to standards.

4.       The challenges in changing the "culture" of an institution in order to respond to a
crisis can be considerable, affecting the ability to react quickly. In spite of the commitment
and efforts of FOPAR, the response to the crisis took longer than desirable due to bureaucratic
procedures. Also contributing to delays was the change required in the previous approach of
FOPAR which had involved lengthy time working closely with beneficiary groups to promote,
identify and prepare projects. It took a year after the basic concept was proposed by the
Government before grants were disbursed to a meaningful number of community kitchens.

5.       When technical assistance components are part of a larger project, it can be difficult to ensure
sufficient focus and attention by the Bank and the Government. Technical assistance projects,
especially if the Bank is to add value by transferring technical skills and methodologies, require close
supervision and access to qualified staff. It can be difficult to ensure this in the context of a larger loan
with other components. Especially during the crisis, Bank supervision focused more on FOPAR. This
coincided with faltering Government interest as well. During this time, SIEMPRO staff remained open to
Bank technical assistance and visits of Bank experts, at times requesting and receiving specialized help.

6.       Under some conditions, consultative councils can make a social program more transparent.
The factors which contributed to the relative success of the evaluation council in FOPAR included the
definition of a specific responsibility, in this case, the review of projects approved for financing. In
addition, participants were selected specifically for the value that they could bring to the process, for
example, because of the experience of the organization in working with similar groups (young children) or
on specific themes (the professional association of nutritionists). Particularly at the time of the crisis, the
motivation on both a personal and organizational level was high, and although it decreased over time, it
never dropped enough to threaten the functioning of the council. Important also was the fact that although
they were volunteers, the members of the council received administrative support from the project
implementation unit and they felt respected and listened to.

9. Partner Comments

(a) Borrower/implementing agency:
Comments by the implementing agency (FOPAR) on the text of the ICR have been incorporated. The
executive summary of the project completion report prepared by FOPAR is contained in Annex 8. The full
report is in the project files.

(b) Cofinanciers:
Not applicable

(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):
Not applicable

10. Additional Information

N/A




                                                        - 15 -

Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix

Table 1: Project Management Indicators
FOPAR- Community Projects
Through 2001
                                     INDICATOR                                         Benchmark for    Value for
                                                                                        30-Jun-01       31-Dec-01
1. Project Cycle
1.1 Installation
Participatory Committees established                                                        11             10
FOPAR Units installed                                                                       15              8
Promotion process completed                                                                 37              9
Evaluation process completed                                                                31              5
Contracting process completed                                                               35              5
Execution process completed                                                                 20              1
Target population (NBI) identified                                                       1.004.000      307.125
1.2 Promotion
Urban communities (barrios) presenting projects                                            300             30
Urban communities that have received promotion                                             333             30
Urban communities (barrios) presenting projects over Urban communities that have            90             100
Municipalities that have presented projects                                                147             90
Municipalities that have received promotion                                                155             90
Municipalities that have presented projects over Municipalities that have received          95             100
1.2.1 Projects
Projects presented                                                                         2.814           897
Projects presented over promotion process completed (%)                                     76             98
1.2.2 Training
Training modules for projects formulation (4 hs.) completed                                8.442          2962
Training modules for projects formulation completed over projects presented (%)              3              3
Technical professional trained                                                             4.222           463
Organizations and communities that have been trained                                       2.505           835
Organizations and communities that have been trained over Organizations and                 90             90
1.2.3 Promoters
Projects presented over promoters that were under contract                                  15             16
1.3 Evaluation
1.3.1 Eligibility
Eligible projects                                                                          2.526           707
Eligible projects over projects presented (%)                                               90             80
1.3.2 Ex ante evaluation
Projects evaluated                                                                         2.236           501
Projects evaluated over number of evaluation process (%)                                    72             85
1.4 Contracting
1.4.1 Projects
Projects contracted                                                                        1.811           472
Projects contracted over projects approved (%)                                              90             88
1.4.2 Amounts
Total value of projects that have been contracted                                         85.158         22.195
Total value of projects that have been contracted over total budget for subprojects        100
The average value of projects contracted                                                    47             47
1.5 Execution
1.5.1 Projects
Projects completed                                                                         640             306
Projects completed over projects contracted (%)                                             35             65
Projects contracted over projects approved (%)                                              33             57
1.5.2 Amounts
Total amount of sub projects disbursement                                                  53.6          18.458
Disbursement amount over contracted amount (%)                                              63             84
1.5.3 Supervisors
Projects under implementation over supervisors under contract                               15             18
Civil works projects under implementation over civil works inspectors under contract        12             17
2. Timing
The average time between projects presentation and first disbursement (in days)            180             382
3. Direct Beneficiaries
Number of NUB members                                                                      33.9          12.06
Number of paid community members for civil works projects completed                         5.8          2.813
Number of persons trained under projects completed                                          20           12.842
Number of users of the outcomes (good, services or facilities) in projects completed       157.4         83.425




                                                               - 16 -

Table 2: Project Management Indicators
FOPAR- Community Kitchen and Associated Productive Projects
2002-2005

Community Kitchen Projects

CALL FOR PROJECT PROPOSALS
Projects presented                                                                        2,311
No. of Community Kitchens Presented                                                       4,665

ELIGIBILITY
Eligible Projects                                                                         1,725
Eligible Community Kitchens                                                               3,798
Eligible Projects/ Projects presented (%)                                                  74.6
Eligible Community Kitchens/ Community Kitchens Presented (%)                              81.0

EVALUATION
Viable Projects                                                                           1,556
Community Kitchens of Viable Projects                                                     3,355
Unviable Projects                                                                           169
Community Kitchens of Unviable Projects                                                     443
Viable Projects/ Eligible Projects (%)                                                     90.2
Viable Community Kitchens / Eligible Community Kitchens (%)                                88.0

CONTRACTS
Projects contracted                                                                       1,546
Amount contracted ('000 of Arg$)                                                        229,761
Average value of projects contracted ('000 of Arg$)                                         149

IMPLEMENTATION
Projects Initiating Implementation                                                        1,542
Community Kitchens Initiating Implementation                                              2,913
Projects suspended during implementation                                                     93
Community Kitchens Suspended during Implementation                                          218
Dropped Projects (cancelled, finalized, requested)                                          200
Community Kitchens of Dropped Projects (cancelled, finalized, requested)                    355
Suspended and Dropped Projects/Projects in Implementation (%)                              17.6
Community Kitchens Dropped or Suspended/Community Kitchens in Implementation (%)           19.7

BENEFICIARIES ACCORDING TO APPROVED AGREEMENTS
Total Beneficiaries                                                                     448,441
Beneficiaries incorporated due to FOPAR financing                                       130,898
Beneficiaries incorporated due to FOPAR financing/total beneficiaries (%)                  29.2

Food Rations
Food rations delivered                                                              270,786,318
Food rations provided per beneficiary                                                       604

AMOUNTS DISBURSED
Amount disbursed ('000 in Arg$)                                                         217,314
Amount disbursed/Amount contracted (%)                                                     94.6
*Amounts "observed" / total amount claimed (%)                                              6.7

*Based on accumulated data from January 2002 through September 2005

Elapsed Time
Include all projects in implementation at some point

1rst and 2nd Call for Proposals
Average days between project presentation and evaluation                                     84
Average days between project evaluation and 1rst disbursement                               133
Average days between project presentation and 1rst disbursement                             217




                                                     - 17 -

Productive Projects

CALL FOR PROJECT PROPOSALS
Projects presented                                                        1,170

ELIGIBILITY
Eligible Projects                                                         1,059
Eligible Projects/Presented Projects (%)                                   90.5

EVALUATION
Viable Projects                                                            832
Unviable Projects                                                          212
Viable Projects/ Eligible Projects (%)                                     78.6

CONTRACTING
Projects     contracted                                                    743
Amount contracted ( '000 Arg $)                                           9,501
Average amount contracted per project ('000 in Arg$)                        13

IMPLEMENTATION
Projects that initiated implementation                                     681
Community kitchens supplied by the projects                                976

BENEFICIARIES ACCORDING TO APPROVED AGREEMENTS
Beneficiaries of the productive activity                                  4,224
Beneficiaries supplied by the community kitchens                        142,890
Average number of beneficiaries in productive activity per project            6

DISBURSED AMOUNT
Disbursed amount ('000 Arg$)                                              8,640
Amount disbursed/Amount contracted (%)                                     90.9




Table 3: SIEMPRO: Monitoring Indicators
1999-2005
                         INDICATORS
Number of evaluations completed                                   15
Research and studies                                              28
Studies and Reports on Social Spending                            34
Products of the Integrated Monitoring System                      52
Support to design of programs and other internal reports          30
Number of training and technical assistance activities on         92
production and systematization of social information and
monitoring.

Workshops and Seminars                                            40
Social Development Survey                                         5
Studies and Analysis of the Social Survey                         15
Provincial Crisis Situation Reports l                            120
Number of publications                                            13
Products of the Observatorio social                               5
Number of active provincial level SIEMPRO agencies                18




                                                       - 18 -

Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing

Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                          Appraisal    Actual/Latest   Percentage of
                                                          Estimate      Estimate        Appraisal
                      Component                           US$ million   US$ million
FOPAR
(a)Community Subprojects                                    98.70          99.10              100
(b)Knowledge and methodology transfer and capacity           5.30            1.90              36
building
(c)Project Management                                       14.00          13.80              100
SIEMPRO
(a)Improvement of the Social Information-base                4.40            3.80              93
(b)Evaluation and Monitoring of Targeted Social              2.80            3.20             114
Programs
(c)Dissemination and Transfer of Methodologies and           5.20            3.90              81
Systems to National and Provincial Agencies
(d)Social Policy Analysis                                    1.60            2.00             156

Total Baseline Cost                                        132.00         127.70
                         Total Project Costs               132.00         127.70
                                         Front-end fee       0.90
                  Total Financing Required                 132.90         127.70


Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
                                                                    1
                                                Procurement Method
    Expenditure Category            ICB             NCB               2       N.B.F.     Total Cost
                                                               Other
1. Works                            0.00            0.00         0.00         0.00          0.00
                                   (0.00)          (0.00)      (0.00)         (0.00)       (0.00)
2. Goods                            0.00            0.00         1.90         0.20          2.10
                                   (0.00)          (0.00)      (0.70)         (0.00)       (0.70)
3. Services                         0.00            0.00        18.00         0.00         18.00
                                   (0.00)          (0.00)      (13.50)        (0.00)      (13.50)
4. Training and                     0.00            0.00         8.70         0.00          8.70
Workshops
                                   (0.00)          (0.00)      (6.60)         (0.00)       (6.60)
5. Miscellaneous                    0.00            0.00         0.00         4.50          4.50
                                   (0.00)          (0.00)      (0.00)         (0.00)       (0.00)
6. Grants for FOPAR                 0.00            0.00        98.70         0.00         98.70
Subprojects                        (0.00)          (0.00)      (69.10)        (0.00)      (69.10)

   Total                            0.00            0.00       127.30         4.70         132.00
                                   (0.00)          (0.00)      (89.90)        (0.00)      (89.90)

Note: Does not include front-end fee of US$900,000.




                                                - 19 -

Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Actual/Latest Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
                                                                               1
                                                     Procurement Method
    Expenditure Category               ICB               NCB                      2         N.B.F.         Total Cost
                                                                           Other
1. Works                               0.00               0.00              0.00             0.00              0.00
                                      (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.00)            (0.00)           (0.00)
2. Goods                               0.00               0.00              0.70             0.00              0.70
                                      (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.20)            (0.00)           (0.20)
3. Services                            0.00               0.00             26.00             0.00             26.00
                                      (0.00)             (0.00)           (16.40)            (0.00)           (16.40)
4. Training and                        0.00               0.00              1.90             0.00              1.90
Workshops
                                      (0.00)             (0.00)            (1.50)            (0.00)           (1.50)
5. Miscellaneous                       0.00               0.00              0.00             0.00              0.00
                                      (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.00)            (0.00)           (0.00)
6. Grants for FOPAR                    0.00               0.00             99.10             0.00             99.10
Subprojects                           (0.00)             (0.00)           (71.30)            (0.00)           (71.30)

   Total                               0.00               0.00            127.70             0.00             127.70
                                      (0.00)             (0.00)           (89.40)            (0.00)           (89.40)

1/Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Loan. All costs include contingencies.

2/Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of contracted staff
  of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental operating costs related to (i)
  managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local government units.




                                                      - 20 -

Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits

N/A




                                      - 21 -

Annex 4. Bank Inputs

(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                No. of Persons and Specialty            Performance Rating
                                     (e.g. 2 Economists, 1 FMS, etc.)    Implementation Development
                   Month/Year  Count           Specialty                   Progress       Objective

 Identification/Preparation
              04/05/1998                4    TTL (1); SOCIAL
                                             PROTECTION SPECIALIST
                                             (1); CONSULTANT (1);
                                             ENVIRONMENTAL
                                             SPECIALIST (1)

 Appraisal/Negotiation
              08/10/1998                4    TTL (1); SOCIAL
                                             DEVELOPMENT
                                             SPECIALIST (1); SURVEY
                                             SPECIALIST (1);
                                             FINANCIAL
                                             MANAGEMENT (1)
              09/09/1998                4    TTL (1); LAWYER (1);
                                             DISBURSEMENTS (1);
                                             PROCUREMENT (1)

 Supervision

              12/03/1999                3    TTL (1); ECONOMIST               S               S
                                             (SIEMPRO) (1); CONSULTANT
                                             (FOPAR) (1)
              02/23/2000                3    TTL (1); SP SPECIALIST (1);      S               S
                                             PROCUREMENT SPECIALIST
                                             (1)
              12/03/2001                1    TTL (1)                          S               S
              03/7/2002                 3    TTL (1); SOCIAL                  S               S
                                             DEVELOPMENT SPECIALIST
                                             (1); CONSULTANT (1)
              12/06/2002                3    PROJ                             S               S
                                             MANAGEMENT/POVERTY
                                             (1); PROJ MANAGEMENT/C.S.
                                             (1); PROJECT CYCLE/MANAG
                                             (1)
              05/19/2003                3    TTL (1); SOCIAL                  S               S
                                             DEVELOPMENT SPECIALIST
                                             (1); CONSULTANT (1)
              11/18/2003                3    TTL(1); SOCIAL                   S               S
                                             DEVELOPMENT
                                             SPECIALIST(1);
                                             CONSULTANT (1)
              05/05/2004                4    TTL (1); OPERATIONS              S               S
                                             OFFICER (1); SOCIAL
                                             PROTECTION SPECIALIST
                                             (1); CONSULTANT (1)
              11/11/2004                3    TTL (1); OPERATIONS              S               S



                                              - 22 -

                                                     OFFICER (1); SOCIAL
                                                     PROTECTION SPECIALIST (1)
               06/19/2005                       4    TTL (1); OPERATIONS                     S                S
                                                     OFFICER (1); SOCIAL
                                                     PROTECTION SPECIALIST
                                                     (1); CONSULTANT (1)
               11/23/2005                       4    TTL (1); PROCUREMENT                    S                S
                                                     SPECIALIST (1); SOCIAL
                                                     PROTECTION SPECIALIST
                                                     (1); CONSULTANT (1)

 ICR
               04/24/2006                       3    TTL(1); SOCIAL                          S                S
                                                     PROTECTION
                                                     SPECIALIST (1);
                                                     CONSULTANT (1)



(b) Staff:

       Stage of Project Cycle                         Actual/Latest Estimate
                                          No. Staff weeks                  US$ ('000)
  Identification/Preparation                         *                               *
  Appraisal/Negotiation                              *                   **135,613.91
  Supervision                                  102.85                      470,019.90
  ICR                                             18.9                      81,466.15
  Total                                        121.75                      687,099.96
*        Data not available
**       This figure includes all steps of project under lending stage (identification, preparation, appraisal
and negotiations)




                                                     - 23 -

Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components

(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
                                          Rating
  Macro policies                        H        SU    M       N    NA
  Sector Policies                       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Physical                              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Financial                             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Institutional Development             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Environmental                         H        SU    M       N    NA

Social
           Poverty Reduction            H        SU    M       N    NA
           Gender                       H        SU    M       N    NA
           Other (Please specify)       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Private sector development            H        SU    M       N    NA
  Public sector management              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Other (Please specify)                H        SU    M       N    NA


SIEMPRO II
(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
                                          Rating
  Macro policies                        H        SU    M       N    NA
  Sector Policies                       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Physical                              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Financial                             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Institutional Development             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Environmental                         H        SU    M       N    NA

Social
           Poverty Reduction            H        SU    M       N    NA
           Gender                       H        SU    M       N    NA
           Other (Please specify)       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Private sector development            H        SU    M       N    NA
  Public sector management              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Other (Please specify)                H        SU    M       N    NA




                                                    - 24 -

Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)


6.1 Bank performance                           Rating

   Lending                                       HS     S     U       HU
   Supervision                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU


6.2 Borrower performance                       Rating

   Preparation                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Government implementation performance         HS     S     U       HU
   Implementation agency performance             HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU



SIEMPRO II
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)


6.1 Bank performance                           Rating

   Lending                                       HS     S     U       HU
   Supervision                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU

6.2 Borrower performance                       Rating

   Preparation                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Government implementation performance         HS     S     U       HU
   Implementation agency performance             HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU




                                                    - 25 -

Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents

1. Evaluación Diagnóstica del Programa FOPAR (Primera Etapa) Informe Final (Diciembre 2003)
2. Evaluación Diagnóstica del Programa FOPAR (Segunda Etapa) Informe Final (Octubre 2004)
3. Evaluación Cualitativa de los Comedores Comunitarios del FOPAR (Diciembre 2005)
4. Evaluación Ex Post de Proyectos Productivos de FOPAR (Diciembre 2005)
5. Informe de Cierre FOPAR Componente, Proteccion Social IV (MDS) Junio 2006




                                                - 26 -

Additional Annex 8. Executive Summary of the Project Completion Report prepared by
FOPAR

Implementing Agency

1. Contexto del Proyecto
La ejecución del Fondo Participativo de Inversión Social (FOPAR) (Préstamo BIRF 4398 ­ AR) comienza
en 1999 en el marco del Plan de Convertibilidad. En diciembre de 2001 se registra en Argentina un colapso
social y político seguido de una crisis económica, que agravó el desempleo y la pobreza. En ese contexto
fue modificada la modalidad de intervención del Programa para atender la emergencia alimentaria.

2. Objetivos y Diseño
El objetivo fundamental es desarrollar capacidades locales de gestión a través de experiencias
participativas y concretas en formulación, gestión y ejecución de proyectos destinados a mejorar
condiciones socioeconómicas de grupos y comunidades en situación de pobreza. Entre 1995 y 2001 el
Programa financiaba pequeños proyectos comunitarios de fortalecimiento, infraestructura social, y
actividades productivas. A partir del año 2002 se implementó una nueva modalidad de intervención, que
incluye proyectos alimentarios, proyectos productivos asociados a comedores y acciones de asistencia
técnica, capacitación y fortalecimiento. El objetivo del Programa se mantuvo en ambas etapas. Un eje
estratégico del Programa desde su creación, es el trabajo directo con organizaciones comunitarias.

Entre 1999 y 2001 se buscaba mejorar las condiciones de la población en situación de pobreza estructural,
en la segunda etapa se extendió la población objetivo incluyendo también los pobres por ingresos. De esta
forma entre 1999 y 2001, el Programa se implementó en el norte del país, mientras que entre 2002 y 2005,
la cobertura se extendió a los grandes aglomerados urbanos de todo el país.

La ampliación en la selección territorial, implicó cambios en la composición de las organizaciones
participantes del Programa. Entre los años 1999 y 2001, se registraba una fuerte incidencia de grupos sin
experiencia previa en organización comunitaria y con bajos niveles de acceso al Estado. A partir del año
2002, aumentó la incidencia de grupos con experiencia previa en organización comunitaria y con mayor
capacidad reinvindicativa.

En la primera etapa el Programa ejecutaba -en forma simultánea- alrededor de 500 proyectos, en la
segunda se ejecutaron más del doble. La reformulación implicó un incremento en la escala de proyectos,
aproximadamente unos 1500 proyectos alimentarios, 3000 comedores y 700 proyectos productivos. El
incremento está asociado al aumento en la magnitud de recursos en pesos que dispuso el Programa, a partir
de la devaluación.

3. Logros y Resultados Alcanzados
Los proyectos comunitarios comprendían 137 mil beneficiarios entre 1999 y 2001. Los proyectos de
prestaciones alimentarias 448 mil beneficiarios de los cuales 131 mil fueron incorporados a la cobertura de
los comedores a partir de la acción del Programa. Se adoptó una organización de programa operativamente
flexible y con capacidad para integrar demandas de los grupos comunitarios, con una oferta de proyectos
capaz de responder a distintas problemáticas sociales. Entre 1999 y 2001, el Programa ha contado con un
menú de proyectos variado que permitió atender distintas problemáticas sociales. A partir de 2002 los
proyectos de prestaciones alimentarias han logrado el objetivo de reducir el déficit de financiamiento en los
servicios alimentarios destinados a la población en situación de pobreza. Entre octubre de 2002 y diciembre
de 2005 se brindaron 276 millones de prestaciones alimentarias.



                                                    - 27 -

En el diseño y ejecución del Programa tuvo particular importancia el desarrollo de instancias de
participación de los beneficiarios en las distintas fases del Programa, las cuales han oficiado como espacios
concretos para el aprendizaje a través de la gestión directa de los recursos. Al mismo tiempo, la modalidad
de intervención ha permitido realizar dos aspectos complementarios del seguimiento: el control del
cumplimiento de los objetivos de los proyectos y el acompañamiento de las organizaciones.

La asistencia técnica y el financiamiento brindado para la formalización jurídica, permitió que 220
organizaciones se constituyan como instituciones con personería jurídica o como simple asociación civil en
los términos del artículo 46 del Código Civil. Debe destacarse además, que en el marco del PNUD se está
brindando asistencia técnica y financiamiento a las restantes organizaciones para que accedan a la
formalización jurídica. Este resultado es de mucha importancia en tanto es un requisito que exige el PNUD
y otros organismos para otorgar financiamiento. De esta forma, se mejora el acceso de las organizaciones a
distintos programas y proyectos sociales.

La ejecución del FOPAR ha servido también como apalancamiento para la puesta en marcha de dos líneas
de intervención. Se ha trabajado en el diseño de, por un lado, el Programa de Apoyo para Prestaciones
Alimentarias Comunitarias (APAC) destinado a financiar obras de infraestructura, fortalecimiento
institucional y proyectos productivos con generación de ingresos; y por otro, del PNUD ARG / 06 /001 que
permite la continuidad de las prestaciones alimentarias y la transformación de los comedores en centros
comunitarios. Los dos Programas mencionados están destinados a aquellas organizaciones que hayan
registrado una gestión adecuada durante el FOPAR. Debe destacarse que el presupuesto total del APAC es
de 11,9 millones de euros de los cuales 10 millones corresponden a una donación de la Comunidad
Europea; y el presupuesto total del PNUD es de 68,1 millones de dólares.

4. Principales factores que afectaron la ejecución del proyecto
Entre 1999 y 2001, debido a restricciones presupuestarias, el FOPAR adoptó una estrategia que concentró
las actividades de implementación en sectores rurales de las provincias donde se trabajó durante la etapa
piloto. De esta forma no pudieron realizarse actividades previstas como la extensión de la cobertura del
Programa a otras provincias y la implementación del Componente de Desarrollo de Capacidades que
incluía la Transferencia Metodológica a otras Instituciones. Una vez superada la crítica situación de
recursos del estado a partir del año 2002, el Programa no registró restricciones en el presupuesto asignado,
no siendo afectados los desembolsos a los proyectos. A diferencia de otros fondos de inversión social de
América Latina, que registraban cierto aislamiento relativo, el FOPAR estuvo incluido en un conjunto de
programas que se encontraban en marcha dentro de la entonces Secretaría de Desarrollo Social que
redundó en mayores posibilidades de integración programática con la Política Social Nacional hasta
incorporarse plenamente al PNSA desde fines de 2003.

El FOPAR buscó diferenciarse claramente de un eventual papel de intermediador financiero en materia
social. Por ello, ha puesto especial esfuerzo en generar modalidades definidas de intervención social en las
comunidades y sus organizaciones, tendientes a contrarrestar algunas de las restricciones provenientes del
contexto social. El FOPAR introduce en el ciclo de proyectos una etapa claramente diferenciada de
evaluación ex - ante de los proyectos, que abarca la viabilidad técnica, social y organizativa. Se incorpora
el seguimiento de los proyectos durante la ejecución enfocado particularmente en el desarrollo de espacios
organizativos y de participación generando una articulación cada vez más proactiva entre las prácticas de
seguimiento, control, asistencia técnica y acompañamiento de procesos de consolidación institucional.




                                                      - 28 -

5. Sostenibilidad
Con respecto a los proyectos comunitarios se han verificado dificultades de coordinación con los niveles
municipales y provinciales durantes las etapas de ejecución y de post ejecución, particularmente en lo
atinente al cumplimiento de las contraprestaciones pactadas entre los Núcleos de Beneficiarios y las
autoridades de esos niveles básicamente en el período 1999 - 2001.
En relación a los proyectos alimentarios y productivos la actual política alimentaria (que se expresa a
través del PNSA), posee como rumbo general el paso de políticas compensatorias hacia políticas de
inversión social que permitan incrementar el capital social de los sectores más desposeídos.

La nueva estrategia de política social, se encuentra impulsando la promoción social destinada a las
poblaciones que actualmente reciben prestaciones alimentarias en instituciones con servicios comunitarios
regulares trascendiendo el esquema impuesto por la emergencia en el año 2002. En el caso del FOPAR, el
MDS ha decidido sostener durante los año 2006 y 2007 la continuidad de las prestaciones de los comedores
que recibieron financiamiento del préstamo. Se han tenido como criterios el buen desempeño en la ejecución
del Proyecto FOPAR y la consolidación e integración comunitaria efectiva de las organizaciones y se están
formulando los planes para el período 2008 - 2009. Uno de los aspectos a revisar es que la presencia del
Programa en terreno, y por lo tanto sus registros sobre lo sucedido con posterioridad a su intervención,
tiende a quedar limitada por el propio cronograma de ejecución de los proyectos.

6. La relación Banco - Prestatario. Los roles del Banco y del Gobierno Nacional en la implementación
del FOPAR
El Banco Mundial ha tenido un rol clave en la planificación y ejecución de este programa, mas allá de
actuar como organismo financiador. Se sostiene que las políticas nacionales y sus instrumentos son
resultantes de la interacción entre los organismos financieros internacionales y el gobierno nacional. Se
considera que el diseño del FOPAR demuestra esta interacción entre concepciones de política social y
ejemplifica la posibilidad que tiene el gobierno nacional para adecuar líneas de financiamiento de los
organismos internacionales a la implementación de sus políticas.

La creación del FOPAR se enmarca en la implementación de los Fondos de Inversión Social (FIS)
impulsados por el Banco Mundial en América Latina desde fines de los 80, como instrumentos que
buscaron paliar algunas consecuencias sociales del ajuste estructural.          Considerando que los FIS
encontraron dificultades para solucionar algunos aspectos profundos asociados a la pobreza se hizo
necesario generar condiciones que afectaran la reproducción del círculo vicioso en que viven los sectores
pobres de la sociedad. En este sentido el FOPAR impulsaba la capacitación y la organización de los
beneficiarios, y el cambio drástico de su rol de receptor pasivo de la beneficiencia estatal a protagonista
activo de la modificación de alguna de sus condiciones de vida.

Entre las innovaciones propuestas por el Programa y aceptadas por el Banco, se destacan: la introducción
de la promoción comunitaria como etapa previa a la presentación de proyectos para permitir el rol
protagónico de los beneficiarios, la importancia asignada al acompañamiento en            terreno durante la
ejecución con el fin de favorecer el desarrollo de capacidades de gestión; la consideración de las actividades
de promoción, seguimiento y parte de las de evaluación como inversión social y el reconocimiento de
nivelar las condiciones de acceso al Programa por medio de actividades de asistencia técnica.

7. Las lecciones y los riesgos en la memoria del Programa
El Programa ha atravesado procesos de cambios profundos y críticos. El trayecto involucró, como
situación extrema, la emergencia social y económica expresada en los sucesos de diciembre de 2001. A
partir de allí, sobrevinieron modificaciones que afectaron tanto a las modalidades de inserción político
institucional del FOPAR, como los estilos operativos. El Programa, que inicialmente prestaba asistencia


                                                    - 29 -

técnica y apoyo financiero a comunidades pobres para obras de pequeña escala y capacitación, se organizó
en función de un modelo de gestión basado en el ciclo de proyecto. Una lógica de Fondo de Inversión con
ingreso permanente de proyectos que, básicamente, conformaba una división central entre un área de
promoción y evaluación de proyectos y otra de seguimiento concentrada en las tareas propias de la
ejecución.

Con la emergencia alimentaria la modificación de los proyectos y la situación crítica inscribieron un
esquema operativo basado en una convocatoria única, resultando más adecuado una organización basada
en el territorio y su correspondiente regionalización. Se estableció como imprescindible la apertura de
nuevas oficinas territoriales; formar entonces nuevos equipos de gestión dónde no se había trabajado antes,
al tiempo que se modificaban las prácticas que operaban hasta ese momento el programa.

La estrategia de salida del esquema de comedores acordada con el Banco supuso plazos relativamente
breves para las extensiones de los convenios de financiamiento (de alrededor de cinco meses). Esto generó
sobre cargas administrativas que dificultaron la planificación de actividades de mediano plazo. Los
tiempos que insume la elegibilidad de las extensiones y el proceso administrativo de contratación de los
convenios en el circuito del Ministerio, implicó que algunos proyectos quedaran desfinanciados. En base a
esta experiencia se ha decidido, a partir del PNUD, realizar convenios de financiamiento para plazos más
extensos estimados en un año de ejecución y mecanismos más flexibles de modificación del esquema de
desembolsos. Las extensiones a los convenios permitieron al Programa realizar un proceso de selección
excluyendo del financiamiento aquellos proyectos que presentaban problemas de gestión e introducir
modificaciones en los que continuaban en ejecución para responder a distintas necesidades de los
beneficiarios.

Los estilos     adoptados para el fortalecimiento de las organizaciones han resultado respuestas
razonablemente apropiadas a las necesidades de los beneficiarios. Así, al comienzo de la atención de la
emergencia alimentaria, se trabajó con las comunidades en pos de formalizar grupos y proyectos. La
emergencia alimentaria y el horizonte de ejecución, impusieron un fortalecimiento capaz de facilitar a los
beneficiarios el cumplimiento de los procedimientos del Programa. Progresivamente se registraron
posibilidades de trascender la asistencia alimentaria y fortalecer estrategias de autogestión y promoción de
la comunidad.

La operatoria del Programa se fue adecuando a la situación de las organizaciones. Se formalizaron
cambios en los procedimientos de presentación y evaluación de proyectos de prestaciones alimentarias entre
la primera y la segunda convocatoria. Dichos cambios remitían en especial a acotar la presentación de
comedores por ONG. Se establecieron estrategias de seguimiento y control según las modalidades de
gestión de la organización responsable del proyecto (centralizada / descentralizada). La incorporación del
FOPAR al Plan Nacional de Seguridad Alimentaria le permitió responder más integrada y articuladamente
a las demandas territoriales relacionadas con la problemática alimentaria.

La mayor parte de la labor en los comedores es realizada por beneficiarios de planes sociales, en especial
del Plan Jefes y Jefas de Hogar. Las modificaciones acaecidas en los planes impactaron desfavorablemente
en tanto disponibilidad de recursos humanos para las actividades de los proyectos.

La gestión de la emergencia alimentaria fue afirmada, en un marco de articulación estratégica con
Organizaciones de la Sociedad Civil (OSC) de alcance nacional. La conformación de un Consejo de
Evaluación integrado por OSC permitió apuntalar los procedimientos de la gestión del FOPAR

Al insertarse en las diversas comunidades, el Programa encuentra modos ya instituidos de participación. A


                                                    - 30 -

partir de la relación con el Programa se plantea la construcción de nuevos objetivos para los grupos y
responsables de comedores.

El acompañamiento del Programa ha contemplado el universo heterogéneo de organizaciones de diverso
grado de consolidación y márgenes de autonomía de gestión. La experiencia registrada permitió establecer
para la nueva tipología de proyectos productivos asociados, criterios de selección más adecuados a las
realidades territoriales, así como una renovada modalidad para los instrumentos de formulación, evaluación
y seguimiento.

Las interacciones directas de los beneficiarios con los técnicos del FOPAR, constituyeron espacios muy
constructivos para la gestión del Programa y de las organizaciones. Así, hemos asimilado estos contactos
con sus aportes más directos: los lazos de cordialidad y confianza que se establecen no solamente en el
trato, sino en las acciones que se reconocen estructurando la relación. Este rasgo, para todo el territorio
nacional, advierte que la tarea de los responsables del seguimiento estipula un modo de interacción óptimo
para cumplir con las actividades que le son propias. Ese vínculo de proximidad y respeto, constituye un
marco de reconocimiento de las acciones del Programa que concurren para garantizar y agilizar la gestión.

En el caso de Gran Buenos Aires, dada la magnitud que adquiere el Programa, las actividades de
seguimiento tienden a una opción de control de las prestaciones en tanto transferencia de recursos del
Estado a las organizaciones. Se adjudica prioridad al apoyo de situaciones de mayor debilidad o de carácter
problemático. Para el resto de los aglomerados, donde la relación numérica entre supervisores y comedores
a cargo es menor, el seguimiento ha podido realizarse de modo colectivo sobre algunas situaciones. Por
ejemplo el apoyo regular del aspecto nutricional, la sostenibilidad de los proyectos productivos y los
cambios en la dinámica institucional.

El Programa contó desde su inicio con un sistema de información que comprendía datos de ejecución física
financiera incorporando los datos provenientes del trabajo de campo. Progresivamente el mismo se
complejiza resultando en un sistema en línea, conectando a las oficinas del programa en todo el país. De
esta forma se transforma en un instrumento básico para el trabajo del programa desde el consultor en
campo hasta la coordinación de la ejecución y el control financiero. Por su parte, es destacable que se trata
de una base de datos históricos con más de diez años de aproximadamente 3000 organizaciones
constituyéndose en el soporte para el comienzo de la ejecución del PNUD y del APAC. Este sistema de
información será el soporte para la implementación del sistema informático del PNSA.




                                                    - 31 -

Additional Annex 9. Project Execution Tables

TABLE 1: FOPAR: PROJECT EXECUTION 1999-2005

    Total Projects
                           1999         2000        2001        2002          2003         2004        2005
Disbursements            4,675,923    7,164,680   5,089,989 15,586,227 54,565,942 60,297,542 95,735,318
Projects                       231          380         256          293         1,248        1,460       1,910
Beneficiaries               75,877      111,490      73,697     119,310       400,879      429,829      412,009


      Community Projects
                           1999         2000        2001        2002          2003         2004        2005
Disbursements            4,675,923    7,164,680   5,089,989      12,926       222,894             0           0
Projects                       231          380         256           90             53          23          23
Beneficiaries               75,877      111,490      73,697      19,989         13,658        6,173       6,173


 Community Kitchen Projects
                           1999         2000        2001        2002          2003         2004        2005
Disbursements                                                 15,573,301 54,343,048 60,160,714 87,232,310
Projects                                                             203         1,195        1,417       1,339
Community Kitchens                                                   724         2,647        2,950       2,707
Beneficiaries                                                    99,321       387,221      423,656      405,836


       Productive Projects
                           1999         2000        2001        2002          2003         2004        2005
Disbursements                                                                              136,828    8,503,008
Projects                                                                                         20         548
Beneficiaries                                                                                 5,304     119,669

Note: Beneficiaries of the productive projects should not be added to other projects because the same person



Table 2: Community Projects Contracted by Type (December 31, 2001)


                                                                              AMOUNT
                   TYPE OF PROJECT                         PROJECTS                            BENEFICIARIES
                                                                         CONTRACTED ($)
Training for Economic Activities                                      2                43,344              153
Popular Communication                                                 2                31,584              600
Construction supporting Productive Activities                       14                780,690            3,190
Community Recreation Spaces                                         24              1,550,285            8,762
Establishments assisting those of low risk                          18                827,619           18,773
Formation of Community Agents                                       25                152,375            2,093
Strengthening of Grassroots Economic Organizations                  25                737,085            1,806
Strengthening of grassroots organizations                             8                66,260              216
Latrines - Minimum Bathrooms                                       117              5,223,592           17,476
Small Community Works                                               24              1,280,815           20,503
Small forestry solutions                                              1                43,153               65
Small water systems                                                 44              2,266,034           13,800
Small irrigation systems                                              8               669,255              860
Promotion of Community Development                                    7                63,580              130
Nonconventional Energy                                                7               339,572            1,320
Multiple purpose Community Centers                                 146              8,120,134           46,907
Total                                                              472             22,195,377          136,654




                                                       - 32 -

Table 3: FOPAR: Community Kitchen Projects


          Urban Area             PROJECT* COMMUNITY BENEFICIARIES*          FINANCED**
                                               KITCHENS*
Catamarca                                  33          37            5154    27,912,250.60
Ciudad de Buenos Aires                     69         360           51469    18,169,125.60
Concordia                                  47          81           11637     9,712,766.10
Corrientes                                 47          80           18312     8,751,247.25
Formosa                                    46         107           15283    10,690,191.40
Gran Buenos Aires                       368           981          120712    51,818,053.94
Gran Cordoba                               59         158           16650     7,946,987.70
Gran La Plata                           131           246           23373     9,516,122.55
Gran Mendoza                               20          56            6930     4,708,982.35
Gran Resistencia                           43          83           11240     9,127,609.65
Gran Rosario                            151           218           44028    23,513,299.60
Gran San Juan                              22          40            4352     2,408,728.30
Gran San Miguel-Tafi Viejo                 54          98           14137     7,147,489.60
Gran Santa Fe                              51         102           18124     9,541,272.00
Jujuy-Palpala                              57         118           12305     6,812,624.05
Mar del Plata                              35          56            5182     2,895,641.85
Parana                                     48          53            9126     5,496,801.75
Posadas                                    28          92           14,238   10,371,568.00
Salta                                      49          63           10,592    5,521,112.90
San Carlos de Bariloche                    13          38            5,330    2,032,825.60
Santiago del Estero - La Banda             60          72            9,593    5,300,171.30
TOTAL                                  1,431         3,139         427,767 214.273.871,64


*Corresponds to the peak of project execution between October 2002 and December 2005

**ARG$



Table 4: SIEMPRO

Evaluations
1999/2001
·       FOPAR II
·       Programas de Desarrollo Infantil
·       Comer en Familia
·       Proyectos financiados por ONG Italiana
·       Proyectos Productivos. Proyecto Jefes de Hogar.
·       Programa Manos a la Obra

Research and Documents
1999/2001
·       La imagen de las organizaciones del tercer sector
·       Estimación de Brechas sociales para todas las provincias del país
·       "La unificación de los programas de empleo: comentarios sobre el posible impacto en los
principales aglomerados del país"
·       "Difusión de la información a través de Internet: la experiencia de la Biblioteca de Información
Social Interactiva (BISI)"
·       Aspectos subjetivos y sociales de la tercerta edad

   o    Katzman, Rubén: El aislamiento social de los pobres urbanos: reflexiones sobre su naturaleza,




                                                    - 33 -

        determinantes y consecuencias; Agosto 2001.
    o   Feldman, Silvio-Murmis, Miguel: Ocupación en sectores populares y lazos sociales.
        Preocupaciones teóricas y análisis de casos; Agosto 2001.
    o   Svampa, Maristella-González Bombal, Inés: Movilidad social ascendente y descendente en las
        clases medias argentinas: un estudio comparativo; Agosto 2001.
    o   Claudio Amor: Discusiones filo sóficas sobre la desigualdad social y económica; Agosto 2001.
    o   Néstor López: La articulación de las familias con el mercado de trabajo, y su impacto sobre los
        adolescentes. Octubre 2001.


2003
·       Evolución de la pobreza 1995 - 2003: Un análisis regionalizado.
·       Informe de Situación de Pobreza e Indigencia 2003
·       Deuda Social. 2003
·       El mercado laboral en la salida de la crisis. Mayo 2001 ­ Mayo 2003
·       Aumento del salario mínimo vital y móvil: perfil de los beneficiarios y estimación de impacto
·       Sobreocupación horaria. Impacto de su regulación en los salarios y el trabajo
·       Informe de Situación laboral 2003

Reports and Studies about Social Spending
1999/2001
·       Informe de la estructura y evolución del gasto de los Programas Nacionales de lucha contra la
pobreza 1997-2001
·       Informe de la estructura y evolución del gasto de los Programas Nacionales de lucha contra la
pobreza. Primer semestre 2001
·       Informe sobre la composición y distribución geográfica del gasto en el Ministerio de desarrollo y
medio ambiente
·       Elaboración de propuesta para un programa integral contra la probreza
2003
·       Informe Ejecución Presupuestaria 2003-comparación 2002
·       Nota para la revista del CENOC sobre la Ejecución de la Inversión Social del año 2003
·       Distribución Fondos Nacionales a Provincias Año 2003
·       Anexo Informe Mapas de distribución de Fondos Nacionales año 2003
·       Distribución Fondos Nacionales a Provincias al 30-06-2003
·       Análisis Ley de Presupuesto 2003
·       Pobreza y Gasto Público Social en la provincia de Río Negro
2004
·       Distribución de Fondos Nacionales A Provincias al 30-06-2004
·       Presentación y Análisis de la Evolución del Gasto Social 1997-2004
·       Evolución Gasto Social 1997- Presupuesto 2004
·       Análisis Macroeconómico - Presupuesto 2004
·       Análisis Macroeconómico - Presupuesto 2004_Cuadros y Gráficos complementarios
·       Presentación - Ley de Presupuesto 2004
·       Presentación Evolución Gasto Social 1997- Presupuesto 2004.
·       Propuesta de financiamiento para comedores escolares
·       La pobreza- situación, políticas y estrategias en la República Argentina Documento elaborado
conjuntamente con el Área de Información Social del Siempro

2005
·       Inversión Social 1997- Ley Presupuesto 2005
·       Coyuntura Fiscal e Inversión Social 1997-2005
·       Comentarios sobre la Inversión Social Proyecto de Presupuesto 2005
·       Inversión Social 1997-2005 al 30-09-04 y Proyecto 2005




                                                          - 34 -

·       Inversión Social 1997-2005 al 30-06-04 y Proyecto 2005

Integrated Monitoring System
1999/2001
·       Elaboración de la propuesta de rediseño del SIM
·       Informes sobre la oferta de programas del Ministerio de Desarrollo, su ejecución y cobertura
·       Elaboración del manual de carga e instructivos
2003
·       Beneficiarios atendidos por los Programas Sociales Nacionales desagregados por Provincias -
AÑO 2003
·       Cumplimiento de Metas Presupuestarias, Físicas y de Cobertura de los Planes y Programas
Sociales Nacionales- AÑO 2003
·       Prestaciones brindadas por los Programas Sociales Nacionales desagregadas por Provincias -
AÑO 2003
·       Presupuesto Ejecutado por los Programas Sociales Nacionales desagregado por Provincia -AÑO
2003
·       Informe de Gestión SIM 2003, Planes y Programas Sociales Nacionales dirigidos a la lucha
contra la pobreza y la vulnerabilidad social
2004
·       Evolución Programas Sociales MDS Datos Presupuestos, Prestaciones y Cobertura Año 1998 -
2004
·       Beneficiarios atendidos por los Programas Sociales Nacionales desagregados por Provincia
-AÑO 2004
·       Prestaciones brindadas por los Programas Sociales Nacionales desagregadas por
provincia-AÑO2004
·       Presupuesto ejecutado por los Programas Sociales Nacionales desagregados por Provincia-
AÑO 2004
·       Planes y Programas Sociales Nacionales - AÑO 2004
·       Cumplimiento de Metas Físicas y de Cobertura de los Planes y Programas Sociales- AÑO 2004
·       Presentación del Sistema Integrado de Monitoreo
·       Descripción de Conceptos de Campos del Sistema Integrado de Monitoreo
2005
·       Informe de metas presupuestarias, físicas y Cobertura - Proyecto de Presupuesto Año 2005

Support to Design of Programs and other Internal Reports
1999/2001
·       Propuesta de focalización geográfica del Programa Unidos
·       Análisis de los recortes presupuestarios en virtud de la Ley de Déficit Cero
·       Informes de gestión
·       Informe de oferta de programas por municipio
·       Evolución del mercado de trabajo en el Gran Buenos Aires Mayo 2000/ Mayo 2001
·       Informe especial sobre el día Internacional de la Mujer
·       Evolución de la pobreza por ingresos 1999/2001
·       Análisis de indicadores censales 1980-1991-2001
2003/2004
·       Los hogares y las familias del Área Metropolitana del Gran Buenos Aires: cambios en las
décadas de los ochenta y los noventa
·       Cumbre del Milenio: Consideraciones sobre los indicadores y las metas del milenio
·       Los Beneficiarios del Programa Jefas y Jefes de Hogar Desocupados: Antecedentes Laborales
y Empleabilidad
·       ¿A quiénes llega el Plan Jefas y Jefes de Hogar Desocupados? Un análisis desde la distribución
del ingreso y regional
·       Hogares receptores de prestaciones monetarias y en especie. Un ejercicio de simulación del




                                                  - 35 -

impacto en el ingreso total y en la Canasta básica alimentaria

Training and Technical Assístance Activities
1999/2005
·      Capacitación a los equipos de SIEMPRO en las provincias
·      Cursos de Postgrado de política y gerencia social
·      Seminarios y talleres retransferencia de metodologias
Social Development Survey
1999/2001
·      Publicación del primer cuaderno de resultados definitivos EDS I, 2000
·      Diseño y prueba piloto de la EDS II
·      Tareas de capacitación del personal y supervisión de terreno

Special Studies based on the Social Survey
1999/2001
·      La afiliación al sistema de salud, 2001
·      El desempleo urbano, 2001
·      Trabajadores informales, abril 2001
·      La utilización de los servicios de salud, 2001
·      Prescripción y consumo de medicamentos, 2001
·      Educación y desigualdad, 2001
·      Tercera Edad, 2001
·      Juventud, 2001
·      Las Familias y los núcleos conyugales secundarios, 2001
·      Niños de 0 a 4 años, 2001

Provincial Studies
1999/2001
·      Evaluación de las capacidades de las áreas sociales provinciales. Diagnósticos
·      Guía de programas sociales provinciales (2000/2001)
2002/2005
·      Mapa de Políticas Alimentarias. Diciembre 2004
·      Guías de Programas Provinciales
·      Informes Provinciales sobre la situación, económica, productiva y fiscal

Publications
·      Presente y Futuro del Estado de Bienestar: el debate europeo
·      Análisis del Gasto Social Nacional
·      Diagnósticos Sociales Provinciales
·      Encuesta de Desarrollo Social: Trabajos especiales
·      Guía de Programas Sociales Nacionales, 2004




                                                  - 36 -

- 37 -

