Page  1
June 26, 2002
Mr.
Roberto Lavagna
Ministry of Economy
Hipólito Irigoyen 250
Buenos Aires,
Argentina
Re: 
Forth Social Protection Project
 (Loan 
4398-AR)
Third Amendment to Loan Agreement.
Dear Minister: 
Please refer to the Loan Agreement between the Argentine Republic (the Borrower) and the 
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development (the Bank) dated August 25, 1999, (the Loan 
Agreement) for the above mentioned Project, as amended. 
Pursuant to our recent discussions on the subject, and pursuant to the letter from Mr. Gerardo 
Hita dated June 14, 2002, we are pleased to inform you that the Bank hereby agrees to amend the Loan 
Agreement as set forth below. 
1.
Section 1.02 of the Loan Agreement is hereby amended to delete paragraph (r) and to include 
three new definitions in paragraphs (r) (s) and (t), to read in its entirety as follows:
“Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the General 
Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective meanings therein set forth 
and the following additional terms have the following meanings:
(…)
(s)
“CNCPS” means 
Consejo Nacional de Coordinación de Políticas Sociales
,
the 
Borrower’s national council for the coordination of social policy;
(t)
“UNDP” means the United Nations Development Program; and
(u)
“UNDP Agreement” means the agreement referred to in  Part B.6 of Schedule 5 
to this Agreement”
2.
Schedule 5 to the Loan Agreement is hereby amended and replaced in its entirety to read as per 
Attachment I to this amendment letter. 
3.
Schedule 6 to the Loan Agreement is hereby amended and replaced in its entirety to read as per 
Attachment II to this amendment letter.
Please confirm your agreement with the foregoing by signing and dating this letter in the spaces 
Page  2
provided below. This amendment letter will be executed in two counterparts, each of which shall be an 
original.
Upon your confirmation, please return one fully executed original to us. The provisions of this 
amendment letter will become effective as of the date of this letter upon receipt by the Bank of one fully 
executed original of this amendment letter.
Sincerely,
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
_______________________________
Paul Levy
Acting Country Director 
Argentina, Chile, Paraguay and Uruguay Country Management Unit
Latin America and The Caribbean Region
AGREED
:
ARGENTINE REPUBLIC
By: _______________________
Authorized Representative
Name: Roberto Lavagna
Date:
July 31, 2002
Attachment I
SCHEDULE 5
Implementation Program
Part A
:
1.
The Borrower, through MDS, shall maintain throughout Project implementation, the national 
coordinator, and line, provincial and regional managers, all with qualifications and experience acceptable 
to the Bank for the management of FOPAR .
Page  3
2.
The Borrower, through MDS, shall cause FOPAR to carry out Part A of the Project in 
accordance with an operational manual (the FOPAR Operational Manual). Except as the Borrower, 
through MDS, and the Bank may otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not amend, suspend, abrogate or 
waive, or otherwise fail to enforce the FOPAR Operational Manual or any provision thereof.
3.
Without limitation upon the foregoing, the Borrower, through MDS, shall ensure that:
(a)
the Bank shall be furnished for its prior no-objection: (i) the first two technical assistance 
agreements to be entered into between the Borrower, through SDS, and a selected national or provincial 
agency to carry out the participatory social initiatives referred to under Part A.2 (a ) of the Project; (ii) 
any proposed Subproject that, according to the terms of the FOPAR Operational Manual, requires the 
undertaking of environmental protection and mitigation measures and/or resettlement of population, 
including the corresponding environmental assessment and/or resettlement plan, which shall have been 
prepared in accordance with the procedures for environmental and social impact assessment and 
mitigation set forth in the FOPAR Operational Manual; (iii) any proposed Subproject that, according to 
the terms of the FOPAR Operational Manual, requires the undertaking of measures to ensure the 
participation in the Subprojects of vulnerable communities, including indigenous populations; and (iv) 
any proposed Subproject which does not correspond with the types of Subprojects eligible for FOPAR 
financing as set forth in the FOPAR Operational Manual;
(b)
the Bank is furnished a copy of each Subproject summary for its ex-post review, said 
summary sheet to be prepared in a format acceptable to the Bank; and
(c)
no Subproject shall be carried out under Part A.1 of the Project if the estimated cost 
thereof is: (i) $100,000 equivalent or more, if the aggregate estimated cost of Subprojects included in 
Part A.1 of the Project estimated to cost $100,000 equivalent or more shall have reached the amount of 
$10,000,000 equivalent; or (ii) $150,000 equivalent or more.
4.
For the purposes of providing administrative, budgeting, accounting, information management 
and legal support to FOPAR, the Borrower, through MDS, shall maintain, throughout Project 
implementation, the coordination unit (UCAF), established under SP I, with appropriate organization and 
staffing, including a coordinator with qualifications and experience acceptable to the Bank.
Part B
:
5.
The Borrower shall maintain, throughout Project implementation, within CNCPS, the central 
executing unit (UEC) established for the overall management of SIEMPRO with an organization and 
staffing satisfactory to the Bank.
6.
(a) the Borrower, through CNCPS, may enter into an agreement with UNDP, under terms and 
conditions satisfactory to the Bank (the UNDP Agreement), whereby: (i) the Borrower will authorize 
UNDP to undertake, on behalf of the Borrower, and UNDP will so undertake, the procurement of goods 
and services needed under the Part B of the Project, in accordance with the procedures set forth or 
referred to in this Agreement; (ii) UNDP will undertake to keep separate records and accounts in respect 
of such goods and services; (iii) the Borrower may transfer directly to UNDP proceeds of the Loan as 
required for UNDP to effect the payments for goods and services under Part B of the Project; (iv) the 
Borrower will undertake to transfer to UNDP the counterpart (i.e., non-Loan funds as required for UNDP 
Page  4
to effect the payment of such goods and services); and (v) UNDP will provide the Borrower in a timely 
manner with whatever information the Borrower needs to comply with the Borrower’s obligations under 
Article IV of this Agreement pertaining to Project funds handled by UNDP.
(b)
The Borrower shall exercise its rights, and comply with its obligations under the UNDP 
Agreement in such manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower and the Bank and to accomplish the 
purposes of the Loan, and, except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not assign, 
amend, abrogate, waive or fail to enforce such agreement or any provision thereof.
7.
The Borrower, through CNCPS, shall ensure that the participation in SIEMPRO of the Provinces 
not covered under SPI shall be governed by the provisions of an agreement (
Convenio de Adhesión
)
to be 
entered into between CNCPS and each of the Provinces.
8.
The Borrower, through CNCPS, shall cause SIEMPRO to be operated in accordance with the  
SIEMPRO Matrix.  Except as the Borrower, through CNCPS, and the Bank shall otherwise agree, the 
Borrower shall not amend, suspend, abrogate or waive, or otherwise fail to apply the SIEMPRO Matrix 
or any part thereof.
9.
The Borrower, through MDS, shall cause SIEMPRO to: (a) by not later than May 31, 1999, enter 
into an agreement (the SIEMPRO Subsidiary Agreement) with INDEC for the preparation of the 
Borrower’s second survey on living conditions and access to social programs in accordance with terms 
and conditions acceptable to the Bank; (b) by not later than December 31, 1999, furnish to the Bank, for 
its review and comments, the draft terms of reference and a proposed design to undertake such survey; 
and (c) by not later than October 31, 2001, carry out such survey in accordance with terms of reference 
and a timetable approved by the Bank, and promptly thereafter, review with the Bank the results of such 
survey.
10.
Except as the Borrower, through CNCPS, and the Bank may otherwise agree, the Borrower, 
through CNCPS, shall not terminate, amend or fail to enforce any provision of the SIEMPRO Subsidiary 
Agreement.
Page  5
Attachment II
SCHEDULE 6
Special Accounts
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term “Eligible Category” means category (1) set forth in the table in Part A.1 of 
Schedule 1 to this Loan Agreement in respect of the Special Account for Part A of the Project , and in 
respect of the Special Account for Part B of the Project, category (2) set forth in said table;
(b)
the term “eligible expenditures” means in respect of the Special Account for Part A of 
the Project, the expenditures in respect of the reasonable cost of goods, works and services referred to in 
Section 2.02 (a) of this Agreement and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan allocated from time 
to time to said Special Account’s respective Eligible Category; and in respect of the Special Account for 
Part B of the Project, the expenditures in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services referred to 
in Section 2.02 (a) of this Agreement and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan allocated from 
time to time to said Special Account’s respective Eligible Category; and
(c)
the term “Authorized Allocation” means thean amount equivalent toof $10,000,000 in 
respect of the Special Account for Part A of the Project and an amount equivalent to $500,000 in respect 
of the Special Account for Part B thereof, to be withdrawn from the Loan Account and deposited into the 
Special Accounts pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule, provided, however, that unless the Bank 
shall otherwise agree, the Authorized Allocation shall be limited to thean  amount equivalent to of 
$3,750,000 in respect of the Special Account for Part A of the Project, until the aggregate amount of 
withdrawals from the Loan Account allocated to Category (1) plus the total amount of all outstanding 
special commitments entered into by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions for 
Part A of the Project shall be equal to or exceed the equivalent of $15,000,000.
2.
Payments out of the respective Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible 
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.
After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that the respective Special Account has 
been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish the 
respective Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish to the Bank a 
request or requests for deposit into the respective Special Account of an amount or amounts which do not 
exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such request or requests, the 
Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit into the respective 
Special Account such amount or amounts as the Borrower shall have requested.
Page  6
(b)
(i)
For replenishment of the respective Special Account, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the Bank requests for deposits into the respective Special Account at 
such intervals as the Bank shall specify.
(ii)
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall furnish to 
the Bank the documents and other evidence required pursuant to para-graph 4 of 
this Schedule for the payment or payments in respect of which replenishment is 
requested. On the basis of each such request, the Bank shall, on behalf of the 
Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit into the respective 
Special Account such amount as the Borrower shall have requested and as shall 
have been shown by said documents and other evidence to have been paid out of 
the respective Special Account for eligible expenditures. All such deposits shall 
be withdrawn by the Bank from the Loan Account under the respective eligible 
Category, and in the respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified 
by said documents and other evidence.
4.
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the respective Special Account, the Borrower 
shall, at such time as the Bank shall reasonably request, furnish to the Bank such documents and other 
evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for eligible expenditures.
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Bank shall not be required to 
make further deposits into any Special Account:
(a)
if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all further withdrawals should be 
made by the Borrower directly from the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Article V of 
the General Conditions and paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement;
(b)
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Bank, within the period of time 
specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit reports required to be furnished to 
the Bank pursuant to said Section in respect of the audit of the records and accounts for the Special 
Accounts;
(c)
if, at any time, the Bank shall have notified the Borrower of its intention to suspend in 
whole or in part the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals from the Loan Account pursuant to the 
provisions of Section 6.02 of the General Conditions; or
(d)
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible Category for the 
respective Special Account, minus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into 
by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions, shall equal the equivalent of twice the 
amount of the Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of the Loan 
allocated to the respective eligible Category shall follow such procedures as the Bank shall specify by 
notice to the Borrower.  Such further withdrawals shall be made only after and to the extent that the Bank 
shall have been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit in the respective Special Account as 
Page  7
of the date of such notice will be utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.
(a)
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any payment out of any Special 
Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2 of this 
Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished to the Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly 
upon notice from the Bank: (A) provide such additional evidence as the Bank may request; or (B) deposit 
into the respective Special Account (or, if the Bank shall so request, refund to the Bank) an amount equal 
to the amount of such payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the Bank shall 
otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Bank into any Special Account shall be made until the 
Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may be.
(b)
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any amount outstanding in any Special 
Account will not be required to cover further payments for eligible expenditures, the Borrower shall, 
promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to the Bank such outstanding amount.
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the Bank all or any portion of the 
funds on deposit in the Special Accounts.
(d)
Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) of this Schedule shall 
be credited to the Loan Account for subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation in accordance with the 
relevant provisions of this Agreement, including the General Conditions.
