Document of
The World Bank
Report No: 18412-AR
PROJECT APPRAISAL DOCUMENT
ONA
PROPOSED LOAN
IN THE AMOUNT OF US$90.75 MILLION
TO THE
ARGENTINE REPUBLIC
FOR
A FOURTH SOCIAL PROTECTION PROJECT
September 23, 1998
Sector Management Unit for Human Development
Country Management Unit for Argentina, Chile and Uruguay
Latin America and the Caribbean Region



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective September 23, 1998)
Currency Unit = Argentine Peso (AR$)
AR$ 1.00= US$ 1.00
US$ 1.00 =AR$ 1.00
FISCAL YEAR
January 1  December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
CAS                Country Assistance Strategy
CLDS               Local Social Development Commission/Comision Local de Desarrollo Social
CPP                Provincial Participatory CouncillConsejo Participativo Provincial
CPR                Regional Participatory Council/Consejo Participativo Regional
GDP                Gross Domestic Product
FLACSO             Latin American Faculty of Social Sciences/FacultadLatinoamericana de Ciencias
Sociales
FONAVI             National Housing Fund/Fondo Nacional de la Vivienda
FOPAR              Participatory Social Investment Fund/Fondo Participativo de Inversi6n Social
IDB                Inter-American Development Bank
IMF                International Monetary Fund
INDEC              National Institute of Statistics and Census/lnstituto Nacional de Estadisticas y Censos
MCE                Ministry of Culture and Education
MIS                Management Information System
MOE                Ministry of Economy, Works and Public Services/Ministerio de Economia y Obras y
Servicios Puiblicos
MTSS               Ministry of Labor and Social Security/Ministerio de Trabajo y Seguridad Social
NBI                Unsatisfied Basic Needs/Necesidades Basicas Insatisfechas
NGO                Non-governmental Organization
NUB                Nucleus of Beneficiaries/Nuicleo de Beneficiarios
OCEF               FOPAR's Central Office!Oficina Central del Fondo
PAD                Project Appraisal Document
PSA                Agricultural Social Program/Programa Social Agropecuario
QAG                Quality Assurance Group
SA                 Special Account
SDS                Social Development Secretariat/Secretaria de Desarrollo Social
SIEMPRO            Social Information and Monitoring and Evaluation of Targeted Social Programs/Sistema
de Informaci6n, Evaluaci6n y Monitoreo de Programas Sociales
SIF                Social Investment Fund
SIGEN              Office of the Controller GenerallSindicatura General de la Naci6n
SISFAM             Beneficiary Identification System/Sistema de Identificaci6n de Beneficiarios
SP                 Social Protection
TA                 Technical Assistance
UCAF               Administration and Finance Coordination UnitlUnidad de Coordinacion de
Administraci6n y Financiamiento
UEC                SIEMPRO's Central Unit/Unidad Ejecutora Central
UPF                FOPAR's Provincial Unit/ Unidad Provincial del Fondo
URF                FOPAR's Regional Unit!Unidad Regional del Fondo
Vice President:   Shahid Javed Burki
Country Manager/Director:   Myrna L. Alexander
Sector Manager/Director:   Xavier E. Coll
Task Team Leader/Task Manager:   Hideki Mori



ARGENTINA
Fourth Social Protection Project
CONTENTS
Page
A. Project Development Objective
1. Project development objectives and key performance indicators ..............................                                                  2
B. Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project                                                                3
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy ...........................................................                                         3
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices ............................                                                5
C. Project Description Summary
1. Project components .............................................................                                                              7
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project ................................                                                 8
3. Benefits and target population .............................................................                                                   9
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements ........................................................                                       10
D. Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives considered  and reasons for rejection .........................................                                         12
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and other development agencies .......                                                           13
3. Lessons learned and reflected in proposed project design ........................................                                            14
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership ..............................................                                              18
S. Value added of Bank support in this project ............................................................                                     18
E. Summary Project Analyses
I . Economic .............................................................                                                                      18
2. Financial .............................................................                                                                      18
3. Technical .............................................................                                                                       19
4. Institutional .............................................................                                                                  19
5. Social ....                                                                                      ,                                           20
6. Environmental assessment ............................................................                                                        20
7. Participatory approach ............................................................                                                          20
F. Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability ............................................................                                                                  22
2. Critical risks ............................................................                                                                  22
3. Possible controversial aspects ............................................................                                                  23



G. Main Loan conditions
1. Effectiveness conditions ...............................................................                                                                                    23
2. Other ...............................................................                                                                                                        23
H. Readiness for Implementation ...............................................................                                                                                      25
I. Compliance with Bank Policies ...............................................................                                                                                     25
Annexes
Annex 1: Project Design Summary ...............................................................                                                                                      26
Annex 2:  Detailed Project Description ...............................................................                                                                               29
Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs .......................                                                                                                                              35
Annex  4:    Summary  Economics Assessme ts  ...............................................................                                                                         36
Annex  5:   Financial Summary  ...............................................................                                                                                       40
Annex 6: Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements ..................................................                                                                                41
Annex 7: Project Processing Schedule ...............................................................                                                                                  46
Annex 8: Documents in Project File ...............................................................                                                                                   47
Annex 9:  Statement of Loans and Credits ...............................................................                                                                             48
Annex 10: Country at a Glance ...............................................................                                                                                         51
MAP(S)



ARGENTINA
Fourth Social Protection Project
Project Appraisal Document
Latin America and Caribbean Region
Argentina, Chile, Uruguay CMU
Date: September 23, 1998                           Team Leader: Hideki Mori
ProjectID: 6058                                    Sector Manager/Director: Xavier E. Coll
Sector(s). SA - Social Assistance, SY - Other Social Sector Country Manager/Director: Myrna L. Alexander
Lending Instrument: Specific Investment Loan (SIL)  Poverty Targeted Intervention: Yes
Project Financing Data
Z Loan          El Credit       E Grant          E Guarantee     D] Other (Specify)
For Loans/Credits/Others:
Amount (US$m/SDRm): US$ 90.75 m
Proposed Terms: O To be defined    D Multicurrency  Z Single currency USD
D Standard Variable L] Fixed         Z LIBOR-based
Grace period (years):             3
Years to maturity:                15
Commitment fee:                   0.75%
Front end fee                     1.00%
Financing Plan(US$m):    Dl To be defined
Source                                                        Local         Foreign         Total
Government                                                       33.0             9.1          42.1
IBRD                                                             71.0            19.8          90.8
IDA                                                               0.0             0.0            0.0
Total:                                                          104.0            28.9         132.9
Borrower: The Argentine Republic
Guarantor.
Responsible agency(ies):
Secretaria de Dessarrollo Social (Social Development Secretariat)
Estimated disbursements (Bank FY/US$AM):
FY              1999        2000         2001        2002         2003
Annual               8.5         19.3         27.3        25.7         10.0
Cumulative           8.5         27.8         55.1        80.8         90.8
Project implementation period: 4 years
Expected effectiveness date: 01/01/99  Expected closingdate:  06/30/2003



A: Project Development Objective
1. Project development objective (see Annex 1):
The primary objectives of the Fourth Social Protection Project (SP IV) would be to assist the
Argentine Government in: (i) building capacities in poor communities to better manage the process to
improve their welfare; (ii) providing poor communities with technical assistance and grants for
beneficiary-identified small scale subprojects that would meet specific needs; and (iii) improving the focus
and management of social programs by improving the availability and quality of social sector specific
information, the capacity to effectively target social services to the poor, and the methodologies to monitor
and evaluate social sector programs. The SP IV would be a follow-up to Parts B and C of the SP I
(L3957-AR), and in spite of its similar name, would have no backward linkages to the SP II (L4195-AR)
or the SP III (L4366-AR), each of which supports MTSS-implemented TRABAJAR II and III,
respectively. Unlike the SP II & III, employment generation is not part of the objectives of the SP IV.
The above-mentioned objectives of the SP IV would be pursued through the following two
programs within the Social Development Secretariat (Secretaria de Desarrollo Social; SDS). First, the
Participatory Social Investment Fund (Fondo Participativo de Inversi6n Social; FOPAR), established
under the SP I as a two-year pilot program, would expand its operations. The main objective of the Fund is
to build institutional capacity among the poor, and simultaneously to provide them with means to meet
specific necessities. It is important to recognize that FOPAR has defined its subprojects not only as the
means to satisfy specific needs of the poor, but also as the training vehicle to build and strengthen the
ability to identify. define and prioritize their needs, and then mobilize and manage resources to design,
implement and operate their own projects.
Second, the Technical Assistance for the Improvement of Social Information and Monitoring and
Evaluation of Targeted Social Programs (Sistema de Informaci6n, Evaluaci6n y Monitoreo de Programas
Sociales; SIEMPRO) would enter into the second phase to establish itself as a catalyst in changing the
focus and management of social programs by improving the accessibility and quality of information,
promoting transparency, participation of the civil society and appropriate targeting of social services to the
poor. The first half of the SIEMPRO-building period was supported under Part C of the SP I.
To minimize confusions, FOPAR under the SP I and the SP IV would be referred to as FOPAR-1
and FOPAR-2, respectively throughout the rest of this document. Likewise, SIEMPRO under the SP I and
the SP IV would be described as SIEMPRO-1 and SIEMPRO-2, respectively.
2. Key performance indicators (see Annex 1):
For FOPAR-2:
*  Quality of subproject applications;
*   Subproject implementation and maintenance arrangements within the community;
*  Mobilization of, or participation in non-FOPAR resources or programs
*   Successful completion of subprojects;
* Degree of satisfaction with the subproject by the community members; and
* Participatory programs designed and implemented by the agencies.
-2-



For SIEMPRO-2
*  Numbers of reports and documents in circulation, workshops, participants, databases accessible on the
Internet; and
*   Degree of user-satisfaction
These and other more detailed indicators would be monitored using data available from FOPAR's
MIS (see D.3. Lessons learnt and reflected to the project design) and SIEMPRO records, as well as
information available through periodic ex-post evaluation of FOPAR subprojects and program evaluations
(evaluation of FOPAR as a program would be carried out by SIEMPRO during the SP IV). The modified
list of monitoring indicators (mostly input/process indicators) to be submitted as part of the periodic
progress report were agreed during the negotiations, and would be included in the supplemental letter to the
Loan Agreement with benchmarks.
B: Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project (see Annex 1):
Document number: 16505-AR                       Date of latest CAS discussion: 05/15/97
The SP IV would support the following objectives of the Argentina CAS (Memorandum of the
President of the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development to the Executive Directors on a
Country Assistance Strategy of the World Bank Group for the Argentine Republic, Report No. 16505-AR),
discussed by the Board of Executive Directors on May 15, 1997.
(i)  Enhance social development, including poverty alleviation and human development: the SP IV
would finance investments in physical as well as human/social capital. The project would
complement other Bank-financed poverty reduction activities in the areas of education, health
and social protection;
(ii)  Improve the performance and institutional capacity of government, particularly sub-national
governments, to deliver key social, infrastructure and environmental services: The SP IV
would strengthen public sector institutions oriented towards providing the poor with essential
services by improving the technical capacity of public agencies (SDS, provincial and local
governments) to analyze the needs of the poor, rural communities, develop assistance strategies
and contract appropriate assistance to decentralized services.
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy:
Social Programs. Consolidated public social expenditures in Argentina are estimated to be about US$ 52
billion or 16.5% of GDP in 1997. The responsibilities for basic social programs, including education,
health and housing, have been decentralized to the provinces.
The national government, which finances approximately 60% of the consolidated public social
expenditures, has relatively little flexibility and limited direct mechanisms for major changes and
reallocation of social spending in the short run. About US$ 19 billion is spent every year for obligatory
social security payments, and US$ 6 billion for both health (mostly for medical insurance for the elderly
and health insurance for formal sector workers) and education (mostly for transfers to tertiary education).
The national government also transfers nearly US$ I billion to FONAVI, a housing program based on a
tax co-participation agreement between the national and provincial governments, and a similar amount to
-3-



the Fondo del Conurbano, a separate housing program specifically for the province of Buenos Aires.
About US$ 2 billion is accounted for by nearly 40 programs covering the major areas of labor (including
programs to promote employment such as public works and wage subsidies, and unemployment insurance),
compensatory education programs, services for the elderly, community services and nutrition. As a result,
the leverage of the national government lies in the remaining US$ 2 billion per year or so for various types
of targeted programs. Consequently, the primary challenge on the national front is to reduce duplication
and to improve program design, especially on targeting.
Regarding the provinces, the national government's strategy has been to provide them with an
overall policy and institutional framework by establishing standards, encouraging the application of sound
criteria and using a combination of moral suasion, institutional support and dissemination of best practices
to improve spending at the provincial level. Several Bank and IDB supported operations, in the area of
health, education and economic management, are directly helping the provinces. The Government
recognizes that the programs are often fragmented and overlapping, and that administrative costs in some
cases appear to be very high. To address these issues, a Social Cabinet has been organized under the Chief
of the Cabinet to improve coordination among social programs. A high priority has been placed on
improving the availability and the quality of social indicators and information of program beneficiaries, to
effectively target poor and vulnerable groups, to identify their unmet needs, and to design and implement
effective systems to satisfy those needs.
Demand-driven Approach and the Ability to Participate. The objectives of the Argentine Government's
social policy in recent years have been to satisfy the basic needs of the population and to provide
opportunities for participating in the process of economic development to overcome the various causes and
manifestations of poverty. Successful implementation of such a policy would require the type of program
administration that can respond to diverse needs and demands at the local level in a transparent and
participatory manner, and would depend on the ability of the intended beneficiaries, particularly the poor,
to take advantage of the opportunities presented.
Unemployment (14% as of October 1997) continues to be a major concern. Unfortunately, so far the
Government has been unable to make progress in labor reform due to its highly politically sensitive nature,
particularly concerning the area of decentralization of collective bargaining and reform of the severance
payment regime. With Government requests, the Bank has been supporting TRABAJAR (temporary job
creation programs targeted to the poor) under the Social Protection I, II & III respectively.
Social Protection I. Within the above-mentioned context, in 1995 the Argentine Government requested the
Bank's support in establishing FOPAR, a pilot Social Investment Fund which would operate in northern
provinces, with future expansion in mind. Unlike TRABAJAR whose mission has been to provide
temporary employment to individuals, this pilot FOPAR was expected to design and test mechanisms to
build capacities of the poor in identifying and prioritizing needs, designing and implementing small projects
accordingly, and mobilize resources to carry out such projects in a participatory manner. Another request
was made to support the establishment of SIEMPRO, a mechanism that would contribute to the improved
design and implementation of social programs by making information more widely available, by carrying
out the analyses and evaluations of policies and programs, and by strengthening the capacity of provincial
and national agencies in information management and analysis as well as policy and program evaluation.
In response, Bank-financing was provided to FOPAR and SIEMPRO under the Social Protection I, along
with other targeted interventions.
-4-



3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices:
FOPAR-2:
Accomplishements under FOPAR- 1. As previously agreed with the Bank, FOPAR commissioned
an independent ex-post evaluation led by an external evaluation specialist. The evaluation reviewed a total
of 119 subprojects that had been completed by September 1997, and also carried out the interview of
stratified sample of beneficiaries. The main finding were the following. The full text of the evaluation
report is available in the project file [see Annex 8].
*   FOPAR- I's targeting mechanism was highly effective. About 75% of its beneficiaries were poor,
according to the definition based on unsatisfied basic needs (NBI) indicators, which are commonly used
by the Argentine social programs. In addition, four-fifth of the remaining 25% were from households
with monthly income of US$ 300 equivalent or less. Considering that FOPAR's support is directed to
communities rather than individuals, the level of leakage was extremely low;
*   The mechanism of participation employed by FOPAR- I created the conditions in which the
beneficiaries actively participated throughout the subproject cycle, and contributed to successful
implementation of the subprojects;
* A large majority of beneficiaries (83% in infrastructure type subprojects / 97% in training-technical
assistance type subprojects) emphasized that the financial administration of FOPAR-provided
resources in their communities were carried out in a honest and transparent way;
*   96% of the beneficiaries felt that their subprojects effectively satisfied their necessities or solved their
problems as designed;
* 97% of the beneficiaries expressed that the support of FOPAR was indispensable in the implementation
of their subprojects, and there would have been no other way to achieve what materialized through the
subprojects.
Under FOPAR-2, the CAS objectives stated under Section B. 1. in the above would be fully
supported. It would also support the Government's policies and strategies described under Social Programs
and Demand-driven Approach and the Ability to Participate in the above by maintaining the proven
targeting mechanisms, participatory and demand-driven approach, and by actively supporting the capacity
building of poor communities to: (a) identify projects which would address their basic needs and improve
the quality of life; (b) mobilize and manage resources; and (c) take advantage of other existing social
programs under the national and provincial governments.
FOPAR-2 would have an annual budget of around US$ 42 million equivalent, or only about 0. 1%
of consolidated annual public social spending and 1.5% of the national government's annual targeted social
program budget. Naturally, it would be a complement to, but not a substitute for, other efforts in poverty
reduction in the areas of education, health and social protection, each of which is designed to improve the
delivery of specific types of services at a larger scale. The menu of the eligible subproject types and the
targeting criteria have been deliberately constructed to avoid unnecessary duplication of efforts. For
example, unlike most SIFs elsewhere, FOPAR (1 & 2) does not support the rehabilitation,
construction or remodelin2 of schools.
As a strategic alternative, incorporating FOPAR into TRABAJAR was discussed but abandoned
for the following reasons. TRABAJAR has adopted many elements of social investment funds (SIFs),
especially from the first generation funds like Bolivia Emergency Social Fund (see the Lessons Learnt). In
-5-



addition, TRABAJAR and FOPAR appear similar as both finance small-scale civil works. Beyond this
point, however, the two differ in their fundamental objectives, therefore require different operational
modalities. For example, income supplement through rapid employment generation in poor communities is
one of TRABAJAR's most important objectives, and therefore require a very short subproject cycle. Only
30% of subproject appraisal carries out site visits. Funds are disbursed as checks issued by TRABAJAR
and given to individual workers who work on subprojects.
FOPAR, on the other hand, places a greater importance on participation and capacity/institution
building of the communities, and therefore its subproject cycle -- especially during its upstream when the
community is required to reach consensus on the design of subprojects and to choose their representatives,
etc. -- tends to be longer. All subproject appraisal include site visits to verify that not only technical but
also social and environmental considerations were adequately taken into account. Furthermore, FOPAR
supports training / technical assistance subprojects and mandates all small civil works subprojects to
include a training component for maintenance and operation. Funds are disbursed to communities rather
than individuals, and their representatives manage the funds and carry-out procurement actions in
accordance with the FOPAR Guidelines. In some cases, FOPAR subprojects have employed community
members as wage workers, but the aforementioned ex-post evaluation revealed that only 28.3% of the
direct beneficiaries received remuneration, and the rest was voluntary work to satisfy the community
counterpart requirements. Some comnmunities have voluntarily developed creative schemes to support
poorer members. For example, a rural indigenous community where jobs are scarce, the community
decided to pay twice the number of laborers at half the budgeted cost as a way of distributing income more
evenly among the community and giving youth construction work experience.
SIEMPRO-2:
Accomplishment under SIEMPRO- 1. An evaluation study of SIEMPRO- 1 was also carried out
[see Annex 8], using semi-structured interviews of the representatives of stakeholder organizations,
including national as well as provincial social sector ministries and agencies, the Senate of the Nation,
members of the Chief of the Cabinet unit, FLACSO (Latin American Faculty of Social Sciences), INDEC
(National Institute of Statistics and Census) and the IDB. In general, these stakeholders have found
SIEMPRO's contributions highly valuable for: (i) making social information and indicators widely
available; (ii) fostering the culture of evaluation and transparency, which in many cases, had not existed;
(iii) building the capacity to manage and analyze social sector information, particularly at the provincial
level; and consequently (iv) for contributing to the design and implementation of effective social sector
policies and programs.
SIEMPRO-2, as a technical assistance component under the SP IV, would continue to grow as one
of the Argentine Government's instruments to strengthen: (1) the information base for coordinating,
designing and evaluating policies and programs; and (2) analytical capacity in the area of poverty
alleviation, particularly at the level of provinces and municipalities. It would also contribute to the
Government's efforts to improve the efficiency and effectiveness of social spending by supporting activities
in such areas as program evaluation and targeting.
One of the strategic alternatives to SIEMPRO would have been to promote and strengthen the
monitoring and evaluation as well as information management of social sector ministries and agencies at
both national and provincials levels. However, such an approach would still require a SIEMPRO-like
mechanism to consolidate information to provide policy/decision makers with holistic views of social sector
in general. It is also possible to consider private sector alternatives. However, given that poverty
alleviation is accepted as the primary function of the public sector, it would be necessary to support the
-6-



strengthening of information bases and analytical capacity within the public sector. By doing so,
SIEMPRO-2 would continue to contribute greater private sector participation, especially through open data
access, which would support private research.
C. Project Description Summary
1. Project components (see Annex 2 for a detailed description and Annex 3 for a detailed cost
breakdown):
FOPAR-2:
FOPAR-2 would have the following three subcomponents: (a) Community subprojects; (b)
Knowledge and Methodology Transfer and Capacity Building; and (c) Project Management. See Annex 2
for more detailed discussions.
(a) Community Subprojects: Through the provision of technical and financial assistance, FOPAR-2 would
support the identification, design and implementation of small-scale subprojects in the poor communities in
approximately 170 poorest districts in the country. While FOPAR-l's operations were limited to six
northern provinces, FOPAR-2 would operate in ten northern provinces and in a southern region, consisting
of poor communities in six southern provinces.
The average size of subprojects is estimated to be around US$ 47,000 equivalent, and individual
subproject costs would not exceed US$ 150,000 equivalent. Approximately 2,000 subprojects would be
supported during a four-year period. Eligible types of subprojects are defined in the FOPAR Operational
Manual, including construction of multi-purpose community centers, latrines and other rudimentary
sanitation facilities, rudimentary water systems (hand-pumps and vats), pedestrian bridges and other minor
civil works, training programs for leadership building and vocational skills, preservation of cultural
heritage, environmental management, and community-network building. During the negotiations, it was
agreed that FOPAR would not amend the FOPAR Operational Manual without the approval of the
Bank [see G. Main loan conditions].
(b) Knowledge and Methodology Transfer and Capacity Building. Under this subcomponent, FOPAR-2
would promote participatory approaches through educational campaign, seminars and workshops and the
provision of technical assistance to interested government agencies and programs at both central and local
levels. Technical assistance would be given based on a concrete technical assistance agreement between
FOPAR and the beneficiary agency, and would cover topics such as targeting, operational modalities and
MIS. In addition, FOPAR would actively support the development of poor communities' capacity to
manage beneficiary-identified small scale subprojects though promotion, evaluation and supervision of
community subprojects. This subcomponent would also support the institutional strengthening of FOPAR
through monitoring and evaluation, audits, internal staff training and capacity building.
(c) Project Management. Under this component, FOPAR would establish and operationalize four new
provincial units (UPFs) and provincial participatory councils in the north, and several regional units and a
regional council in the southern region. This subcomponent would also support day-to-day operation of
FOPAR, internal staff training and capacity building, project administration, audits and monitoring and
evaluation.
-7-



SIEMPRO-2:
SIEMPRO-2 would continue to promote transparency, participation of the civil society and
appropriate targeting of social services to the poor through the following subcomponents: (a) Social
Information Base - the improvement of the social information-base for timely monitoring and analysis of
the situation of the poor and vulnerable groups; (b) Evaluation and Monitoring - the development of
appropriate methodologies and systems for targeting, monitoring and evaluation (ex-ante/ex-post) of social
programs, and evaluation studies on a demand-driven basis; (c) Capacity Building of Provinces - the
dissemination and transfer of developed methodologies and social information systems to appropriate
national and provincial agencies, and (d) Social Policy Analysis - the provision of assistance to the SDS to
establish priorities and assure coordination of social programs directed to the poor. For more detailed
discussion of SIEMPRO-2 activities, see Annex 2.
Indicative           Bank-      % of
Component               Category      Costs     % of   financing    Bank-
(US$M)    Total   (US$M)  financing
FOPAR-2: Community Subprojects   Physical,           98.7      74.3      69.1       70.0
Institution
_building   _
FOPAR-2: Knowledge and           Institution          5.3       4.0       4.2       79.2
Methodology Transfer and Capacity   building
Building_
FOPAR-2: Project Management      Project             14.0      10.5       7.5       53.6
management
SIEMPRO-2: Social Information Base  Institution       4.4       3.3       2.7      61.4
building
SIEMPRO-2: Evaluation and        Institution          2.8       2.1       2.0      71.4
Monitoring                        building
SIEMPRO-2: Capacity Building of    Institution        5.2       3.9       3.3      63.5
Provinces                        building
SIEMPRO-2: Social Policy Analysis  Institution        1.6       1.2        1.1      68.7
building
Front End Fee                     Other               0.9       0.7        0.9     100.0
Total     132.9     100.0      90.8      68.3
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project:
The SP IV seeks to deepen and extend the existing policy and institutional framework, but is not
designed to carry out any new major policy or institutional reform. Both FOPAR-2 and SIEMPRO-2
would support the Government's strategic framework discussed in Section B.2 Main Sector Issues and
Government Strategy of this PAD.
-8-



3. Benefits and target population:
FOPAR-2:
Target Population and Targeting Mechanism
FOPAR-2's targeting mechanism essentially remains the same as that of FOPAR- 1 (see also
Section B.2. Main Sector Issues and Government Strategy). It uses poverty maps constructed with the
information available from population census and living standards surveys to identify the population with
unsatisfied basic needs (Necesidades Basicas Insatisfechas - NBI). In Argentina, those districts with 40%
or more NBI population are considered to be under critical conditions. Among 134 such districts in the
country, 110 are located in ten northern provinces. Six of them, namely Misiones, Salta, Jujuy, Chaco,
Corrientes and Santiago de Estero were supported by FOPAR- 1. FOPAR-2 would add the remaining four
provinces, Catamarca, Formosa, La Rioja and Tucuman to its territorial coverage. The size of the NBI
population in the ten northern provinces is approximately 1.6 million, and about 45% of them are located in
the urban conglomerates with population of 30,000 or more. The NBI population also represent 34.2% of
the total population in the ten provinces, a number much higher than the national average of 20.1%. The
ten northern provinces account for 34% of the total NBI population in the country (the province of Buenos
Aires, the largest province that would not be supported by FOPAR, accounts for 54%).
Unlike the North, the concentration of poverty in the South is relatively low. However, pockets of
poverty exist. FOPAR has identified several target zones extending across six southern provinces (La
Pampa, Rio Negro, Neuquen, Chubut, Santa Cruz and Tierra del Fuego), using the methods similar to that
for the North. Additional considerations were given to the similarity of the poverty profile of the
population and geographic proximity to maximize the coverage of NBI population and minimize
administrative overhead.
FOPAR uses slightly different approaches in rural and urban areas. In rural areas, municipalities
municipios) located in districts (departamentos) with 40% or more NBI population are considered eligible
for FOPAR's support. In urban areas, deprived neighborhood in districts with population of 30,000 or
more would be eligible. Based on these criteria, FOPAR has identified 37 urban and 130 rural districts for
the phase-2 operations. The total number of N 3I population in those districts are approximately 1.8
million, and they are FOPAR-2's primary targets. Among them, approximately 500,000 are expected to
benefit from FOPAR Subprojects. Resources available for subprojects would be allocated to these districts
in proportion to the NBI population of each district FOPAR would further narrow down its scope of
interventions in the following way. First, the menu of eligible subprojects and the cap in subproject costs
are designed to attract only poor populations. Second, local steering councils (CPP/CPR; see C.4.
Implementation and Institutional Arrangements below) would identify the most vulnerable groups and the
poorest communities which should receive the highest priority, based on the criteria established by FOPAR.
For example, municipalities not being served by existing programs would receive a higher priority.
-9-



Benefils
(i! Improved institutional capacity of poor communities in needs-identification, planning, decision making,
resource mobilization and other key areas of community management. Poor communities and vulnerable
groups would gain experience and learn rudimentary organizational, managerial and planning skills
whether their subproject applications are approved by FOPAR or not. In fact, several subproject
applications have been transferred from FOPAR to other targeted social programs and supported by those
programs. In addition, TRABAJAR and FOPAR are finalizing the agreement that when appropriate,
TRABAJAR would accept subprojects (civil-works only) appraised and approved by FOPAR.
(ii) Improved quality of life of the beneficiaries of subprojects. Specific needs of communities and
vulnerable groups would be met through the implementation of subprojects. For further detail on the list of
eligible subprojects, see Annex 2.
(iii) Improved coordination of social programs at the provincial level. FOPAR requires each province to
establish a Provincial Participatory Council (CPP: Consejo Participativo Provincial; Consejo
Participativo Regional in the South) comprising the representatives of the provincial and municipal
governments, NGOs and other key stakeholders. The CPPs and the CPR function as an advisory as well as
a decision-making authority to establish priorities and allocate resources within the province based on the
established FOPAR guidelines. This mechanism has proven effective in targeting and coordinating social
programs at the provincial levels, particularly in minimizing unnecessary duplications.
(iv) Improved technical capacity of selected national / provincial agencies to manage participatory social
programs. It is expected that the agencies would improve the design and management of such programs
using the knowledge and technology transferred from FOPAR.
SIEMPRO-2:
The primary direct beneficiaries of SIEMPRO-2 would be the national / provincial government
agencies, domestic and national researchers (including universities and research sections of
international/bilateral aid organizations) and NGOs. Better and more accessible information and stronger
analytical capacity should contribute to the design and implementation of effective policies and programs,
thus to poverty reduction in Argentina.
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements:
Implementation period: FOPAR-2 - 48 months (January 1999 - December 2002) / SIEMPRO-2 - 39
months (January 1999 - March 2002)
Institutional and implementation arrangements for both FOPAR and SIEMPRO would remain
essentially unchanged. Both programs would continue to be hosted within the Social Development
Secretariat (SDS), which in turn, provides administrative support to the programs through its
Administration and Finance Coordination Unit (UCAF: Unidad de Coordinaci6n de Administraci6n y
Financiamiento) in the areas of procurement of goods and services, payment to contractors and consultants,
etc. [G. Main Loan Conditions].
-10-



Financial Manaeement
At the request of the Social Development Secretariat, over the past year the Bank has been
providing T.A. through a LAC Financial Management Specialist on project fmancial management,
including fnancial monitoring, reporting and auditing. During this period, UCAF has incorporated
significant improvements in its overall approach to project financial management, UCAF now possesses the
capability to produce project monitoring information in accordance with Bank's revised standards. To
ensure full utilization of the installed project monitoring capacity and to maintain the financial management
system acceptable to the Bank, UCAF has endorsed an action plan involving internal training,
dissemination of available fnancial management information and instructions on the feedback expected
from the recipients of project fnancial management reports.
FOPAR-2:
FOPAR's central office (OCEF. Oficina Central del Fondo) would continue to be responsible for
the overall program coordination, including strategic planning and management as well as promotion,
sub-project appraisal and supervision. In addition, the external advisory group (Consejo Consultivo)
consisting of representatives of public agencies, NGOs and others with significant experience in social
development, would continue to provide strategic guidance to FOPAR.
At the provincial level, FOPAR establishes a provincial unit (UPF: Unidad Provincial del Fondo)
in each of the northern provinces, and several regional units in the south, as the primarily mechanisms to
undertake promotion, community organization and sub-project supervision. In addition, a Provincial
Participatory Council (CPP: Consejo Participativo Provincial; Consejo Participativo Regional in the
South) -- participated in by the representatives of the provincial and municipal govermnents, NGOs and
FOPAR -- functions as a decision-making authority to establish priorities and allocate resources within the
province based on the established FOPAR guidelines.
At the municipal level, the Local Social Development Commission (CLDS: Comisi6n Local de
Desarrollo Social) identifies and prioritize needs, and assist communities in sub-project formulation.
FOPAR provides CLDS with technical assistance in its initial establishment, institutional capacity building
for sub-project identification, prioritization, formulation, monitoring, operation and maintenance.
Finally, at the community level, the Nucleus of Beneficiaries (NUB: Nuicleo de Beneficiarios),
consisting of the direct beneficiaries of the sub-project, take lead project implementation, operation and
maintenance.
SIEEMPRO-2:
During the SP I, the SIEMPRO Unit (Unidad Ejecutora Central, or UEC) was created within the
SDS with staff whose terms of reference and qualifications were satisfactory to the Bank. SIEMPRO-2
would continue to be managed by the UEC headed by a national coordinator and the heads of the divisions
of Social Information, Evaluation and Monitoring; Dissemination and Transfers, Social Policy Analysis,
and Informatics. During the negotiations, it was agreed that SDS would maintain the SIEMPRO UEC
Coordinator and staff with qualifications satisfactory to the Bank [G. Main Loan Conditions].
Institutional arrangements with provinces also remain the same as the SP I. First, UEC (the
central unit) carries out diagnostic missions to disseminate information on SIEMPRO objectives and
missions, as well as to review the provincial institutional framework for social information generation and
-11-



analysis. Provinces with 25% or greater population with NBI receive priorities. Once a formal request
from the Office of the Provincial Governor or the Head of the counterpart agency (most of cases, the
Minister of Social Action), a Subsidiary Agreement (Convenio de Adhesi6n) is drafted and signed between
the SDS and the counterpart agency detailing the resources to be committed and the implementation
arrangements. For any of the provinces not already covered under SP I, SDS would enter into an
agreement (Convenio de Adhesi6n) with the province for the purpose offinancing capacity building [G.
Main Loan Conditions]. Subsequently, a small executing unit (Unidad Ejecutora Provincial, UEP) is set
up within the counterpart agency to function as the liaison office between UEC and the province. UEPs
receive assistance from UEC in the form of consultants' services and computer hardware/software.
SIEMPRO- 1 provided support to 13 provinces through corresponding UEPs. Approximately 10 more
provinces would install an UEP and receive support from SIEMPRO-2.
During the negotiations, it was agreed that SDS, in order to carry-out the second Social
Survey, would: (i) enter, with INDEC, into a subsidiary agreement acceptable to the Bank no later
than May 31, 1999; (ii) furnish to the Bank, for its review and comments, the draft terms of reference
and a proposed design to undertake the survey no later than December 31, 1999; and (iii) carry out the
survey in accordance with the agreed terms of reference, and review the survey results with the Bank
no later than October 31, 2001 [G. Main Loan Conditions; Annex 2].
D: Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection:
Discussions on strategic options (i.e. a social investment fund vs. expanding the existing social
agency programs; public vs. private channels for information dissemination, etc.) are discussed in Section
B.3. Sector Issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices.
FOPAR-2:
Like any other project, FOPAR-2's design reflects considerations on alternatives at various levels
and scopes, many of which were identified as a result of the experience gained under FOPAR-1. For
related discussions, see D.3 Lessons learnt and reflected in the project design. The following are the major
alternatives considered.
*  Microenterprise Credit. FOPAR-1, on a pilot basis, subcontracted two NGOs in the management of
revolving funds for credits to urban micro-enterprises (called Famiempresa in FOPAR's terminology),
including those for the self-employed to support income and employment generation. This line of
activity was excluded from FOPAR-2 because the administration of a micro-credit program requires
the skill mix different from that of a social investment fund. In addition, the SDS saw the
Famiempresa concept promising, and decided to launch a separate urban microenterprise credit
program. As a result, the personnel responsible for microenterprise credit have been transferred from
FOPAR to the new program.
*  Province-based intervention in the South Region. FOPAR-2 would introduce the concept of
region-based intervention, which did not exist under FOPAR- 1. Initially, it was considered to set up a
provincial machinery (UPF and CPP; see C.4. Institutional and implementation arrangements) in each
of the provinces (La Pampa, Rio Negro, Neuquen, Chubut, Santa Cruz and Tierra del Fuego) in the
South. This option was discarded because of a higher percentage of administrative overhead expected
-12-



from the lower concentration of the poverty in the South.
* Revised menu of eligible types of subprojects. FOPAR-2 would discard a subproject type called
"Strengthening of School-community Integration", which existed under FOPAR- 1 because the simnilar
types of activities are supported by Plan Social Educativo. In addition, based on the analysis of the
demands during FOPAR- 1, FOPAR-2 would incorporate a few new subproject types and redefine
existing subproject types [see Annex 2 Table 1 for the eligible types of subprojects under FOPAR-2].
* Resource allocation by subproject type. Although the decision to discard this approach was made prior
to FOPAR-1, it would be worth describing because it is a frequently debated topic. In some SIFs
(elsewhere in Latin America and the Caribbean or the world), resources are allocated by the type of
subprojects to promote certain types of intervention. FOPAR would not follow such a strategy because
letting the communities identify their own needs and choose the type of subproject accordingly is one of
the most fundamental operating principles of FOPAR.
SIEMPRO-2:
*   Social Audit. A subcomponent to support SIGEN (Sindicatura General de la Naci6n; The Office of
the Controller General) in developing capacity to carry-out integrated audit of social programs was
proposed. However, given that SIGEN is responsible for auditing the SDS (therefore SIEMPRO), it
was agreed that creating such a component under SIEMPRO would be inappropriate. An option to
create a third component was also considered but did not mature sufficiently in time for being included
under the SP IV.
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and/or other development agencies (completed,
ongoing and planned).
T                   TLatest Supervision (Form 590)
Sector Issue                       Project                     Ratings
(Bank-financed projects only)
Implementation   Development
Bank-financed                                                      Progress (IP)    Objective (DO)
Protecting/Improving Efficiency of Social  Social Protection I (Ln.      S             HS
Safety Net (Fully disbursed)            3957-AR - Project ID 35495)
Labor Market, Employment Program Policies,  Social Protection II (Ln.    S              S
Poverty Alleviation and Social Expenditures    4195-AR - Project ID 49268)
(Fully disbursed)
Labor Market, Employment Program Policies,  Social Protection III (Project ID  S        S
Poverty Alleviation and Social Expenditures    49269)
(Board approval June 30, 1998)    _          _
Urban Management - public infrastructure,    Municipal Devt I (Project ID  S            S
community facilities and equipment, and TA    5963)
Urban Management - Strengthening of     Municipal Devt II (Ln.           S              S
institutional capacity                  3860-AR - Project ID 6060)
Rural Development                       Small Farmer Dev. (Ln.           S              S
_4212-AR - Project ID 6041)
-13-



Information Gathering and Management     Regional Program of Improving   N/A            N/A
the Surveys of Living
Conditions (ISLC-LAC) - IDF
Grant
Other development agencies
Inter-American Development Bank
Social Reforms, Labor Market, Poverty   Support of Fiscal Adjustment
Alleviation and Social Expenditures     and Social Reform
(871/OC-AR)
Rural Development                       Program for assistance to Small
Rural Producers
(ATN/ME-544 1-AR)
Urban Development                       Municipal Institutional
Development and Social
Investment Program
(830/OC-AR)
Labor Market                            Youth Productivity and
Employability Support Program
(103 1/OC-AR)
Social Protection                       Program in Support of
Vulnerable Groups
(996/OC-AR, 1021/OC-AR,
ATN/SF-5625-AR)
IP/DO Ratings: HS (Highly Satisfactory), S (Satisfactory), U (Unsatisfactory), HU (Highly Unsatisfactory)
3. Lessons learned and reflected in the project design:
FOPAR-2:
The design of FOPAR-2 reflects lessons leant through FOPAR- 1, including the following:
Cautious and conservative approach during the initial phase pays off. During its early days, FOPAR- 1
concentrated on internal institution building, and at the same time, maintained a very cautious attitude in
subproject appraisal and approval. In fact, the number of subprojects approved during the first year was
only 55. As a result, FOPAR- 1 often received comments like being too slow and too inflexible, i.e.,
requiring poor communities to go through unnecessary and lengthy processes, to fill out complex and
lengthy forms, etc. Many of such comments, however, may have been rather short-sighted. By the end of
the second year, FOPAR- 1 had accelerated the pace of implementation by 15 times, and approved 751 new
subprojects, making the cumulative total to 806, of which 179 had completed and 584 were in execution.
FOPAR, through its rigid appraisal process, also established the reputation that it adheres to its operational
principles, in particular, community participation and transparency (for example, more than 50% of the
reasons for disapproval were inadequate participatory measures). This reputation has been effective in
buffering the potential of political interference, and helped ensure that resources are allocated to the areas
of greater need or beneficiary-determined priorities. FOPAR-2 would apply the same cautious approach in
the four new provinces and in the South Region during the initial phase.
-14-



Investing in the Management Information System pays off. One of the pay-offs of concentrating on
internal institution building during the initial year -- even at the expense of the speed of subproject
processing -- materialized as a highly effective management information system (MIS), which is often
considered in Latin America and the Caribbean as one of the best MIS implementation in a SIF. The
system was one of the key factors to enable the above-mentioned rapid efficiency gain as well as the
effective targeting [see B.2 Main sector issues and Government strategy]. Some of its features are:
*  Information on FOPAR processes. In addition to the usual information on time elapsed in each
stage of the subproject cycle and workload indicators, the MIS maintains data on promotion
efforts, rankings of ex-ante evaluations, number of visits by supervision staff, etc. This allows for
a better understanding of FOPAR productivity and effect on subproject outcomes; for instance,
whether groups that received various pre-implementation training better manage resources during
execution, or whether ex-ante evaluations were effective in identifying subproject weaknesses.
*   Information on subproject beneficiaries. The MIS also maintains a significant amount of
information on subproject beneficiaries, including names and identification numbers -- an
important detail which helps in structuring any eventual surveys of beneficiaries. Routine
information collected also includes age, sex, and number of years of schooling.
* Fully integrated and efficient use of technology. The system automates disbursement requests
from the SDS to the Bank as well as electronic transfers to subproject accounts of beneficiaries.
The databases are regularly replicated between the central and provincial offices via modem to
ensure information integrity and to support decentralized data processing and decision making.
The technological foundations of the system are rather modest (Microsoft Windows NT Network,
Microsoft SQL Server, Lotus Notes, etc.). Also, the system does not provide any eye-catching but
non-essential features like colorful WEB pages. It is unique, however, in its design and implementation
process. FOPAR- 1 hired a private consulting firm to carry out thorough business-process engineering.
This firm observed and worked closely with FOPAR staff of all levels, and designed detailed data structure
and information flow models. Subsequent system development was carried out with close consultations
with the users (i.e. FOPAR managers and staff); and the system developers (i.e. the MIS Staff) and the
users literally worked side-by-side. In other words, from the very beginning, FOPAR's MIS developed
with the organization's management and control mechanisms. This process obviously helped identify and
overcome inefficiencies and weakness of FOPAR's operational procedures and organizational structure. In
addition, FOPAR's national coordinator has been exceptionally supportive and committed to the
development of an effective MIS and its use by the staff. This is almost a textbook example of good (but
often neglected) MIS development and operation regardless of the type of business or organization (SIF or
otherwise).
Formulation of core-beneficiary group increases the chance of participation. FOPAR is similar to the SIF
in Peru (FONCODES) and several African countries (Zambia and Malawi) in the sense that beneficiaries
are formed into groups (in Argentina, they are called NUBs - Nuicleo de Beneficiarios), which serve as the
focal point for subproject preparation and implemnentation. This has allowed for participation by
communities and beneficiaries which are often excluded from development initiatives. For example, 59%
of NUB members are women; among urban areas, 36% are under 24 years old and 11% are adolescents
[FOPAR MIS Data]. About 60% of NUB members have no prior experience in participating in systematic
organizational activities that concern the welfare of their own communities.
Necessity to redefine the benefits of social investment funds. Through field visits during Bank supervision
missions and the ex-post evaluation, it has become clear that FOPAR has generated significant "spill-over"
-15-



benefits, including the building of empowerment skills (learning to organize and speak out, belief that the
poor can improve their conditions, confidence in dealing with government officials, banks and other
institutions), institutional skills (identification of needs, planning and budgeting, handling of contracts,
financial administration) and the transfer of skills and experience to other community groups (for example,
Bank supervision mission members had several opportunities to sit in self-initiated meetings among NUBs
to learn from each other). In the words of the mayor of a small city in the north, the effect FOPAR is
having makes it easier for the municipal government to serve poorer areas.
Such benefits are compelling when witnessed on the ground but difficult to capture in
statistics, and may have a significant and lasting effect on a community or group 's ability to address
poverty conditions beyond the actual benefits from the infrastructure or services contained in a
subproject. For example, most members of the communities served by FOPAR have had hardly any
contact with formal financial institutions. There were a number of cases that local bank tellers refused to
attend to the community representatives, denied the request to open an account, or rejected (even destroyed,
in some cases) FOPAR-issued checks presented by the community representatives. As a result, FOPAR --
to help the community member establish credibility in the eyes of the local bank tellers -- modified its
procedure and now sends a UPF staff to accompany the community representatives when they go to a local
bank for the first time to open an account and deposit the first disbursement check.
Having beneficiaries administer resources can lead to lower unit costs, curb on potential corruption in
subproject implementation. and foster flexibility and creativity. Record keeping, procurement and financial
management by the beneficiaries have been exceptionally good. For example, during the mid-term review
in July 1997, Bank staff found that only US$ 2,000 out of US$ 1 million in beneficiary-executed
subproject expenditures had incomplete or inadequate documentation. Two critical factors have been: (a)
training of supervisors to provide on-going technical assistance to beneficiary groups on administering
subproject execution; and (b) incentives for monitoring by the community -- FOPAR staff explain
administrative requirements to the entire community group (not just the representatives) and NUBs are
required to keep open records which any member of the community can see. Shopping for materials and
withdrawal of funds are always done by more than one NUB representative. In most cases, the NUB has
chosen to self-manage infrastructure, in part to get more value for money by avoiding contractors fees. As
such, unit costs are coming in significantly lower than similar projects. Community-execution of
subprojects also allows greater flexibility and creativity. For example, many communities have voluntarily
developed and adopted a scheme to provide paid-work to poorer members. In a rural indigenous
community where jobs are scarce, the community decided to pay twice the number of laborers at half the
budgeted cost as a way of distributing income more evenly among the community and giving youth
construction work experience.
Experience of Project Competition. Drawing on the experience of FOSIS in Chile, FOPAR, unlike other
SIFs in Latin America and the Caribbean, uses project competitions (concursos de proyectos). In
accordance with the targeting criteria of FOPAR, CPP (Provincial Participatory Council) selects eligible
disadvantaged neighborhoods and poor districts. A period of approximately three months is designated for
communities to identify their needs, form beneficiary groups (i.e. NUBs) and seek technical support in the
presentation of subprojects. FOPAR promoters actively assist in this process, from organizing community
meetings, orienting groups in subproject formulation and identifying technical resources available to NUBs
(since geographical areas are pre-selected, promotion efforts can be highly targeted). The experience with
the project competition reveals both advantages and disadvantages over the first-come, first-serve
alternative, which is more commonly used in other SIFs in Latin America and the Caribbean. On the
positive side, (a) it orders the pipeline and sends clear signals to beneficiary groups regarding the rules of
the game (how much money is available, time frame which an approval can be expected, etc.) and thereby
-16-



avoids the tremendous buildup up of subprojects waiting to be evaluated like many other SIFs experience;
(b) it facilitates the contracting of technical experts to review an entire package of similar subproject
proposals, and hence promotes the selection of the 'best' subprojects rather than just the first to be
received; (c) it allows for the opening and closing of windows for certain subproject types and priority
beneficiaries; and (d) since eligible neighborhoods and rural areas are specified in the competitions,
targeting can be refined and redirected annually. On the negative side, it tends to make the pipeline lumpy.
For instance, large packages of subprojects tend to cause operational bottlenecks, such as when they enter
contracting and approval stages. Administrative systems and personnel must be structured to handle the
peaks, which may reduce overall administrative efficiency versus a smoother pipeline flow. In addition,
presentation deadlines may work against proposals from weaker groups. FOPAR-2 would continue to use
the competitive mechanism, but would schedule the competition cycle in such a way to minimize peaks and
down-time, and improve the technical assistance to weaker communities.
The above-mentioned lessons coincide with international experience with SIFs, discussed at the
forums of SIFs like the International Workshop on Social Fund at the World Bank Headquarters in May
1997 participated in by over 70 funds managers from all over the world, and documented in the following
and many other literature:
*  Narayan, Deepa and Katrinka Ebbe, 1997. Design of Social Funds: Participation, Demand
Orientation and Local Organizational Capacity (World Bank Discussion Paper No. 375)
*   "Portfolio Improvement Program: Review of the Social Funds Portfolio", Quality Assurance Group
(QAG), the World Bank, March 1997.
*  Carvalho, Sonya, 1994. Social Funds: Guidelines for Design and Implementation (Human Resources
Development and Operations Policy Working Paper)
-   Gopal, Gita and Alexandre Marc, 1994. World Bank-Financed Projects with Community
Participation: Procurement and Disbursement Issues (World Bank Discussion Paper No. 265)
*   "Ten Years of Social Fund Activities in Bolivia" (OED Precis, May 1997)
-   "A Success and Challenge: AGETIP in Senegal" (OED Precis, May 1997)
*   Barientos, Jorge, 1998. "A practical approach for designing community-based operations - with special
reference to social funds".
SILEMPRO-2
Through the course of SIEMPRO-1, it has become evident that one of the most valuable
contribution of the program is its technical assistance to the provinces. SIEMPRO-2 would continue
strengthening this line. On the other hand, in some instances, SIEMPRO- 1 experienced difficulties in
obtaining necessary cooperation and access to information in carrying out the evaluation of programs
outside the SDS. Consequently, during the first year, SIEMPRO-2 would concentrate on the evaluation of
the program inside the SDS. The evaluation of the programs outside the SDS would be demand-driven.
Furthermore, to ensure that SIEMPRO-2's products would serve the needs of stakeholders as well as to
improve the coordination with partnership agencies like INDEC, SIEMPRO-2 would form an Advisory
Council consisting of the representatives from social sector agencies, partnership agencies, the academic
and NGO communities [G. Main Loan Conditions]. In addition, SIEMPRO-2 would take advantage of the
Bank's expertise in poverty analysis and social surveys. The Bank would be also instrumental in
transferring lessons and experience from other clients as well as the OECD countries.
-17-



4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership:
The borrower's commitment to the project has been fully demonstrated by the 'strong performance of the SP
I.
5. Value added of Bank support in this project:
The Bank's support has facilitated the provisions of knowledge and expertise to FOPAR/SIEMPRO (see
also D. 3. Lessons learned and reflected in proposed project design).
E. Summary Project Analysis (Detailed assessments are in the project file, see Annex 8)
1. Economic (supported by Annex 4):
O Cost-Benefit Analysis: NPV=US$ million; ERR = %
o Cost Effectiveness Analysis
* Other
FOPAR-2:
Detailed discussions on the economic analysis of FOPAR can be found in Annex 4. In essence,
FOPAR-2 would appraise subprojects in accordance with the revised version (August 1998) of the Project
Cost Manual, originally developed and used during FOPAR- 1. Economic analysis would be of the
cost-effectiveness analysis type by applying unit cost based cut-off points which would be updated on an
on-going basis utilizing the subproject data accumulating in the MIS. The Project Cost Manual will be
revised once every year. For those subprojects involving infrastructure, minimum unit costs would be
specified for mostly materials to ensure quality. Some elements of cost-benefit analysis may be applied for
subprojects to support productive activities.
SAR for the SP I estimated the administrative expenditures under FOPAR- 1 to be about 30% of
the total cost, considering the pilot nature and the relatively small size of the project, while it has in reality
come down to 16%. The cost definitions employed under FOPAR- 1, however, treated the entire costs for
community capacity building through the processes of promotion, ex-ante evaluation and supervision of
subprojects as administrative expenditure, and consequently, made the administrative expenditures appear
higher than they actually were. FOPAR-2 has revised the cost definitions to treat the field time spent by
the promoters, evaluators and supervisors in communities as investrnents in capacity building. Using the
revised definition and based on the expected efficiency gain resulting from the institutional strengthening
achieved under FOPAR- 1, the administrative expenditures under FOPAR-2 are estimated to be around
10%.
SILEMPRO-2: Not applicable (Technical Assistance Project)
2. Financial (see Annex 5):  NPV=US$ million; FRR= %
FOPAR-2, SIEMPRO-2 and all subprojects under FOPAR-2 would be non revenue-generating
projects.
Financial impact of FOPAR subprojects on the beneficiaries would remain at the manageable level.
-18-



During the preparation of FOPAR- 1, the average size of subprojects and the average amount of community
contribution as a percentage of the subproject cost were estimated to be US$ 26,000 and 7.0%,
respectively. In reality, they exceeded the estimates, reaching US$ 38,000 and 11.3%, respectively, and
demonstrated the capacity and commitment of the beneficiaries to assume financial responsibility.
Operation and maintenance of completed subprojects is estimated to average about 2% of the investment
costs, and borne largely by the communities.
Fiscal Impact:
The SP IV's fiscal implications, both during and after implementation, would also remain at the
manageable level. The Government's counterpart funds are estimated to be US$ 42.1 million over four
years (approximately US$ 10.5 million per year, or 0.003% of GDP) during the project implementation. If
the Government institutionalized FOPAR and SIEMRPO after the completion of the SP IV, the combined
annual budget for the both programs would be approximately 0.0 16% of the consolidated social spending,
or 0.6% of the targeted social programs.
3. Technical:
Technical criteria to evaluate FOPAR subprojects are detailed in the Operational Manual and the
Project Presentation Guide for each type of subprojects. These documents were reviewed by Bank-hired
consultants and found satisfactory. The ex-post evaluation also showed that quality of works of
subprojects under FOPAR-1 were mostly good or acceptable. Subproject appraisal would be carried-out
by qualified consultants / NGOs contracted by FOPAR.
4. Institutional:
a. Executing agencies: The Social Development Secretariat (Secretaria de Desarrollo Social)
Through the successful implementation of Parts B. and C. of the SP I, the SDS has proven its
capacity to adequately carry-out the SP IV, including agreed procurement arrangements, fnancial
management and reporting, and to achieve the development objectives of the SP IV. At present, there is no
notable institutional weakness within the SDS which might seriously hinder the SP IV implementation.
Technical assistance planned under FOPAR-2 and SIEMPRO-2 would strengthen the areas of expertise
and capacities specific to the implementation of the programs.
b. Project management: The existing management arrangements for FOPAR-1 and SIEMPRO-1
would remain essentially the same, as they have proven effective. Day-to-day project management on
substantive matters (strategic planning, activity monitoring, etc.) would be handled by the FOPAR and the
SIEMPRO units within the SDS, headed by the respective national coordinators. All other administrative
and financial functions would continue to be carried out by the Administrative and Financial Control Unit
(UCAF). The coordinator of UCAF has the same rank as the coordinators of FOPAR and SIEMPRO.
This arrangement was sought by the SDS management to increase project management efficiency by
serving both programs, and to ensure fnancial transparency and control. The only difference from the SP I
would be the transfer of the functions to process grant agreements with beneficiary communities. While
these functions were assumed by UCAF under the SP I, they would be transferred to FOPAR under the SP
IV because of a larger number of subprojects.
-19-



5. Social:
Social Assessment of FOPAR and SIEMPRO was carried out by a Bank-hired consultant using
the Strategic Compact resources in accordance with the guidelines laid out by ESSD. In addition, social
impact of the programs were assessed through aforementioned the ex-post evaluation of FOPAR and the
evaluation of SIEMPRO [see B.2. Main sector issue and Government Strategy; Annex 8]. These studies
clearly showed that both programs contributed very positively to greater community participation
(including that of vulnerable groups, women, youth and indigenous populations), transparency and
promotion of civil society. The main recommendations, most of which are the fine-tuning of the existing
schemes, have been incorporated into the design of the SP IV.
Indigenous Populations. In Argentina, the indigenous population are often reluctant to be identified as
indigenous. However, studies have shown that about 90% of the country's approximately 500,000
indigenous population resides in the northern 10 provinces where FOPAR would operates. FOPAR has
estimated that about 19.8% of the target population (see Section 3) in those provinces can be considered
indigenous.
Considering the high incidence of poverty among the indigenous population, many poor indigenous
communities would by definition benefit from FOPAR, although it does not have special provisions for
earmarking resources to indigenous populations due to the aforementioned self-identification difficulty and
the existence of other government programs specifically designed for indigenous populations. Negative
biases against indigenous communities would be minimized in accordance with the procedures set forth in
the FOPAR Operational Manual as well as in Elements to consider concerning the issue of indigenous
communities at FOPAR, May 1996. In addition, some subproject types like "Preservation of Cultural
Heritage" may be more appealing to indigenous communities, provided that the communities placed higher
a priority to such types than to other types of subprojects.
Gender Issues. According to FOPAR's MIS, about 54% of direct beneficiaries of subprojects under
FOPAR- 1 were women. Therefore, no additional mechanisms would be necessary to avoid bias against
women.
6. Environmental assessment:             Environment Category D A Z B El C
The SP IV has been assigned a B category. FOPAR-2 subprojects are expected to remain small
(the expected average size is $47,000; the average during FOPAR-1 was US$38,000), and most of the
environmental impacts should be predictable and subsequently avoided or mitigated with common practice.
Sections of FOPAR Operational Manual and Project Presentation Guides concerning the environment have
been reviewed by Bank staff and found acceptable.
7. Participatory Approach:
a. Primnary beneficiaries and other affected groups:
The effectiveness of FOPAR's participatory mechanism has been proven through FOPAR- 1.
Beneficiaries would continue to be the main actors throughout preparation, implementation and operation
of subprojects. Primary beneficiaries of SIEMPRO include national and central government agencies
(including Bank-supported programs like FOPAR and TRABAJAR), public and private research institutes,
-20-



NGOs and donor organizations. They have been fully consulted, and would provide timely feedback
through various channels including the steering committee.
b. Other key stakeholders:
FOPAR has already established a consultative advisory group consisting of the representatives of
public, private, NGO and academic sectors. Provincial and municipal governments as well as
representatives of local NGOs are fully integrated into the Provincial Participatory Council, and play active
roles in targeting, prioritization and subproject preparation, approval and supervision.
The table below summarizes the role of various types of stakeholders under the SP IV.
Preparation    Implementation  Operation
Primary beneficiaries    FOPAR-2:   FOPAR-2:       FOPAR-2:
and other affected   IS, CON, COL   IS, CON, COL   IS, CON
groups
SIEMPRO-2:   SIEMPRO-2:   SIEMPRO-2:
CON, COL       IS, CON, COL   IS, CON, COL
Intermediary         FOPAR-2:       FOPAR-2:       FOPAR-2:
organizations, including  IS, CON, COL   IS, CON, COL   IS
NGOs and private sector
SIEMPRO-2:   SIEMPRO-2:   SIEMPRO-2:
CON, COL       IS, CON, COL   IS, CON, COL
Local Governments    FOPAR-2:       FOPAR-2:       FOPAR-2:
IS, CON, COL   IS, CON, COL   IS
SIEMPRO-2:   SIEMPRO-2:   SIEMPRO-2:
IS, CON, COL    IS, CON, COL   IS, CON, COL
Central Government   FOPAR-2:       FOPAR-2:       FOPAR-2:
Agencies             IS, CON        IS, CON, COL   IS
SIEMPRO-2:   SIEMPRO-2:   SIEMPRO-2:
IS, CON, COL    IS, CON, COL   IS, CON, COL
Other donors         FOPAR-2:       FOPAR-2:       FOPAR-2:
IS, CON        IS, CON        IS, CON
SIEMPRO-2:   SIEMPRO-2:   SIEMPRO-2:
IS, CON        IS, CON        IS, CON
Note: IS = information sharing; CON = consultation; COL = collaboration
-21-



F: Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability:
The Argentine Government has frequently expressed its intentions to fund FOPAR and SIEMPRO
without external financing in the future. Given that these programs' overall fiscal impact is very small, and
that they are both proving their worth, their sustainability-potentials are high. Considering the presidential
election scheduled towards the end of this year, however, the concrete plans for sustaining FOPAR and
SIEMPRO would have to be discussed with the new administration. The best opportunity to for such
discussions would be the mid-term review. Therefore, it has been agreed that: (i) No later than August 31,
2000, FOPAR would submnt to the Bank's review an input to the mid-term review (to be carried out by
October 31, 2000), including a plan detailing organizational, financial and operational arrangements
beyond the Project completion date; (ii) No later than April 30, 2000, SIEMPRO would submit to the
Bank's review as an input to the mid-term review (to be carried out by June 30, 2000), including a
plan detailing organizational, financial and operational arrangements beyond the Project completion
date [see G. Main Loan conditions] (Note: SIEMPRO-2 is expected to complete in three years and three
months, and thus the timing of its mid-term review would be earlier than that of FOPAR-2, which is a
four-year project).
As for FOPAR subprojects, there are many encouraging signs. Based on social, technical and
economic considerations, the ex-post evaluation concluded that 80% of the infrastructure-type subprojects
within the sample had medium-to-high chance of sustainability. However, considering the relatively short
experience of FOPAR-1 and the small sample size, the sustainability of subprojects would require
continuous monitoring through periodic ex-post evaluations (see G. Main loan conditions; Annex 2).
2. Critical Risks (reflecting assumptions in the fourth column of Annex 1):
RRisk                     sk Rating         Risk Minimization Measure
From Outputs to Objective
Overall economic, social and political  M              Dialogue with the authorities / close
conditions of the beneficiaries (poor                  monitoring of economic and social
communities / local governments /                      conditions
SIEMPRO products users) may change
radically or deteriorate as a result of the
change of the Administration and the
agreement with IMF
Depending on the conditions that surrounds M           Adjustment of the types and the contents
the intended beneficiaries, the project                of outputs based on the feed back from
outputs may not be valuable                           the beneficiaries
From Components to Outputs
The Government/SDS may change the    S                 Close monitoring of budgetary allocations
overall resource allocation and institutional         and adjustment of implementation plans;
framework for the project as a result of the          Restructuring / phasing of the project as
change of the Administration and agreement            necessary
with IMF                                              _-
The level of demand for FOPAR        N                Promotional activities, consultations and
subprojects, TA for Knowledge and                     public relations
Transfer, SIEMPRO Products may be low _________________________
-22-



Overall Risk Rating                  M               I
Risk Rating - H (High Risk), S (Substantial Risk), M (Modest Risk), N(Negligible or Low Risk)
3. Possible Controversial Aspects:
None
G: Main Loan Conditions
1. Effectiveness Conditions
No special condition of effectiveness
2. Other [classify according to covenant types used in the Legal Agreements.]
Flow and Use of Project Funds
* FOPAR would not disburse against subprojects in the Southern Region (consisting of the provinces of
La Pampa, Rio Negro, Neuquen, Chubut, Santa Cruz and Tierra del Fuego) until the Regional
Participatory Council and at least one Regional FOPAR Unit (URF) have been established [Annex 2].
* In the Northern Provinces, FOPAR would not disburse against subprojects in any province until the
Provincial Participatory Council (CPP) and the corresponding Provincial FOPAR Unit (UPF) have
been established [Annex 21.
* FOPAR would submit for Bank's no-objection:
(a) the first two technical assistance agreements under the (b) Knowledge and Methodology Transfer
and Capacity Building subcomponent [Annex 2];
(b) any proposed subproject that, according to the terms of the FOPAR Operational Manual, requires
the undertaking of environmental protection and mitigation measures and/or resettlement of
population, including the corresponding environmental assessment and/or resettlement plan, which
shall have been prepared in accordance with the procedures for environmental and social impact
assessment and mitigation set forth in the FOPAR Operational Manual [C. 1. Project Components];
(c) any proposed subproject which requires the undertaking of measures to ensure the participation in
the subprojects of vulnerable communities, including the indigenous populations, as set forth in the
Operational Manual;
(d) any proposed subproject which does not correspond to the list of eligible subprojects set forth in
the Operational Manual;
* FOPAR would not finance:
(a) any proposed subproject estimated to cost US$ 150,000 equivalent or more [Annex 2];
(b) any proposed subproject estimated to cost US$ 100,000 or more but less than US$ 150,000, once
the aggregated cost of subprojects within this cost range has reached or exceed US$ 10.0 million
[Annex 2].
-23-



Manaaement Aspects of the Project or Executing Agency
*  Throughout the project implementation, the Borrower, through the SDS, will maintain the national
coordinator and line and regional managers, all with qualifications and experience acceptable to the
Bank for the management of FOPAR [Annex 2];
*  The Borrower through SDS would cause FOPAR to be operated in accordance with the FOPAR
Operational Manual, which the Borrower would not amend, suspend, abrogate or waive without the
Bank's approval [C. 1. Project Component; Annex 2];
*  The Borrower would maintain the SIEMPRO UEC with the organization and staffing acceptable to the
Bank [C.4. Implementation and Institutional Arrangements].
*  The Borrower through SDS would cause SIEMPRO to be operated in accordance with the SIEMPRO
Matrix of key activities, which the Borrower would not amend, suspend, abrogate or waive without the
Bank's approval [Annex 2];
*   SIEMPRO would establish an advisory council with terms of reference and the membership acceptable
to the Bank no later than July 31, 1999 [Annex 2].
*  For any of the provinces not covered under SP I, SDS would enter into an agreement (Convenio de
Adhesi6n) with the respective province for the purpose of financing capacity building [C.4.
Institutional and Implementation Arrangements].
3  In order to carry-out the second Social Survey, SDS would: (i) enter, with INDEC, into a subsidiary
agreement acceptable to the Bank no later than May 31, 1999; (ii) furnish to the Bank, for its review
and comments, the draft terms of reference and a proposed design to undertake the survey no later than
December 31, 1999; and (iii) carry out the survey in accordance with the agreed terms of reference,
and review the survey results with the Bank no later than October 31, 2001 [C.4. Institutional and
Implementation Arrangements; Annex 2].
* For the purpose of providing administrative, financial and information management and legal support
to FOPAR and SIEMPRO, SDS would maintain the coordination unit (UCAF) established under SP I,
with appropriate organization and staffing acceptable to the Bank [C.4. Institutional and
Implementation Arrangements].
Monitoring. Review and Reporting
*  The Borrower will submit semi-annual progress reports in accordance with the format agreed with the
Bank by February 28 and August 31 of each year of project implementation.
*  No later than August 31, 2000, FOPAR would submit to the Bank, as an input to the mid-term review,
an in-depth report integrating the analysis of implementation progress.
*  Mid-term review of FOPAR would be carried out no later than October 31, 2000.
*  FOPAR would make available a copy of each subproject summary for the Bank's ex-post review in a
format acceptable to the Bank.
*  No later than April 30, 2000, SIEMPRO would submit to the Bank, as an input to the mid-term
review, an in-depth report integrating the analysis of implementation progress.
*  Mid-term review of SIEMPRO would be carried out no later than June 30, 2000.
*  No later than January 31, 2000 and annually thereafter, the Borrower would contract an independent
consultant in accordance with terms of reference acceptable to the Bank in order to carry out the
-24-



procurement audit of contracts for goods and consultant services for both FOPAR (except for
subprojects, which are reviewed as part of the annual technical audit) and SIEMPRO; the procurement
process of the consultant should commence by June 30, 1999 [Annex 2; Annex 6].
*   No later than January 31, 2000 and annually thereafter, FOPAR would commission annual
independent technical audit of its subprojects, in accordance with terms of reference acceptable to the
Bank; the procurement process of the consultant should commence by June 30, 1999 [Annex 2; Annex
6].
* The Borrower would prepare and furnish no later than six months after the closing date, a plan for the
future operations of the project, and afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to exchange views.
H. Readiness for Implementation
0 1. a) The engineering design documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start
of project implementation.
1 1. b) Not applicable.
1 2. The procurement documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start of
project implementation.
Z 3. The Project Implementation Plan has been appraised and found to be realistic and of satisfactory
quality.
DH 4. The following items are lacking and are discussed under loan conditions (Section G):
1. Compliance with Bank Policies
D 1. This project complies with all applicable Bank policies.
Z 2. The following exceptions to Bank policies are recommended for approval. The project complies with
all other applicable Bank policies.
The relatively high local-cost financing percentage as well as Bank financing percentage are the
consequence of one of the main objectives of the SP IV, which is to provide the poor community through
small-scale subprojects. These are justified based on the fact that Argentina's poorest populations are
effectively targeted.
S  or Management Unit            Country        t Uit
Task Team Leader             irector                        Director
Xavier Coll                      Myrna Alexander
-25-



Annex 1
Social Protection IV
Project Design Summary
Narrative Summary      Key Performance Indicators J Monitoring & Supervision    Critical Assumptions
Sector-related CAS Goal                                                         (Goal to Bank Mission)
* Enhance social          * Poverty indicators, human   * ESW, relevant statistics,
development, including    development indicators,    studies
poverty alleviation and human economic indicators
development
* Improve the performance    * Contents, delivery
and institutional capacity of  mechanisms and outcomes of
government, particularly  social and economic policy
sub-national governments, to
deliver key social,
infrastructure and
environmental services
Project Development                                                             (Objective to Goal)
Objective
* Improve the capacity of the  * Quality of subproject  * Subproject appraisal /  * Capacity-building at the
poor in the identification,  applications;           supervision reports;       community level would make
design, implementation,   * Subproject implementation  * Periodic ex-post evaluation  significant impact in poverty
maintenance and operation of and maintenance         of subprojects             alleviation
small scale projects      arrangements within the
(FOPAR-2)                 community;
* Mobilization of, or
participation in non-FOPAR
resources or programs
* Attend specific needs of the * Successful completion of    * Subproject supervision
poor communities (FOPAR-2) subprojects;              reports;
* Degree of satisfaction with  * Periodic ex-post evaluation
the subproject by the     of subprojects;
community members
* Improve the capacity of  * Participatory programs  * Feedback from TA         * With improved capacity,
provincial/national social  designed and implemented by recipients              provincial and national
sector agencies in the design  the agencies                                     agencies will implement more
and implementation of                                * Review of implementation   effective social programs
participatory programs                               arrangements, budget and
(FOPAR-2)                                            organizational framework of
the programs designed
* Improve the accessibility    * Numbers of reports and  * SIEMPRO Records      * Availability of information
and the quality of social sector documents in circulation,                      would trigger behavioral
information (SIEMPRO-2)   workshops, participants,                              changes strong enough to
databases accessible on the                          result in better social policies
Internet;              .
-26-



r  Degree of user-satisfaction   * Feedback from users (incl. 
,the Bank)                l
Narrative Summary    | Key Performance Indicators  Monitoring & Supervision |   Critical Assumptions
Outputs                                                                         (Outputs to Objective)
* Subproject promotion /  * Number and profile of    * Reports prepared by      * Overall economic, social
capacity building (FOPAR-2) communities visited by   promoters                  and political conditions of the
FOPAR promoters (e.g. No.                            beneficiaries (poor
communities that applied for a                       communities / local
subproject over No. of                               governments / SIEMPRO
communities that received                            products users) do not change
promotion; 90%)                                      radically or deteriorate
(medium risk, due to the
expected change of the
Administration; the agreement
with IMF).
* Subprojects that are    * Number of subprojects    * Final supervision reports of The outputs are valuable to the
successfully completed    successfully completed     subprojects; MIS Data      beneficiaries under the
(FOPAR-2)                 (approximately 500/year)                              specific circumstance and
conditions surrounding them
(medium-risk)
* TA agreements that are  * Number of agreements     * TA completion reports
successfully fulfilled    fulfilled; type and scope of TA
(FOPAR-2)                 provided
* Reports, documents, studies, * Number products by product * SIEMPRO record
databases, workshop/seminars category
and TA (SIEMPRO-2)
Narrative Summary      Key Performance Indicators  Monitoring & Supervision     Critical Assumptions
Project Components /      Inputs: (budget for each                              (Components to Outputs)
Sub-components:           component)
FOPAR-2                   US$118.0 million           * MIS Data; subproject     * The Government/SDS
appraisal / supervision reports; maintains the overall resource
1. Community subprojects    (US$ 98.7 million)       TA progress reports;       allocation and institutional
* Technical assistance    procurement files;         framework for the project
* Grant financing         disbursement data          (medium-risk)
2. Knowledge and            (US$ 5.3 million)                                   * Sufficient demand from the
methodology transfer       * Technical assistance                               intended beneficiaries exists
for FOPAR subprojects, TA
3. Project Management       (US$ 14.0 million)                                  for Knowledge and Transfer,
* Technical assistance                               SIEMPRO Products (low-risk)
* Office equipment
* Training
SIEMPRO-2                 US$ 14.0 million
* Technical assistance
* Office equipment
* Training
1. Social Information     (US$ 4.4 million)
-27-



2. Evaluation and Monitoring (US$ 2.8 million)
3. Capacity Building of   (US$ 5.2 million)
Provinces
4. Social Policy Analysis    (US$ 1.6 million)
The supplemental letter to the Loan Agreement would include a detail list of monitoring indicators to be reported to
the Bank semi-annually with benchmarks.
-28-



Annex 2: Project Description
By Component:
Project Component 1 - US$118.0 million
FOPAR-2: Participatory Social Fund Phase 2
FOPAR-2 would have the following three subcomponents: (a) Community subprojects; (b)
Knowledge and Methodology Transfer; and (c) Project Management.
Subcomponent (a): Community subprojects (US$ 98.7 million)
Under the SP I, FOPAR (Fondo Participativo de Inversion Social) established itself as a program
of the SDS and supported over 800 community subprojects in Misiones, Salta, Jujuy, Chaco, Corrientes
and Santiago de Estero. In addition to the aforementioned six provinces, FOPAR-2 would support
community subprojects also in Catamarca, Formosa, La Rioja and Tucuman. In each of these newly-added
provinces, a UPF (Unidad Provincial del Fondo: Provincial FOPAR Unit) as well as a CPP (Consejo
Participativo Provincial: Provincial Participatory Council) would be established. Furthermore, FOPAR
would establish one or more Regional FOPAR Unit(s) (URF: Unidad Regional del Fondo) and a Regional
Participatory Committee (CPR: Consejo Participativo Regional) to support subprojects in six southern
provinces (La Pampa, Rio Negro, Neuqudn, Chubut, Santa Cruz and Tierra del Fuego). Unlike the
northern provinces, concentration of poverty in the south does not justify the establishment of
province-by-province machinery. During the negotiations, it was agreed that FOPAR would not
disburse against subprojects in: (a) any Northern province until the corresponding Provincial FOPAR
Unit and the Provincial Participatory Council are both established; and (b) the Southern Region until
the Regional Participatory Council and at least one Regional FOPAR Unit are established [see G.
Main Loan Conditions].
The average size of subprojects is estimated to be around US$ 47,000 equivalent, and individual
subproject costs would not exceed US$ 150,000 equivalent. In addition, the aggregated subproject costs of
those costing US$ 100,000 or more but less than US$ 150,000 would not exceed US$ 10.0 million.
During the negotiations, it was agreed that: (i) subprojects would be carried out within these cost
limits; and (ii) no later than January 31, 2000 and annually thereafter, FOPAR would commission
annual independent technical audit of its subprojects, in accordance with terns of reference
acceptable to the Bank, and commence the procurement process of the consultant for such an audit by
June 30, 1999 [see G. Main Loan Conditions]. Approximately 2,000 subprojects would be supported
during a four-year period.
Line 1: Community-based subprojects
Menu of Eligible Subprojects. This line builds directly on FOPAR activities supported by the SP I. The
types of eligible community subprojects are specified in the revised FOPAR Operational Manual, as
summarized in Annex 2, Table I below. Subprojects under Area I: Community Development and
Capacity Building and Area IV: Economic and Productive Activities as well as Environmental
Protection (under Area III) would be modest technical assistance or training programs. Other subprojects
would involve the procurement of goods and small-scale works.
-29-



Annex 2, Table 1: Community subproject typology under FOPAR 2
Area 1: Community Development and Capacity Building (mostly TA/training)
* Leadership training                            * Popular Communication (,cl. Goods/equipment)
* Capacity building of community-based organizations  * Project preparation
Promotion of Community Development
Area II: Social Infrastructure (civil works/training)
* Multi-purpose community centers                * Community kitchen
* Small-scale w orks (pedestrian bridges, side w alks, etc.) * Preservation of cultural heritage
* Recreational spaces
Area 111: Health and Environment (civil worksigoodsltraining)
* Latrines and minimum toilets                   * House-hold wastes removal
Small-scale w ater systems                      * Small-scale aforestation
t Health posts
Area IV: Economic Infrastructure (civil works/goods/training)
* Small-scale energy                             * Other small-scale economic infrastructure
Small-scale irrigation
Area IV: Economic and Productive Activities (training/TA)
* Capacity building of community-based organizations with * Skills training
economic nature
Targeting Mechanism. FOPAR-2's targeting mechanism would remain essentially the same as
FOPAR-l's, which has proven to be effective. Within the global geographic framework discussed earlier,
FOPAR has selected 37 urban districts with population 30,000 or more and 130 rural districts with 40% or
greater proportion of population with NBI. In the Southern Region, the target districts are grouped into
several zones, some of which extend across provincial boarders, based on the considerations on the poverty
profile of the population and geographic proximity to maximize the coverage of NBI population. Poor
communities and deprived neighborhoods located in the identified districts would be eligible for FOPAR's
support.
FOPAR would pre-allocate resources to the Northern ten provinces and the South Region in
proportion to the number of population with NBI in the identified districts and zones. Within each
province, a CPP (Consejo Participativo Provincial; Provincial Participatory Council), consisting of
representatives from provincial and municipal governments, NGOs and FOPAR, would establish priorities
and allocate resources within the province based on the established FOPAR guidelines. The guidelines
specify, among others, that communities that are at a higher level of poverty as well as those not served
(and not having been served) by other targeted social programs would be ranked higher in the priority list.
In the Southern Region, the CPR (Consejo Participativo Regional; Regional Participatory Council), the
regional equivalent of CPP, would assume the same function.
Based on the priorities established by the CPPs and CPR, FOPAR would target promotional
activities to high priority communities. Consequently, not all eligible districts would receive FOPAR
promotion.
In addition, SIEMPRO is in the process of developing a beneficiary identification system (Sistema
de Identificaci6n de los Beneficiarios: SISFAM) to support all targeted social programs managed by the
SDS. Once SISFAM becomes operational in a manner agreeable to the Bank, FOPAR would incorporate
the system into its targeting mechanism.
-30-



FOPAR would commission periodic ex-post evaluation of its subprojects in accordance with terms
of reference satisfactory to the Bank. It was agreed that SIEMPRO would subcontract the ex-post
evaluation team.
Line 2: Inter-community network building
During FOPAR- 1, there have been several cases in which a group of communities supported by
FOPAR voluntarily formulated a forum to exchange experience and lessons learnt. This was an
unexpected spin-off effects, and FOPAR-2 would actively encourage such an initiative through technical
assistance / training subprojects.
FOPAR Operational Manual defines subprojects under (a) Communitv-based subproject line not
only as the means to satisfy specific needs of a particular community but also as a learning opportunity for
the same commnunity to build its own capacity to manage priorities and resources. Consequently, it is in the
interest of FOPAR to encourage those communities that have already received FOPAR financing to
actively seek out non-FOPAR opportunities and resources to improve their well-being.
Under this (a-2) Inter-community network building line, a group of communities and CLDS (local
committees for social development) with prior-FOPAR support can jointly submit a proposal for a
subproject that would help them in establishing and strengthening their network and in improving the
capacity to identify, mobilize and manage non-FOPAR opportunities and resources.
Subcomponent (b): Knowledee and methodoloyv transfer and Capacity Buildin2 (US$ 5.3 million)
Under the SP I, FOPAR established itself as a credible institution capable of designing and
implementing participatory poverty reduction schemes. Towards the end of FOPAR-1, FOPAR has
received several informal and formal requests to provide technical assistance in designing and implementing
participatory social programs. One of such requests came from the province of Mendoza, which does not
require FOPAR's financial resources to support its poor communities but wishes to establish a SIF-like
mechanism using its own resources.
Under this (b) Knowledge and methodology transfer and capacity building subcomponent, FOPAR
would promote participatory development approaches through active educational campaign, seminars and
workshops and the provision of technical assistance interested government agencies and programs at both
central and local levels. Technical assistance would be given based on a concrete technical assistance
agreement between FOPAR and the client agency, and would cover topics such as targeting, operational
modalities and MIS. During negotiations, it was agreed that FOPAR would submit the first two
technical assistance agreements for the Bank's prior review [see G. Main Loan Conditions].
In addition, FOPAR would actively support the development of poor communities' capacity to
manage beneficiary-identified small scale subprojects though promotion, evaluation and supervision of
community subprojects. This subcomponent would also support the institutional strengthening of FOPAR
through monitoring and evaluation, audits, internal staff training and capacity building.
-31-



Subcomponent (c): Proiect Management (US$ 14.0 million)
Under this component, FOPAR would establish and operationalize four new Provincial FOPAR
Units (UPFs) and Provincial Participatory Councils, and several Regional FOAR Units and a Regional
Participatory Council. This subcomponent would also support day-to-day operation of FOPAR and
project administration.
Project Component 2 - US$14.0 million
SIEMPRO-2: Technical Assistance for the Improvement of Social Information and Monitorine and
Evaluation of Targeted Social Programs (Sistema de Informaci6n, Evaluaci6n v Monitoreo de
Proframas Sociales) - Phase 2
Under this technical assistance component, SIEMPRO-2 would continue to promote transparency,
participation of the civil society and appropriate targeting of social services to the poor through: (a) the
improvement of the social information-base for timely monitoring and analysis of the situation of the poor
and vulnerable groups; (b) the definition and application of appropriate methodologies and systems for
targeting, monitoring and evaluation (ex-ante/ex-post) of social programs; (c) the dissemination and
transfer of developed methodologies and social information systems to appropriate national and provincial
agencies, and (d) the provision of assistance to the SDS to establish priorities and assure coordination of
social programs directed to the poor.
The users of SIEMPRO information, its primary and secondary information sources and the
potential programs to be evaluated by SIEMPRO are diverse. In order to ensure smooth communications
and coordination among these diverse stakeholders, it was agreed during the negotiations that SIEMPRO
would establish an advisory council with terms of reference and membership satisfactory to the Bank
no later than July 31, 1999 [see G. Main Loan Conditions].
Below are the summaries of activities in each area. Detailed description of key activities,
corresponding schedules and expected results are available in the SIEMPRO Matrix of key activities (
Matrices Sintesis de Actividades del SIEIMPRO-II) in the project file. During the negotiations, it was
agreed that any change in the updated SIEMPRO Matrix would require the Bank's prior approval [see
G. Main Loan Conditions].
(a)    Improvement of the Social Information-base (US$ 4.4 million) This component would enhance
the type, timeliness and availability of information to improve the targeting, design, monitoring and
evaluation of social programs targeted to the poor. Whenever appropriate, SIEMPRO would coordinate its
actions with relevant govemment agencies. The project would finance: (i) upgrading and maintenance of
the permanent and updated social infoirmation data base, established during SIEMPRO-I, using primary
and secondary data sources, in collaboration with appropriate statistical institutions (primarily INDEC),
other government, academic and non-govemmental institutions; (ii) technical improvement of some social
indicators and household data, estimation of national and regional Poverty Baseline (LP) indicators, and
estimation and validation of Unsatisfied Basic Needs (NBI) indicators in coordination with INDEC; (iii) the
second round of the Social Survey with an expanded sample frame which would be truly national, including
small towns and rural areas, which were not covered in the first Social Survey; (iv) the analysis of
targeting-effectiveness social programs using the data in both the First and the Second Social surveys. In
order to carry-out the second Social Survey, SDS would: (i) enter, with INDEC, into a subsidiary
agreement acceptable to the Bank no later than May 31, 1999; (ii) furnish to the Bank, for its review
and comments, the draft terms of reference and a proposed design to undertake the survey no later
than December 31, 1999; and (iii) carry out the survey in accordance with the agreed terms of
-32-



reference, and review the survey results with the Bank no later than October 31, 2001 [see G. Main
Loan Conditions].
(b)    Evaluation and Monitorini! of Tameted Social Programs (US$ 2.8 million). This component
would enhance the system of monitoring and evaluation of targeted social programs, and carry out
evaluation studies on a demand-driven basis. Under the SP I, SIEMPRO carried out the evaluation of
programs both under and outside the SDS, including TRABAJAR (implemented by MTSS) and Programa
Social Agropecuario (PSA, implemented by MOE). However, SIEMPRO experienced coordination
difficulties with the MCE, and as a result, could not complete the evaluation of Plan Social Educativo. In
order to avoid such difficulties which may arise in the evaluation of the programs outside the SDS,
SIEMPRO would carry out evaluation studies on a demand-driven basis. During the first year,
SIEMPRO-2 would concentrate mostly on the evaluation of the programs under the SDS, including the
ex-post evaluation of FOPAR-1. In addition, SIEMPRO-2 would carry-out: (i) enhancement of the data
bank on national and provincial social programs; and (ii) improvement of methodologies and systems to
monitor and evaluate social programs. In addition, for the purpose of establishing baselines for FOPAR's
ex-post / impact evaluations, SIEMPRO would design the baseline surveys of community conditions in
accordance with terms of reference agreeable to the Bank.
(c)    Dissemination and Transfer of Methodologies and Systems to National and Provincial
Agencies (US$ 5.2 million). Building on the success of SIEMPRO- 1 in this area, SIEMPRO-2 would
continue to transfer social information, methods and systems for targeting and evaluation, and relevant
technical assistance to appropriate national and counterpart provincial agencies. More specifically,
SIEMPRO-2 would: (i) finance training programs and workshops for national and provincial agencies on
social management, including the application of the methodologies and systems for targeting and
monitoring and evaluation of social programs; (ii) extend the support to approximately 10 provinces that
were not included under SIEMPRO- 1, including the establishment of small provincial SIEMPRO units
(Unidades Ejecutoras Provinciales, or UEPs) in the counterpart agency for setting up the social information
system and monitoring/evaluation or provincial social programs targeted to the poor; (iii) promote the
participation of NGOs in the monitoring and evaluation of social programs; (iv) improve and apply the
social communication strategy to disseminate the progress being achieved in improving the management
and transparency of public social resources. In addition, SIEMPRO-2 would assist the provinces in
developing a transitional plan to gradually assume greater financial responsibility for the counterpart
agency.
(d)    Social Policy Analysis (US$ 1.6 million). Through this subcomponent, SIEMPRO-2 would
provide technical inputs to the SDS to facilitate its analysis of social programs and design of effective
strategies, and encourage the participation of a broad range of agencies of civil society, including academic
institutions.
-33-



Financial and Procurement Mana2ement of FOPAR and SIEMPRO
The Social Development Secretariat (SDS) continues to provide FOPAR and SIEMPRO with
administrative support through its Administration and Finance Coordination Unit (UCAF: Unidad de
Coordinaci6n de Administraci6n y Financiamiento) in the areas of procurement of goods and services,
payment to contractors and consultants, financial management, etc. It was agreed during the negotiations
that no later than January 31, 2000 and annually thereafter, the Borrower would contract an
independent consultant in accordance with terms of reference acceptable to the Bank in order to carry
out the procurement audit of contracts for goods and consultant services for both FOPAR (except for
subprojects, which are reviewed as part of the annual technical audit) and SIEMPRO, and that the
procurement process of the consultant should commence by June 30, 1999 [G. Main Loan Conditions].
-34-



Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs
Project Components                        US $ million
FOPAR                                                 Local    Foreign  Total
(a) Community subprojects                               79.0     19.7      98.7
(b) Knowledge and methodology transfer and Capacity      3.9       1.4      5.3
Buildinq
(c) Proiect Manaaement                                  10.9      3.1      14.0
Subtotal FOPAR                                          93.8     24.2    118.0
SIEMPRO
(a) Improvement of the Social Information-base           3.2       1.2      4.4
(b) Evaluation and Monitoring of Taraeted Social Proqrams  2.0    0.8       2.8
(c) Dissemination and Transfer of Methodologies and      3.8       1.4      5.2
Systems to National and Provincial Aaencies
(d} Social Policy Analysis                               1.2      0.4       1.6
Subtotal SIEMPRO                                        10.2      3.8      14.0
Front-end Fee                                              -         0.9      0.9
Total                                                    104.0      28.9    132.9
-35-



Annex 4
Fourth Social Protection Project
Summary Economic Assessments of Participatory Social Investment Fund (FOPAR)
Conceptually speaking, FOPAR-supported activities can be classified into two broad categories.
One is to strengthen the institutional capacity of poor communities to manage their own welfare, i.e. the
capacities to identify and prioritize needs, mobilize and manage resources, and design, plan, implement and
maintain small scale projects. The other is to provide essential social services by giving matching grants to
poor communities through competitive selection process to finance social and economic infrastructure as
well as specific training and technical assistance from a menu of eligible subprojects.
Benefits from capacity building are diverse, including empowernent skills (learning to organize
and speak out, belief that the poor can improve their conditions, confidence in dealing with government
officials, banks and other institutions), institutional and organizational skills (identification of needs,
planning and budgeting, handling of contracts, financial administration) and the transfer of skills and
experience to other community groups (for example, Bank supervision mission members had several
opportunities to sit in self-initiated meetings among beneficiary groups to learn from each other). Such
benefits are compelling when witnessed on the ground but difficult to capture in statistics. However, while
they may have a significant and lasting impact on a community or group's ability to address poverty
conditions beyond the actual benefits from the infrastructure or services contained in a subproject, it is
difficult to quantify their economic values since they are indirect in effect and intangible in nature.
A bulk of other FOPAR-supported activities include small-scale public works, sanitation facilities,
and economic and social infrastructure which are chosen and submitted for finance by the communities
from a menu of eligible subprojects. In contrast to capacity building, benefits from these activities are
concrete and more amenable to economic valuation. For instance, provision of social services improves the
welfare of poor households. Community center would improve the quality of life. Water and sanitary
facilities would improve the health status of the poor and increase their labor productivity. On the other
hand, there are at least two factors which make it difficult, if not impossible, to carry out the full
cost-benefit analysis. First, demand-driven nature of the project administration means that it is not possible
a priori to predict what types of viable subprojects would be funded during the implementation of
FOPAR. Second, the size of subprojects is small. Average size of the subprojects financed under the
FOPAR- 1, pilot phase of the FOPAR was US$3 8,000, and that under FOPAR is expected to be
US$47,000. So the portfolio of the subprojects are expected to be very heterogeneous in term of size and
composition, which would make the conventional cost-benefit analysis prohibitively expensive.
In spite of these difficulties, the overall picture of how well project monies have been spent would
largely depend on the success of each subproject in delivering the needed services, and the extent to which
enhanced capacities of the poor communities are translated into concrete improvements in the lives of the
people. The first concerns with the cost effectiveness of FOPAR, in that the overall efficiency of FOPAR
intervention would materialize if each constituent subproject were to be implemented in an efficient manner,
given that the project overhead for management and administration were kept in check. As part of on-going
oversight of project progress, FOPAR will commission a periodic ex-post evaluation of a group of FOPAR
subprojects, of which economic consideration would be a part. As for assessments of medium to long-term
project benefits of the capacity building, a baseline survey will be carried out, prior to implementation of
-36-



subprojects, for the beneficiaries of FOPAR subprojects as well as for non-FOPAR communities and
population with similar characteristics to serve as a control group. During the appraisal, a plan has been
drawn up, budget has been allocated, and a basic framework for the TORs has been reviewed to carry out
the baseline survey. Following the completion of the subprojects, the survey will be administered again to
the same set of communities as well as to the control group. Information from these surveys, along with
that from the MIS, will be key ingredients to carry out a tracer study to measure the project impacts.
A. Economic Analysis
Preliminary evidence indicates that FOPAR- 1 has been fairly successful in local capacity building
and provision of essential social services in an efficient manner. This has been in large part thanks to a
combination of careful project design and close attention to operational details during project
implementation. Critical contributing factors to high efficiency of the FOPAR- 1 include: (i) capacity
building, community organization and participation, (ii) transparent and efficient project management
and administration, including targeting and competitive subproject selection, and (iii) disciplining of
subproject costs.
FOPAR is different from a traditional social investment fund-type projects in that it introduced the
community capacity building features with participatory approach in the project design. During the
FOPAR- 1, beneficiary assessments indicated that improved capacity of the poor communities to organize
and participate was one of the key ingredients for ensuring that the subproject could maximize the welfare
of the community. Allowing the communities to organize and administer their own resources for the
subproject introduced transparency, financial discipline, and accountability. In addition, local constituents
have been consulted on an open manner in order to prioritize communities' needs during all stages of the
subproject cycle from identification, design and implementation. This use of decentralized and
consensus-based decision-making at the local level in which the subprojects are formulated by the
communities themselves instead of being imposed from the above ensured that the resulting subprojects
would reflect the collective preferences and tastes of the poor population. This also allowed the
beneficiaries in the poor communities to see how their lives improve with FOPAR. Requirements for
counter-part funding (about 10% of subproject costs) further exert discipline that the subprojects demanded
by the poor community really reflect their needs and priorities. The process also provides community
members with opportunities to internalize project management skills and knowledge, so that they could be
applied to other projects. When their desired subprojects do not fall under FOPAR's purview of eligible
subprojects, FOPAR often provides referral service for the poor communities to other government or
non-government agencies/programs.
In project management and administration, FOPAR introduced institutional framework and
operational guidelines conducive to transparent and efficient poverty targeting and administrative
efficiency in service delivery. An ex-post evaluation study found that FOPAR-supported subprojects were
highly correlated with high poverty areas with substantial benefits accruing to the poor, while its
infrastructure subprojects maintained highly satisfactory adherence to technical specification of the work.
That is, FOPAR subprojects achieved poverty objectives without sacrificing minimum standards. This
targeting efficiency owes much of its effectiveness to the use of objective criteria for beneficiary selection.
For example, at the initial stage, FOPAR would use the unmet basic needs indicator (NBI) to identify the
general areas of project intervention, from which the Provincial Participatory Committee (made up of
representatives from FOPAR, provincial and local governrments, NGOs, and academics) will utilize other
information on the characteristics of the areas and population (concentration of population and poverty,
distance, etc.) to select the target communities for whom FOPAR will carry out promotion and TA
activities to formulate subprojects. Another source of efficiency in project management is the use of
-37-



competitive process to choose viable subprojects within a limited timeframe (three months), instead of the
first-come first-served criterion. This allows FOPAR to have some knowledge of the subproject pipelines,
and gives some lead time to hire promoters, appraisers, and supervisors with different backgrounds
according to the subproject profiles.
Unit Cost Cut-offPoints Methodology Given that the benefits from the FOPAR, are fairly well
defined, the other side of the equation to irnprove economic efficiency would be to discipline the cost of
implementing the subprojects. At the subproject level, given technology and cost structure of a menu of
eligible subproject packages, what would be the most cost effective ways of ensuring the maximization of
project impacts while maintaining acceptable standards? One such way is to apply the unit cost cut-off
points to reject non-viable subprojects during the appraisal stage. In evaluating the FOPAR as a whole,
the use of unit cost cut-off points for its subprojects would satisfy a necessary but not sufficient condition
for cost effectiveness of the program. For instance, the administrative cost of FOPAR, at the central as
well as subproject level, is relative low. However, there are many other programs not as well designed and
managed as FOPAR.
During the pilot phase of FOPAR, this methodology has been developed, applied, and refined.
That is, FOPAR- 1 successfully has been employing no objection criteria based on the unit cost cut-off
points by project type in appraising subprojects during the pilot stage, and will continue to use this
methodology in FOPAR-2. The FOPAR Project Cost Manual, dated August 1998, details this
methodology, and its contents have been updated to incorporate new types of subprojects under the
proposed phase-2 operation. During the project implementation, FOPAR will adjust the unit cost cut-off
points for each subproject wrhen appraisal results shows the need for correction, and construct new ones for
new subproject types. And FOPAR will publish an update list of unit cost cut-off points incorporating
these changes at least once a year.
During the pilot phase, FOPAR utilized the attributes of the successful subprojects to estimate th-e
cut-off points by different subproject categories. For instance, econometric technique was used to estimate
cut-off points for capacity building subprojects. The relevant unit costs for training component were the
cost per beneficiary trainee or per unit time taken to train a person. In the case of subprojects, which
contains civil work components, a standardized package was used to analyze the price data in order to
calculate acceptable unit cost. For those sub-projects involving infrastructure, minimum unit costs would
be specified for mostly materials to ensure quality. Table AS.1 shows the latest unit cost cut-off points for
different categories of subprojects.
-38-



Table A4.1 Unit Cost Cut-Off Lines
AREA AND TYPE OF             DESCRIPTION OF INDICATOR                             INDICATOR  VALUE
PROJECT                                                                                          Pesos I
Area I: Community Development and Capacity Building
Formation of community      Total cost of the subproject / N of beneficiaries    $ I beneficiary   326
agents                      Cost of training component / N of beneficiaries     $ / beneficiary    164
Cost of training component / N of hours of training  $ / hour          44
Capacity building of        Total cost of the subproject / No of beneficiaries    $ / beneficiary   326
conmmunity-based            Cost of training component / N0 de beneficiaries      $ / beneficiary   164
organizations               Cost of tech. asist. component / N of beneficiaries  $ / beneficiary    146
Cost of training component / N0 of hours of training  $ / hour          44
Cost of tech. asist. component / N of TA hours      $ / hour            29
Promotion of community      Total cost of the subproject / N0 of beneficiaries   $ / beneficiary    346
development                 Cost of training component / N of beneficiaries     $ / beneficiary     164
Cost of training component / N0 of hours of training  $ hour             44
Popular communication       Total cost of the subproject / N0 of beneficiaries    $ beneficiary     408
Cost of training component / N0 de beneficiaries     $ I beneficiary    164
Cost of tech. asist. component / N0 of beneficiaries  $I beneficiary    146
Cost of training component / N0 of hours of training  $ hour             44
Cost of tech. asist. component / N0 of TA hours      $ hour              29
Area II, III & IV: Social Infrastructure, Health and Environment, and Economic Infrastructure
Support to centers for high-    Total cost of the subproject IN0 of direct beneficiaries  $ / beneficiary  97
risk populations            Cost of infrastructure comp. / N0 of direct beneficiaries  $ / beneficiary  36
Cost of infrastructure comp. / m2 of construction    $ /m2             463
Multi-purpose community      Total cost of the subproject IN0 of direct beneficiaries  $ / beneficiary  498
center                      Cost of infrastructure comp. / N0 of direct beneficiaries  $ / beneficiary  376
Cost of infrastructure comp. / m2 of construction    $ / m2            287
Construction of production  Total cost of the subproject /N0 of direct beneficiaries  $ / beneficiary  594
support                     Cost of infrastructure comp. / N0 of direct beneficiaries  $ / beneficiary  351
Cost of infrastructure comp. / m2 of construction    $ /m2             299
Child care center           Total cost of the subproject I N0 of direct beneficiaries  $ / beneficiary  833
Cost of infrastructure comp. / N0 of direct beneficiaries  $ / beneficiary  735
Cost of infrastructure comp. / m2 of construction    $ / m2            489
Open recreational space     Total cost of the subproject IN0 of direct beneficiaries  $ / beneficiary  380
Cost of infrastructure comp. /N0 of direct beneficiaries  $ / beneficiary  283
________________________  Cost of infrastructure comp. / m2 of construction     $ / m2              76
Covered recreational space  Total cost of the subproject / N0 of direct beneficiaries  $ / beneficiary  348
Cost of infrastructure comp. / N0 of direct beneficiaries  $ / beneficiary  269
Cost of infrastructure comp. / m2 of construction    $ / m2              98
Basic sanitation: latrine   Total cost of the subproject / N0 of direct beneficiaries  $ / beneficiary  290
Cost of infrastructure comp. / N0 of direct beneficiaries  $ / beneficiary  225
Cost of infrastructure comp. / unit                  $ / unit           898
Basic sanitation: minimum   Total cost of the subproject / N0 of direct beneficiaries  $ / beneficiary  334
toilet                      Cost of infrastructure comp. / N of direct beneficiaries  $ / beneficiary  259
Cost of infrastructure comp. / unit                  $ / unit          1,260
Small-scale water system    Total cost of the subproject I N0 of direct beneficiaries  $ / beneficiary  329
Cost of infrastructure comp. IN0 of direct beneficiaries  $ / beneficiary  253
Cost of infrastructure comp. / unit                  $ / unit           31
Small-scale community works  Total cost of the subproject / N0 of direct beneficiaries  $ / beneficiary  118
- sidewalk                  Cost of infrastructure comp. / N of direct beneficiaries  $ / beneficiary  92
Cost of infrastructure comp. / m2 of construction    $ / m2              17
Small-scale community works  Total cost of the subproject I N0 of direct beneficiaries  $ / beneficiary  119
- sidewalk and sewer        Cost of infrastructure comp. IN0 of direct beneficiaries  $ / beneficiary  105
Cost of infrastructure comp. / m2 of construction    $ / m2              27
Small-scale community works  Total cost of the subproject / N0 of direct beneficiaries  $ I beneficiary  192
- street gutter             Cost of infrastructure comp. / No of direct beneficiaries  $ / beneficiary  139
Cost of infrastructure comp. / linear meter of construction  $ / m       39
-39-



Annex 5: Financial Summary
Years Ending
December 31
(in US $ millions)
krplementation Period                         Operational Period
1999      2000      2000      2001      2002      Total      2003      2004      2005
Project Costs
Investment Costs         16.7      32.6      30.5      28.6      13.5      121.8      -          -         -
Recurrent Costs           1.3       2.9       3.3       3.8       3.1       14.5       2.2       2.2       2.2
Total                    18.0      35.5      33.8      32.4      16.6      136.3       2.2       2.2       2.2
Financing Sources (% of annual project costs)
Bank                      68%       67%       67%       66%       61%        66%        0%        0%        0%
Natonal Govemment         32%       32%       31%       30%       28%        31%        0%        0%        0%
Local Governrment          0%        0%        0%        1%         1%        1%       10%       10%       10%
Beneficiaries              0%        1%        2%        4%        10%        3%       90%       90%       90%
Total                    100%      100%      100%      100%       100%      100%      100%      100%      100%
Main assumptions:
i   The total Project costs above (US$ 136.3 million) do not coincide with the total costs cited elsewhere in
this PAD (US$ 132.9 million), because the former include the operation and maintenance costs of
completed subprojects, which are assumed to be 2% of the subproject costs, and to start incurring the
year after the completion of each subproject.
* It is assumed that the provincial governments would gradually take over the financial responsibility for
their SIEMPRO units, and would no longer depend on the national government by SIEMPRO-2
completion (i.e. January 2002).
-40-



Annex 6: Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements
Procurement
Procurement arrangements for the FOPAR and SIEMPRO components under the SP IV remains
essentially the same as under the SP I, except for the following modifications applicable to FOPAR
subprojects:
* Under the SP I, subprojects smaller than US$ 50,000 equivalent were implemented by the
community through using labor intensive methods. This threshold would be raised to US$ 75,000
equivalent under the SP IV;
*  Under the SP I, the aggregate amount of subprojects directly implemented by the communities
(assisted by NGOs, using voluntary work and allowing very small contracts when needed) could
not exceed US$ 22.5 million equivalent, representing nearly 90% of the total subproject costs.
Under the SP IV, no limit in the aggregate amount would be established.
The above modifications are justified for the following reasons. First, FOPAR maintained efficient
and transparent subproject procurement under the SP I. Second, the average size of subprojects (US$
38,000 equivalent) turned out to be considerably larger than the estimate of the appraisal of the SP I (US$
26,000 equivalent). Third, FOPAR's objectives favor community self-execution of subprojects, and this
approach proved to be highly successful under the SP I.
Record keeping, procurement and financial management by the beneficiaries during FOPAR- 1
have been exceptionally good. For example, during the mid-term review in July 1997, Bank staff found
that only US$ 2,000 out of US$ 1 million in beneficiary-executed subproject expenditures had incomplete
or inadequate documentation. Two critical factors have been: (a) training of supervisors to provide
on-going technical assistance to beneficiary groups on administering subproject execution; and (b)
incentives for monitoring by the community -- FOPAR staff explain administrative requirements to the
entire community group (not just the representatives) and NUBs are required to keep open records which
any member of the community can see. Shopping for materials and withdrawal of funds is always done by
more than one NUB representative. In most cases, the NUB has chosen to self-manage infrastructure, in
part to get more value for money by avoiding contractors fees. As such, unit costs for subprojects are
coming in significantly lower than subproject appraisal estimates. Having beneficiaries administer
resources have led to lower unit costs, and curbed on potential corruption in subproiect implementation.
Procurement Methods
Grant for FOPAR Subproiects
In order to encourage the participation of local communities and the utilization of local know-how,
materials and other appropriate technologies, FOPAR subprojects, which are estimated to cost US$ 47,000
equivalent on the average and limited to US$ 150,000 equivalent or less, would carry out their own
procurement under the supervision of FOPAR with due concern for economy and efficiency in their
implementation in accordance with the Community Participation procedures described in the Guidelines
for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits published by the Bank in January 1995 and
revised in January and August 1996 and September 1997 (the Guidelines).
-41-



The grant agreement signed between the recipient community and the SDS would specify that the
community must: (i) utilize the local labor, know-how and materials to the practical extent possible; (ii)
compare prices to reduce costs, to the extent possible where quality considerations are not compromised;
and (iii) use FOPAR's standard contract forms. The number and the nature, and the estimated costs of
contracts under the subproject are identified and reviewed during the subproject appraisal by FOPAR
evaluators.
Goods estimated to cost US$ 75,000 equivalent or more per contract required for the execution of
subprojects would be procured using the national shopping procedures. Similarly, small works estimated
to cost US$ 75,000 equivalent or more per contract would be procured under lump sum, fixed price
contracts awarded on the basis of quotations obtained from three qualified domestic contractors. However,
it is expected that approximately 80% of subprojects (representing 55% of aggregated subproject costs)
would be undertaken by the communities themselves using labor intensive methods. In order to ensure
transparency, the community representatives are required to keep all quotations, receipts and invoices, for
inspections by FOPAR supervisors as well as all other community members.
Subproject grants are disbursed in tranches, and second and subsequent disbursements require the
certification by a FOPAR supervisor who reviews the physical implementation progress and fimancial
records, among others.
Goods
For both FOPAR and SIEMPRO, goods including photocopiers, personal computer hardware and
software and other office equipment and supplies and vehicles would be procured in accordance with the
Guidelines. Procurement of goods estimated to cost less than US$ 100,000 equivalent per contract would
follow the national shopping procedures up to the aggregate amount of US$ 1.9 million equivalent. Those
estimated to cost US$ 100,000 equivalent or more but less than US$ 350,000 per contract would follow the
National Competitive Bidding (NCB) procedures.
Consultants' Services
Technical assistance, training and studies under both FOPAR and SIEMPRO components would
be carried out by individual consultants or consulting firms hired in accordance with Guidelines: Selection
and Employment of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers (September 1997) published by the Bank in
January 1997 and revised in September 1997 (the Consultant Guidelines). Hiring of consultant firms
would follow: (i) QCBS (Quality- and Cost-based Selection) procedures if the estimated contract value is
US$ 100,000 equivalent or more; and (ii) QBS (Selection based on Consultant's Qualifications) if the
estimated contract value is less than US$ 100,000. Individual consultants would be hired in accordance
with the procedure described under Section V of the guidelines. FOPAR and SIEMPRO would carry out
semestral planning of consultant hiring, and the plans would be reviewed with Bank supervision missions.
Procurement methods (Table A)
-42-



Annex 6, Table A: Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements
(in US$ million equivalent)
Procurement Method                  Total Cost
Expenditure Category    ICB   NCB         Other       N.B.F. (including contingencies)
1  Grant for FOPAR Subprojects  -       -          98.7          -                      98.7
(69.1)        -                      (69.1)
2  Goods                         -      -           1.9          0.2                     2.1
-  -       (0.7)         -                      (0.7)
3  Consultants' SeNces           -      -          18.0          -                      18.0
(13.5)        -                      (13.5)
4  Training and Workshops        -      -           8.7          -                       8.7
(6.6)        -                       (6.6)
5  Miscellaneous(*)              -      -           -            4.5                     4.5
6  Font End Fee                                     0.9                                  0.9
(0.9)                                (0.9)
Total                         -      -         128.2          4.7                   132.9
=      -         (90.8)         -                     (90.8)
Figures are aggregate aniount; Figures in parentheses are anount to be financed by the Bank.
N.B.F. = Not Bank-financed (includes elenents procured under counterpart procedures, any reserved procurement,
and any other mscellaneous iterrs
(*) Miscellaneous include utilities, carmnications and other project adminstrative expenditures.
Prior Reviews
The Bank's prior review would be required for:
*   Goods: First two contracts that require either NCB or the national shopping procedures, i.e. any
goods contract that is estimated to cost: (i) US$ 75,000 equivalent or more for the execution of
subprojects; or (ii) US$ 100,000 equivalent or more for other goods;
*   Consultants' Services (including! services Provided by NGOs): (a) all contracts for consulting
firms estimated to cost US$ 100,000 equivalent or above; (b) all contracts with individuals (new or
renewals) estimated to cost US$ 50,000 equivalent or more in aggregate during the calendar year;
(c) single source selection of consulting firms; (d) assignments of a critical nature as reasonably
determined by the Bank, key staff positions of the project units in FOPAR and SIEMPRO; (e)
amendments to contracts for the employment of consulting firms raising the contract value to US$
100,000 equivalent or above; and (f) amendments to contracts for the employment of individual
consultants raising the contract value to US$ 50,000 equivalent or above; and
*   Grant for FOPAR SubDrolects: any subproject that does not correspond to the eligible types
established in the Operational Manual.
-43-



Ex-post Review
During the appraisal, it was agreed that no later than January 31, 2000 and thereafter annually: (i)
an independent technical audit of FOPAR subprojects would be carried out annually based on terms of
reference acceptable to the Bank; and (ii) SDS would contract an independent consultant in accordance
with terns of reference satisfactory to the Bank for the procurement audit of contracts for goods and
consultants' services under both FOPAR-2 (except for subprojects, which are reviewed by the
aforementioned technical audit) and SIEMPRO-2. It was also agreed that the process to contract such
audit services would commence no later than June 30, 1999 [G. Main Loan Conditions].
Prior review thresholds (Table B)
Annex 6, Table B: Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review
Contracts Subject to
Prior Review /
Estimated Total Value
Contract Value                            Subject to Prior
Expenditure Category       Threshold                                   Review
(US$ thousands)   Procurement Method       (US$ millions)
1  Grants for FOPAR            2 75             Shopping               See foot note belowt
Subprojects*
< 75            Community Execution    None
2  Goods procured not under    > 100, < 350     NCB                    See foot note belowt
FOPAR Subprojects
< 100           Shopping               See foot note belowt
3 Consultants' Services
Firms                      2 100            QCBS:                  All
< 100           QBS                   Nonett
Individuals                2 50             Other                  All
< 50            Other"                 Nonett
4 Training and Workshops
5 Miscellaneous
Total value of contracts subject to prior review                   US$ 0.5 million
Procurement under each of FOPAR Subprojects, which are expected to cost US$ 47,000 equivalent on the
average and would be less than US$150,000 equivalent, would be carried out by the communities by
themselves.
t First two contracts for: (i) goods or works estimated to cost US$ 75,000 equivalent or more required for
the execution of FOPAR Subprojects; or (ii) goods procured not under FOPAR Subprojects.
* Quality-and Cost-based Selection
 Selection Based on Consultant's qualifications
Per Section V of Consultants Guidelines (para. 5.1 through 5.3)
tl Exemption from prior review does not apply to consultant contracts below thresholds in cases of single-
source selection of firms, assignment of a critical nature, and amendments to contracts raising the original
value above the threshold.
-44-



Disbursement
Allocation of loan proceeds (Table C)
Annex 6, Table C: Allocation of Loan Proceeds
Amount in
Expenditure Category     US$ million      Financing Percentage
FOPAR Component
1 Grant for FOPAR Subprojects        69.10      70%
2 Training and Workshops              4.25      80%
3 Consultants' Services               7.07      80%
4 Goods (other than Subprojects)      0.38      40%
SIEMPRO Component
5 Training and Workshops              2.34      70%
6 Consultants' Services               6.40      70%
7 Goods (other than Subprojects)      0.31      40%
8 Front End Fee                       0.90
Total                              90.75
The project is expected to be completed in four years by December 31, 2002, and the loan closing
date would be June 30, 2003. In order to facilitate the continuity of FOPAR/SIEMPRO from the SP Ito
IV, retroactive financing of up to 10 percent of the loan or US$ 9.075 million would be available to cover
eligible expenditures incurred on or after January 1, 1998 but no more than 12 months prior to loan
signing.
Use of statements of expenses (SOEs):
Withdrawal applications for the following would be supported by full documentation: (i)
consultants' services with a contract value of US$ 100,000 or more, and US$ 50,000 or more, for the
employment of firms and individual consultants, respectively; and (ii) goods with a contract value of US$
100,000 or more. All other disbursements would be made on the basis of Statement of Expenditures
(SOEs) against eligible expenditures. Supporting documentation for these expenditures would be
maintained by the Social Development Secretariat, and would be made available for periodic review by the
Bank.
Special account:
A Special Account (SA) of US$ 10.0 million would be opened for this project in the Banco de la
Naci6n Argentina. The SDS would submit replenishment applications for the SA on a monthly basis, or
whenever 20 percent of the authorized allocation has been used, whichever occurs first. The replenishment
applications will be supported by the necessary documentation: a bank statement of the SA and a
reconciliation bank statement of the SA against the Bank's records. The SA would be audited annually by
independent auditors acceptable to the Bank. The audit report would be submitted to the Bank for review
and approval within six months of the end of the fiscal year.
45-



Annex 7: Project Processing Budget and Schedule
l_________________________________ lPlanned                                     Actual
A. Project Budget (US$000)                            199                        115
B. Project Schedule                                 Planned                     Actual
Time taken to prepare the project (months)  9                        8
First Bank mission (identification)      02/07/98                    02/07/98
Appraisal mission departure              08/10/98                    08/10/98
Negotiations                             08/19/98                    09/09/98
Planned Date of Effectiveness            01/01/99
Prepared by:
Participatory Social Investment Fund (Fondo de Participaci6n Social -FOPAR) and Information System for
the Monitoring and Evaluation of Social Programs (Sistema de Informaci6n, Monitoreo y Evaluaci6n de
Programas Sociales -SIEMPRO)
Preparation assistance:
Bank staff who worked on the project included:
Name                                        Speciality
Hideki Mori                                  Task Team Leader
Alexander Abrantes                           Country-Sector Leader
Charlie Griffn                               Lead Specialist, Social Protection
Juliana Weissman                             Targeting mechanisms
Christian Hurtado                            Civil Engineering
Armando Godinez                              Anthropology
Karla McEvoy                                 Environment
Jorge Barrientos                             Community-based operations
Haeduck Lee                                  Economic Analysis / Research
Polly Jones                                  Economic Policy / Research
Sandra Cesilini / Estanislao Gacitua-Mario   Social Assessment
Ruth Izquierdo / Febe Mackey / Marian Kaminskis / Project Assistants
Esther Peckham
Alexander Marc                               Peer Reviewer
Rudy Van Puymbroeck / Teresa Genta-Fons /    Counsels
Roberto Cucullu
Livio Pino                                   Financial Management
Morag Van Praag                              Disbursement Officer
Jaime Roman                                  Regional Procurement Advisor
-46-



Annex 8: Documents in the Project File*
A. Project Implementation Plan
*   Propuesta de Focaliazion Para el FOPAR 2
*   FOPAR: Manual Opearativo
*   FOPAR 2: Cronograma de Ejecuci6n
*   Matrices Sintesis de Actividades del SIEMPRO-II
B. Bank Staff Assessments
*   Hurtado, Christian. "FOPAR: Consultoria de Asistencia T6cnica - Informe Final". May 1998.
*   Zuleta Puceiro, Enrique. "FOPAR: Evaluaci6n Social Focalizada en Algunas Variables de Relevancia
para el Diseflo del Programa". April, 1998.
*   -------. "SIEMPRO: Evaluaci6n Social Focalizada en Algunas Variables de Relevancia para el Disefio
del Programa". April, 1998.
*   Social Protection I: Supervision / Mid-term review reports
C. Other
*   Cabrera, Carlos Arcos, et. al. "Evaluaci6n Ex-Post: FOPAR (Informe Preliminar)", Volume I & II.
April 1998.
*   Barrientos, Jorge C. and Steen Lau Jorgensen. "A Practical Approach for Designing
Community-based Operations - with Special Reference to Implementation Arrangements. HDNSP/The
World Bank. June 1998.
*   Godinez Gutierrez, Armando. "SIEMPRO: Balance de los Resultados Obtenidos en Los Primeros Anios
de Ejecuci6n del Programana". April 1998.
*Including electronic files
-47-



Annex 9: Status of Bank Group Operations in Argentina
IBRD Loans and IDA Credits in the Operations Portfolio
Original Amount in USS Millions
Loan or   Fiscal
Project ID    Credit       Year               Borrower                       Purpose
No.                                                                              IBRD       IDA      Cancellations  Undisbursed
Number of Closed Loans/credits: 82
Active Loans
AM-PE-49269   IBRD43660   1998   ARGENTINE REPUBLIC                  SOC PROTEC 3                   284.00        0.00            0.00        284.00
AR-PE-507__   IBRD43140   1998   MINISTRY OF ECONOMY                 MODEL COURT DEV.                  5.00       0.00            0.00          5.o0
AR-PE-50714   IBRD43130   1998   REPUBLIC OF ARGENTINA               SECOND.ED 3                     119.00       0.00            0.00        119.00
AR-PE-51693   IBRD42190   1998   GOVERNMENT                          P.RFM(SALTA)                    75.00        0.00            0.00        30.00
A-PE-51694   IBRD42200   1998   GOVERNMENT                           P.RFM(S.JUAN)                   50.00        0.00            0. 0        40.00
AR-PE-51695   TBRD42180    1998   GOVERNMENT                         P.RFM(R.NEGROI                  75.00        0.00            0.00        50.00
AR-PE-52590   IBRD42950   1998   REPUBLIC OF ARGENTINA               NAT HWY REHAB&MAINT            450.00        0.00            0.00       450.00
M-PE-55477   IBRD42820   1998   GOVT OF ARGENTINA                    MINING TA                        39.50       0.00            0.00         39.50
AM-PE-55935   IBRD42730   1998   GOVERNMENT                          EL NINO EMERGENCY               42.00        0.00            0.00        42.00
AR-PE-6006    IBRD42210   1998   MIN. OF ECONOMY                     P.RFM(TUCUMAN)                 100.00        0.00            0.00       100.00
AR-PE-6041    IBRD42120   1998   GOVERNMENT                          SMALL FARMER DV.                75.00        0.00            0.00        75.00
AR-PE-6050    IBRD42810    1998   REP OF ARGENTINA                   POLLUTION MGT.                   18.00       0.00            0.00         18.00
AR-PE-39584   IBRD41630   1997   GOVT OF ARGENTINA                   B.A.URB.TSP                    200.00        0.00            0.00       178.06
AR-PE-40808   IBRD4085A    1997   GOA                                N.FOREST/PROTC                  18.59        0.00            0.00        18.26
AR-PE-43418   IBRD41680   1997   REPUBLIC OF ARG                     AIDS PREV.&STD CTRL             15.00        0.00            0.00        13.50
AR-PE-46821   IBRD41310   1997   GOVT.OF ARG                         PENSION TA                      20.00        0.00            0.00         16.71
AR-PE-49268   IBRD41950   1997   ARGENTINE REPUBLIC                  SOC.PROTECT.2                  200.00        0.00            0.00        22.89
AR-PE-5980    IBRD4093A    1997   GOVT OF ARGENTINA                  PROV ROADS                     297.99        0.00            0.00       297.99
AR-PE-6010    IBRD41500    1997   GOA                                PROV AG DEVT I                  125.00       0.00            0.00        122.48
AR-PE-6052    IBRD41170   1997   GOVT OF ARGENTINA                   FLOOD PROTECTION               200.00        0.00            0.00        196.84
AR-PE-6059    IBRD41640   1997   ARGENTINE REPUBLIC                  MTL.CND.HTH.2                   100.00       0.00            0.00         96.42
AR-PE-34091   IBRD3921A    1996   REP OF ARGENTINA                   HIGHER ED REFORM               133.66        0.00            0.00       132.08
AR-PE-37049   IBRD3958A    1996   GOVT OF ARGENTINA                  PUB.INV.STRENGTHG                15.39       0.00            0.00         15.39
AR-PE-38883   IBRD3960A    1996   REPUBLIC OF ARGENTINA              ENT.EXPORT DV.                  24.29        0.00            0.00        24.29
AR-PE-40904   IBRD39260    1996   REPUBLIC OF ARGENTINA              BANK REFORM                     500.00       0.00            0.00        166.00
AR-PE-40909   IBRD4003A    1996   REP. OF ARGENTINA                  H. INSURANCE REFORM             100.00       0.00            0.00       100.00
AR-PE-45687   IBRD4004A    1996   REP. OF ARGRNTINA                  H.INSURANCE TA                    7.46       0.00            0.00         7.46
AR-PE-6030    IBRD3931A    1996   REPUB OF ARGENTINA                 PROVCL HLTH SCTR DEV            91.13        0.00            0.00        91.00
AR-PE-6040    IBRD3948A    1996   GOVERNMENT                         FORESTRY/DV                     12.95        0.00            0.00        12.80
AM-PE-6055    IBRD3927A    1996   GOVT. OF ARGENTINA                 MINING SCTR DEVT                  8.79       0.00            0.00          8.79
AR-PE-6057    IBRD3971A    1996   GOV'T OF ARGENTINA                 SECNDARY ED 2                   109.71       0.00            0.00       109.71
AR-PE-5992    IBRD3794A    1995   GOVT OF ARGENTINA   INA            SECONDARY ED I                  144.81       0.00            0.00        144.81
AR-PE-6018    IBRD3877A    1995   ARGENTINE REPUBLIC                 PROV DEVT II                   203.07        0.00            0.00       203.07
AR-PE-6060    IBRD3860A   1995   GOVT OF ARGENTINA                   MUNIC DEVT II                  173.26        0.00            0.00       173.26
MR-PE-6025    IBRD3643A    1994   GOVT OF ARGENTINA   INA            MTNAL CHILD RLTH & N            19.65        0.00            0.00        19.65
AR-PE-6003    IBRD3611A   1993   GOVT OF ARGENTINA   INA             RD MAINT & REHAB SCT            82.49        0.00            0.00        60.91
AR-PE-6036    IBRD3520A    1993   GOVERNMENT                         YACYRETA II                       1.01       0.00            0.00         1.01
AR-PE-6034    IBRD3460A    1992   GOVERNMENT                         TAX ADMIN II                       .01       0.00            0.00           .01
AR-PE-6034    IBRD34600   1992   GOVERNMENT                          TAX ADMIN II                    19.99        0.00            0.00           .11
AR-PE-5977    IBRD3281A   1991   ARGENTINE REPUBLIC                  WTR SUPPLY II                   22.86        0.00            0.00        22.86
AR-PE-5968    IBRD2854A   1987   SEGBA                               SEGBA V                         60.48        0.00            0.00        60.48
Total                                                                                             4,240.09        0.00            0.00     3,569.34
Active Loans         Closed Loans           Total
Total Disbursed (IBRD and IDA):                670.75            8,664.83           9,335.58
of which has been repaid:                  1.67           3,362.01            3,363.68
Total now held by IBRD and IDA:              4,238.42            5,327.86           9,566.28
Amount sold                     :                0.00               12.79               12.79
Of which repaid              :                0.00               12.79              12.79
Total Undisbursed               :            3,569.34               25.01           3,594.35
a. Intended disbursements to date minus actual disbursements to date as projected at appraisal.
b. Rating  of 1-4: see OD  13.05. Annex D2. Preparation  of Implementation  Summary  (Form  590). Following
the FY94 Annual Review of
Portfolio  performance  (ARPP), a letter  based  system  will be used  (HS = highly  Satisfactory,  S
satisfactory, U = unsatisfactory, HU = highly unsatisfactory): see proposed Improvements in Project
and Portfolio Performance Rating Methodology (SecM94-901), August 23, 1994.
-48-



STATEMENT OF IFC's
Committed and Disbursed Portfolio
As of 30-Jun-98
(In US Dollar Millions)
Committed                       Disbursed
IFC                             IFC
FY Approval           Company          Loan   Equity  Quasi   Partic   Loan  Equity  Quasi   Partic
1960/95/97           Acindar               36.25   16.43   10.00     63.33   11.25   16.43   10.00    13.33
1977/84/86/88/94/96  Alpargatas            24.23    6.05    6.37     89.29   19.23    6.05    6.37   48.79
1978/81/86/87/91/93/96  Minetti            10.00    0.00   10.00     30.00   10.00    0.00   10.00    30.00
1986/89/91/97        Banco Roberts-AL       10.00    0.00    0.00    0.00   10.00    0.00    0.00     0.00
1987                 BGN-TBR                 .11    0.00    0.00     0.00    .11    0.00    0.00      0.00
1987/89              BGN-Bolland             .13    0.00    0.00     0.00    .13    0.00    0.00      0.00
1987/89/90/96/97     Terminal 6             18.53    0.00    0.00    17.87   15.05    0.00    0.00    13.35
1987/92              BRLP                   7.53    0.00    0.00      0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00     0.00
1988/93              Bunge y Born           2.66    0.00    0.00    20.05    2.66    0.00    0.00     20.05
1989                 BGN-Algodonera          .16    0.00    0.00      0.00    .16    0.00    0.00      0.00
1989                 BGN-Ferrum              .50    0.00    0.00      0.00    .50    0.00    0.00      0.00
1989                 BGN-FRIGOTOBA           .08    0.00    0.00      0.00    .08    0.00    0.00      0.00
1989                 BGN-Interpack           .15    0.00    0.00      0.00    .15    0.00    0.00      0.00
1989                 BGN-Paraftna            .38    0.00    0.00     0.00    .38    0.00    0.00       0.00
1989                 BGN-Willmor             .41    0.00    0.00      0.00    .41    0.00    0.00      0.00
1989                 ROB-COMESI              .09    0.00    0.00      0.00    .09    0.00    0.00      0.00
1989                 ROB-INTA                .09    0.00    0.00     0.00    .09    0.00    0.00      0.00
1989/96              Banco Frances          4.82    0.00    0.00      .13    4.82    0.00    0.00      .13
1990                 CIP                    0.00    .08    0.00      0.00    0.00    .08    0.00       0.00
1990/94              Petroken               19.39    0.00    5.00    3.65   19.39    0.00    5.00     3.65
1991                 BCA                     1.26    0.00    0.00     1.60    1.26    0.00    0.00     1.60
1991                 ROB-Longvie             .11    0.00    0.00     0.00    .11    0.00    0.00      0.00
1992                 FEPSA                  6.95    0.00    0.00     5.87    6.95    0.00    0.00     5.87
1992                 Oleaginosa Oeste       5.35    0.00    5.00     7.15    5.35    0.00    5.00     7.15
1992                 Rioplatense            5.33    1.00    0.00      1.67    5.33    1.00    0.00     1.67
1992                 San Jorge              0.00   27.00    0.00     0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00     0.00
1992/93/96           Malteria Pampa        11.49    0.00    1.00     9.20   11.49    0.00    1.00     9.20
1992/95              Bridas                34.07    0.00    0.00     55.02   34.07    0.00    0.00    55.02
1993                 Argentina Equity       0.00    4.00    0.00     0.00    0.00    4.00    0.00      0.00
1993                 Nuevo Central          5.63    3.00    0.00      8.75    5.63    3.00    0.00     8.75
1993                 Yacylec                7.70    5.04    0.00     23.25    7.70    5.04    0.00   23.25
1993/94              Molinos                0.00    5.55    0.00     0.00    0.00    5.55    0.00      0.00
1994                 Aceitera General       12.50   10.00    0.00    0.00   12.50   10.00    0.00      0.00
1994                 BGN                    12.00    0.00    3.00    0.00   12.00    0.00    3.00      0.00
1994                 LBAR                   0.00    1.17    0.00     0.00    0.00    .64    0.00       0.00
1994                 LBAV                   0.00    3.62    0.00     0.00    0.00    3.62    0.00     0.00
1994                 Quilmes                10.28    0.00    0.00    7.50   10.28    0.00    0.00      7.50
1994/95              EDENOR                 16.25    0.00   15.00   66.50   16.25    0.00   15.00    66.50
1994/95/96           Aguas                 70.22    7.00    0.00    219.11   70.22    7.00    0.00    219.11
1994/95/97           La Maxima              0.00   14.39    4.00     0.00    0.00   12.12    3.96     0.00
1995                 Banco Roberts          0.00    0.00   20.00     0.00    0.00    0.00   20.00     0.00
1995                 CEPA                   11.00    0.00    0.00    2.40   11.00    0.00    0.00     2.40
1995                 Mastellone             0.00    0.00    0.00     0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00     0.00
1995                 Nahuelsat             27.50    5.00    0.00     0.00   27.50    5.00    0.00     0.00
1995                 SanCor                 17.50    0.00   20.00   21.00   17.50    0.00   20.00    21.00
1995                 Socma                  18.75    0.00    0.00   45.00   18.75    0.00    0.00    45.00
1995                 SIDECO                 0.00   15.00    0.00     0.00    0.00   15.00    0.00     0.00
1995                 Terminales Port.       9.00    2.00    0.00     0.00    9.00    2.00    0.00     0.00
1995                 Tower Fund             0.00   15.73    0.00     0.00    0.00    8.28    0.00     0.00
1995                 Tower Fund Mgr         0.00    .14    0.00      0.00    0.00    .04    0.00      0.00
1995/97              Kleppe/Caldero        11.29    0.00    0.00     0.00    7.79    0.00    0.00     0.00
1996                 Banco Galicia         30.00    0.00    0.00    200.00   30.00    0.00    0.00    200.00
1996                 Bansud                25.00    0.00    0.00     0.00    4.90    0.00    0.00     0.00
-49-



1996                   Brahma - ARG            17.79    0.00    0.00      29.70    17.79    0.00    0.00      29.70
1996                   CAPSA                   12.00    0.00    5.00      33.00   12.00    0.00    5.00       33.00
1996                   Grunbaum                 7.00    0.00    2.00       5.00    7.00    0.00    2.00        5.00
1996                   MBA                      0.00     .16    0.00       0.00    0.00     .16    0.00        0.00
1996                   Neuquen Basin            0.00   26.40    0.00       0.00    0.00   21.12    0.00        0.00
1996                   Refisan                 20.00    0.00    0.00      30.00   20.00    0.00    0.00      30.00
1996                   Transconor              25.00    0.00   20.00    210.00   25.00    0.00   20.00    210.00
1996                   Zanon                   12.83    0.00    6.00       0.00   12.83    0.00    6.00       0.00
1997                   FRIAR                   10.00    0.00    2.50       7.00   10.00    0.00    2.50       7.00
1997                   Guipeba                 15.00    0.00    5.00       0.00   15.00    0.00    5.00       0.00
1997                   Milkaut                 10.00    0.00   10.00       5.00   10.00    0.00   10.00       5.00
1997                   Suquia                   0.00    0.00   10.00       0.00    0.00    0.00   10.00       0.00
1997                   T61                     10.00    0.00    5.00      30.00   10.00    0.00    5.00      30.00
1997                   Vicentin                25.00    0.00    0.00      10.00   25.00    0.00    0.00       10.00
1998                   FAID                     0.00    5.00    0.00       0.00    0.00    1.93    0.00       0.00
1998                   Patagonia                5.00    0.00    1.00       0.00    2.00    0.00    1.00       0.00
1998                   Patagonia Fund           0.00   30.00    0.00       0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00       0.00
Total Portfolio:                   654.31  203.76  165.87   1,258.04  586.70  128.06  165.83   1,163.02
Approvals Pending Commitment
Loan   Equity  Quasi   Partic
1996                   AGUAS III - INC         15.00    0.00    0.00      75.00
1997                   ARGIE MAE                0.00     .40    0.00      65.00
1998                   AUTCL                   12.00    0.00    0.00       0.00
1998                   AYG                       .45    0.00    0.00       0.00
1998                   F.V. S.A.               12.00    0.00    4.00       0.00
1993                   FEPSA (II)               0.00    0.00    0.00       4.00
1998                   HOSPITAL PRIVADO        10.60    0.00    0.00       0.00
1998                   MERCANTIL ARG.          20.00    0.00    15.00      0.00
1998                   SUQUIA CL               30.00    0.00    0.00      50.00
1997                   TGN II BLINC             0.00    0.00    0.00      10.00
1998                   U.BELGRANO              22.00    0.00    0.00       0.00
Total Pending Commitment:          122.05     .40   19.00    204.00
-50-



Argentina at a glance                                                              8/28197
Latin Upper-
POVERTY and SOCIAL                                          America  middle-
Argentina   & Carib.  Income     Development diamond
lopulation mia-199i (millions)                       35.1       485      479
UNP per capita 199ti (wUz)                          8,410     3,710    4,540                 Life expectancy
U NP 1 lti (billions Us$)                           295.0      1,799    2,173
Average annual growth, 1990-96
Population (%6)                                       1.3        1.7     1.5      GNP                            Gross
Labor torce (%)                                       2.0       2.3      1.8      per
per                  ~~~~~~pnmary
Most recent estimate (latest year available since 1989)                           capita                     enrollment
Foverty: neadcount index (% or population)             26
Urban population (% o0 total population)               88        74       73
Lite expectancy at blrth (years)                       73        69       69
intant mortality (per 1,000 live births)               22        37       35               Access to safe water
Lflhld mainutntion (% of children under b)
Access to sate water (% of population)                 64        80       86
illiteracy (% or population age 1b+)                    4        13       13          -    Argentina
uross pnmary enrollment (% ot school-age population)  111       110      107                Upper-middle-income group
Male                                                 ..         ..       ..
Female
KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS and LONG-TERM TRENDS
1975    1985       1995    1996
ULup (billions us$)                         52.4    88.4      280.8    300.5      Economic ratlos
Gross domestic investmenVGDP                29.4    17.6        18.3    18.5
Exports of goods and services/GDP            5.8     11.7       8.5      9.0              Openness of economy
Gross domestic savingstGDP                  29.3    23.1       18.4    18.1
Gross national savings/GDP                  28.4     16.6       17.5    17.2
Current account balance/GDP                  -2.5    -1.1      -0.9    -1.3
Interest payments/GDP                        0.9      5.0       2.1      2.3      Savings                     Investment
Total debt/GDP                              14.7    57.6        32.0    33.2
Total debt service/exports                  44.7    60.1       47.4    46.7
Present value of debtGDP                       ..      ..      29.5
Present value of debtlexports                 ..       ..    332.1                            Indebtedness
1975-85  1986-96    1995      1996  199745
(average annual growth)                                                              -     Argentina
GDP                                 0.6      2.9    -4.6        4.4      5.0               Upper-middb-income group
GNP per capita                     -1.8      2.0      -6.4      2.8      3.9
Exports of goods and services       5.1      7.6    26.4        7.4      8.0
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
(% of GDP)                                  1975    1985       1995    1996       Growth rates of output and Investment(%)
Agriculture                                  6.6      7.6       7.4      7.1      40
Industry                                    50.1     39.3      36.0    36.2       30
Manufacturing                              38.2    29.7         ..              20
Services                                    43.3    53.1       56.6    56.7       o
Private consumption                         58.1       ..      72.3    73.3    *20
General govemment consumption               12.6       ..       9.4      8.5               -     GDI     0  GDP
Imports of goods and services                6.0      6.3       8.5      9.3
1975-85  1986-96     1995    1996
(average annual growth)                                                           Growth rates of exports and Imports (V.
Agriculture                                  1.6      1.5        2.3      0.3     0o -
Industry                                     -1.5     2.7      -8.5      4.9      s0
Manufacturing                              -1.6     0.9
Services                                     2.2      3.3      -3.0      4.6      40
20
Private consumption                            ..      ..      -8.6      5.       0X          
General govemment consumption                  ..      ..      -6.6    -5.4
Gross domestic investment                    -3.5     5.7      -11.9     5.4    120                  93   94          96
Imports of goods and services                2.4     14.5     -14.0     10.0          .        Expoft     O  Impors
Gross national product                      -0.3      3.4      -5.1      4.0
Note: 1996 data are preliminary estimates. Figures in italics are for years other than those specified.
'The diamonds show four key indicators in the country (in bold) compared with its income-group average. If cata are missing, the diamond will
be incomplete.
-51-



Argentina
PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
1976     1986      1995      1996
Domestic prices                                                                     lnflatlon I%)
(% chanrge)                                                                        3.000
Consumer prices                              182.6    672.3       3.4       0.1       2
Implicit GOP deflator                        198.2    618.2       4.5       2.5    2,000
Government finance                                                                 1,000 
(% Of GDP)                                                                            o0
Current revenue                                 ..       ..      16.7      16.5              91   92   93   94   95   95
Current budget balance                          ..       ..      -0.2      -1.1              -     GDP def.    o c
Overall surplus/deficit                         ..       ..      -1.1     -2.4      _P
TRADE
1976     1986      1995     1996
(millions USS)                                                                      Export and Import levels (mill. USS)
Total exports (fob)                         2,961    8,396    20,964   23,774       25,000
Food                                           ..      ..    1,969    2,203
Meat                                          ..       ..    1,582    1,955       20.000
Manufactures                                   ..      ..   10,836   12,004       15,000
Total imports (cif)                          3,947    3,814    20,120   23,733      10,000 K vr       ir      I   l l
Food                                           ..oo
Fuel and energy                                ..      ..       809      846       s.000
Capital goods                                 ..       ..    4,746    5,647 o
txpon pnce index (7r=1=w)                       ..       ..       118      124             so  91  92  93  94  95  96
import pnce index (7 Y/=7UW)                    ..       ..       115      120                      Exports    a imports
I erms ot traae (70r= 7Uw)                      ..       ..       102      103
BALANCE of PAYMENTS
1975    1985      1995     1996
(millions US$)                                                                      Current account balance to GDP ratio (%)
Exports of goods and services                3,498   10,039    23,889   27,076      2
Imports of goods and services               4,324    5,285    23,826   27,900
Resource balance                             -826    4,754         63     -824
Net income                                   -466   -5,706    -2,941   -3,523       0
Net current transfers                           6        0        432      334         90    1   92   93   94    5   9 6
Current account balance,                                                           -2                  l 
before official capital transfers         -1,286     -952    -2,446   -4,013
Financing items (net)                         208    2,200      2,515      231
Changes in net reserves                      1,078   -1,248       -69    3,782    -4
Memo:
Reserves including gold (mii. ucJSW)          848    4,703    15,992   19,774
uonversion rate (iocaluzi                  3.7E-10  6.OE-05       1.0       1.0
EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
1975     1985      1995     1996
(millions US$)                                                                      Compositlon of total debt, 1995 (mill. USS)
Total debt outstanding and disbursed         7,723   50,946    89,719   99,701
IBRD                                        341      700      4,913    5,372                  G       A
IDA                                           0        0          0        0                1017O   4913   C
6131
Total debt service                           1,603    6,209     9,732   14,529                                   0
IBRD                                         43      114        565      608                                 4473
IDA                                           0        0          0        0                     \
Composition of net resource flows                                                                                117I9
Ofricial grants                               0        6         36
Official creditors                           59      217      1,411
Private creditors                          -111    2,350      5,674
Foreign direct investment                     0      919      1,319       ..                F
Portfolio equity                              0        0        211              |        52323
World Bank program
Commitments                                   0        0      2,272      946      A - IBRD                     E - Bilateral
Disbursements                                19      144        941    1,077      B-IDA    D - Other multilateral   F - Pnvate
Principal repayments                         17       68        259      282      C-IMF                        G - Short-term
Net flows                                     1       75        682      795
Interest payments                            26       46        306      326
Net transfers                               -25       30        376      469
Development Economics                                                                                                 8/28/97
-52-



I



IBRD 29348
20'                                                  ~~~~~~~~~~~60'                                             50~
B O L I V I A                                                                                                                20
I  -              <~PARAGUAY
-1           -S, 0Sonlvador            T u'-                                           B   R  A   Z   I L
(1t             ,,pScta         '                         N. (s a              /
(                     /Tuclumb n                  E Formosa u
I       , -   IResistencio   Pos,a,o.
So i sr4iqqo del istero ._         , Corrientes
LU         -      -- ;-DCatomarq!,
J     -'e LaRioijg ),
-30             U   r                                 6rdoba         tO3'arana       i                                                                        30\
(  SanJudOC                         ant
r     DSon JulFe%Paan
Mendoza       SLUr
sU                                                                      UAY,
jBuenos Aires
Santa Rosa0
'  Neuquen,j 
|   ,-       e~~~R !;
-AO'                                      C, i P p (^) f Viedma\                                                                                               A
ARGENTINA
,  Rowson
@      PROVINCE CAPITALS
-~                                                                           69       NATIONAL CAPITAL
ti                                 ~                        ~      ~~ PROVINCE BOUNDARIES
)                                                                        ---        INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
-50'                                                                                                                                                          50'-
5Rio Gallegos                                                       0  100 200 300 400 500 600 KILOMETERS
I                                                               0      100      200      300     400 Miles
i shuaia                                         This map was produced by the Map Design Unit of The World Bank.
TIERRA                                 The boundaries, colors, denominations and anyother information shown
on this map do not imply, on the part of The World Bank Group, any
DEL FUEGO                                 judgment on the legalstatus of any territory, or any endorsement or
acceptance of such boundaries.
70'                                                       60'                                                       50
FEBRUARY 1998



