Page  1
September 13, 2000
Mr. José Luis Machinea
Ministro de Economía
Hipólito Yrigoyen 250
1086 Buenos Aires, Argentina
Re:
Loan No. 4398-AR (Fourth Social Protection Project)
Amendment to the Loan Agreement
Dear Sir:
Please refer to the Loan Agreement between the International Bank for 
Reconstruction and Development (the Bank) and the Argentine Republic (the Borrower) 
dated August 25, 1999 (the Loan Agreement) with regard to the above-captioned Project.
We are pleased to inform you that, pursuant to your request and our recent 
discussions on the subject, the Bank agrees to amend the Loan Agreement so as to 
homogenize the implementation arrangements for Northern and Southern Provinces.
Consequently, the Loan Agreement is amended as follows:
A.
Section 1.02:
1.  Paragraph (e) is hereby replaced to read as follows in its entirety: 
"(e) 
"FOPAR Provinces" means each of the following Provinces (as 
defined below): Catamarca, Corrientes, Chaco, Chubut, Formosa, Jujuy, La 
Pampa, La Rioja, Misiones, Neuquén, Salta, Santiago del Estero, Tucumán, 
Río 
Negro Santa Cruz 
and Tierra del Fuego;";
2.  Paragraphs (d) and (f) are hereby deleted in their entirety;
3.  Paragraph (l) is hereby replaced to read as follows in its entirety:
"(l)
 "Provincial FOPAR Unit" means each of the units referred to in 
paragraph 3 (a) of Schedule 5 to this Agreement in respect of FOPAR 
Provinces";
4.  Paragraph (m) is hereby replaced to read as follows in its entirety:
"(m)
"Provincial Participatory Council" means one of the units referred 
to in paragraph 3 (a) of Schedule 5 to this Agreement in respect of FOPAR 
Provinces";
5.  Paragraphs (n) and (o) are hereby deleted their entirety.
B.
Schedule 1:
1.  Paragraph 3 (b) is hereby replaced to read as follows in its entirety:
"(b) payments made for expenditures in respect of Category (1) (a) for 
Subprojects in a FOPAR Province unless: (i) the corresponding Provincial FOPAR 
Unit has been established for that FOPAR Province and its manager has been 
employed; and (ii) the corresponding Provincial Participatory Council has been 
established for that FOPAR and its key members (such as representatives of the 
provincial and municipal governments, non-governmental organizations and other 
stakeholders), all as identified in the FOPAR Operational Manual, have been 
appointed.";
2.  Paragraph (c) is hereby deleted in its entirety.
C.
Schedule 5:
1.  Paragraph 3 (a) of Part A is hereby replaced to read as follows in its 
entirety:
"(a)
a provincial unit (the Provincial FOPAR Unit) and a provincial 
council (the Provincial Participatory Council) shall be established, as 
Page  2
provided in the FOPAR Operational Manual";
2.  Paragraph (b) is hereby deleted in its entirety;
3.  Paragraph (c) is hereby re-lettered as paragraph (b).
Please confirm your agreement to the foregoing amendments by signing and dating 
this letter in the spaces provided below.  This amendment letter will be executed in 
two counterparts, each of which shall be an original.
Upon your confirmation, please return one fully executed original to us.  The 
provisions of this amendment letter will become effective as of the date of this 
letter upon receipt by the Bank of one fully executed original of this amendment 
letter.
Very truly yours,
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
   AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Myrna L. Alexander
 Director
 Country Management Unit
   for Argentina, Chile and Uruguay
AGREED:
ARGENTINE REPUBLIC
By /s/ José Luis Machinea
Date: February 2, 2001
