Page  1
April 11, 2002
Mr. Jorge Remes Lenicov
Minister of Economy
Ministry of Economy
Hipólito Irigoyen 250
Buenos Aires,
Argentina
Re: 
Forth Social Protection Project
 (Loan 
4398-AR)
Second Amendment to Loan Agreement.
Dear Minister: 
Please refer to the Loan Agreement between the Argentine Republic (the Borrower) and the 
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development (the Bank) dated August 25, 1999, (the Loan 
Agreement) for the above mentioned Project, as amended. 
Pursuant to our recent discussions on the subject, and pursuant to your letter dated April 9, 2002 
we are pleased to inform you that the Bank hereby agrees to amend the Loan Agreement as set forth 
below. 
1.
Section 1.02 of the Loan Agreement is hereby amended and replaced to read in its entirety as 
follows:
“Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the General 
Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective meanings therein set forth 
and the following additional terms have the following meanings:
(a)
“Advisory Council” means the council to be established within the framework of 
SIEMPRO in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 5 of Schedule 5 to this 
Agreement; 
(b)
"FOPAR" means 
Fondo Participativo de Inversión Social,
 the Borrower's social 
fund program established as an administrative unit of PRODESO (as hereinafter 
defined), by Resolution No. 2851/95 of September 13, 1995 of the Secretary of Social 
Development, now Ministry of Social Development (as hereinafter defined), for the 
execution of Part A of the Project;
(c)
"FOPAR Operational Manual" means the operational manual for operation of 
FOPAR, as amended for the implementation of this Project on September 11, 1998, and 
approved by the Bank in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 2 of Schedule 5 to 
this Agreement; 
(d)
“FOPAR Provinces” means each of the provinces that conform the Borrower’s 
territory;
Page  2
(e)
“Grants” means grants made by MDS (as hereinafter defined), through FOPAR, 
for the financing of Subprojects (as hereinafter defined), detailed under Part A.1 of the 
Project;
(f)
"INDEC" means 
Instituto Nacional de Estadística y Censo
,
the Borrower's 
National Institute of Statistics and Census;
(g)
“Monitoring Indicators” means the indicators set forth in the letter of even date 
with this Agreement from the Borrower to the Bank;
(h)
"PRODESO" means 
Programa Participativo de Desarrollo Social
,
the program 
established by Resolution No. 2851/95 of September 13, 1995 of MDS (as hereinafter 
defined); 
(i)
“Province” means a political subdivision (
Provincia
) of the Borrower;
(j)
"MDS" means 
Ministerio de Desarrollo Social
,
the Borrower’s Ministry for 
Social Development;
(k)
"SIEMPRO"  means 
Sistema de Información, Monitoreo y Evaluación de 
Programas Sociales
,
the Borrower's system for information management, monitoring and 
evaluation of targeted social programs established as a subunit of PRODESO by 
Resolution No. 2851/95 of September 13, 1995 of the Secretary of Social Development, 
now MDS, for the execution of Part B of the Project; 
(l)
"SIEMPRO Matrix" means the document incorporating specific key SIEMPRO 
actions and results, with corresponding timetables, set forth in the Annex to the letter 
dated October 6, 1995 from the Borrower to the Bank, as amended for the 
implementation of this Project on September 11, 1998;
(m)
"SIEMPRO Subsidiary Agreement" means the agreement referred to in 
paragraph 8 (a) of Schedule 5 to the Agreement;
(n)
“SP I” means the first Social Protection Project of the Borrower described in the 
Loan Agreement entered into between Argentine Republic and International Bank for 
Reconstruction and Development dated December 5, 1995 (Loan No. 3957-AR);
(o)
"Special Account" means the amount referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of this 
Agreement;
(p) 
"Subprojects" means the works and other capacity building interventions to be 
carried out in the FOPAR Provinces under Part A.1 of the Project;
(q)
"UCAF" means 
Unidad de Coordinación Administrativo-Financiera del 
Programa Participativo de Desarrollo Social
,
the coordination unit of PRODESO 
referred to in paragraph 10 of Schedule 5 to this Agreement; and
(r)
"UEC" means 
Unidad Ejecutora Central
,
the central execution unit established 
within MDS in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 4 of Schedule 5 to this 
Page  3
Agreement for the execution of Part B of the Project.”
2.
Section 2.03 of the Loan Agreement is hereby amended and replaced to read in its entirety as 
follows:
“Section 2.03
The Closing Date shall be June 30, 2004 or such later date as the Bank shall 
establish. The Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.”
3.
The term “SDS” wherever it appears, is hereby replaced by the term “MDS”.
4.
Section 6.02 of the Loan Agreement is hereby amended to adjust the name of the Ministry of 
Economy to its current denomination to read in its entirety as follows:
“Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 11.01 of the 
General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministerio de Economía 
Hipólito Yrigoyen 250, 5o Piso
1310 Buenos Aires
Argentina”
5.
Schedule 1 of the Loan Agreement is hereby amended as follows:
(a)
the table in Schedule 1 is hereby amended and replaced in its entirety by the new table 
detailed in Attachment I to this Letter. 
(b)
Paragraph 3 (b) is hereby deleted.
6.
Schedule 2 is hereby amended to read in its entirety as set forth in Attachment II to this Letter.
7.
Schedule 5 to the Loan Agreement is hereby amended and replaced in its entirely to read as per 
Attachment III to this amendment letter. 
Please confirm your agreement with the foregoing by signing and dating this letter in the spaces 
provided below. This amendment letter will be executed in two counterparts, each of which shall be an 
original.
Upon your confirmation, please return one fully executed original to us. The provisions of this 
amendment letter will become effective as of the date of this letter upon receipt by the Bank of one fully 
executed original of this amendment letter.
Sincerely,
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Page  4
_______________________________
Myrna Alexander
Country Director 
Argentina, Chile, Paraguay and Uruguay Country Management Unit
Latin America and The Caribbean Region
AGREED
:
ARGENTINE REPUBLIC
By: _______________________
Authorized Representative
Name: Roberto Lavagna
Date:
June 20, 2002
Attachment I
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1. 
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, 
the allocation of the amounts of the Loan to each Category and the percentage of expenditures for items 
so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the 
Loan Allocated
% of
(Expressed in
Expenditures
Category
Dollars
)
to be Financed
(1)
Part A of the Project:
(a)
Grants for
39,100,000
90%
Subprojects (other than
food expenditures to be 
financed under Part 
A.1(c) of the Project)
(b) Training and
workshops (other
    4,250,000
80%
than for Subprojects)
Page  5
(c)
Consultants’
7,070,000
80%
services (other than
for Subprojects),
including services for
audits provided for in
paragraphs (a) and (b)
of Section 3.06 of this
Agreement
(d) Goods (other than
     380,000
40%
for Subprojects)
(e)
Food expenditures to be 
financed under Part A.1(c)
of the Project.
30,000,000
90%
 According to Bank’s policy 
this will need to be financed on a 
declined basis.
(2)
Part B of the Project:
(a)
Training and
2,340,000
70%
workshops
(b)
Consultants’
6,400,000
70%
services, including
services for the audits
provided for in
paragraph (a) of
Section 3.06 of this
Agreement
(c)
Goods 310,000
40%
(3)
Fee
900,000
Amount due under
Section 2.04 of 
this Agreement
TOTAL
90,750,000
Page  6
Attachment II
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objectives of the Project are: (a) to improve the welfare of poor communities; and (b) to 
improve the focus and management of social programs by promoting transparency and efficiency, 
participation in society, and better targeting of social services to the poor.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications thereof as the Borrower 
and the Bank may agree upon from time to time to achieve such objectives:
Part A
: Participatory Social Investment Fund
1.
Operation of FOPAR, for the financing, on a grant basis, of small–scale, community-based 
Subprojects for: (a) the construction, rehabilitation and extension of small infrastructure works (such as 
for drainage, sanitation and irrigation, pedestrian bridges, household-waste removal, community and 
health centers, environmental and cultural heritage preservation, existing small community roads, but 
excluding construction of new roads); (b) the provision of skills training to develop and strengthen 
community-based organizations; and (c) the carrying out of a program for the establishment of networks 
of community organizations, including the establishment and operation of community kitchens, which 
may include the provision of daily food rations for vulnerable groups such as pregnant women, poor 
children and the elderly.
2.
Institutional strengthening of the Borrower’s national and provincial agencies, FOPAR, and 
community organizations through: (a) the carrying out of a pilot program to transfer technical know-how 
and methodologies required by national and provincial agencies to design and implement participatory 
social initiatives; (b) the provision of technical assistance and training for FOPAR staff and other 
provincial staff for the appraisal, supervision and ex-post evaluation of Subprojects, and the development 
and dissemination of participatory initiatives; and (c) the provision of technical assistance and training 
skills to community organizations for the identification, selection, design (including technical and legal 
aspects) and financing of Subprojects.
Part B
: Improvement of Social Information and Management of Targeted Social Programs
Operation of SIEMPRO through: (a) the improvement of social information and policy analysis 
to enhance the targeting, design, monitoring and evaluation of social programs targeted to the poor; (b) 
the establishment of a system of monitoring and evaluation, including surveys and impact evaluation 
assessments of targeted social programs; (c) the dissemination and transfer of social information, 
targeting and evaluation methods and systems to appropriate agencies of the Borrower and the Provinces; 
and (d) the institutional strengthening of the appropriate agencies of the Provinces, academic institutions 
and non-governmental organizations that apply for participation in SIEMPRO.
* * *
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 2003.
Page  7
Attachment III
SCHEDULE 5
Implementation Program
Part A
:
1.
The Borrower, through MDS, shall maintain throughout Project implementation, the national 
coordinator, and line, provincial and regional managers, all with qualifications and experience acceptable 
to the Bank for the management of FOPAR .
2.
The Borrower, through MDS, shall cause FOPAR to carry out Part A of the Project in 
accordance with an operational manual (the FOPAR Operational Manual). Except as the Borrower, 
through MDS, and the Bank may otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not amend, suspend, abrogate or 
waive, or otherwise fail to enforce the FOPAR Operational Manual or any provision thereof.
3.
Without limitation upon the foregoing, the Borrower, through MDS, shall ensure that:
(a)
the Bank shall be furnished for its prior no-objection: (i) the first two technical assistance 
agreements to be entered into between the Borrower, through SDS, and a selected national or provincial 
agency to carry out the participatory social initiatives referred to under Part A.2 (a ) of the Project; (ii) 
any proposed Subproject that, according to the terms of the FOPAR Operational Manual, requires the 
undertaking of environmental protection and mitigation measures and/or resettlement of population, 
including the corresponding environmental assessment and/or resettlement plan, which shall have been 
prepared in accordance with the procedures for environmental and social impact assessment and 
mitigation set forth in the FOPAR Operational Manual; (iii) any proposed Subproject that, according to 
the terms of the FOPAR Operational Manual, requires the undertaking of measures to ensure the 
participation in the Subprojects of vulnerable communities, including indigenous populations; and (iv) 
any proposed Subproject which does not correspond with the types of Subprojects eligible for FOPAR 
financing as set forth in the FOPAR Operational Manual;
(b)
the Bank is furnished a copy of each Subproject summary for its ex-post review, said 
summary sheet to be prepared in a format acceptable to the Bank; and
(c)
no Subproject shall be carried out under Part A.1 of the Project if the estimated cost 
thereof is: (i) $100,000 equivalent or more, if the aggregate estimated cost of Subprojects included in 
Part A.1 of the Project estimated to cost $100,000 equivalent or more shall have reached the amount of 
$10,000,000 equivalent; or (ii) $150,000 equivalent or more.
Part B:
4.
The Borrower shall maintain, throughout Project implementation, within the Sub-secretariat for 
Social Policies of MDS, the central executing unit (UEC) established for the overall management of 
SIEMPRO with an organization and staffing acceptable to the Bank.
5.
Without limitation upon the foregoing, the Borrower, through MDS, shall ensure that an advisory 
council shall be established by not later than July 31, 1999 in accordance with terms of reference and 
membership acceptable to the Bank.
Page  8
6.
The Borrower, through the UEC, shall ensure that the participation in SIEMPRO of the 
Provinces not covered under SPI shall be governed by the provisions of an agreement (Convenio de 
Adhesión) to be entered into between MDS and each of the Provinces.
7.
The Borrower, through MDS, shall cause SIEMPRO to be operated in accordance with the  
SIEMPRO Matrix.  Except as the Borrower, through MDS, and the Bank shall otherwise agree, the 
Borrower shall not amend, suspend, abrogate or waive, or otherwise fail to apply the SIEMPRO Matrix 
or any part thereof.
8.
The Borrower, through MDS, shall cause SIEMPRO to: (a) by not later than May 31, 1999, enter 
into an agreement (the SIEMPRO Subsidiary Agreement) with INDEC for the preparation of the 
Borrower’s second survey on living conditions and access to social programs in accordance with terms 
and conditions acceptable to the Bank; (b) by not later than December 31, 1999, furnish to the Bank, for 
its review and comments, the draft terms of reference and a proposed design to undertake such survey; 
and (c) by not later than October 31, 2001, carry out such survey in accordance with terms of reference 
and a timetable approved by the Bank, and promptly thereafter, review with the Bank the results of such 
survey.
9.
Except as the Borrower, through MDS, and the Bank may otherwise agree, the Borrower, 
through MDS, shall not terminate, amend or fail to enforce any provision of the SIEMPRO Subsidiary 
Agreement.
10.
For the purposes of providing administrative, budgeting, accounting, information management 
and legal support to FOPAR and SIEMPRO, the Borrower, through MDS, shall maintain, throughout 
Project implementation, the coordination unit (UCAF), established under SP I, with appropriate 
organization and staffing, including a coordinator with qualifications and experience acceptable to the 
Bank.
