Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 4398-AR
Loan Agreement
(Fourth Social Protection Project)
between
ARGENTINE REPUBLIC
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated August 25, 1999
LOAN NUMBER 4398-AR
LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated August 25, 1999, between ARGENTINE REPUBLIC (the Borrower) and 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank).
WHEREAS the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and priority 
of the project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement (the Project), has requested 
the Bank to assist in the financing of the Project; and
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, to 
extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement; 
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows: 
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee 
Agreements for Single Currency Loans" of the Bank, dated May 30, 1995 (as amended 
through December 2, 1997) (the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this 
Agreement.
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings:
(a)
"Advisory Council" means the council to be established within the 
Page  2
framework  of SIEMPRO in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 5 of Schedule 5 
to this Agreement; 
(b)
"FOPAR" means Fondo Participativo de Inversión Social, the Borrower's 
social fund program established as an administrative unit of PRODESO (as hereinafter 
defined), by Resolution No. 2851/95 of September 13, 1995 of the Secretary of SDS (as 
hereinafter defined), for the execution of Part A of the Project;
(c)
"FOPAR Operational Manual" means the operational manual for operation of 
FOPAR, as amended for the implementation of this Project on September 11, 1998, and 
approved by the Bank in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 2 of Schedule 5 to 
this Agreement; 
(d)
"FOPAR Northern Province" means each of the following Provinces (as 
defined below): Catamarca, Corrientes, Chaco, Formosa, Jujuy, La Rioja, Misiones, 
Salta, Santiago del Estero, and Tucumán;
(e)
"FOPAR Provinces" means, collectively, the Borrower’s FOPAR Northern 
Provinces and FOPAR Southern Provinces (as hereinafter defined);
(f)
"FOPAR Southern Province" means each of the following Provinces (as 
defined below): Chubut, La Pampa, Neuquén, Río Negro, Santa Cruz and Tierra del Fuego;
(g)
"Grants" means grants made by SDS (as hereinafter defined), through 
FOPAR, for the financing of Subprojects (as hereinafter defined), detailed under Part 
A.1 of the Project;
(h)
"INDEC" means Instituto Nacional de Estadística y Censo, the Borrower's 
National Institute of Statistics and Census;
(i)
"Monitoring Indicators" means the indicators set forth in the letter of 
even date with this Agreement from the Borrower to the Bank;
(j)
"PRODESO" means Programa Participativo de Desarrollo Social, the program 
established by Resolution No. 2851/95 of September 13, 1995 of the Secretary of SDS 
(as hereinafter defined); 
(k)
"Province" means a political subdivision (provincia) of the Borrower;
(l)
"Provincial FOPAR Unit" means each of the units referred to in paragraph 
3 (a) of Schedule 5 to this Agreement in respect of the FOPAR Northern Province in 
question;
(m)
"Provincial Participatory Council" means the council referred to in 
paragraph 3 (a) of Schedule 5 to this Agreement in respect of the FOPAR Northern 
Province in question;
(n)
"Regional FOPAR Unit" means each of the units referred to in paragraph 3 
(b) of Schedule 5 to this Agreement in respect of the FOPAR Southern Provinces in 
question;
(o)
"Regional Participatory Council" means the council referred to in 
paragraph 3 (b) of Schedule 5 to this Agreement in respect of the FOPAR Southern 
Provinces in question;
(p)
"SDS" means Secretaría de Desarrollo Social de la Presidencia de la 
Nación, the Borrower’s Secretariat for Social Development;
(q)
"SIEMPRO" means Sistema de Información, Monitoreo y Evaluación de 
Programas Sociales, the Borrower's system for information management, monitoring and 
evaluation of targeted social programs established as a subunit of PRODESO by 
Resolution No. 2851/95 of September 13, 1995 of the Secretary of SDS, for the 
execution of Part B of the Project; 
(r)
"SIEMPRO Matrix" means the document incorporating specific key SIEMPRO 
actions and results, with corresponding timetables, set forth in the Annex to the 
letter dated October 6, 1995 from the Borrower to the Bank, as amended for the 
implementation of this Project on September 11, 1998;
(s)
"SIEMPRO Subsidiary Agreement" means the agreement referred to in 
paragraph 8 (a) of Schedule 5 to the Agreement;
Page  3
(t)
"SP I" means the first Social Protection Project of the Borrower 
described in the Loan Agreement entered into between Argentine Republic and 
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development dated December 5, 1995 (Loan No. 
3957-AR);
(u)
"Special Account" means the amount referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of 
this Agreement; 
(v) 
"Subprojects" means the works and other capacity building interventions 
to be carried out in the FOPAR Provinces under Part A.1 of the Project;
(w)
"UCAF" means Unidad de Coordinación Administrativo-Financiera del 
Programa Participativo de Desarrollo Social, the coordination unit of PRODESO referred 
to in paragraph 10 of Schedule 5 to this Agreement; and
(x)
"UEC" means Unidad Ejecutora Central, the central execution unit 
established within SDS in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 4 of Schedule 5 
to this Agreement for the execution of Part B of the Project.
Section 1.03. Each reference in the General Conditions to the Project 
implementation entity shall be deemed as a reference to SDS.
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan Agreement, an amount equal to ninety 
million seven hundred fifty thousand Dollars ($90,750,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the Loan Account 
in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for expenditures 
made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect of: (i) Grants for 
Subprojects; and (ii) the reasonable cost of goods and services required for the 
Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement and to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan. 
(b) 
The Borrower may, for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain in 
Dollars a special deposit account in Banco de la Nación Argentina on terms and 
conditions satisfactory to the Bank, including appropriate protection against set-off, 
seizure and attachment. Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Account shall 
be made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 6 to this Agreement.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 2003 or such later date as the 
Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a fee in an amount equal to one 
percent (1%) of the amount of the Loan. On or promptly after the Effective Date, the 
Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and pay to 
itself the amount of said fee.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge at the rate 
of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the 
Loan not withdrawn from time to time.
Section 2.06. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of the 
Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, at a rate for each Interest Period 
equal to LIBOR Base Rate plus LIBOR Total Spread.
(b)
For the purposes of this Section:
(i)
"Interest Period" means the initial period from and including the 
date of this Agreement to, but excluding, the first Interest 
Payment Date occurring thereafter, and after the initial period, 
each period from and including an Interest Payment Date to, but 
excluding the next following Interest Payment Date.
(ii)
"Interest Payment Date" means any date specified in Section 2.07 
of this Agreement.
(iii)
"LIBOR Base Rate" means, for each Interest Period, the London 
interbank offered rate for six-month deposits in Dollars for value 
the first day of such Interest Period (or, in the case of the 
Page  4
initial Interest Period, for value the Interest Payment Date 
occurring on or next preceding the first day of such Interest 
Period), as reasonably determined by the Bank and expressed as a 
percentage per annum.
(iv)
"LIBOR Total Spread" means, for each Interest Period: (A) 
three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%); (B) minus (or plus) the 
weighted average margin, for such Interest Period, below (or 
above) the London interbank offered rates, or other reference 
rates, for six-month deposits, in respect of the Bank’s 
outstanding borrowings or portions thereof allocated by the Bank 
to fund single currency loans or portions thereof made by it that 
include the Loan; as reasonably determined by the Bank and 
expressed as a percentage per annum.
(c)
The Bank shall notify the Borrower of LIBOR Base Rate and LIBOR Total 
Spread for each Interest Period, promptly upon the determination thereof.
(d)
Whenever, in light of changes in market practice affecting the 
determination of the interest rates referred to in this Section 2.06, the Bank 
determines that it is in the interest of its borrowers as a whole and of the Bank to 
apply a basis for determining the interest rates applicable to the Loan other than as 
provided in said Section, the Bank may modify the basis for determining the interest 
rates applicable to the Loan upon not less than six (6) months’ notice to the Borrower 
of the new basis. The new basis shall become effective on the expiry of the notice 
period unless the Borrower notifies the Bank during said period of its objection 
thereto, in which case said modification shall not apply to the Loan.
Section 2.07. Interest and other charges shall be payable semiannually in 
arrears on April 15 and October 15 in each year.
Section 2.08. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Loan in 
accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project, and, to this end, shall carry out the Project through SDS with due diligence 
and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate financial, administrative, social 
and environmental practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, 
facilities, services and other resources required for the Project.
(b)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section 
and except as the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall 
carry out the Project in accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in 
Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
Section 3.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree: (a) procurement of the 
goods and consultants’ services required for the Project and to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 4 to this 
Agreement; and (b) Grants for Subprojects shall be made in accordance with the 
procedures (including procedures for environmental and social impact assessment and 
mitigation), and on the terms and conditions set forth in the FOPAR Operational 
Manual.
Section 3.03. For the purposes of Section 9.08 of the General Conditions and 
without limitation thereto, the Borrower shall:
(a)
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Bank, and furnish 
to the Bank not later than six (6) months after the Closing Date or such later date as 
may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the Bank, a plan for the 
future operation of the Project; and
(b)
afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with the 
Borrower on said plan.
Section 3.04.  The Borrower shall:
(a)
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor on an 
ongoing basis, in accordance with indicators satisfactory to the Bank, the carrying 
Page  5
out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof, and shall by 
February 28 and August 31 of each year of Project execution provide the Bank with 
semi-annual progress reports on the execution of the Project, in a format acceptable 
to the Bank and including the indicators referred to above;
(b)
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank, and furnish 
to the Bank: (i) by not later than August 31, 2000, a report integrating the results 
of the monitoring and evaluation activities performed pursuant to paragraph (a) of 
this Section, on the progress achieved in the carrying out of Part A of the Project, 
during the period preceding the date of said report; and (ii) by April 30, 2000, a 
report integrating the results of the monitoring and evaluation activities performed 
pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section, on the progress achieved in the carrying 
out of Part B of the Project, during the period preceding the date of said report and 
setting out the measures recommended to ensure the efficient carrying out of said 
Parts of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof during the period 
following such dates; and
(c)
review with the Bank: (i) by October 31, 2000, or such later date as the 
Bank shall request, the report referred to in paragraph (b) (i) of this Section; and 
(ii) by June 30, 2000, or such later date as the Bank shall request, the report 
referred to in paragraph (b) (ii) of this Section, and, thereafter, take all measures 
required to ensure the efficient completion of Parts A and B of the Project, 
respectively, and the achievement of the objectives thereof, based on the conclusions 
and recommendations of the said reports and the Bank's views on the matter.
Section 3.05. Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.01 (a) of this 
Agreement, the Borrower shall make available, as and when needed, no less than 
$42,100,000 equivalent, in the aggregate, as counterpart funds for the execution of 
the Project prior to the Closing Date.
Section 3.06. The Borrower through SDS shall: (a) carry out by January 31, 2000 
and annually thereafter, until the completion of the Project, independent annual 
technical audits, procured in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 4 to this 
Agreement and under terms of reference acceptable to the Bank, of Project quality 
assurance, including awarding of, and performance under, contracts for goods and 
consultants’ services financed under the Project; (b) cause FOPAR to undertake annual 
technical audits of Subprojects, on a sampling basis, on the basis of terms of 
reference acceptable to the Bank, and, promptly thereafter forward reports of such 
audits to the Bank, for its review and comments; and (c) the terms of reference for 
the audits referred to in paragraphs (a) and (b) above shall be prepared in a timely 
fashion so as to commence the process for procuring the services for such audits not 
later than June 30, 1999.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained a 
financial management system, including records and accounts, and prepare financial 
statements in a format acceptable to the Bank, adequate to reflect the operations, 
resources and expenditures related to the Project. 
(b) 
The Borrower shall:
(i)
have the records, accounts and financial statements referred to in 
paragraph (a) of this Section and the records and accounts for the 
Special Account for each fiscal year audited, in accordance with 
auditing standards acceptable to the Bank, consistently applied, 
by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank;
(ii)
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not 
later than six months after the end of each such year: (A) 
certified copies of the financial statements referred to in 
paragraph (a) of this Section for such year as so audited; and (B) 
an opinion on such statements, records and accounts and report of 
such audit, by said auditors, of such scope and in such detail as 
the Bank shall have reasonably requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning such records 
and accounts, and the audit thereof, and concerning said auditors, 
as the Bank shall from time to time reasonably request.
Page  6
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Loan 
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall:
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with paragraph 
(a) of this Section, records and accounts reflecting such 
expenditures;
(ii)
retain, until at least one year after the Bank has received the 
audit report for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from 
the Loan Account was made, all records (contracts, orders, 
invoices, bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing such 
expenditures;
(iii)
enable the Bank’s representatives to examine such records; and
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual 
audit referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the 
report of such audit contains a separate opinion by said auditors 
as to whether the statements of expenditure submitted during such 
fiscal year, together with the procedures and internal controls 
involved in their preparation, can be relied upon to support the 
related withdrawals.
ARTICLE V
Termination
Section 5.01. The date of November 26, 1999 is hereby specified for the purposes 
of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VI
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 6.01. The Minister of Economy and Public Works and Services of the 
Borrower is designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 
11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministerio de Economía y
Obras y Servicios Públicos
Hipólito Yrigoyen 250, 5o piso
1310 Buenos Aires
Argentina
Cable address: 
Telex:
MINISTERIO ECONOMIA
121950AR
For the Bank:
International Bank for
  Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
INTBAFRAD
248423 (MCI) or
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
Buenos Aires, Argentina as of the day and year first above written.
Page  7
ARGENTINE REPUBLIC
By /s/ Roque Fernández 
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
  RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Myrna Alexander 
Acting Regional Vice President 
Latin America and the Caribbean
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1. 
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the Loan to each Category and 
the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the 
Loan Allocated
   % of
(Expressed in
Expenditures
Category
   Dollars)
to be Financed
(1)
Part A of
the Project:
(a)
Grants for
   69,100,000
70%
Subprojects
(b)
Training and
workshops (other
    4,250,000
80%
than for Subprojects)
(c)
Consultants’
    7,070,000
80%
services (other than
for Subprojects),
including services for
audits provided for in
paragraphs (a) and (b)
of Section 3.06 of this
Agreement
(d)
Goods (other than
      380,000
40%
for Subprojects)
(2)
Part B of 
the Project:
(a)
Training and
    2,340,000
70%
workshops
(b)
Consultants’
    6,400,000
70%
services, including
services for the audits
provided for in
paragraph (a) of
Section 3.06 of this
Agreement
(c)
Goods 310,000
40%
(3)
Fee
      900,000
Amount due under
Section 2.04 of 
this Agreement
Page  8
TOTAL
   90,750,000
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule, the expression "training and workshops" means 
local and foreign seminars, courses, technical and promotional meetings, and related 
travel.
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of: 
(a)
payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement, 
except that withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not exceeding the equivalent of 
$9,075,000, may be made in respect of Categories (1) and (2) set forth in the table in 
paragraph 1 of this Schedule on account of payments made for expenditures before that 
date but after January 1, 1998;
(b)
payments made for expenditures in respect of Category (1) (a) for 
Subprojects in a FOPAR Northern Province unless: (i) the corresponding Provincial 
FOPAR Unit has been established for that FOPAR Northern Province and its manager has 
been employed; and (ii) the corresponding Provincial Participatory Council has been 
established for that FOPAR Northern Province and its key members (such as 
representatives of the provincial and municipal governments, non-governmental 
organizations and other stakeholders), all as identified in the FOPAR Operational 
Manual, have been appointed; and
(c)
payments made for expenditures in respect of Category (1) (a) for 
Subprojects in any of the FOPAR Southern Provinces, unless: (i) at least one Regional 
FOPAR Unit for the respective FOPAR Southern Provinces has been established and its 
manager has been employed; and (ii) the Regional Participatory Council has been 
established and its key members  (such as representatives of the corresponding FOPAR 
Southern Provinces), all as identified in the FOPAR Operational Manual have been 
appointed.
4.
The Bank may require withdrawals from the Loan Account to be made on the basis 
of statements of expenditure for expenditures for: (a) Grants for Subprojects costing 
less than $100,000; (b) goods procured under contracts not subject to prior review 
under the provisions of Part C.2 of Section I of Schedule 4 to this Agreement; (c) 
consultants’ services procured under contracts not subject to prior review under the 
provisions of paragraph 2 of Part D of Section II of such Schedule; and (d) training 
and workshops.
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objectives of the Project are: (a) to improve the welfare of poor 
communities; and (b) to improve the focus and management of social programs by 
promoting transparency and efficiency, participation in society, and better targeting 
of social services to the poor.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon from time to time to achieve such 
objectives:
Part A:
Participatory Social Investment Fund
1.
Operation of FOPAR, for the financing, on a grant basis, of small–scale, 
community-based Subprojects for: (a) the construction, rehabilitation and extension of 
small infrastructure works (such as for drainage, sanitation and irrigation, 
pedestrian bridges, household-waste removal, community and health centers, 
environmental and cultural heritage preservation, existing small community roads, but 
excluding construction of new roads); (b) the provision of skills training to develop 
and strengthen community-based organizations; and (c) the carrying out of a program 
for the establishment of networks of community organizations.
2.
Institutional strengthening of the Borrower’s national and provincial agencies, 
FOPAR, and community organizations through: (a) the carrying out of a pilot program to 
transfer technical know-how and methodologies required by national and provincial 
agencies to design and implement participatory social initiatives; (b) the provision 
of technical assistance and training for FOPAR staff and other provincial staff for 
the appraisal, supervision and ex-post evaluation of Subprojects, and the development 
and dissemination of participatory initiatives; and (c) the provision of technical 
Page  9
assistance and training skills to community organizations for the identification, 
selection, design (including technical and legal aspects) and financing of 
Subprojects.
Part B:
Improvement of Social Information and Management of Targeted Social 
Programs
Operation of SIEMPRO through: (a) the improvement of social information and 
policy analysis to enhance the targeting, design, monitoring and evaluation of social 
programs targeted to the poor; (b) the establishment of a system of monitoring and 
evaluation, including surveys and impact evaluation assessments of targeted social 
programs; (c) the dissemination and transfer of social information, targeting and 
evaluation methods and systems to appropriate agencies of the Borrower and the 
Provinces; and (d) the institutional strengthening of the appropriate agencies of the 
Provinces, academic institutions and non-governmental organizations that apply for 
participation in SIEMPRO.
* * *
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 2002.
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
Payment of Principal
   (Expressed in 
Date Payment Due
      Dollars)
April 15, 2002
2,655,000
October 15, 2002
2,730,000
April 15, 2003
2,815,000
October 15, 2003
2,895,000
April 15,2004
2,980,000
October 15, 2004
3,070,000
April 15, 2005
3,160,000
October 15, 2005
3,250,000
April 15, 2006
3,350,000
October 15, 2006
3,445,000
April 15, 2007
3,550,000
October 15, 2007
3,655,000
April 15, 2008
3,760,000
October 15, 2008
3,870,000
April 15, 2009
3,985,000
October 15, 2009
4,100,000
April 15, 2010
4,225,000
October 15, 2010
4,345,000
April 15, 2011
4,475,000
October 15, 2011
4,605,000
April 15, 2012
4,745,000
October 15, 2012
4,885,000
April 15, 2013
5,025,000
October 15, 2013
5,175,000
TOTAL
     90,750,000
SCHEDULE 4
Procurement
Section I.
Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:
General
Goods and works shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Section I 
of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published by the 
Bank in January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996 and September 1997 (the 
Guidelines) and the following provisions of Section I of this Schedule.
Part B:
Procurement Procedures 
1.
National Competitive Bidding
Page  10
Except as provided in paragraphs 2 and 3 below, goods shall be procured under 
contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the 
Guidelines.
2.
National Shopping
(a)
Goods estimated to cost $75,000 equivalent or more per contract required 
for the execution of Subprojects under Part A.1 of the Project; and (b) other goods, 
estimated to cost less than $100,000 per contract, up to an aggregate amount not to 
exceed $1,900,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of 
national shopping procedures in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 
3.6 of the Guidelines.
3.
Community Participation
Goods and works estimated to cost less than $75,000 equivalent per contract 
required for the execution of Subprojects under Part A.1 of the Project shall be 
procured in accordance with procedures acceptable to the Bank as set forth in the 
FOPAR Operational Manual.
4.
Procurement of small works
Works estimated to cost $75,000 equivalent or more per contract required for the 
execution of Subprojects under Part A.1 of the Project shall be procured under lump 
sum, fixed price contracts awarded on the basis of quotations obtained from three 
qualified domestic contractors in response to a written invitation. The invitation 
shall include a detailed description of the works, including basic specifications, the 
required completion date, a basic form of agreement acceptable to the Bank, and 
relevant drawings, where applicable. The award shall be made to the contractor who 
offers the lowest price quotation for the required work, and who has the experience 
and resources to successfully complete the contract.
Part C:
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
1.
Procurement Planning
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to bid for contracts, the proposed 
procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to the Bank for its review and 
approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the 
Guidelines. Procurement of all goods and works shall be undertaken in accordance with 
such procurement plan as shall have been approved by the Bank, and with the provisions 
of said paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
With respect to the first two contracts awarded pursuant to the provisions of 
paragraphs 1 and 2 of Part B of this Section, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 
and 3 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
3.
Post Review
The procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall 
apply to contracts to be procured in accordance with the procedures referred to in 
Part B above.
Section II.
Employment of Consultants
Part A:
General
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of the 
Introduction and Section IV of the "Guidelines:  Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers" published by the Bank in January 1997 and revised 
in September 1997 (the Consultant Guidelines) and the following provisions of Section 
II of this Schedule.
Part B:
Quality- and Cost-based Selection
 Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, consultants’ services 
shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section 
II of the Consultant Guidelines, paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 
thereto, and the provisions of paragraphs 3.13 through 3.18 thereof applicable to 
Page  11
quality- and cost-based selection of consultants.
Part C:
Other Procedures for the Selection of Consultants 
1.
Selection Based on Consultants’ Qualifications
Services estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per contract may be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 
and 3.7 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
2.
Individual Consultants
Tasks that meet the requirements set forth in paragraph 5.1 of the Consultant 
Guidelines shall be procured under contracts awarded to individual consultants in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 5.1 through 5.3 of the Consultant 
Guidelines.
Part D:
Review by the Bank of the Selection of Consultants
1.
Selection Planning
Prior to the issuance to consultants of any requests for proposals, the proposed 
plan for the selection of consultants under the Project shall be furnished to the Bank 
for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of 
Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines.  Selection of all consultants’ services shall 
be undertaken in accordance with such selection plan as shall have been approved by 
the Bank, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
(a)
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more, the procedures set forth in 
paragraphs 1, 2 and (other than the third subparagraph of paragraph 2(a)) and 5 of 
Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply.
(b)
With respect to each contract for the employment of individual 
consultants estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more, the qualifications, 
experience, terms of reference and terms of employment of the consultants shall be 
furnished to the Bank for its prior review and approval.  The contract shall be 
awarded only after the said approval shall have been given.
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall 
apply.
SCHEDULE 5
Implementation Program
Part A:
1.
The Borrower, through SDS, shall maintain throughout Project implementation, the 
national coordinator, and line, provincial and regional managers, all with 
qualifications and experience acceptable to the Bank for the management of FOPAR .
2.
The Borrower, through SDS, shall cause FOPAR to carry out Part A of the Project 
in accordance with an operational manual (the FOPAR Operational Manual). Except as the 
Borrower, through SDS, and the Bank may otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not amend, 
suspend, abrogate or waive, or otherwise fail to enforce the FOPAR Operational Manual 
or any provision thereof.
3.
Without limitation upon the foregoing, the Borrower, through SDS, shall ensure 
that:
(a)
a provincial unit (the Provincial FOPAR Unit) and a provincial council 
(the Provincial Participatory Council) shall be established in each one of the 
Northern Provinces, as provided in the FOPAR Operational Manual; 
(b)
(i)
at least one regional unit (each of them a Regional FOPAR Unit) 
shall be established in respect of one or more Southern Provinces as provided in the 
Page  12
FOPAR Operational Manual; and (ii) a single regional council (the Regional 
Participatory Council) shall be established in respect of  the total aggregate of 
Southern Provinces as provided in the FOPAR Operational Manual; 
(c)
the Bank shall be furnished for its prior no-objection: (i) the first two 
technical assistance agreements to be entered into between the Borrower, through SDS, 
and a selected national or provincial agency to carry out the participatory social 
initiatives referred to under Part A.2 (a ) of the Project; (ii) any proposed 
Subproject that, according to the terms of the FOPAR Operational Manual, requires the 
undertaking of environmental protection and mitigation measures and/or resettlement of 
population, including the corresponding environmental assessment and/or resettlement 
plan, which shall have been prepared in accordance with the procedures for 
environmental and social impact assessment and mitigation set forth in the FOPAR 
Operational Manual; (iii) any proposed Subproject that, according to the terms of the 
FOPAR Operational Manual, requires the undertaking of measures to ensure the 
participation in the Subprojects of vulnerable communities, including indigenous 
populations; and (iv) any proposed Subproject which does not correspond with the types 
of Subprojects eligible for FOPAR financing as set forth in the FOPAR Operational 
Manual;
(d)
the Bank is furnished a copy of each Subproject summary for its ex-post 
review, said summary sheet to be prepared in a format acceptable to the Bank; and
(e)
no Subproject shall be carried out under Part A.1 of the Project if the 
estimated cost thereof is: (i) $100,000 equivalent or more, if the aggregate estimated 
cost of Subprojects included in Part A.1 of the Project estimated to cost $100,000 
equivalent or more shall have reached the amount of $10,000,000 equivalent; or (ii) 
$150,000 equivalent or more.
Part B:
4.
The Borrower shall maintain, throughout Project implementation, within the 
Subsecretariat for Social Policies of SDS, the central executing unit (UEC) 
established for the overall management of SIEMPRO with an organization and staffing 
acceptable to the Bank.
5.
Without limitation upon the foregoing, the Borrower, through SDS, shall ensure 
that an advisory council shall be established by not later than July 31, 1999 in 
accordance with terms of reference and membership acceptable to the Bank.
6.
The Borrower, through the UEC, shall ensure that the participation in SIEMPRO of 
the Provinces not covered under SPI shall be governed by the provisions of an 
agreement (Convenio de Adhesión) to be entered into between SDS and each of the 
Provinces.
7.
The Borrower, through SDS, shall cause SIEMPRO to be operated in accordance with 
the  SIEMPRO Matrix.  Except as the Borrower, through SDS, and the Bank shall 
otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not amend, suspend, abrogate or waive, or 
otherwise fail to apply the SIEMPRO Matrix or any part thereof.
8.
The Borrower, through SDS, shall cause SIEMPRO to: (a) by not later than May 31, 
1999, enter into an agreement (the SIEMPRO Subsidiary Agreement) with INDEC for the 
preparation of the Borrower’s second survey on living conditions and access to social 
programs in accordance with terms and conditions acceptable to the Bank; (b) by not 
later than December 31, 1999, furnish to the Bank, for its review and comments, the 
draft terms of reference and a proposed design to undertake such survey; and (c) by 
not later than October 31, 2001, carry out such survey in accordance with terms of 
reference and a timetable approved by the Bank, and promptly thereafter, review with 
the Bank the results of such survey.
9.
Except as the Borrower, through SDS, and the Bank may otherwise agree, the 
Borrower, through SDS, shall not terminate, amend or fail to enforce any provision of 
the SIEMPRO Subsidiary Agreement.
10.
For the purposes of providing administrative, budgeting, accounting, information 
management and legal support to FOPAR and SIEMPRO, the Borrower, through SDS, shall 
maintain, throughout Project implementation, the coordination unit (UCAF), established 
under SP I, with appropriate organization and staffing, including a coordinator with 
qualifications and experience acceptable to the Bank.
SCHEDULE 6
Page  13
Special Account
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1) and (2) set forth in 
the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; 
(b)
the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods, works and services required for the Project and to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan allocated from time to time to the eligible 
Categories in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
(c)
the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equivalent to 
$10,000,000 to be withdrawn from the Loan Account and deposited into the Special 
Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule, provided, however, that unless 
the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Authorized Allocation shall be limited to an 
amount equivalent to $3,750,000 until the aggregate amount of withdrawals from the 
Loan Account plus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into 
by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions shall be equal to or 
exceed the equivalent of $15,000,000.
2.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible 
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.
After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special Account 
has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Bank a request or requests for deposit into the Special Account of an amount or 
amounts which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation. On the 
basis of such request or requests, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw 
from the Loan Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount or amounts as 
the Borrower shall have requested.
(b)
(i)
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the Bank requests for deposits into the Special Account 
at such intervals as the Bank shall specify.
(ii)
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the Bank the documents and other evidence required 
pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment or 
payments in respect of which replenishment is requested. On the 
basis of each such request, the Bank shall, on behalf of the 
Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit into the 
Special Account such amount as the Borrower shall have requested 
and as shall have been shown by said documents and other evidence 
to have been paid out of the Special Account for eligible 
expenditures. All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Bank 
from the Loan Account under the respective eligible Categories, 
and in the respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been 
justified by said documents and other evidence.
4.
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the Borrower 
shall, at such time as the Bank shall reasonably request, furnish to the Bank such 
documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for 
eligible expenditures.
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Bank shall 
not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account:
(a)
if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Loan Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph 
(a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement;
(b)
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Bank, within the 
period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit 
reports required to be furnished to the Bank pursuant to said Section in respect of 
the audit of the records and accounts for the Special Account.
(c)
if, at any time, the Bank shall have notified the Borrower of its 
Page  14
intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals 
from the Loan Account pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the General 
Conditions; or
(d)
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible 
Categories, minus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into 
by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to the 
Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation. 
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of 
the Loan allocated to the eligible Categories shall follow such procedures as the Bank 
shall specify by notice to the Borrower.  Such further withdrawals shall be made only 
after and to the extent that the Bank shall have been satisfied that all such amounts 
remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such notice will be 
utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.
(a)
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any payment out of the 
Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant 
to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished 
to the Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank: (A) provide such 
additional evidence as the Bank may request; or (B) deposit into the Special Account 
(or, if the Bank shall so request, refund to the Bank) an amount equal to the amount 
of such payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the Bank 
shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Bank into the Special Account shall 
be made until the Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, 
as the case may be.
(b)
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any amount outstanding 
in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for eligible 
expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to the 
Bank such outstanding amount.
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the Bank all or any 
portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.
