Report No. PID9278
Project Name                     China-Second Jiangxi Highway Project (@)
Region                           East Asia and Pacific Region
Sector                           Highways
Project ID                       CNPE58845
Borrower(s)                      PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA
Implementing Agency
Address JIANGXI PROVINCIAL COMMUNICATION DEPT.
Jiangxi Provincial High Grade Highway
Administrative Bureau (JPHGHAB)
No.12 Xi'er Road, Provincial Government Courtyard,
64 Beijing Road (W),
Nanchang, Jiangxi, China
Contact Person: Mr. Xia Zengyu, Director of
World Bank Loan Project Office
(PO)
Tel: (0791) 6243046
Fax: (0791) 6281344
Email: Zengjy@public.nc.jx.cn
Environment Category             A
Date PID Prepared                March 30, 2001
Projected Appraisal Date         March 16, 2001
Projected Board Date             June 12, 2001
1. Country and Sector Background
In the medium term, the main concerns of the central and provincial
highway authorities are to ensure that the highway system helps to
integrate China's national economy and facilitate mobility of goods and
services. This should correspond to the comparative economic and
technological advantages of highways vis-a-vis other modes of transport
and to available financial resources. Under such strategy, the priorities
for the highway sector during its Ninth Five-Year Plan (1996-2000) were
identified as follows:1. High priority was given to rapidly developing the
National Trunk Highway System. The Ministry of Communication (MOC) has
identified about 35,000 km of highways throughout the country that would
constitute a network of modern inter-provincial highways under the NTHS.
These are targeted for completion by the year 2010. The first phase of
the NTHS investment (totaling 17,000 km), concentrates on two vertical,
two horizontal and three connections to seaports. According to MOC's
estimates, the entire 17,000 km of NTHS Phase I should be completed by
2003. The construction of the second phase (an additional three vertical
and five horizontal trunk highways), will continue until 2010 when the
entire system is expected to be completed.2. The development of some
130,000 km of provincial and rural roads that feed into the NTHS was
planned and undertaken simultaneously to maximize the benefit of NTHS
investment. 3. High priority was also given to providing all-weather
access roads to remote/ low income areas in the poor counties. 4. Policy
and regulatory reforms were to be intensified, with priority attention
given to financing issues and ensuring the efficient utilization of



funds.This strategy is succeeding in several respects. Of the identified
17,000 km of NTHS Phase I, construction of about 12,000 km has been
completed. Many provinces have been able to provide all weather road
access to nearly all villages (9FYP and 1OFYP). However, institutional
and policy reforms have lagged behind. The plan to introduce a fuel tax
to replace the old system of road maintenance fees would represent an
important step, along with increasing the decentralization of investment
decisions from the central to provincial levels. However, these changes
have been delayed and the date has yet to be confirmed for the
introduction of the fuel tax.Under the Tenth Five-Year Plan (2001-2005),
which is already been confirmed by the State Council, highway sector
institutional reforms are expected to intensify in the context of the
country's move towards a more open and competitive economy.The Country
Assistance Strategy, which reflects the Bank's strategic objectives of
fostering growth, reducing poverty, supporting better governance, and
improving the environment, has identified infrastructure improvement as a
key area of China's development agenda to be supported by the Bank.Jiangxi
Province has an area of 160,000 km2 and a population of 42 million
(1999). Its GDP per capita in 1999 was 4661 yuan, which is approximately
30t below China's average.   Jiangxi is strong in agriculture (rice
represents 80t of products produced) and rich in mineral resources
including coal, copper, and iron. Jingdezhen is famous for its production
of Chinese ceramics. To reach markets for its products, land-locked
Jiangxi has long relied on transporting its products via poor quality
class II roads to the major trade centers along the coast (Shenzhen and
Guangzhou). The proposed Taihe-Gangzhou Expressway will correct this
deficiency by serving as an important segment of the north-south transport
corridor, part of the skeleton that makes the planned "big cross"
transport network in Jiangxi and provides crucial links with the important
industrial northern city of Wuhan. The project will help promote
intra-city and inter-provincial trade and stimulate the economic
development of the region. To meet the project's objectives, key sector
issues identified will be addressed in the project: (a) expansion of
highway capacity to remove bottlenecks and expedite socio-economic growth
and economic integration; (b) relieving poverty; (c) highway safety; (d)
developing institutional capacity; and (e) highway maintenance.Expansion
of Highway Capacity. China's 9FYP (1996-2000) emphasized a reduction in
transport bottlenecks that were recognized as a growing constraint on
rapid economic development. The diversification and structural
transformation of the economy, toward more light and agro-industry and
more inter-provincial trade, coupled with severe capacity constraints of
the railways, are causing an accelerating demand for road transport. This
national pattern also applies to Jiangxi Province in general, and in
particular to the heavily traveled corridor between Nanchang and Shenzhen,
which is Jiangxi's major outlet to the south. Relieving Poverty. One of
the main strategic objectives of the project is to enhance the
government's poverty alleviation efforts through accelerated improvement
of accessibility and opening up of employment and product market access at
lower costs. About 5t of the people in Jiangxi live below the poverty
line of annual 700 RMB per capita. Most of these poor people live in
southern Jiangxi, the project impact area. The government has increased
its investments in the provision of basic access in recent years,
especially during the 9FYP (1996-2000). It is estimated that all the
villages will have all-weather basic road access by the end of the 1OFYP
(2001-2004). However, there still remains an urgent need to improve and
-2 -



upgrade major roads in the poor counties.The project will focus on 4
counties, 3 of which are designated poor counties. The proposed "Road
Improvement in the Poor Counties (RIPC)" is designed to assist the poor in
increasing their incomes, by providing improved access to employment
opportunities, product markets, social services and facilities at a lower
travel time and cost. The RIPC consists of improving and upgrading
selected highways in these counties, as detailed in Annex 3. In the long
term, these improvements will benefit the poor by decreasing their travel
time and cost as well as increasing their incomes and social welfare
because of enhanced access.     Highway Safety.   Traffic accidents are now
a major problem in China, and by most measures it has the world's highest
road accident rate. In recent years, the Bank, as well as ADB and other
institutions, have become increasingly concerned about the growing
problems of highway safety. Under the proposed project, highway safety
would be addressed in a sustained fashion through development and
implementation of a broad highway safety program consisting of,
inter-alia: developing safety audit procedures for new highway design;
conducting a highway safety seminar; and developing a manual for roadwork
safety during construction and maintenance of roads. The program would
also include a physical road safety enhancement component, which will
include the development of a black-spot program, identification of
remedial measures and the implementation of such measures.Developing
Institutional Capacity. The recent decentralization of much
administrative decision-making from MOC to provincial PCDs will greatly
tax the organizational and human resource capacity of JPCD. Also, due to
the expanded mandate of JPCD and its lower level authorities, a new cadre
of agency officials will need to be trained to administer, regulate,
manage, operate and monitor its new responsibilities. The project will
address the issues of decentralization and organizational changes.
Highway Maintenance. On the highway sector in China, a vertical
administrative and management system prevails. The Highway Administration
Bureau (JPHAB), as a unit of JPCD and Highway Divisions at the Prefecture
and County levels as subsidiary units, maintain the national and
provincial highways. Under the Highway Divisions, maintenance groups are
assigned certain rights of road maintenance operation efficiency and
quality are often poor because the maintenance groups are too small and
not well equipped. Furthermore, employee qualifications are poor and
often there is a surplus of labor. Often supervision and monitoring work
is not done properly as there is no "arms length" relationship between
maintenance groups and quality inspection groups. The project will
address the issues of adequacy and quality of maintenance as well as
potential for competition.
2. Objectives
The project aims to provide more efficient, safe and effective transport
infrastructure in support of social and economic development in Jiangxi
Province. To meet the above development objective, the project will
produce the following outcomes:(a) Traffic congestion relieved and
mobility increased in the Nanchang-Shenzhen transport corridor, a key
section of the Beijing-Shenzhen expressway;(b) Accessibility to low-income
areas in the province improved; (c) Safety of road transport improved; and
(d) Institutional capacity of the Jiangxi Provincial Communications
Department (JPCD) and related sector institutions strengthened, through
policy, institutional and organizational reform, provision of training,
technical assistance and equipment.
- 3-



3. Rationale for Bank's Involvement
The involvement of the Bank would result in much needed additional
financial resources to help remove highway bottlenecks and increase
traffic capacity in this high priority transport corridor. Bank
involvement would accelerate policy, institutional and manpower
development in highway planning, design, supervision, construction,
operation, maintenance and finance. Bank involvement would also be
expected to benefit the design and the quality of construction of the
roads to be undertaken. Furthermore, the Bank would help JPCD to
emphasize the need for proper maintenance of the highway network through
the introduction of modern maintenance equipment, training of staff and
allocation of adequate maintenance funds. In addition, it would raise the
awareness of the highway safety problem and make improvements in this
regard. Similarly, Bank involvement would improve provincial practices in
the analyses and implementation of environmental, land acquisition and
resettlement, and participatory aspects of highway projects.
4. Description
The project's primary objective is to provide more efficient, safe and
effective highway infrastructure in the most important transport corridor
in Jiangxi, between the provincial capital, Nanchang, and the coastal
cities of Shenzhen and Guangzhou in Guangdong Province. The project will
help stimulate social and economic development, reduce poverty and thus
decrease disparities within the region. To meet the proposed objective,
the project will address these issues in the following components.
Component 1. Highway capacity expansion (development objective (a) in 2.
above)
- Construction of TGE
- Construction of Interconnecting
roads
- Equipment
- Construction supervision
Component 2. Road Improvement in the Poor Counties (RIPC) (development
objective (b) in 2. above)
Component 3. Highway safety including black spot improvements and
supporting guidelines (development objective (c) in 2. above)
Component 4. Institutional strengthening/capacity building including
training and establishment of maintenance centers (development objective
(d) in 2. above)
Land acquisition cost
5. Financing
Total ( US$m)
Total Project Cost 535.7
6. Implementation
The Jiangxi Provincial Communications Department (JPCD) has the overall
responsibility for project preparation and implementation. The proposed
project would be implemented by the World Bank Loan Project Office (PO)
of JPCD. The PO is responsible for project preparation, implementation,
and coordination of all project components, and is staffed by a Director
and three full time Deputy Directors. One of Deputy Directors is the
- 4 -



Deputy Director of JPHAB. The PO will be organized into 8 units/divisions
with about 60 staff. The project would be implemented during 2001-2006.
After the TGE construction is completed, it will be operated and
maintained by an Expressway Company, which currently manages 240 km of
expressways in Jiangxi. The International Tendering Company (ITC) has
been retained as the procurement agent for all aspects of civil,
electrical and mechanical works of the project requiring ICB and for
equipment to be procured from abroad. The supervision of construction of
the TGE and interconnecting roads would be carried out by a joint
foreign/domestic supervision team. Overall direction of the project at the
central level would rest with the Ministry of Communication (MOC) in
Beijing. The Borrower is the People's Republic of China, which in turn
would onlend the loan proceeds through the Ministry of Finance (MOF) to
Jiangxi Province on the same conditions as the Bank would lend to MOF.
7. Sustainability
Experience from completed and ongoing Bank-financed highway projects in
China demonstrates a high borrower commitment towards implementation of
the physical components of the project, which accounts for the majority of
the project cost. In addition, JPCD has shown strong commitment to the
institutional and policy objectives of the project. Toll levels and the
need for their periodic review are important for: 1) the financial
viability of the expressway, 2) the ability to repay the Bank loan, and 3)
the provision of timely and needed maintenance. More generally, project
sustainability would be enhanced by an early enactment of fuel tax
reform.A study on toll rates will be undertaken prior to opening the TGE
to traffic, taking into account the findings of similar studies about this
issue under other Bank-financed highway projects in China and the results
of a survey of user responses to tolls.
8. Lessons learned from past operations in the country/sector
The summary of lessons learned and reflected in the design of the proposed
new project includes those principal and relevant lessons as recorded in
the ICR for the Jiangxi Provincial Highway Project (Credit 1984-CHA) dated
December 20, 1996. This first Bank highway project in Jiangxi Province
was approved on February 7, 1989 and closed on December 31, 1995.While the
overall performance of the large Bank highway portfolio in China (25
projects to date), is by and large satisfactory, a number of problems have
occurred, which were taken into consideration in the design of the
proposed project. These problems primarily include: inadequate
engineering designs and bidding documents, including the costing of civil
works; quality control of construction; late commencement of electrical
and mechanical facilities work (which has delayed completion of some
projects and necessitated the extension of the closing date of several
Bank loans); and a lack in the scope and speed of policy and institutional
reforms, specifically relating to road maintenance, improved high-grade
highway management and operation, and traffic safety. Engineering designs
and bidding documents were reviewed by an external local design institute
and a foreign expert team. The implementation schedule of all project
work components was discussed in detail during project preparation.A
recent OED assessment on the China portfolio has clearly stated that the
policy dialogue between China and the Bank in the highway sector needs to
be further strengthened. During preparation of the proposed project, JPCD
was engaged in a continuing policy dialogue which had started with the
identification of the proposed project. While the results of these
- 5-



efforts are encouraging, in that policy and institutional reforms now
enjoy a higher degree of visibility and ownership with JPCD, much remains
to be done during implementation of the new project to make policy and
institutional reform components as important as road construction and
network capacity expansion. Rural roads were improved under the Second
Shaanxi Highway Project and the Second Henan Highway Project in China.
Improvement of local roads through the provision of all-weather roads,
combined with programs for socio-economic development, are effective means
of reducing poverty in rural areas. The RIPC component was included in
the project.
9. Program of Targeted Intervention (PTI)     N
10. Environment Aspects (including any public consultation)
Issues     :  Environmental Assessment (EA) activities for the
preparation of the project started in December 1999 with the completion of
the Feasibility Study Report of the Taihe-Ganzhou Section of the Gan-Yue
Expressway and the appointment of the Highway Research Institute of the
Ministry of Communications to prepare the EA for the TGE and the
interconnecting roads. The EA is prepared as per the Chinese national
procedures and the World Bank's OP 4.01. The Environmental Impact
Assessment (EIA), the Environmental Action Plan (EAP) and the EA Summary
reports were discussed with JPCD during the preparation and preappraisal
missions in 2000. The availability of the draft EA reports was advertised
in local newspapers in September and October 2000 and complete sets of the
reports and documents were delivered to all Cities and County and Township
Resettlement Offices in September 2000. The final EA reports for the TGE,
the interconnecting roads and the RIPC components were submitted to the
Bank in January 2001. The reports were reviewed by the Bank and were
found satisfactory. The major findings and discussions are summarized
below. The major issues associated with the project are: (i) the
selection of an optimal alignment, to avoid and minimize impacts on
villages and communities along the alignment; (ii) minimization of the use
of agricultural land; (iii) avoidance of cultural relic sites and unstable
geological terrain; (iv) adequate public consultation; and (v) integration
of the proposed environmental mitigation measures in the Environmental
Action Plan (EAP). The EIA report found that the proposed highway would
not affect ecologically sensitive areas, and that its construction and
operation would have no significant impact on the environment provided the
mitigation measures as given in the EAP are properly implemented. The
final selected alignment minimizes the loss of agriculture land and loss
of residences; minimizes the impacts and disruptions on the livelihood and
day-to-day activities of the affected people and communities, and
decreases the potential risks of landslides and erosion in the mountain
areas. It also avoids disturbing cultural heritage sites along the
alignment. The nearest cultural relics found were about 0.7 km from the
selected alignment. The major environmental impacts which may occur
during the construction of the Expressway and the other roads are:
increase in noise, potential increase in soil erosion and generation of
dust during construction and transportation of materials. Lesser impacts
include alteration of hydrogeological regimes, interference with the local
people and traffic and impacts on local ecology and irrigation system.
The impact of construction materials hauled in traffic (noise, dust,
congestion, traffic safety, etc.) using the existing highways is also a
potential concern. Safe disposal of excess excavated material from cuts
- 6 -



and tunnels in the mountain areas will require close attention and
supervision during construction. Traffic noise, air pollution from
vehicle exhaust emission, soil erosion and water pollution from service
and administration areas are identified as potential major adverse impacts
during the operation period. The key project stakeholders are the Jiangxi
Provincial Communication Department (JPCD), farmers who may lose land and
livelihoods, villagers and communities that may be displaced or impacted
because of the alignment passing through or near their villages,
communities which may become divided by the alignment, and hospitals,
schools, libraries and individual households which may be impacted by the
construction and operation of the proposed Expressway and interconnecting
roads. Extensive consultation was carried out with the affected people,
and information and documents were provided at the village/townhall
meetings.Public consultation and feedback. Beginning with the preparation
of the Terms of Reference in November 1999 and the preparation of the
draft final EA reports in November 2000, consultants carried out four
public consultation and participation surveys. The consultations and
surveys were carried out either through family or individual interviews,
group interviews or discussion meetings attended by governmental and
non-governmental organizations. The main expressway involved consultation
with 586 persons, 75 villages/towns and 12 organizations. For the three
interconnecting roads, seven group interviews were conducted involving 178
families and three discussion meetings were held. For the four RIPC
roads, five group interviews were carried out. Resettlement related
issues figured prominently in all the consultations. Information
disclosure. Final EIA, EAP and EA Summary reports were submitted to the
Bank in January 2001 and were disclosed in the PIC. In Jiangxi, the
documents were made public on September 10, 2000 in the resettlement
offices and libraries in Nanchang City, Ji'an City, Ganzhou City, Taihe
County, Suichuan County, Wan'an County, Nankang City and Zhanggong
District.
11. Contact Point:
Task Manager
Yasuhiro Kawabata
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington D.C. 20433
Telephone:   (202) 458-4033
Fax:   (202) 522-3573
12. For information on other project related documents contact:
The InfoShop
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone: (202) 458-5454
Fax:        (202) 522-1500
Web: http:// www.worldbank.org/infoshop
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain components may
not be necessarily included in the final project.
This PID was processed by the InfoShop during the week ending April 13, 2001.
- 7 -



