Document of
The World Bank
Report No: 21826-CHA
PROJECT APPRAISAL DOCUMENT
ONA
PROPOSED LOAN
IN THE AMOUNT OF US$200 MILLION
TO THE
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA
FOR THE
SECOND JIANGXI HIGHWAY PROJECT
May 7, 2001
Transport Sector Unit
East Asia and Pacific Region



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective January 2001)
Currency Unit = RMB Yuan
RMB Yuan 1.00 = US$0.12
US$1.00 = RMB Yuan 8.29
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
CAS       =    Country Assistance Strategy
EA        =    Environmental Assessment
EAP       =    Environmental Action Plan
EIA       =    Environmental Impact Assessment
E & M          Electrical and Mechanical
IST       =    Institutional Strengthening and Training
JPCD      =    Jiangxi Provincial Communications Departrnent
JPH2      =    Second Jiangxi Highway Project
JPHAB    =    Jiangxi Provincial Highway Administration Bureau
JPHCHAB =    Jiangxi Provincial High-Class Highway Administration Bureau
LACI      =    Loan Administration Change Initiative
MOC       =    Ministry of Communications
MOF       =    Ministry of Finance
NTHS      =    National Trunk Highway System
PAD       =    Project Appraisal Document
PCD       =    Provincial Communications Department
PIC            Public Information Center
PO        =    Project Office
RAP            Resettlement Action Plan
RIPC           Road Improvement in the Poor Counties
SDPC      =    State Development and Planning Committee
TGE       =    Taihe - Ganzhou Expressway
VOC       =    Vehicle Operating Cost
Vice President:   Jemal-ud-din Kassum
Country Manager/Director:    Yukon Huang
Sector Manager/Director:   Jitendra N. Bajpai
Task Team Leader/Task Manager:    Yasuhiro Kawabata



CHINA
SECOND JIANGXI HIGHWAY PROJECT
CONTENTS
A. Project Development Objective                                                       Page
1. Project development objective                                                       2
2. Key performance indicators                                                           2
B. Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project      2
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy                                           2
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices                   5
C. Project Description Summary
1. Project components                                                                  6
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project                        7
3. Benefits and target population                                                       8
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements                                        8
D. Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection                           9
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and other development agencies          10
3. Lessons learned and reflected in proposed project design                            11
4. Indications of borrower commitrnent and ownership                                   12
5. Value added of Bank support in this project                                         12
E. Summnary Project Analysis
1. Economic                                                                           12
2. Financial                                                                           13
3. Technical                                                                           13
4. Institutional                                                                       14
5. Environmental                                                                       15
6. Social                                                                              17
7. Safeguard Policies                                                                  19
F. Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability                                                                      19
2. Critical risks                                                                      19
3. Possible controversial aspects                                                      21



G. Main Loan Conditions
1. Effectiveness Condition                                                             21
2. Other                                                                               21
H. Readiness for Implementation                                                           22
I. Compliance with Bank Policies                                                          23
Annexes
Annex 1: Project Design Summary                                                           24
Annex 2: Detailed Project Description                                                     27
Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs                                                           33
Annex 4: Economic Cost Benefit Analysis Summary                                            34
Annex 5: Financial Summary and Evaluation                                                 44
Annex 6: Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements                                        49
Annex 7: Project Processing Schedule                                                       58
Annex 8: Documents in the Project File                                                    59
Annex 9: Statement of Loans and Credits                                                   61
Annex 10: Country at a Glance                                                              66
Annex I 1: Jiangxi Highway Sector Revenues and Expenditures                                68
Annex 12: Review of Financial Management System                                            71
Annex 13: Environmental Assessment and Action Plan Summary                                77
Annex 14: Social Assessment and Poverty Alleviation Impacts                                85
Annex 15: Summary of the Resettlement Action Plan                                          88
MAP(S)
IBRD 31243 March 2001
IBRD 31244 March 2001
IBRD 31245 March 2001



CHfNA
Second Jiangxi Highway Project
Project Appraisal Document
East Asia and Pacific Region
EASTR
Date: May 7, 2001                                Team Leader: Yasuhiro Kawabata
Country Manager/Director: Yukon Huang            Sector Manager/Director: Jitendra N. Bajpai
Project ID: P058845                              Sector(s): TH - Highways
Lending Instrument: Specific Investment Loan (SIL)  Theme(s):
Poverty Targeted Intervention: N
Project Financing Data
pq Loan     [ ] Credit    [I Grant     [ ] Guarantee    [ ] Other:
For LoanslCredits/Others:
Amount (US$m): $200.00
Proposed Terms (IBRD): Varable Spread & Rate Single Currency Loan (VSCL)
Grace period (years): 5                          Years to maturity: 20
Commitment fee: 0.75%                            Front end fee on Bank loan: 1.00%
Financing Plan:    Source                                   Local        Foreign         Total
BORROWER                                                    335.10            0.60        335.70
IBRD                                                          0.00         200.00        200.00
Total:                                                      335.10          200.60        535.70
Borrower: PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA
Responsible agency: JIANGXI PROVINCLkL COMMUNICATION DEPT.
World Bank Loan Project Office
Address: No.12 Xi'er Road, Provincial Govenment Courtyard, 69 Beijing Road (W), Nanchang, Jiangxi, China
Contact Person: Mr. Xia Zengyu, Director of World Bank Loan Project Office (PO)
Tel: (0791) 6243046               Fax: (0791) 6281344                Email: Zengjy@public.ncjx.cn
Estimated disbursements ( Bank FYIUS$M):
FY         2002       2003       2004      2005      2006
Annual   13.00       32.00     46.00      52.00      57.00
Cumulative    13.00     45.00      91.00     143.00    200.00
Project implementation period: June 2001 to June 2006
Expected effectiveness date: 10/20/2001  Expected closing date:  12/31/2006
r<..M   DOD



A. Project Development Objective
1. Project development objective: (see Annex 1)
The project aims to provide more efficient, safe and effective transport infrastructure in support of so,:ial
and economic development in Jiangxi Province.
To meet the above development objective, the project will produce the following outputs:
(a) Traffic congestion relieved and mobility increased in the Nanchang-Shenzhen transport
corridor, a key section of the Beijing-Shenzhen expressway;
(b) Accessibility to low-income areas in the province improved;
(c) Safety of road transport improved; and
(d) Institutional capacity of the Jiangxi Provincial Communications Department (JPCD) and
related sector institutions strengthened, through policy, institutional and organizational re-2orm,
provision of training, technical assistance and equipment.
2. Key performance indicators: (see Annex 1)
The principal output indicators selected for monitoring the above development objectives are:
(a) Travel time reduction in the Taihe-Ganzhou corridor;
(b) Average daily traffic on new expressway and existing national road (NH105);
(c) Average daily traffic on rural roads in affected areas;
(d) Number of days that rural roads in low-income areas are closed to traffic;
(e) Number of traffic accidents (fatalities and serious injuries) reduced;
(f) Increased maintenance work by independent companies; and
(g) Number of staff trained domestically and overseas.
B. Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project: (see Annex 1)
Document number: R98-107 (CAS Progress Report) 05/06/98        Date of latest CAS discussion:
05/28/98
The CAS, which reflects the Bank's strategic objectives of fostering growth, reducing poverty, supporting
better govemance, and improving the environment, has identified infrastructure improvement as a key area
of China's development agenda to be supported by the Bank.
The sector-specific goals supported by the project are:
* contribution to growth through removal of highway bottlenecks, thus facilitating
inter-provincial trade and commerce and improving regional and national integration,
* contribution to poverty reduction through improving accessibility in low-income counties of
southem Jiangxi, (a transition province between the coastal areas and the western provinces),
better governance through improving highway maintenance management, and
environmental improvement through continuous attention to traffic safety and
environmental/social impacts.
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy:
A number of important pieces of sector work have been carried out by the Bank in the last several yeai s.
These, together with several high-level highway policy seminars, have led to the identification of five n-tain
challenges facing China in its attempt to cope with the rapid expansion of its highway network, summarized
-2-



in a brief note on "China Highway Sector Issues" of February 1999, as well as in more recent - and still
ongoing - discussions on an updated highway sector strategy, as follows:
Building sector institutions. The sustainability of the highway sector greatly depends on the strength of
its provincial and local highway institutions to address the growing challenges of road safety, construction
quality standards and control, road asset preservation, network expansion, market-responsive facility
provision and resource mobilization. Institutional fragmentation within and between levels of government
needs stronger attention. For instance, any effective solution to the daunting road safety issue will require
stronger coordination between the provincial communications departments (PCDs) and the traffic police,
which is under different jurisdiction. Sirnilarly, to commercialize and corporatize the provincial road
agencies, particularly those with stable toll-based revenues, there is a need to restructure them into
commercial entities such as shareholding companies or toll road authorities. To support such reforms,
sector institutions will require new skills and a better understanding of new practices to effectively play the
roles of tomorrow.
Strengthening resource mobilization. The Chinese government faces a difficult challenge of resource
mobilization to meet future needs for the construction and maintenance of its highway system. The past
regional crisis and a fragile local financial sector are severe constraints on borrowings, specifically in the
intemational markets, while the potential for private financing remains limited under the current economic
and regulatory environment. The number of highway projects that can be marketed to private sector
investors (those with strong traffic revenue potential), are insignificant compared to the sector's resource
requirements. Under these conditions, the focus should be on building a reliable and stable road user fee
based financing framework. In parallel, regulatory reforms would be necessary to open opportunities for
different modes of public-private partnerships, to mobilize domestic savings through the issuance of bonds
and to broaden the investor base. A fuel tax, still under consideration, promises revenues substantially
higher than the current provincial road maintenance fee over the longer term, while at the same time it
would offer new options for debt financing.
Enhancing accessibility to remote/low-income areas. The geography of China poses heavy demand and
difficulties on the provision of basic road access in various parts of the country, particularly in inner and
low-income provinces. Although the role of transport access to integrate the national economy, to stimulate
growth in remote areas, and to insure basic mobility needs of the poor has been emphasized, the task is
enormous and requires significant public resources. The Bank's provincial highway program in China aims
to favorably impact poverty levels, through targeted interventions in low-income areas. However,
provincial and central government agencies often refrain from borrowing for this purpose since no
dedicated revenue source for loan repayment is readily available (unlike for toll roads). A renewed effort is
recommended to support road development in low-income areas as part of the Bank's future lending and/or
non-lending services for the sector.
Sustaining road maintenance. Due to the rapid pace of expansion of the road system, maintenance funds
are sometimes diverted to the construction of new roads. The current trend and practice may soon become
unsustainable unless sector institutions and the existing framework for resource mobilization are developed
to address future maintenance needs. In the past, central and provincial road agencies have resisted Bank
funding for road maintenance on grounds that loan funds are urgently needed for the construction of new
revenue-generating high-grade highways. A stronger effort on behalf of the Bank and the relevant Chinese
sector institutions is recommended to make road maintenance a more integral and prominent part of future
Bank highway projects. In this increasingly challenging area, comprehensive policy and institutional
reform initiatives are specifically important to put sector agencies in a position to conduct and sustain road
maintenance activities. PCDs need to be encouraged to: l) develop sustainable road maintenance policies,
-3 -



2) refine their road information systems for direct use in maintenance planning and operations, 3) develop
sustainable funding mechanisms, 4) adjust their organizational structures and training programs to devote
more resources to maintenance, and 5) develop cost efficient maintenance structures.
Improving construction quality. Highway construction quality remains a serious concern of the seclor.
Past incidences of bridge and road failings or premature wear and tear of highway pavements have raised
awareness of the issue to high-level government officials. The problem has both technical and
administrative roots. Contractors, mostly domestic, are not always well managed, frequently face irregular
payments, and often come under pressure to shorten the construction period. In some cases, quality control
suffers due to the lack of authority assigned to the construction supervision agency by the owner vis-aivis
contractors. While the central government appreciates Bank involvement leading generally to improved
design reviews, supervision and resulting construction quality, there is a definite need to reinforce strict
construction quality standards, control and enforcement in future Bank highway loans.
Government Strategy. In the mediumn term, the main concerns of the central and provincial highway
authorities are to ensure that the highway system helps to integrate China's national economy and facilF.tate
mobility of goods and services. This should correspond to the comparative economic and technological
advantages of highways vis-a-vis other modes of transport and to available financial resources.
Under such strategy, the priorities for the highway sector during its Ninth Five-Year Plan (1996-2000)
were identified as follows:
1. High priority was given to rapidly developing the National Trunk Highway System. The
Ministry of Communication (MOC) has identified about 35,000 km of highways throughoat
the country that would constitute a network of modem inter-provincial highways under the
NTHS. These are targeted for completion by the year 2010. The first phase of the NTHS
investment (totaling 17,000 kIn), concentrates on two vertical, two horizontal and three
connections to seaports. According to MOC's estimates, the entire 17,000 km of NTHS Phase
I should be completed by 2003. The construction of the second phase (an additional three
vertical and five horizontal trunk highways), will continue until 2010 when the entire systern is
expected to be completed.
2. The development of some 130,000 km of provincial and rural roads that feed into the NTHS
was planned and undertaken simultaneously to maximize the benefit of NTHS investment.
3. High priority was also given to providing all-weather access roads to remote/ low income aieas
in the poor counties.
4. Policy and regulatory reforms were to be intensified, with priority attention given to financing
issues and ensuring the efficient utilization of funds.
This strategy is succeeding in several respects. Of the identified 17,000 km of NTHS Phase I, construction
of about 12,000 km has been completed. Many provinces have been able to provide all weather road
access to nearly all villages (9FYP and IOFYP). However, institutional and policy reforms have lagged
behind. The plan to introduce a fuel tax to replace the old system of road maintenance fees would represent
an important step, along with increasing the decentralization of investment decisions from the central to
provincial levels. However, these changes have been delayed and the date has yet to be confirmed for the
introduction of the fuel tax.
-4 -



Under the Tenth Five-Year Plan (2001-2005), which has already been confirmed by the State Council,
highway sector institutional reforms are expected to intensify in the context of the country's move towards a
more open and competitive economy.
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices:
Jiangxi Province has an area of 160,000 km2 and a population of 42 million (1999). Its GDP per capita in
1999 was 4661 yuan, which is approximately 30% below China's average. Jiangxi is strong in agriculture
(rice represents 80% of products produced) and rich in mineral resources including coal, copper, and iron.
Jingdezhen is famous for its production of Chinese ceramics. To reach markets for its products,
land-locked Jiangxi has long relied on transporting its products via poor quality class n1 roads to the major
trade centers along the coast (Shenzhen and Guangzhou). The proposed Taihe-Gangzhou Expressway will
correct this deficiency by serving as an important segment of the north-south transport corridor, part of the
skeleton that makes the planned "big cross" transport network in Jiangxi and provides crucial links with the
important industrial northem city of Wuhan. The project will help promote inter-provincial trade and
stimulate the economic development of the region. To meet the project's objectives, key sector issues
identified will be addressed in the project: (a) expansion of highway capacity to remove bottlenecks and
expedite socio-economic growth and economic integration; (b) relieving poverty; (c) highway safety; (d)
developing institutional capacity; and (e) highway maintenance.
Expansion of Highway Capacity. China's 9FYP (1996-2000) emphasized a reduction in transport
bottlenecks that were recognized as a growing constraint on rapid economic development. The
diversification and structural transformation of the economy, toward more light and agro-industry and more
inter-provincial trade, coupled with severe capacity constraints of the railways, are causing an accelerating
demand for road transport. This national pattem also applies to Jiangxi Province in general, and in
particular to the heavily traveled corridor between Nanchang and Shenzhen, which is Jiangxi's major outlet
to the south.
Relieving Poverty. One of the main strategic objectives of the project is to enhance the government's
poverty alleviation efforts through accelerated improvement of accessibility and opening up of employment
and product market access at lower costs. About 5% of the people in Jiangxi live below the poverty line of
annual 700 RMB per capita. Most of these poor people live in southem Jiangxi, the project impact area.
The government has increased its investments in the provision of basic access in recent years, especially
during the 9FYP (1996-2000). It is estimated that all the villages will have all-weather basic road access
by the end of the 1OFYP (2001-2004). However, there still remains an urgent need to improve and upgrade
major roads in the poor counties.
The project will focus on seven counties, four of which are designated poor counties. The proposed "Road
Improvement in the Poor Counties (RIPC)" is designed to assist the poor in increasing their incomes, by
providing improved access to employment opportunities, pioduct markets, social services and facilities at a
lower travel time and cost. The RIPC consists of improving and upgrading selected highways in these
counties, as detailed in Annex 2. In the long term, these improvements will benefit the poor by decreasing
their travel time and cost as well as increasing their incomes and social welfare because of enhanced access.
Highway Safety. Traffic accidents are now a major problem in China, and by most measures it has the
world's highest road accident rate. In recent years, the Bank, as well as ADB and other institutions, have
become increasingly concemed about the growing problems of highway safety. Under the proposed
project, highway safety would be addressed in a sustained fashion through development and implementation
of a broad highway safety program consisting of, inter-alia: developing safety audit procedures for new
- 5 -



highway design; conducting a highway safety seminar; and developing a manual for roadwork safety cturing
construction and maintenance of roads. The program would also include a physical road safety
enhancement component, which will include the development of a black-spot program, identification of
remedial measures and the implementation of such measures.
Developing Institutional Capacity. The recent decentralization of much administrative decision-making
from MOC to provincial PCDs will greatly tax the organizational and human resource capacity of JPCD.
Also, due to the expanded mandate of JPCD and its lower level authorities, a new cadre of agency offizials
will need to be trained to administer, regulate, manage, operate and monitor its new responsibilities. The
project will address the issues of decentralization and organizational changes.
JPCD has substantial experience in corporatization and securitization. Jiangxi Gan-Yue Expressway
Company (JGYEC) is already corporatized and securitized. JGYEC is 66% owned by Jiangxi Expressway
Investment Development Company (JEIDC), a Jiangxi Provincial Holding Company and 34% owned by
investors as A shares (domestically traded shares) listed on the Shanghai Stock Exchange. The project will
provide training to meet the challenges of corportization, securitization and sustained profitability of these
new enterprises, expecially in relation to toll highways.
Highway Maintenance. On the highway sector in China, a vertical administrative and management
system prevails. The Highway Administration Bureau (JPHAB), as a unit of JPCD and Highway
Divisions at the Prefecture and County levels as subsidiary units, maintain the national and provincial
highways. Under the Highway Divisions, maintenance groups are assigned certain rights of road
maintenance. Efficiency and quality are often poor because the maintenance groups are too small and not
well equipped. Furthermore, employee qualifications are poor and often there is a surplus of labor. Often
supervision and monitoring work is not done properly as there is no "anns length" relationship between
maintenance groups and quality inspection groups. The project will address the issues of adequacy and
quality of maintenance as well as potential for competition. A study will be undertaken, to deternine the
organizational and structural requirements of independent competitive maintenance centers, by January
2002 and a pilot "center" will be established during the project implementation period.
C. Project Description Summary
1. Project components (see Annex 2 for a detailed description and Annex 3 for a detailed cost
breakdown):
The project's primary objective is to provide more efficient, safe and effective highway infrastructure in the
most important transport corridor in Jiangxi, between the provincial capital, Nanchang, and the coastal
cities of Shenzhen and Guangzhou in Guangdong Province. The project will help stimulate social and
economic development, reduce poverty and thus decrease disparities within the region. To meet the
proposed objective, the project will address these issues in the following components.
- 6 -



Indicative            Bank-      % of
Component                  Seotor        Cots      % of    financing   Bank-
(US$M)   Total    (US$M)  financing
Component 1. Highway capacity     Physical-Instituti   447.20   83.5    185.00      92.5
expansion                         onal
- Construction of TGE
- Construction of Interconnecting
roads
- Equipment
- Construction supervision
Component 2. Road Improvement in the  Highways       39.60       7.4     10.70       5.4
Poor Counties (RIPC)
Component 3. Highway safety       Physical            2.50       0.5      0.70       0.4
including black spot improvements and  Institutional
supporting guidelines             Policy
Component 4. Institutional        Institutional       2.10       0.4       1.60      0.8
strengthening/capacity building   Development
including training and establishment of
maintenance centers
Land acquisition cost                                42.30       7.9      0.00       0.0
Total Project Costs                533.70      99.6    198.00      99.0
Front-end fee                   2.00       0.4       2.00       1.0
Total Financing Required                 535.70      100.0    200.00     100.0
Note: Indicative costs include contingencies
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project:
These include:
Reducing regional disparities so lower income groups can benefit from the country's economic
growth,
Undertaking institutional improvements and training, increasing awareness of safety problems,
safety for road works, safety audit procedures, and the identification and implementation of
physical remedial measures,
Strengthening managerial efficiency under decentralization, and
Creating some competition in highway maintenance work and establishing "independent"
maintenance companies.
-7 -



3. Benefits and target population:
The major quantifiable benefits of the project are the reduction in vehicle operating costs and time costs of
road users. The expressway will have shorter lengths, improved surface conditions and riding comfort,
improved geometry, reduced traffic interference, and better safety facilities than existing roads. Theref:are,
most of the long-distance traffic and some of the local traffic is expected to divert from the existing roads to
the new expressway, reducing vehicle operating and time costs for future expressway users. Because many
users will take the expressway, there will be a reduction in the current congestion levels on existing roads.
Thus, traffic that continues to use existing roads will also benefit in the form of time savings due to the
resulting higher travel speeds on existing roads.
Other quantified project benefits are due to traffic that is generated as a result of the lowering of transport
costs, and which previously did not exist on the existing roads, or existed on other transport modes such as
rail, inland water or air transport. The newly generated traffic includes traffic resulting from increased
industrial and agricultural production. Other project benefits that have not been quantified are the
reduction in accident costs, generated traffic on the existing roads due to the reduction of the current
congestion levels, and the positive effects on non-motorized traffic that uses existing roads.
Major indirect long-term benefits expected from the construction of TGE will be the development of
tourism to historic relics (City Wall of Song Dynasty, Ancient Passage in Dayu) and natural scenic spots
(Jinggangshan and Sanbei mountains) in the province. Once the TGE is completed and open to traffic,
southem Jiangxi will have substantially improved access to and from the existing high quality port and
airport facilities of Shenzhen, an important economic center in Guangdong Province and the major entry
and exit point for trade, commerce and tourism in southeastem China.
The project will also benefit residents of poor counties in the province, through improved access to healti,
education and other social services, as well as to employment opportunities and markets. The influence
area is in seven counties (Taihe, Wan'an, Suichuan, Shangyou and Ganxian, the county level city of
Nankang and the county level district of Zhanggong). Of these seven counties, four are designated poor
counties (Wan'an, Suichuan, Shangyou, and Ganxian). The population of the seven impacted counties i,
3.3 million, equivalent to 7.8 % of Jiangxi's total population. Most of Jiangxi's poor people live in this
region. In the long term, these improvements will benefit the poor by decreasing travel times and costs,
while increasing incomes and social welfare due to enhanced access.
Other benefits will include strengthening the policy and institutional capabilities of the primary sector
agency, JPCD, and related institutions, which are responsible for the planning, design, supervision,
construction, operation, maintenance and finance of highways in the province. Also, the project is expect ed
to result in lower traffic accident rates on the highway network through the implementation of the traffic
safety component. The project will also foster improved practices in the areas of environment, land
acquisition and resettlement of affected people and participatory approaches to project preparation and
implementation.
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements:
The Jiangxi Provincial Communications Department (JPCD) has the overall responsibility for project
preparation and implementation. The proposed project would be implemented by the World Bank Loan
Project Office (PO) of JPCD. The PO is responsible for project preparation, implementation, and
coordination of all project components, and is staffed by a Director and three full time Deputy Directors.
One of Deputy Directors is the Deputy Director of JPHAB. The PO will be organized into 8
units/divisions with about 60 staff. The project would be implemented during 2001-2006.
- 8 -



After the TGE construction is completed, it will be operated and maintained by an Expressway Company,
which currently manages 240 km of expressways in Jiangxi. The International Tendering Company (ITC)
has been retained as the procurement agent for all aspects of civil, electrical and mechanical works of the
project requiring ICB and for equipment to be procured from abroad. The supervision of construction of
the TGE and interconnecting roads would be carried out by a joint foreign/domestic supervision team.
Overall direction of the project at the central level would rest with the Ministry of Communication (MOC)
in Beijing. The Borrower is the People's Republic of China, which in turn would onlend the loan proceeds
through the Ministry of Finance (MOF) to Jiangxi Province on the same conditions as the Bank would lend
to the PRC.
D. Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection:
1.1    Public/Private provision. Private sector development and financing for TGE was considered but
not chosen for two main reasons: (i) China is still developing an appropriate policy, legal and regulatory
framework for the private provision of toll highways. Work in this area has been ongoing for several years
with Bank and IFC support; and (ii) there is growing evidence on a worldwide scale that green field toll
road projects are difficult to develop and finance from private sector sources, due to the risk profile of such
projects. Besides the country risk (legal and regulatory) and the commercial risk (traffic demand), there are
substantial construction and completion risks which most private toll road developers and their conmmercial
lenders are not prepared to accept at this time. Therefore, a strategic choice was made to: (i) provide
infrastructure from public funds, and (ii) work with the province on an improved framework for
commercialization of the agency that would operate TGE once completed. This is consistent with the
ultimate goal of asset securitization or concessioning, currently the preferred method from the government
for involving the private sector in investment funding/managing.
1.2    Highway/Railway options. The new Beijing-Kowloon railway line between Nanchang and
Ganzhou is located to the east of the Gan river and serves Xingguo county and popular tourist areas. The
new expressway would be located to the west of the river. The distance between the railway and the
proposed expressway in most locations is rather large, 50 - 100 kin, so the expressway will serve different
areas. In addition, studies on the functions of expressways and railways in other provinces in China show
that railways are used mostly for long distance passenger and low value bulk freight movement, while
expressways serve shorter distance traffic and high value and/or less bulky freight.
1.3    Design standard. Considering the existing and future socio-economic conditions in Jiangxi
Province, the level of economic development, the volume and composition of traffic in the Nanchang - Jian
- Ganzhou corridor, and the capacity of the existing road infrastructure, the proposed expressway is the
most cost-effective and appropriate way to improve transport while helping stimulate economic
development and reducing poverty in low-income areas along this north-south corridor. The existing road
will continue to serve, besides longer distance traffic, all local traffic.
1.4    Route alternatives. Southem Jiangxi is a mountainous area. After comparison of several
alternatives, the proposed alignment was chosen on the basis of topographical and geological conditions.
An altemative running close to Ganzhou and comprising the minimal length of tunnels and viaducts was
proposed. Environmental and resettlement considerations were well integrated into the selection of the final
alignment, and some alignment adjustments were made during preparation of the detailed designs.
-9-



2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and/or other development agencies (completed,
ongoing and planned).
Latest Supervision
Sector Issue:1                  Project                (PSR) Ratings
(Bank-financed projects on_W
Implementation   Development
Progress (IP)   Objective (DO)
Bank-financed
-    Remove Highway Capacity    Shanghai-Zhejiang Highway        S            S
Bottlenecks (1)           (ongoing) 1-3, 5
-    Institutional Strengthening/    Second Shaanxi Provincial   S            S
Training (2)              Highway (ongoing) 14, 6
-    Rural Roads and Poverty    Second Henan Provincial          S            S
Alleviation (3)           Highway (ongoing) 1-6
-    Highway Safety (4)         Second Xinjiang Highway          S            S
(ongoing) 1-5
-    Operation and Maintenance of  Second Nat'l Hwy:             S            S
High-Grade Highways (5)    Guangdong/Hunan (ongoing) 1,
2, 4-6
-    Cost Recovery (6)          Third Nat'l Hwy: Hubei           S            S
(ongoing) 1, 2, 4-6
Tri-Provincial Highway          S            S
(ongoing) 1-6
Anhui Provincial Highway        S            S
(ongoing) 1-5
Fourth National Highway:        S            S
Hubei/Hunan (ongoing) 1, 2,
4-6
Second Fujian Highway           S            S
(ongoing) 1, 2, 4-6
Third Henan Provincial          S            S
Highway (ongoing) 1-6
Guangxi Provincial Highway      S            S
(ongoing) 1-6
Inner Mongolia Highway
(planned) 1-6
Xinjiang III Highway (planned)
1-6
- 10-



Other development agencies
Asian Development Bank            ONGOING PROJECTS
Hebei and Liaoning
Expressways
Liaoning and Jilin Expressways
Hebei Roads Development
Chengdu-Nanchong
Expressway
Changchun-Harbin Expressway
Shanxi Roads Development
Southern Yunnan Road
Development
Chongqing-Guizhou Roads
Development
PLANNED PROJECTS
Shanxi Expressway
Chongqing-Guizhou
Expressway
Guangxi Highway Development
Shanxi and Shaanxi Roads
Western Yunnan Road
Development
Southem Sichuan Roads
Development
Japan Bank for International      ONGOING PROJECTS
Cooperation                       Hainan Development
(formally Overseas Economic       Qingdao Development
Cooperation Fund of Japan)        Guiyan-Xinzhai Highway
Hangzhou-Quzhou Expressway
Wanxian-Liangping Highway
Liangping-Changshou Highway
Hainan East Expressway
Xinxiang-Zhengzhou Highway
. _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   I
IP/DO Ratings: HS (Highly Satisfactory), S (Satisfactory), U (Unsatisfactory), HU (Highly Unsatisfactory)
3. Lessons learned and reflected in the project design:
The summary of lessons learned and reflected in the design of the proposed new project includes those
principal and relevant lessons as recorded in the ICR for the Jiangxi Provincial Highway Project (Credit
1984-CHA) dated December 20, 1996. This first Bank highway project in Jiangxi Province was approved
on February 7, 1989 and closed on December 31, 1995.
While the overall performance of the large Bank highway portfolio in China (25 projects to date), is by and
large satisfactory, a number of problems have occurred, which were taken into consideration in the design
of the proposed project. These problems primarily include: inadequate engineering designs and bidding
- 11 -



documents, including the costing of civil works; quality control of construction; late commencement of
electrical and mechanical facilities work (which has delayed completion of some projects and necessitaled
the extension of the closing date of several Bank loans); and a lack in the scope and speed of policy and
institutional reforrns, specifically relating to road maintenance, improved high-grade highway management
and operation, and traffic safety.
A recent OED assessment on the China portfolio has clearly stated that the policy dialogue between China
and the Bank in the highway sector needs to be further strengthened. During preparation of the proposed
project, JPCD was engaged in a continuing policy dialogue which had started with the identification of -he
proposed project. While the results of these efforts are encouraging, in that policy and institutional refonns
now enjoy a higher degree of visibility and ownership with JPCD, much remains to be done during
implementation of the new project to make policy and institutional reform components as important as load
construction and network capacity expansion.
Rural roads were improved under the Second Shaanxi Highway Project and the Second Henan Highwa)
Project in China Improvement of local roads through the provision of all-weather roads, combined with
programs for socio-economic development, are effective means of reducing poverty in rural areas.
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership:
There is strong support for the proposed project from the various levels of government in China. SDPC,
MOF, MOC and the Jiangxi Provincial Government strongly support the project. In addition, the various
local governments that the Bank missions met with during field trips in the project area expressed their
robust support and emphasized the need for the project. JPCD has completed all feasibility studies,
preliminary engineering designs and ELAs, EAPs and RAPs for the proposed expressway and other roads.
The section between Ganzhou-Yuezhuitang (Guangdong border), the last gap in the Nanchang-Shenzhen
corridor, has already been programmed during the lOFYP. JPCD has shown strong ownership of the
poverty alleviation objective by committing to implement the RIPC.
5. Value added of Bank support in this project:
The involvement of the Bank would result in much needed additional financial resources to help remove
highway bottlenecks and increase traffic capacity in this high priority transport corridor. Bank involvement
would accelerate policy, institutional and manpower development in highway planning, design, supervision,
construction, operation, maintenance and finance. Bank involvement would also be expected to benefit the
design and the quality of construction of the roads to be undertaken. Furthermore, the Bank would help
JPCD to emphasize the need for proper maintenance of the highway network through the introduction of
modemn maintenance equipment, training of staff and allocation of adequate maintenance funds. In
addition, it would raise the awareness of the highway safety problem and make improvements in this
regard. Similarly, Bank involvement would improve provincial practices in the analyses and
implementation of environmental, land acquisition and resettlement, and participatory aspects of highway
projects.
E. Summary Project Analysis (Detailed assessments are in the project file, see Annex 8)
1. Economic (see Annex 4):
* Cost benefit   NPV=USS413.5 million; ERR = 20.0 % (see Annex 4)
O Cost effectiveness
O Other (specify)
- 12 -



The estimated economic internal rate of return (EIRR) of the entire project, including the Taihe - Ganzhou
Expressway (TGE), the interconnecting roads and the RIPC roads, is 20.0%. The EIRR of the TGE is
19.2%. The sensitivity analysis indicates that if construction costs are increased by 25% and user benefits
are reduced by 25%, the project EIRR would be 14.1%, which indicates that even under this pessimistic
scenario the project is justified. The switching values analysis indicates that construction costs have to be
multiplied by a factor of 2.0 or user benefits have to be multiplied by a factor of 0.5 to yield a project
EIRR of 12.0%. The risk analysis indicates that the most likely project EIRR is 17.3%; the worst case
scenario EIRR is 14.7%, while the best case scenario EIRR is 19.7%. There is a zero percent probability
that the project EIRR will be less than 12%. Therefore, the project is economically well justified. The net
present value is 3,428 Yuan million (US $413.5 million) at a 12% discount rate
2. Financial (see Annex 4 and Annex 5):
NPV=US$ 509.3 million; FRR = 7 % (see Annex 4)
The financial evaluation focuses on the TGE, which is the main component of the project and the only one
that will generate financial income with profit making and repayment capability. Tolls will be charged as a
function of vehicle type, size and distance traveled, and will be slightly lower than the tolls currently being
collected on the Changjiu Expressway located on the same corridor in the north of the Province. Toll
charges were set relatively low and annual growth was assumed to be low, because the tolls are only set to
repay the Bank loan and cover operating costs, not to maximize financial rates of return. The estimated
weighted average cost of capital is 6.0%, considering that the World Bank will finance about 47% of the
investment. The expressway financial rate of return (FIRR) is 7.0% with a net present value of 4,222
Yuan million (US $509.3 million) at a 6.0% discount rate.
Fiscal Impact:
The expenditures on road construction and maintenance for the "toll-free" roads included in the project
constitute only a small fraction of JPCD fund flow. Therefore, the fiscal impact would be minimal. Based
on the JPCD plan, the capital investment for the RIPC program is less than 1.6% of annual total JPCD
revenue. In addition, the required maintenance expenditure for RIPC is less than 0.6% of total maintenance
expenditure of JPCD. These low ratios indicate that the project presents a modest financial risk regarding
availability of counterpart funds for construction and maintenance of the project roads.
3. Technical:
A thorough review of the engineering designs was done in two phases. First, all engineering designs
prepared by the Jiangxi Provincial Design Institute were reviewed by the China Communications Second
Highway Survey, Design and Research Institute (Wuhan). Second, preliminary designs were reviewed by
Spanish engineering consultants financed by a Spanish Trust Fund. Issues which needed special attention
included:
The appropriateness of application of lower engineering design standards and its consequent
highway safety hazards;
Sufficient geological investigations at the design stage to avoid encountering major problems at
the construction stage, as experienced in other expressway projects in China. The
mountainous terrain implies viaducts, tunnels and earthworks in steep transversal slopes, civil
works which can be negatively affected by geological conditions leading to longer construction
periods, cost overruns and problems of stability during both the construction and operation
periods; and
An appropriate level of E&M works and monitoring of long tunnels at the operation stage.
- 13 -



The Bank's comments and recommendation on designs were well considered by JPCD, and the resulting
engineering designs were found to be technically sound and appropriate to the country's needs.
4. Institutional:
4.1 Executing agencies:
JPCD has overall responsibility for project preparation and implementation. With about 60 staff, the P0
will manage the project during implementation. Senior staff of the PO have extensive experience working
with Bank and ADB-fmanced highway projects, resulting in better design and preparation than would have
been possible otherwise.
4.2 Project management:
Due to its experience managing the first Jiangxi Highway Project, JPCD is familiar with Bank procedures.
JPCD management has taken full ownership of the project objectives, especially the institutional
components which will require continued strong commitment from JPCD. The PO has carefully prepared
the Project Implementation Plan (PIP), where all implementation arrangements and responsibilities have
been clearly defined. A procurement specialist from the World Bank Office in Beijing will be involved
early in preparation to conduct a workshop to ensure procurement is handled appropriately.
4.3 Procurement issues:
A procurement assessment was performed during project preparation, a sunmmary of which is presented in
Annex 6. The procurement agency is the PO. CMC-ITC has been appointed by the PO to handle the
commercial aspects of ICB. With the assistance of CMC-ITC, the PO is expected to fulfill its procurerment
function and administer procurement in an efficient and transparent way over time. The risks in the
procurement process are considered average.
In the regulations and administrative procedures issued by the central and local governments for National
Competitive Bidding (NCB) using local funds, there are some inconsistencies with Bank requirements. The
main inconsistencies are the use of bracketing and the merit point system in prequalification, bid evalualion
and contract award for locally funded NCB civil works contracts. They will be waived in favor of Bank
NCB procedures in a supplemental letter to the Loan Agreement, further details of which are provided in
Annex 6.
4.4 Financial management issues:
Financial Management. During preparation, an assessment of the adequacy of the project financial
management system was undertaken (see Annex 12). The assessment concluded that this project meets
minimiun Bank financial management requirements. The project entities would produce project financial
management reports in line with the format and content agreed to between the Bank and China. In addition,
traditional disbursement methods would be used as opposed to the PMR-based disbursement systems.
No outstanding audits or audit issues exist with any of the executing agencies involved in the project. (See
Annex 12: Project Financial Management System, para 16: Audit Arrangements, for further informatior.)
The Bank and China have agreed to a standard set of project financial statements and the frequency of
submission. (See Annex 12: Project Financial Management System, para 10: Project Financial and
Accounting System, para 15: Reporting Requirements, for details.)
- 14 -



Auditing Arrangements. As with other Bank-financed projects in China, the Foreign Investment Audit
Bureau of the China National Audit Office (CNAO), established in 1983 under the name of State Audit
Administration, would have overall responsibility for auditing the accounts of the project. The Jiangxi
Provincial Audit Bureau, under CNAO's supervision, would conduct the actual auditing work. The Bank
currently accepts audits perforned under the supervision and responsibility of CNAO. Audits of the
financial statements of the project, the Special Account and the Statements of Expenditure would be
submitted to the Bank within six months after the end of the financial year. The audit reports of the project
would also include an opinion on whether the project was in compliance with financial covenants, if any.
5. Environmental:                 Environmental Category: A (Full Assessment)
5.1 Summarize the steps undertaken for environmental assessment and EMP preparation (including
consultation and disclosure) and the significant issues and their treatment emerging from this analysis.
Environmental Assessment (EA) activities for the preparation of the project started in December 1999 with
the completion of the Feasibility Study Report of the Taihe-Ganzhou Section of the Gan-Yue Expressway
and the appointment of the Highway Research Institute of the Ministry of Communications to prepare the
EA for the TGE and the interconnecting roads. The EA is prepared as per the Chinese national procedures
and the World Bank's OP 4.01. The Environmental Impact Assessment (EIA), the Environmental Action
Plan (EAP) and the EA Summary reports were discussed with JPCD during the preparation and
preappraisal missions in 2000. The final EA reports for the TGE, the interconnecting roads and the RIPC
components were submitted to the Bank at the end of December 2000. The reports were reviewed by the
Bank and were found satisfactory. These documents were placed in the Bank Info Shop in January 2001.
The major fndings and discussions are summarized below. More detailed information is given in Annex
13.
The major issues associated with the project are: (i) the selection of an optimal alignment, to avoid and
minimize impacts on villages and communities along the alignment; (ii) minimization of the use of
agricultural land; (iii) avoidance of cultural relic sites and unstable geological terrain; (iv) adequate public
consultation; and (v) integration of the proposed environmental mitigation measures in the Environmental
Action Plan (EAP). The EIA report found that the proposed highway would not affect ecologically
sensitive areas, and that its construction and operation would have no significant impact on the environment
provided the mitigation measures as given in the EAP are properly implemented. The final selected
alignment minimizes the loss of agriculture land and loss of residences; minimizes the impacts and
disruptions on the livelihood and day-to-day activities of the affected people and communities, and
decreases the potential risks of landslides and erosion in the mountain areas. It also avoids disturbing
cultural heritage sites along the alignment. The nearest cultural relics found were about 0.7 km from the
selected alignment. The major environmental impacts which may occur during the construction of the
Expressway and the other roads are: increase in noise, potential increase in soil erosion and generation of
dust during construction and transportation of materials. Lesser impacts include alteration of
hydrogeological regimes, interference with the local people and traffic and impacts on local ecology and
irrigation system. The impact of construction materials hauled in traffic (noise, dust, congestion, traffic
safety, etc.) using the existing highways is also a potential concem. Safe disposal of excess excavated
material from cuts and tunnels in the mountain areas will require close attention and supervision during
construction. Traffic noise, air pollution from vehicle exhaust emission, soil erosion and water pollution
from service and administration areas are identified as potential major adverse impacts during the operation
period.
The key project stakeholders are the Jiangxi Provincial Communication Department (JPCD), farmers who
may lose land and livelihoods, villagers and communities that may be displaced or impacted because of the
- 15-



alignment passing through or near their villages, communities which may become divided by the alignmrent,
and hospitals, schools, libraries and individual households which may be impacted by the construction and
operation of the proposed Expressway and interconnecting roads. Extensive consultation was carried out
with the affected people, and information and documents were provided at the village/townhall meeting, .
The availability of the draft EA reports was advertised in local newspapers in September and October 2000
and complete sets of the reports and documents were delivered to all Cities and County and Township
Resettlement Offices in September 2000.
5.2 What are the main features of the EMP and are they adequate?
The major aspects of the EAP include the integration of appropriate mitigation measures in the engineering
design and technical specifications for the TGE, its interconnecting roads and the RIPC component. Th-
EAP reports include practical and cost effective measures necessary to mitigate the project related impacts
by incorporating them in the design and by implementing them during the construction and operation
phases. The EAP specifies the appropriate mitigation measures, environmental monitoring plans, training,
institutional arrangements, implementation schedule, budget needs and others necessary to implement the
EAP. Major mitigation measures include: watering to prevent dust, installation of noise barriers, reloca:ion
of households and schools to protect against excess noise, implementation of safety measures during
transport of materials, safe disposal and reclamation of excess waste materials. It also includes extensi- e
revegetation and replantation of disturbed areas and slopes. Proper implementation of the EAP should
result in minimal impact during the construction and operation of the highways.
5.3 For Category A and B projects, timeline and status of EA:
Date of receipt of final draft: December 2000
The first draft of the EIA and EAP reports for the TGE and the interconnecting roads were reviewed anc
commented on by the Bank in May 2000. The second draft reports were reviewed by the Bank in July
2000. During the November 2000 preappraisal mission, the Bank reviewed and commented on the third
draft of the ELA/EAP reports for the Expressway and the first draft of the EIA/EAP reports of the RIPC
component. At that time, the Expressway alignment was still being finalized. At the same time, the Bank
also reviewed the first draft of the EA Surmnary report which did not include the RIPC component. The
final EIA/EAP and EA Summary reports included the final selected alignment and all the components
consolidated in the EA Summary report.
5.4 How have stakeholders been consulted at the stage of (a) environmental screening and (b) draft EA
report on the environmental impacts and proposed enviromnent management plan? Describe mechanisms
of consultation that were used and which groups were consulted?
In developing the EIA and EAP, JPCD and the Environmental Consultant carried out public consultation
and held public participation meetings at selected locations in cooperation with the Social Assessment unit
of JPCD. Input was sought and opinions solicited from the impacted public and communities (farmers,
villagers, rural residents, schools, hospitals, etc.) along the proposed alignment, local government units ir
the counties, municipal Environmental Protection Bureaus, Research Institutes, etc. The meetings were
supplemented by questionnaires and individual interviews. The opinions and concems expressed were
taken into account in developing the Terms of Reference for preparing the EIA and EAP for the
Expressway and the interconnecting roads. Following the completion of the draft EIA and EAP reports, ihe
Consultant held meetings in impacted communities to both disclose the reports and seek additional public
inputs from the affected people. Newspaper advertisements, radio and television were used to advertise the
meetings and to inform the public about the availability of documents.
- 16 -



5.5 What mechanisms have been established to monitor and evaluate the impact of the project on the
environment? Do the indicators reflect the objectives and results of the EMP?
Assurances have been obtained at negotiations from JPCD that: (a) the environmental protection measures
stipulated in the EAP with regard to the main expressway, its interconnecting roads and the RIPC
component, will be implemented in a manner satisfactory to the Bank; and (b) Jiangxi shall funish to the
Bank quarterly and armual environmental supervision and monitoring reports on the implementation of the
EAP during the construction of the Expressway, the interconnecting roads and the RIPC component.
Thereafter, JPCD will furnish, quarterly, environmental monitoring reports during the first two years of
operation following the completion of the project.
6. Social:
6.1 Summarize key social issues relevant to the project objectives, and specify the project's social
development outcomes.
The project is targeting one of the poorest areas of Jiangxi Province. The project would complement the
govemment's on-going poverty alleviation efforts, particularly in agricultural development and local access
improvement, by providing easier, more efficient and less costly means of transportation. The local road
rehabilitation and imnprovement program is designed as a poverty target intervention. A set of selection
criteria has been designed to target the poor areas.
The project will affect 167 villages, largely as a result of land acquisition and structure demolition. The
project will require the acquisition of 16,283 mu of land, 8,362 mu of which are farmland, and the
demolition of 240,175 square meters of houses, 232,953 square meters of which are farmer residential
areas. The project will affect 10,109 people in 2,396 households through land acquisition and house
demolition. About 4,525 people in 1,109 households will need to be relocated. Given the linear nature of
the project and the minimization efforts, the project impacts are scattered. For example, in the expressway
component, only two villages will lose more than 20% of their fannland, and 78 villages will lose less than
10% of their farmland, including 58 villages who will lose less than 5% of their fannland.
Resettlement planning for the expressway and RIPC components started in early 2000 and October 2000,
respectively. Planning activities included a detailed census of affected people, the inventory of affected
assets and a sample socioeconomic survey in the directly affected areas.
On the basis of these planning activities, a Resettlement Action Plan (RAP) was prepared in line with local
laws and World Bank OD 4.30 on Involuntary Resettlement. The resettlement and rehabilitation strategy
follows the traditional Chinese approach, which is based on land and agriculture, and depends on village
collectives for livelihood restoration. Given the scattered impact (an average of six households per village
for relocation), all relocating households will be relocated within existing villages. The RAP contains the
details of: i) the census, ii) inventory, iii) analysis of impacts, iv) legal fi-amework and resettlement
principles, v) entitlements, vi) institutional arrangements, vii) grievance mechanism, viii) implementation
arrangement and schedule, ix) budget and x) monitoring arrangements. A summary of the RAP is in Annex
15.
A social assessment was conducted, within a 30 kilometer corridor of the road alignment, to assess the
general impact of the project and facilitate the consultation process. The social assessment covers social
demographics of the project areas, economic development in local areas and poverty status, employment
and labor migration, gender, basic infrastructure, ethnic minority cormmunities, local needs, concerns and
suggestions for the project. The total ethnic minority population in the seven project counties is only
- 17 -



0.75% of the total population, and most of them belong to the She group. All, except one of the minority
community villages, are farther than 15 km from any of the proposed roads. The one exception is 13.5 km
from a connecting road. There are no direct adverse impacts of JHP2 on the ethnic minorities.
Nevertheless, the social assessment specifically covered some of these ethnic minority villages for possible
indirect impact and their feedback on the project. They are expected to receive direct and indirect benefits
from the project. Details of the social assessment are in Annex 14.
6.2 Participatory Approach: How are key stakeholders participating in the project?
All affected households and conmmunities have been identified through the census and inventory. Project
information was provided to affected communities and local govermments through newspapers, posters nd
public meetings. Focus group discussions and key informant interviews have been extensively conducted
with local government officials and affected communities to: i) further disseminate project information, ii)
understand people's concerns and needs, iii) consult the affected people over the resettlement and
rehabilitation strategies. People's needs and concems have been incorporated into the RAP.
Information dissemination and consultation is designed to continue during project implementation. A
resettlement information booklet, including detailed entitlements of each household, compensation and
entitlement policies and grievance procedures would be distributed to affected people prior to resettlement
implementation. The affected communities would play the key role in finalizing and implementing their
livelihood restoration programs. Both internal and independent monitoring of the resettlement program
would be conducted regularly during project implementation.
6.3 How does the project involve consultations or collaboration with NGOs or other civil society
organizations?
Academic institutions were extensively consulted during project preparation. The Resettlement Researc-i
Center of Wuhan University in Hubei Province has been contracted as the project resettlement advisor.
This center has advised and guided the project office on resettlement planning. The China Cross-Cultural
Consulting Center at Zhongshan University in Guangdong Province was contracted to carry out the social
assessment under the project. Their inputs have significantly contributed to the project design. The
Population Research Institute of Jiangxi Normal University has been contracted for the independent
monitoring of resettlement implementation.
6.4 What institutional arrangements have been provided to ensure the project achieves its social
development outcomes?
The project has designed a resettlement program that contains detailed institutional arrangements for its
implementation. The project will be monitored and the living standards of the PAPs will be evaluated oxer
the course of project implementation. Results of monitoring will be regularly reported, and, if necessary
remedial actions will be taken.
6.5 How will the project monitor performance in terms of social development outcomes?
Internal and Independent monitoring will include physical indicators of resettlement and rehabilitation, as
well as qualitative evaluation, which are indicated in the TOR for monitoring.
- 18 -



7. Safeguard Policies:
7.1 Do any of the following safeguard policies apply to the project?
Policy                                   Applicabiliry
Environmental Assessment (OP 4.01, BP 4.01, GP 4.01) _           Yes 0 No
Natural habitats (OP 4.04, BP 4.04, GP 4.04)                  0 Yes * No
Forestry (OP 4.36, GP 4.36)                                   0 Yes * No
Pest Management (OP 4.09)                                     0 Yes 0 No
Cultural Property (OPN 11.03)                                 0 Yes 0 No
Indigenous Peoples (OD 4.20)                                  0 Yes 0 No
Involuntary Resettlement (OD 4.30)                            * Yes 0 No
Safety of Dams (OP 4.37, BP 4.37)                             0 Yes * No
Projects in International Waters (OP 7.50, BP 7.50, GP 7.50)  0 Yes * No
Projects in Disputed Areas (OP 7.60, BP 7.60, GP 7.60)        0 Yes * No
7.2 Describe provisions made by the project to ensure compliance with applicable safeguard policies.
To meet the environmental safeguard policies of the Bank, JPCD hired an independent consultant
(Environmental Research Institute of MOC, Beijing) to prepare the EIA and EMP reports. The Consultant
held public consultation meetings and incorporated the comments from those meetings in the TOR for the
preparation of the EA reports. JPCD also retained the Jiangxi Provincial Cultural Relics Bureau to
investigate the presence of relics along the proposed alignment. In the final decision process, the selection
of the alignment took environmental and social issues into account. Additionally, the RAP was reviewed
by the Bank and found satisfactory.
F. Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability:
Experience from completed and ongoing Bank-financed highway projects in China demonstrates a high
borrower commitment towards implementation of the physical components of the project, which accounts
for the majority of the project cost. In addition, JPCD has shown strong commitment to the institutional
and policy objectives of the project. Toll levels and the need for their periodic review are important for: 1)
the financial viability of the expressway, 2) the ability to repay the Bank loan, and 3) the provision of
timely and needed maintenance. More generally, project sustainability would be enhanced by an early
enactment of fuel tax reform.
2. Critical Risks (reflecting the failure of critical assumptions found in the fourth column of Annex 1):
Risk                   Risk Rating            Risk Mitigation Measure
From Outputs to Objective
Government stays fully committed to        M         Maintain effective dialogue with central and
implementing the project                             provincial governments
Training program will not prove relevant   M         Careful design of program in coordination with
and managers will not apply new skills               other donors, clear selection criteria for trainees,
prior training in English language, mandatory
evaluation report on effectiveness of training
-19-



From Components to Outputs
Accurate engineering designs               N         The engineering design will be reviewed by
international experts at an early stage of the
project
Delays in land acquisition and             N         Proper training in these areas and guidmce from
resettlement                                         Bank staff will reduce this risk
Sufficient counterpart funds, materials    N         (a) Ensure sufficient financial resources are
and human resources not available on                 available through annual review of provincial
time                                                 highway revenues and expenditures
(b) MOF, MOC and the provincial
governments' strong support and JPCD's strong
commitment to the project will ensure
availability
(c) Dialogue with the provincial goverrment
and MOC
Selection of incompetent contractors       M         Careful pre-qualification of contractors in
consultation with Bank will reduce this risk
Inadequate quality of construction         M         (a) Selection of competent contractors will
reduce this risk
(b) Adequate construction supervision
arrangements will reduce this risk
Early selection of black spots to be       M         Proper training in this area and guidance from
improved based on criteria established              the Bank will reduce the risk
Proper design for improvement              M         Designs will be reviewed by intematioral
experts
Training program will not prove            M         (a) Well designed and implementable training
successful and managers will not apply               program
new skills                                           (b) Criteria for selection of trainees will. be
established and implemented
(c) English language training will be prerequisite
for any training abroad
(d) Reports on the effectiveness of training will
be prepared and reviewed regularly
(e) Provide trainees with opportunity to apply
acquired skills and tie promotions/salary
increases to effective training
Policy Reform and Highway Safety           M         (a) Bank ensures that Policy Reform and
Program will not receive large ownership             Highway Safety Program are well designed and
from JPCD and will be unsuccessful                   already enjoy large degree of ownership from
JPCD
(b) Bank will conduct workshops to ensure
sustainable implementation of programs
Overall Risk Rating                        M
Risk Rating - H (High Risk), S (Substantial Risk), M (Modest Risk), N(Negligible or Low Risk)
- 20 -



3. Possible Controversial Aspects:
No major controversy is foreseen.
G. Main Loan Conditions
1. Effectiveness Condition
Issuance of acceptable legal opinions.
2. Other [classify according to covenant types used in the Legal Agreements.]
2.1 Agreement Reached with the Government:
The borrower will ensure that the proceeds of the loan are onlent to the Beneficiary (Jiangxi Province) on
the same terms and conditions as the Bank loan, with the Beneficiary bearing the foreign exchange risk.
2.2 Agreement Reached with the Beneficiary:
a. Taihe-Ganzhou Expressway ([GE)
JPCD shall undertake, complete and furnish the Bank an analysis and recommendation for toll
rates on TGE by June 30, 2004, taking into account the findings of studies about this issue
under other Bank-financed highway projects in China, the experience with toll rates on major
roads and the results of a survey of user responses to tolls.
b. Road Improvement in Poor Counties (RIPC)
JPCD shall prepare and furnish the Bank an annual monitoring report by May 15 of each year
starting 2002, until two years after the program is completed.
c. Highway safety
JPCD shall complete under terms of reference acceptable to the Bank by December 31, 2004:
(i) a study on safety measures regarding maintenance works and (ii) a safety audit schedule;
and
By December 31, 2004, JPCD will complete the pilot program of black-spot improvements.
d. Institutional strengthening and training
* By November 15 of each year, beginning in 2001, JPCD will furnish an annual training
schedule to the Bank and carry out the program, as agreed; and
JPCD would by December 31, 2002, complete a study on the establishment of maintenance
centers under terms of reference acceptable to the Bank.
e. Environment, land acquisition and resettlement
JPCD shall carry out the EAP and RAP, in a manner satisfactory to the Bank, and furnish any
proposed revision of these plans to the Bank for its prior approval;
JPCD shall maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable them to monitor and evaluate
- 21 -



on an ongoing basis, in accordance with indicators acceptable to the Bank, the implementation
of EAP and RAP; and
Under terms of reference acceptable to the Bank, JPCD will prepare and furnish to the Bank:
(i) a quarterly report and an annual environmental monitoring report through the period of
implementation, with the first report submitted by February 15, 2002; (ii) by May 15, and
November 15 of each year, starting November 15, 2001 until two years after completion of the
Project, an internal resettlement report prepared by agencies of Jiangxi responsible for
resettlement activities on the implementation and results of such activities during the preceding
six-month period; and (iii) by February 15 and August 15 of each year, starting February 15,
2002 until two years after completion of the Project, an external resettlement report prepar-d
by an independent entity acceptable to the Bank, on the implementation and results of the
resettlement activities during the same six-month period referred to in clause (ii) above.
f. Reporting, monitoring and auditing
Using guidelines acceptable to the Bank, JPCD shall prepare and submit to the Bank:
* A monthly progress report on the civil works of TGE;
* A quarterly progress report on implementation of all project components;
* An annual monitoring report, in a form satisfactory to the Bank, that assesses the degree to
which implementation and development goals were achieved for all components, by February
15, of each year, beginning in 2002 through 2006;
* An implementation completion report, in a format acceptable to the Bank, within six months of
the closing date of the Bank loan; and
* Audited accounts for the project, statements of expenditures and special accounts prepared by
independent auditors acceptable to the Bank, within six months of the close of each fiscal year.
H. Readiness for Implementation
1 1. a) The engineering design documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start
of project implementation.
[O 1. b) Not applicable.
Z 2. The procurement documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start of
project implementation.
0 3. The Project Implementation Plan has been appraised and found to be realistic and of satisfactory
quality.
O 4. The following items are lacking and are discussed under loan conditions (Section G):
- 22 -



1. Compliance with Bank Policies
1 1. This project complies with all applicable Bank policies.
OI 2. The following exceptions to Bank policies are recommended for approval. The project complies with
all other applicable Bank policies.
ov2,                                                 CLA. 
iro Kakaj~6                  Jitendra N. Bajpai                Yukon Huang
Team Leader                       Sector Manager                     Country Manager
- 23 -



Annex 1: Project Design Summary
CHINA: Second Jiangxi Highway Project
!   ;0: ; |g   :  ; tli 7Key Performance       m     
Hierarchy Of Objectives          Indicators          Monitoring & Evaluation    Critical Assumptions
Sector-related CAS Goal:   Sector Indicators:        Sector) country reports:    (from Goal to Bank Mission)
Enhance China's economic                                                        Increased economic activity
growth through continuing                                                        and accessibility -o all areas
infrastructure development to                                                   in the province enhance
alleviate capacity bottlenecks                                                   opportunities in all sectors,
and contribute to sustainable
and equitable development
Project Development       Outcome / Impact            Project reports:           (from Objective to Goal)
Objective:                 Indicators:
Provide a more efficient and   Time reduction on      ADT and speed on the       Govemment stays fully
effective transport       inter-provincial trips via a    Expressway and existing  committed to implementing
infrastructure in support of   more efficient highway  national roads            the project
social and economic
development in Jiangxi     GOVIA in the project       Tonnage of goods           Counterpart funds not
Province                   influence areas           transportation to coastal   over-stretched anil
provinces                  maintenance is sustained
Output from each           Output Indicators:         Project reports:           (from Outputs to Objective)
Component:
1. Approximately 130 km of  1. I Travel time reduction in  Project performance   Govemment stays fully
Taihe-Ganzhou Expressway  the TGE corridor            monitoring reports         committed to implementing
(TGE) constructed          1.2 Average daily traffic on                         the project
new expressway and exiting
road
2. Approximately 180 km of  2.1. Average daily traffic on   Project performance  Training program will prove
existing roads in low-income  rural roads in affected area    monitoring reports  relevant and managers will
areas (upgraded/improved)                                                        apply new skills
2.2. Number of days roads are
closed to traffic reduced
3. Traffic safety on existing   3.1. Number of traffic  Project performance
network improved           accident (fatalities and serious monitoring reports
injuries) reduced
4. Technical and management 4.1 Increased maintenance    Quarterly progress and annual
capacity of JPCD and its   work by independent        monitoring
related agencies strengthened  companies
4.2 Number of staff trained
domestically and overseas
- 24 -



Key Perfornance
Hierarchy of Objectives         Indicators          Monitoring & Evaluation    Critical Assumptions
Project Components I      Inputs: (budget for each    Project reports:        (from Components to
Sub-components:           component)                                          Outputs)
1. Construction of expressway US$ 483 million       Accomplishment of inputs    Accurate engineering designs
and interconnecting roads                           will be reviewed bi-annually
1.1 Taihe-Ganzhou                                  during supervision missions   No delays in land acquisition
Expressway (130km)                                                           and resettlement
1.2 Interconnecting Roads                          Project entity will arrange for
(IR)                                               quarterly progress reports for Sufficient counterpart funds,
1.3 Equipment for: (i)                             Bank review               materials and human
construction quality control                                                 resources available on time
and environmental
monitoring; (ii) operation                                                   Selection of competent
and maintenance of TGE;                                                      contractors
(iii) maintenance of the
provincial road network                                                      Adequate quality of
1.4 Construction supervision                                                 construction
services for TGE, and IR
1.5 Land acquisition and
resettlement
2. Road Improvement in Poor US$ 46 million
Counties
2.1 About 180 km roads in
low-income areas
3. Highway Safety Component US$ 2 million                                     Early selection of black spots
Black spot improvements                                                     to be improved based on the
criteria established
Proper designs for
improvement
4. Institutional          US$ 3 million                                        Training program will prove
Strengthening/Capacity                                                        successful and managers will
Building                                                                       apply new skills
4.1 Studies/technical
assistance in highway                                                        Policy Reform and Highway
maintenance and highway                                                      Safety Program will receive
safety                                                                      large ownership from JPCD
4.2 Staff training programs                                                  and will be successful
5. Front-end Fee          US$ 2 million
-25 -



Annex 1-1
Key Performance and Development Indicators
Attainment of Project        .        .            2000           2003        2005 Benchmark:         2008
Objectives         Montorng Indicators    Baseline        Benchmark   1lt operational year   Benchniark
Provide a more       Travel time reduction in the
efficient and cost   TGE Corridor (min.)                                             140              14(
effective transport  ADT on TGE (veh./day)
infrastructure         Taihe-Suichuan                                              15,400           19,20(0
Suichuan-Tangcun                                           14,200           17,80(
TanLgcun-TanL,kou                                          15.200           19.10C
ADT on existing NH 105
Taihe-Suichuan           7,000        14,300                4,300            5,70(
Suichuan -Tangcun        5,800        13,200                 1,900           2,60t
Tanecun-Tankou           10.300       14.100                6.200            7.40C
Accident rates on existing
NH 105 (times/km)
Taihe-Suichuan              1.6          1.9                   1.3             0.8
Suichuan-Tangcun            3.7          4.1                  2.5              IL(1
Tangcun-Tankou              2.3          2.7                   1.8              0.8
Routine maintenance work
by independent companies                                          5               1(
ADT on roads under
RIPC (veh. /day)
Suichuan - Cheziao       2,000         2,800                3,200            3,700
YuTian - Xingjiang         570           700                  800            1,100
Shashibu - Wangmodu        760         1,800                2,000            2,300
Tani ianz - Taneshan       940         1.300                 1.600           2.000
Number of closed-days
under RIPC
Suichuan - Cheziao           0             0                    0                0
YuTian - Xingjiang          30            50                   15               15
Shashibu - Wangmodu         20            30                   10               IC
Taniiang - Tangshu           0             0                    0                0
Tonnage of goods
transported to coastal       122          164                   197             262
_rovinces (1000ton/vr)
GOVIA in the project
influence area (million
yuan)                      4,644         5,689                6,514            8,911
Taihe county               452           554                  634              867
Wan'an county              621           761                  871             1,192
Suichuan county           1,170        1,433                 1,641           2,245
Nankan city
Implementation Indicators
FY 2002        FY 2003       FY 2004  .     FY 2005       FY 206
% of civil works completed on TGE            5            35             65             90            100
% of highways improved/rehabilitated         5             10            30             80            100
under RIPC
Highway safety: % of improved black-         0             0             30             60            100
spots
Number of person-months of completed         30           50             80             90            100
training                                . __ .
- 26 -



Annex 2: Detailed Project Description
CHINA: Second Jiangxi Highway Project
By Component:
Project Component 1 - US$447.20 million
Highway Capacity Expansion
Construction of the Taihe-Ganzhou Expressway (TGE): US$ 398.1 million
1.    Construction of the 130 km Taihe - Ganzhou Expressway (TGE) is the project's main component.
The proposed TGE is a section of the Beijing-Shenzhen expressway traversing through Jiangxi province
from north to south via Nanchang and part of NTHS. From the Hubei/Anhui border in the north, the
section linking Jiujiang with Nanchang was the main component of the first Jiangxi Highway Project. The
Nanchang-Changfu section has also been completed and opened to traffic. The section from Changfu to
Taihe will be locally financed and open to traffic before TGE. All these sections are located in flat or
slightly hilly terrain while the TGE part is located in mountainous areas. The TGE will serve Ganzhou, the
second largest city in the province. Jiangxi is much poorer than the surrounding provinces, and the
southem part of Jiangxi is the poorest part of the province. The TGE will substantially reduce travel
distance and time to Guangdong province, bypassing Ganzhou and connecting with NR323 to Shaoguan
(the main city of the northem Guangdong) and NR105 to Shenzhen.
2.    The TGE is designed according to MOC's standards, with 2x2 lanes, a design speed of 100 km/h
and a subgrade width of 26 m. It includes two long tunnels totaling 3,320 m, 4 interchanges, 4 toll
stations, 2 service areas and 2 rest areas. It also includes one management and maintenance center near
Ganzhou and two monitoring centers. The TGE will operate as a closed toll expressway system. It will
also include electrical and mechanical facilities for tolling, monitoring, telecommunications and lighting.
Interconnecting roads: US$ 33.4 million
3.    The component includes three Class 2 interconnecting roads totaling about 49 km and linking TGE
with Wanan, Suichuan and Ganzhou. With these connecting roads, the TGE will be well linked with the
highway network in southern Jiangxi.
Equipment: US$ 6.9 million
4.    Equipment would be used to: (a) maintain national and provincial highways (including
expressways); (b) support laboratories and quality control work; and (c) strengthen JPCD and its relevant
agencies and institutions. The equipment list, which includes cost estimates, is available in the project file.
Supervision of construction: US$ 8.8 million
5.    Based on experience gained from on-going Bank-financed highway projects in China, a combined
team of local engineers, technicians and other personnel and institutional consultants would be created to
supervise the construction of the TGE. The international engineers would be integrated with the
supervisory organization and would help establish supervision standards and procedures at all levels,
including on-site inspections and laboratory testing. They would also train local staff through formal
sessions and on-the-job training. Four international experts (required for about 130 person-months) are
- 27 -



envisaged to supervise construction, of which 4 person-months will be for training and 10 for
contingencies. To supervise 9 ICB civil works contracts, one ICB contract for E & M facilities, and NCB
contracts for buildings, nine resident engineer's offices will be created with 125 staff. Estimated domestic
supervision inputs would be about 5,100 person-months.
Project Component 2 - US$39.60 million
Road Improvement in Poor Counties (RIPC)
6.    A road improvement program has been designed to help people in poor counties increase their
incomes through improving road access to product markets, employment opportunities, social services and
facilities. This program includes roads totaling about 180 kilometers in length, of which 81 km will be
Class 2 highways and 99 km will be Class 3. In the long run, these road improvements would provide the
poor in these counties the opportunity to increase their incomes and overall social welfare.
7.    Based on agreed criteria, JPCD screened 40 road sections and selected 8 sections with a total
length of 180 Km. These 8 road sections are located in four counties, three of which are designated poor
counties. The EIRR ranges between 14.8 and 33.1 %.
8.    Implementation. The road sections will be packaged into eight contracts, with an average length
of about 23 km and a total cost of about US$ 46.3 million, of which the Bank loan would finance 30 0Ao.
All contracts will utilize the procurement method of national competitive bidding (NCB). A group will be
established within JPHAB to supervise implementation; this group will be assisted by county level
subgroups who will investigate and supervise road construction in their areas. The sections will be
improved from 2002 through 2005. The details are shown in Table A below.
9.    Monitoring and performance indicators. The monitoring indicators would include the following:
Average daily traffic in MTE;
Availability and cost of bus services from villages to townships;
Number of days the road is closed and not available for use;
Number of children attending schools in other villages or towns;
Number of people able to visit hospitals and clinics in other towns; and
Increase or decrease in the County Per Capita GOVAI.
Monitoring values will be estimated. The Bank and JPCD will review the implementation of the program
during the yearly supervision missions, and results will be compared with those agreed in the previous year.
On the basis of each year's results, the program for the next year will be agreed upon.
- 28 -



Annex 2, Table A: Road Improvement in Poor Counties (RIPC)
Length of             Length After  Class                  Cost
N    Hi2hwav   Existing    L          Completion    After    Construction  Estimate
No         Highway               (Km)          Project  Period        (million
(Km)             _                      _
I    *Suichuan    PH338                  Suichuan-  26           11                      63
Hengdian
84                                           2003- 2005
2    *Suichuan    PH245                             53           111                     42
CheZhiao
3    *Suichuan                           Yutian-    26                                   50
CH630      51         Yaqian                  III       2002 -2004
4    *Suichuan                           Yaqian-   20                                    50
Xiniiangy
5    Ganzhou                             Shashibu-  14                                   50
PH234      30                                 1i        2002- 2004
6    * Ganxuan                           Niuaibu    12                                   50
Tangjiang
7    Nankang                             ilangbu    15                                   43
PH339      30         Hangbu                   11       2003 -2005
8    'Shangyou m195mHangbu-   14                                                         42
Total_ __  __   _ __19__    __  __ _180                                  _   _ _ _ _   39
* State designated poor county.
Project Component 3 - US$ 2.50 million
Highway Safety Component
10.    Introduction. JPCD and its related organizations are concerned about highway safety. In 1999,
2, 800 people were killed on Jiangxi roads. If appropriate action is not taken, the number of people killed
in road accidents is likely to accelerate in the future. The accident rate is about 3-5 times higher than that
of Western European and North American countries. The situation is already serious, and due to rapidly
increasing motorization and vehicle use, highway safety is growing more serious as time passes.
11.    In Jiangxi Province, as in other Provinces, responsibility for highway safety rests with JPCD and
the Traffic Police. JPCD is responsible for all aspects of road related measures, while the Traffic Police
handle driver and pedestrian education, law enfofcement, traffic surveillance and administration. Under the
project, the road safety unit within the PO has been established and will act as the primary liaison unit to
implement various safety enhancement elements included in the project, with the cooperation of various
agencies involved in road safety.
12.    Proposed program. The Traffic Safety component includes: i) Road Safety at Roadwork sites; ii)
Road Safety Audit checklists; and iii) a Pilot Project on the identification and remedy of hazardous
- 29 -



locations, black spots.
13.   Road Safety at Roadwork sites. In order to organize roadwork under tolerable and economically
acceptable conditions to road users and workers, the proposed study on "road safety at roadwork sites" will
include development of a manual for road safety at roadwork sites during construction and maintenance of
roads.
14.    Road Safety Audit checklists. The improvement of road safety conditions starts with good
planning and design of expressways, other new roads and interconnecting roads. Therefore, the
development of Road Safety Audit checklists would consist of a series of checklists and guidelines that
explain how to check highway designs to ensure that they do not contribute towards the occurrence of
accidents.
15.   Pilot Project on identification and remedy of hazardous locations, black spots. A major rcad
safety action is the identification and improvement of hazardous spots on existing roads. The Nanchang-
Jiujiang Expressway has been chosen as a pilot project. The program covers: identification of hazardous
locations, analysis, development of a remedial program, implementation and follow up. Under the project,
USS 2.3 million is allocated for engineering solutions of black spots.
Project Component 4 - US$2.10 million
Institutional Stren-thenine/ Capacity Buildin2
16.   The strategic objectives of institutional strengthening are to restructure the institutional framework
in such a way that it is able to respond rapidly to the changing economic and competitive environment in
China. While the size and scope of administrative reform of the highway sector in Jiangxi is still uncertain,
the project will provide the necessary TA to assist JPCD to have the readiness and competence to meet the
demands of reforms as they occur. The institutional strengthening component will cover the above aspects
in a pilot way and include the necessary training in a prioritized way. This component includes: i) studies
to exarnine organizational changes, ii) study on the feasibility of and the establishment of at least one
competitive maintenance center, iii) provision of modem equipment for various institutes, environmental
protection and maintenance, and iv) the related training programs at home and abroad.
17.   Training. In a rapidly developing country such as China, training of personnel at all levels is
essential; given the ongoing Policy Reform in the Transportation sector, a new cadre of people will need to
be trained. In addition to the Design/ Research institutes and technical schools under JPCD, all need
technical improvements introducing modem methods and systems and equipment. Therefore, training will
be systematic. The training program is built upon the institutional analysis carried out. The training
program includes new subjects such as road traffic safety, environment protection and quality control:
Study tour Abroad: 27.5 person/month (8 subjects)
Training Abroad: 71 person/month (9 subjects)
Domestic Training: 372 person/month (14 subjects)
18.   Minor Organization structural changes. The Project Office will be furnished with some
specialists in road traffic safety. These specialists would have a controller function and advise the Director
of the Project Office in matters concerning road traffic safety from the design stage until the project haw
been finished. The road safety specialist would also be responsible for managing the execution of road
safety activities under the project.
- 30 -



19.   Establishment of Maintenance Centers. In order to create some competition in the highway
sector, JPCD/ JPHAB should start development of "Maintenance Centers." Under the project, a study will
be undertaken, by December 2002, to detennine the organizational and structural requirements of
independent competitive maintenance centers, and a pilot "center" will be established during the project
implementation period. The development would include the following steps: (i) create competition within
the highway sector, by establishing a number of internal Maintenance Centers and giving them manpower,
know-how and equipment needed; (ii) these "companies" should develop their competence and could also
bid in competition on various maintenance activities; (iii) successful "centers" could earn more money than
the less successful ones; and (iv) after a certain period of time, the most successful "centers" could become
independent companies and establish themselves on the market.
20.   Equipment for institutional strengthening, environment protection, and road maintenance.
This sub-component is discussed under Equipment above.
Land Acauisition and Resettlement Component - US$42.3 million
21.   The land acquisition and resettlement component is discussed in detail in Annex 15.
Implementation Schedule
22.   Table B shows the implementation program for the project components.
- 31 -



Annex 2, Table B: Overall Implementation Schedule
2000              2001              2002              2003              2004              2(105         2006
GENERAL PROCUREMENT NOICE
(11/30/2000)
Works
1) Taihe-Ganzhou Expressway
- Civil Works                                                 I~T
- Supply and Installation                                         |
- Building                                                                                                  -
2) Interconnecting Road                      L       I                                                                              iI
3) Road Improvement
- First Package
- Second Package
4) Black Spot Improvements
Supervision of Construction
- Taihe-Ganzhou Highway                        i
Procurement of Equipment
- Maintenance for National
and Provincial Highways
- Laboratories
- IST
Training
Studies
- Highway Maintenance
- Highway Safety
Preoualiflication/oreoaration of biddino documents/TOR             Co>nstructon/suDervision/delivervlexecution of studies
l     Biddina orocess/comDetition amona consultants           l:.        Defects liabilitv oenod
- 32 -



Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs
CHINA: Second Jiangxi Highway Project
Million Yuan                        Miflion USS
Domestic       Foreign        Total      Domestic  Foreign      Total
1. Works
a) Expressway
i) Civil Works          1,579.51        1,119.26     2,698.77     190.30     134.85    325.15
ii) E & M Facilities       13.71          54.78        68.49       1.65       6.60      8.25
iii) Buildings             44.12           18.92       63.04       5.32       2.28      7.60
b) Interconnecting Roads     165.89          71.05       236.94      19.99       8.56     28.55
c) RIPC                      196.67          84.25       280.92      23.70      10.15     33.85
d) Black Spots Improvement    11.62           4.98        16.60       1.40       0.60      2.00
Subtotal                  2,011.52        1,353.24     3,364.76    242.36     163.04    405A0
2. Supervision of Construction  49.83           18.43        68.26       6.00       2.22      8.22
3. Equipment                     16.18          37.77        53.95       1.95       4.55      6.50
4. Training                      0.66           12.45        13.11       0.08       1.50      1.58
5. Studies                       4.73            0.00         4.73       0.57       0.00      0.57
Total                     2,082.92        1,421.89    3,504.81     250.96     171.31    422.27
6. Physical (10%)              205.09          131.39       336.48      24.71      15.83     40.54
7. Price                       142.08           95.20       237.28      17.12      11.47     28.59
Total Contingencies         347.17          226.59       573.76      41.83     27.30      69.13
8. Land Acquisition
and Resettlement           350.96           0.00       350.96      42.28       0.00     42.28
9. Front-end Fee                 0.00           16.60        16.60       0.00       2.00      2.00
Grand Total               2,781.05        1,665.08     4,446.13    335.07     200.61    535.68
- 33 -



Annex 4: Cost Benefit Analysis Summary
CHINA: Second Jiangxi Highway Project
Summary of Benefits and Costs:
See paragraph #11 below.
Main Assumptions:
See details and tables in paragraphs #1, #5 and #6 below.
Sensitivity analysis / Switching values of critical items:
See paragraphs #12, #13, #14, #t16 and Table B below.
1.    Preface. The economic evaluation focuses on: a) the Taihe - Ganzhou Expressway (TGE), which
accounts for 84% of civil works project costs, b) three interconnecting roads (7% of civil works projezt
costs) and c) four RIPC roads (9% of civil works project costs). The expressway was subdivided into three
homogeneous sections, which were analyzed independently as well as part of the entire project. The
following table presents each section length and construction costs including physical and price
contingencies.
Section                                 Length       Cost
__(kml    (M Yuan)
Taihe - Suichuan                          45.4      1,127
Suichuan - Ganzhou                        68.6      2,226
Ganzhou - Tankou                          14.2       371
Subtotal (Expressway) I128.L   3.724
Wan'an                                    13.9       107
Suichuan                                  20.6       103
Ganzhou                                   14.2       109
Subtotal (Interconnecting roads)          48.7       319
Suichuan- Chezhiao                        79.0       104
Yutian - Xinjiang                         46.0       100
Shashipu - Wangmudu                       26.3       100
Tangjiang - Dongshan                      28.7        85
Subtotal (RIPC)                          180.0  L -L39.0.
Total                                    356.8      4.432
A. Expressway Econoniic Evaluation
2.    Benefits and Beneficiaries. The TGE is an important component of the north-south transport
corridor, part of the skeleton that makes the planned "Big Cross" transport network in Jiangxi Provinc-.
The project will satisfy the needs of accelerating economic development, improving the investment
environment, and meeting the requirements of rapid traffic growth in Jiangxi Province. The existing
north-south Class II national highway NH No.105 has the following characteristics: a) heavy mixed traffic
that is reaching maximum capacity; b) poor physical condition; and c) an alignment that passes through
densely populated villages and towns, causing traffic congestion and frequent traffic accidents. The table
below lists the towns being served by NH No.105 along the expressway route.
- 34 -



Towns Along NHNo.105 in 1999 in Ji'an and Ganzhou
Prefecture
NH      NH No. 105
No.105
Length      Length
County or      Population Number in Region Through Towns
City            (million) of Towns  (km)         (k!rn
Taihe County      0.51       3       42           13
Wanan County      0.28       3        30          10
Shuichuan         0.51       3       48           3
County
Gan County        0.53       2        30          12
Ganzhou Citv      0.78       3        29          19
Total             2.61       14      178          57
3.    The major quantifiable project benefits are vehicle operating costs, travel time and road accident
costs savings. Compared with the existing parallel road (NH No. 105), the TGE will have a shorter length
(26% distance savings), an improved surface condition that enhances riding comfort, no congestion and no
pedestrian, bicycle or non-motorized vehicle traffic interference. Therefore, most long distance traffic and
some local traffic is expected to diverge from the existing road to the TGE. Because many users will use
the TGE, current congestion levels on the existing road will be reduced. Thus, motorized and
non-motorized users who continue to use the existing road will also benefit from the project. Other
quantified project benefits are generated and induced traffic as a result of lower transport costs and
increased industrial and agricultural production. From a conservative evaluation, other non-quantified
project benefits are generated traffic on the existing road and positive effects on non-motorized traffic using
the existing road. Project benefits were estimated using the Highways Design and Maintenance Standards
Model (HDM-Ill) road user cost equations. For diverted traffic from the existing road, benefits were taken
to be the reduction on total transport costs; and for generated traffic, benefits were taken to be one-half of
the unit benefits of the diverted traffic, assuming traffic would have developed in proportion to the
reduction in transport costs.
4.    Data Collection. A preliminary evaluation compared two to three alignment altematives, on parts
of the expressway, based on economic, engineering, influence on economic development, environment and
network system considerations. The recommended alignment was then subdivided into three homogeneous
sections, for the final economic evaluation, taking into account different traffic levels and construction
costs. Table A presents the characteristics of each section. The TGE sections will be constructed as 2x2
lanes with a design speed of 100km/hour and an average financial construction cost of 28 Yuan million per
kmn (economic costs being 88% of financial costs eliminating taxes, custom duties, price contingencies, and
interest payments during construction). The TGE will be designed according to MOC's expressway
standards, with access restricted to normal motor traffic and agricultural tractor and non-motorized traffic
excluded.
5.    Data was collected on vehicle fleet characteristics, utilization and unit costs. Economic costs were
derived from financial costs by deducting taxes and duties, and the value of time was estimated to be 2.2
Yuan/hour, calculated on the basis of the annual income of the region. Direct accident benefits were
computed assuming that, a) the accident rate on the existing road NH No. 105 is 200 accidents per 100
million vehicle-km, b) accidents on the expressway will reduce to 40 accidents per 100 million vehicle-kIn,
and c) the direct cost per accident is 8,00OYuan. On NH No. 105, the average rates for road accident
- 35 -



injuries and fatalities are 55 and 36 per 100 million vehicle-km respectively; and, for example, on the
Changjiu Expressway, opened to traffic in 1994 in the north of Jiangxi Province, the average rates for road
accident injuries and fatalities are 17 and 6 per 100 million vehicle-km respectively. This comparison
indicates that there will be a substantial reduction in injuries and fatalities with the construction of TGE.
The table below presents the basic vehicle characteristics and typical road user costs.
Vehicle Characteristics and Road User Costs
Small         Light Medium  Heavy Articulated
Buses  Buses Trucks Trucks Trucks    Trucks
Vehicle Characteristics
Gross vehicle weight (tons)  2.50   8.00   4.00    8.00  17.00     28.00
Number of passengers(#)        5      35      0      0      0         0
Service life (years)          10    10       10      8      8        11
Kilometers driven per year  25000  60000  40000  50000 50000      50000
(Ian)
Hours driven per year (hours)   1000   2800   2000   2000  2320    2320
Economic Costs
New vehicleprice (Yuan)   108000 310000 105000 210000285000    310000
New tire price (Yuan)        450    900    720   1260  2060        2060
Maintenance labor             2.4    3.5    4.7    7.5  11.8        19.3
(Yuan/hour)
Driver wages (Yuan/hour)      3.5    3.5    3.5    3.5   3.5         3.5
Time costs (Yuan/hour)        2.0    2.0    2.0    2.0   2.0         2.0
Fuel price (Yuan/liter)       2.3    2.2    2.2    2.2   2.2         2.2
Lubricants price (Yuan/liter)  4.0    4.0    4.0    4.0   4.0        4.0
Typical Road User Costs (Yuan per vehicle-kilometer)
New Expressway               1.04   2.55   0.87    1.64   2.76      3.34
Class 2 Road (1,250 AADT)    1.33   3.14   1.14   2.11   3.49       4.27
Class2Road(5,OOOAADT)        1.34   3.16   1.14   2.11   3.49       4.28
Class 2 Road (10,000 AADT)    1.37   3.27   1.16   2.13   3.50      4.29
Class 2 Road (20,000 AADT)    1.45   3.55   1.19   2.18   3.53      4.32
Class 2 Road (30.000 AADT)    1.63   4.09   1.28    2.32   3.64     4.44
6.    Projected Traffic. Origin-destination (OD) surveys were conducted and provided the basis for
estimating diverted and generated traffic. The surveys revealed the following: (a) average annual daily
traffic (AADT) was around 8,000 vehicles per day in 1998, (b) trucks constitute about 63% of AADT, (c)
current truck speeds are about 37 km/hour on NH No.105 and (d) the traffic during the peak hour is about
10% of the average daily traffic. The following table presents, for each section, the estimated motorized
traffic on the existing road in 2000 and 2005 and the expected diverted and generated traffic on the
expressways at opening.
NH No.105  NH           Diverted to    Generated on
in 2000    No.105 in   TGE in 2005   TGE in 2005
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ 2 0 0 5   _ _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _ _
Taihe - Suichuan             8,726      11,617       7,407         1,743
Suichuan - Ganzhou           7,828      10,367       7,187         1,555
Ganzhou - Tankou            12,227  1  16,445        6,678         2,467
- 36 -



7.    Based on OD surveys and considering that tolls to be charged on the TGE will be at the same level
as those charged for other expressways in the province currently, diverted traffic from the existing road
was estimated to be on average 65% and generated traffic on average 15% of the normal traffic on the
existing road. Although a railway line runs between Nanchang and Ganzhou, no traffic diversion from the
railway to the expressway was taken into account because the railway carries mainly long-distance bulk
freight. Taking into consideration the economic development and traffic growth in the past and based on
the expected economic growth in the influenced project area in the future, traffic is projected to increase on
average at the following annual rates: a) for the period 2000 - 2004, 9% for buses and 6% for trucks, b) for
the period 2005 - 2014, 8% for buses and 6% for trucks and c) for the period 2015 - 2023, 6% for buses
and 4% for trucks. The traffic on NHNo.105 in the project area has increased, on average, 11% per year
during the period 1990 - 1998.
8.    Results. The following table presents the resulting economic intemal rate of return (EIRR) and net
present value (NPV), at 12% discount rate, in Yuan million, obtained for each TGE section and the entire
TGE. The entire TGE EIRR is 19.2% and none of the sections has an EIRR below 12.0%. The TGE
section with lower EIRR is Suichuan - Ganzhou, which has the highest construction costs due to the hilly
terrain and 2 tunnels with total length of 3,320 m. The expressway section with higher EIRR is Taihe -
Suichuan, which has the highest distance savings (34%) and lower construction costs due to flat terrain.
Section                         Econonic             Net
Intemal           Present
Rate of Return       Value
(%)         (M Yuan at 12 %)
Taihe - Suichuan                   23.1              1348
Suichuan - Ganzhou                 17.2              1028
Ganzhou- Tankou                    18.1              237
Entire TGE                         19.2              2613
B. Interconnecting Roads and RIPC Roads Economic Evaluation
9.    Interconnecting and RIPC Roads. In order to make the TGE connect rationally with other roads
in the area, three interconnecting roads are included as part of the project. Also, four RIPC roads are part
of the project as a separate component. The table below presents the main characteristics of each road and
Table A presents the remaining characteristics. All these roads are existing Class IV or unclassified roads
in poor condition, some of them unpaved, that will be rehabilitated and upgraded to paved Class III or
Class II standard. It is estimated that the average traffic at opening will be around 3,600 AADT for the
interconnecting roads and 1,900 AADT for the RRIP roads.
- 37 -



Road                      Leneth  Current  Traffic   New    Costs
(km)    Class    2004       Class  (M
Yuan)
Interconnecting road
Wan'an                    13.9     U/IV      1,888    II       107
Suichuan                  20.6     U/IV      3,531    II       103
Ganzhou                   14.2    IV         5,336    II       109
RIPC
Suichuan - Chezhiao       79.0     U/IV      2,982    HIII/I   104
Yutian - Xinjiang         46.0     U         716       III     100
Shashipu - Wangmudu    26.3        U         2,073    II       100
Tangjiang - Dongshan      28.7     U        11671     II        85
10.    Results. The following table presents the resulting EIRR and NPV (at 12% discount rate in Yuan
million) obtained for each road. The main project benefits are the reduction in vehicle operating costs and
travel time costs due to improved road pavement and road condition, wider road width and the assurance of
all weather passability of unsealed roads.
Road                         Economic Internal      Net Present Value
Rate of Retum (%+          (M Yuan)
Interconnecting road
Wan'an                              18.9                   62
Suichuan                           24.4                    119
Ganzhou                             33.7                   260
RIPC
Suichuan - Chezhiao                33.1                   236
Yutian - Xinjiang                   14.8                   22
Shashipu - Wangmudu                20.4                    74
Tangjiang - Dongshan                18.2                   43
C. Overall Project Economic Evaluation
11.    The overall project, which includes the TGE sections, the interconnecting roads, and RIPC roads,
yields a NPV of 3,428 Yuan million and an EIRR of 20.0%. The modified EIRR is 15.5%, assuming a
12% financing and reinvestment rate. The following table shows net benefits distribution, wherein cars and
buses will receive 39% of the roject net benefits and trucks 61%.
Net          Modified
Benefits  EIRR     EIRR
(M Yuan)   (%) '0/6
Society                  3,428  20.0%     15.5%
Road Agency             -3,371
Road Users               6,799
Net Benefits    -              Net Benefits
Benefits Percent Cars & Buses  Trucks   Total Cars & Buses Trucks Total
(M Yuan)   ()   (M Yuan) (M Yuan) (M Yuan)     (%)  (%M  (%)
Road User                6,799  100"/o     2,631   4,168   6,799     390/o  61%  100%
Expressway diverted traffic  5.695   83%
Expressway generated traffic  647   10%
Existing roads traffic    392    6%
Road safety                65    1%
- 38 -



12.    Sensitivity Analysis. Table B presents results of the sensitivity analysis, that shows: (a) if
construction costs increase by 25% and user benefits drop by 25%, the project EIRR is 14.1%, which
indicates that, even under this pessimistic scenario, the project is justified; (b) if the traffic diversion drops
by 25% and 50%, the project EIRR reduces to 17.2% and 13.6% respectively; (c) if accident benefits are
eliminated, the project EIRR reduces to 19.9%; (d) if time savings are eliminated, the project EIRR reduces
to 18.2%; (e) if generated traffic benefits are eliminated, the project EIRR reduces to 18.7%; and (f) if a 6
year construction period, the project EIRR reduces to 16.2%.
13.    Switching Values Analysis. Table B presents the results of the switching values analysis. For the
entire project, construction costs have to be multiplied by a factor of 2.0 or user benefits have to be
multiplied by a factor of 0.5 to yield a project EIRR of 12.0%. For each expressway section, the
construction cost multiplier factor varies from 1.6 to 2.6 and the net user benefit multiplier factor varies
from 0.4 to 0.6. The analysis shows that there is a good allowance for possible construction cost increases
or net benefit decreases. One can state that to yield a project EIRR of 12.0%, construction costs would
have to be multiplied by around 2, or net benefits divided by around 2.
14.    Risk Analysis. A risk analysis was done considering the uncertainty of the main input parameters,
the utilization of triangle distributions, and 400 what-if scenarios. For construction costs and existing
traffic on NH No.105, the most likely value was set to the estimated value, the minimum possible value
was set to 80% of the estimated value, and the maximum possible value was set to 120% of the estimated
value. These assumptions indicate that there is a 50% probability that the actual values will be lower or
higher than the estimated value and there is 74% probability that the actual values will be between 90 and
110% of the estimated value. For the diverted traffic, generated traffic and traffic growth rate inputs, the
most likely value was set to the estimated value, the minimum possible value was set to 50% of the
estimated value, and the maximum possible value was set to 110% of the estimated value. These
assumptions indicate that there is an 83% probability that the actual values will be lower than the estimated
value, 17% probability that they will higher than the estimated value, and 62% probability that they will be
between the estimated value and 75% of the estimated value.
15.    Table C presents the resulting frequency histogram graph and cumulative frequency distribution
graph for the entire project EIRR. Table B presents, for all sections, the resulting mean EIRR, EIRR
standard deviation, probability (in percent) that the EIRR will be lower than 12.0%, and an assessment of a
worst scenario, most likely scenario, and best scenario. In this study, the worst scenario EIRR is defined as
one which has a 10% probability that the actual EIRR will be lower than it (10O percentile), the best
scenario EIRR is defined as one which has a 90% probability that the actual EIRR will be lower than it
(90% percentile), and the most likely scenario is defined as one which has a 50% probability that the actual
EIRR will be lower than it (50% percentile). The risk analysis shows that all sections and the entire project
have a most likely EIRR greater than 12.0%. The entire project E[RR is 14.7% for the worst scenario,
17.3% for the most likely scenario, and 19.7% for the best scenario.
16.    Conclusion. The single point estimation and sensitivity analysis indicates that the EIRRs are
greater than 12.0% for all sections and for the entire project. The risk analysis indicates that the most
likely EIRRs are also greater than 12.0% for all sections and for the entire project and that the probability
that the entire project EIRR will be lower than 12.0% is zero percent. Therefore, the project is
economically well-justified.
- 39-



Annex 4, Table A: Expressway Sections and Other Roads Data
TGE                Interconnecting Roads                  RIPC
Section name                        Taihe  Suichuan Ganzhou                             Suichuan  Yutian  Shashipu I angjiang
Suichuan  Ganzhou   Tankou Wanan Suichuan Ganzhou Chezhiao Xinjiang Wangmud Dongshan
u
Financial cost (Yuan million)       1127      2226       371      107     103      109       104     100       100        85
Economic cost (Yuan million)         992       1959      327      94       91       96       92       88        88       75
Project length (km)                  45.4      68.6      14.2    13.9    20.6    14.2       79.0    46.0      26.3      28.7
Projectsubgradewidth(m)              26.0  26.0/24.5     26.0    12.0    12.0   17/12  12.0/7.5      7.5      12.0      12.0
Project road class               Express.  Express.  Express.      11       11       11    11/111    III        11        11
Project average gradients (%)         1.8       2.3       2.0     2.6      2.8      1.8      3.6     4.0       5.5       2.6
Project average roughness (IRI)       3.0       3.0       3.0     4.0      4.0      4.0      4.0     7.0       4.0       4.0
Existing road length (km)            69.0      87.9      16.1    18.5    24.1    20.0       84.0    51.3      28.4      29.4
Existing road subgrade width (m)     12.0       8.5      12.0     7.5      7.0    12.0       6.0  5.5-6.0   4.6-8.5   6.0-8.5
Existing road class                    11        11        II   U/IV     univ       IV     u/IV       u          u       IV
Existing road gradients (%)           3.0       4.2       3.0     4.2      3.6      2.5      4.4     4.8       6.6       4.8
Existingroadroughness(IRI)            6.0       6.0       6.0    11.0    11.0       7.0     11.0    13.0       13.0     13.0
Existing road traffic 2000 (AADT)   8726      7828    12227      961    2405    3889       2148      431       725      1030
Existingroadtraffic2005, before     11617     10367    16445    1258    3290    4923       2826      631      1062      1402
project (AADT)
Existingroadtraffic2005, after      4210      3179      9767    1258    3290    4923       2826      631      1062      1402
project (AADT)
Diverted motorized traffic on project    7407  7187     6678    1258    3290    4923       2826      631      1062      1402
in 2005 (AADT)
Generatedmotonzedtrafficon           1743      1555     2467      630     240      413       156      85      1011       269
project in 2005 (AADT)
Totalmotorizedtrafficonprojectin    9149      8742      9145    1888    3531    5336    2982         716      2073      1671
2005 (AADT)
Total motorized traffic on project in    25658    24135    26267    7925    8648   11027   5727    2996       5599      7002
2023 (AADT)
% of cars and small buses            29%       25%       30%/a   23%      55%      43%      400/a    300/o    31%       34%
%ofmediuwnbuses                       7%        7%       12%      4%       8%       6%      16%      5%       200/a     26%
%oflighttrucks                       12%       15%       13%     26%      26%      22%      15%     25%        14%      21%
%ofmediumtrucks                      190/a     41%       34%     240%      90/6    21%      21%     33%       31%       19%
% of heavy trucks                    30%        9%        9o/0    9%       3%       8%       7%      6%        2%        00/a
% of articulated trucks               4%        3%        2%     15%       00/a     00/D     2%      00/a       1%       00/a
Growth rate period 2000-2004 (%)      7%        7%        8%      70/      8%       6%       7/o    100/a     10%       8S0/
Growth rate period 2005-2009 (%)      6%        6%        7%      70/o     7%       5%       70%     90/a      7%        6%
Growth rate period 2010-2014 (%)      6%        6%        6%      6%       6%       5%       6%      90/0      6%        5%
Growth rate period 2015-2023 (%)      4%        3%        3%      4%       4%       3%       3%      4%        4%        4%
Existing road cars speeds (km/hr)     48         42       43      38       42       46       45       25        29        36
Existing road trucks speeds (km/br)   40         35       36       27      35       38        25      20        28        32
Construction cost per km (Yuan         25        32       26        8        5        8        1       2         4         3
million)
Distance savings (%)                -34%      -22%      -12%    -25%    -15%    -29%        -6%    -10%        -7%      -2%
Divertedtrafficaspercentofnormal     64%       69%      41%    100%    1000/O   1000/a   1000/a   1000/a    100%/0    100%
traffic, in 2005 (%)
Generated traffic as percent of      15%       15%       15%    500/a      7%       8%       6%     13%       95%       19%
normal traffic, in 2005 (___                                                                     _
-40 -



Annex 4, Table B: Economic Evaluation Results
Sensitivity Analysis
Economic Intemal Rates of      Case 1     Case 2      Case 3      Case 4      Case 5      Case 6      Case 7     Case 8    Case 9   Case 10
Return (EIRR)
25% Incr. 25% Decr. Combined  Value of Accident  Generated  25% Decr. 50% Decr.    5 Year    6 Year
Base   Construct.       User  (1) & (2)      Time  Benefits       Traffic   Diverted   Diverted  Construc. Construc.
Case        Costs   Benefits                  = 0       = 0          = 0     Traffic     Traffic    Period    Period
Taihe - Suichuan       23.1%        20.1%       19.2%      16.6%     21.2%    23.0%        21.6%      20.1%       16.4%     20.8%      18.8%
Expressway Section
Suichuan-Ganzhou       17.2%        14.7%       13.90/o    11.8%     15.2%     17.1%       16.0%       14.6%      11.4%      15.5%     14.0%/o
Expressway Section
Ganzhou- Tankou        18.1%        15.8%       15.1%      13.0%     14.5%     18.0%       16.7%       15.9%      12.9%      16.8%     15.5%
Expressway Section
Wan'an                 18.9%        16.1%       15.2%      12.8%     18.4%     18.9%       16.0%       16.0%      12.7%      16.7%     11.9%/o
Interconnecting
Road
Suichuan               24.4%        21.0%      20.0%       17.1%     23.2%    24.2%        23.8%      20.1%       15.0%     21.3%      18.7%
Interconnecting
Road
Ganzhou                33.7%        29.3%      28.1%       24.3%     29.6%     33.5%       32.8%      29.1%       23.3%     29.1%      25.7%
Interconnecting
Road
Suichuan - Jing        33.1%        28.7%      27.6%      23.8%      36.2%     32.4%       32.5%      27.5%       20.9%     28.2%      23.6%
Gangshan Rural
Road
Tangiang-              14.8%        12.4%       11.6%       9.6%     14.8%     14.6%       14.0%       11.8%       8.3%      12.9%     11.3%
Dongshan Rural
Road
Shashipu-              20.4%        17.4%       16.6%      14.0%     19.4%     20.3%       15.4%       17.8%      15.0No    18.0%      15.8%
Wangmudu Rural
Road
Yutian-Xinjiang        18.2%        15.4%       14.6%      12.2%     17.2%     18.0%       17.0%       14.9%      11.0%      16.00/a    14.2%
Rural Road
EntireProjcct          20.0%        17.3%       16.5%      14.1%     18.2%     19.9%       18.7%       17.2%      13.6%      18.0%     16.2%
-41-



Annex 4, Table B: Economic Evaluation Results (continued)
Switching Values Analysis                                      Risk Analysis
Construction         Net User      Mean   Standard    Probability          Worst          Likely          Best
Costs          Benefits     EIRR  Deviation    that EIRR          Scenario        Scenario     Scenario
Multiplier to    Multiplier to                EIRR         < 12%           EIRR            EIRR         EIRR
Yield 12%        Yield 12%                                      10% Percentile  500/o Percentile  90% Percentile
Taihe- Suichuan             2.63              0.38     20.2%       2.1%          0.0%           17.3%          20.3%         22.9%
Expressway Section
Suichuan-Ganzhou             1.64             0.61     14.7%        1.8%         4.8%           12.3%           14.7%        17.0%
Expressway Section
Ganzhou - Tankou             1.87             0.53      15.1%       1.9%         4.3%           12.6%           15.1%        17.5%
Expressway Section
Wanan                        1.80             0.55     16.2%        1.7%         0.3%           13.9%           16.2%        18.4%
Interconnecbing Road
Suichuan                    2.61              0.38     21.1%       2.3%          0.0%           17.8%          21.1%         24.1%
Interconnecting Road
Ganzhou                     4.30              0.23     30.0%       2.7%          0.0%           26.2%           30.2%        33.5%
Interconnecting Road
Suichuan -Jing              4.17              0.24     29.0%       2.9%          0.0%           24.8%          29.2%         32.7%
Gangshan Rural Road
Tangiang- Dongshan           1.31             0.76      12.0%O      1.7%        42.8%            9.7%           12.0%        14.1%
Rural Road
Shashipu -                  2.03              0.49      17.5%       1.7%         0.0%           15.3%           17.3%        19.7%
Wangmudu Rural
Road
Yutian - Xinjiang            1.69             0.59      15.4%       1.8%         2.3%           12.9%           15.5%         7.8%
Rural Road
Entire Project              2.01              0.49      17.3%       1.9%         0.0%           14.7%           17.3%         9.7%
Annex 4, Table C: EIRR Simulation and Probability Risk Analysis
Internal Rate of Return
Entire Project
Minimum                                                       12.4%
Maximum                                                       23.5%
Average                                                       17.3%
Standard Deviation                                             1.9%
Median                                                         17.3%
Percentile                                         10%        14.7%   Worst Scenario
Percentile                                         50%    17.3%  Most Likely
Scenario
Percentile                                         90%        19.7%   Best Scenario
Probability that IRR  is less than                 12%          0%
Probability that IRR  is greater than              12%        100%
- 42 -



Cumulative Distributiol                                                                      Frequency Distribution
#v)    .b     0)     CD      O      to                                                                         c
0      O      0       O      0      0       0                                                 0    N    .S    0)   CO     O             14 
5.0%                                                                                         5.0%                             l
6.0%                                                                                          6.0%
7.1%                                                                                          7.1%
8.1%                                                                                          8.1%
9.1%                                                                                          9.1%
10.1%                                                                                         10.1%
11.2%                                                                                         11.2%
.  12.2%                                                 -          rn                            12.2%                                                      m
3  13.2%                                                                                     3 13.2%                                                         C
14.2%                                            3           X14.2%
g 15.3%                                                                                      C  15.3%                                                        C
0                                fo~~~
<,  16.3 3O,                                                                                                                                             16.3% _
1 17.3             = 3 O                                                                        17.3%
318.3%                                              :D18.3%_:
19.4%                                                                                         19.4%
20.4%                                                                                         20.4%
21.4%                                                                                         21.4%
22.4%                                                                                         22.4%
23.5%                                                                                         23.5%
24.5%                                                                                         24.5%
_                                                                         _ ,   _ .   .. . ..  .... ... .... ......... ... ....... . ............ . ..~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.   .    . .. ..



Annex 5: Financial Summary
CHINA: Second Jiangxi Highway Project
1.    Preface. The financial evaluation focuses on the TGE, which accounts for 84% of civil works
project cost, is the main component of the project and is the only component that will generate financial
income with profit-making capability and repayment capability. Given that about 47% of the investment
will be financed by the World Bank at a 7% interest rate, and 53% of investment will be acquired from
local government budget transfers and MOC grants, where the opportunity cost of capital is estimated at
5%, the weighted average cost of capital is 6%.
2.     The construction of TGE is expected to be completed by March 2005; an expressway company
will be responsible for daily management, operations and development of the expressway. The expressway
company will also bear the financial obligations and those of its own development, including the repaymnent
of loans. Its main revenue will be from road user tolls, which will be strictly controlled by the government.
The purpose of the TGE tolls is to repay the Bank loan, instead of maximizing the financial rate of return
on the investment. Thus, toll charges will be low and are assumed to grow slowly, at 3.5% a year, which is
lower than the estimated 5% increase in domestic general prices.
3.     Operating Revenue. The toll revenue is the only major source of income from operation of the
expressway. Tolls will be charged as a function of vehicle type, size and distance traveled, at slightly lower
levels than tolls currently being collected on the Changjiu expressway, located on the same corridor in the
north of Jiangxi and opened to traffic in the early 1990's. The toll rates on the TGE are slightly lower,
partly because income levels are lower in the southem region of Jiangxi. The tables below present the
current tolls on the Changjiu expressways and on NH No. 105, which is parallel to the TGE. Tolls on NH
No.105 are around 50% of the expressway tolls, indicating that the expressway tolls are reasonable
considering the much higher level of service provided by the expressway.
Vehicle                          Changjiu Expressways Tolls
Class                             in 2000 (Yuan/vehicle-km)
Small Passenger Vehicle                    0.33
Large Passenger Vehicle                    0.75
Small Freight Vehicle                      0.33
Medium Freight Vehicle                     0.75
Large Freight Vehicle                      1.03
Trailer                                    1.40
Vehicle                               NH No.105 Tolls
Class                             in 2000 (Yuan/vehicle-kml
Small Passenger Vehicle                    0.15
Large Passenger Vehicle                    0.30
Small Freight Vehicle                      0.15
Medium Freight Vehicle                     0.30
Large Freight Vehicle                      0.44
Trailer                                    0.60
4.     The table below presents the proposed tolls on the TGE for each vehicle type at opening in 2005
and on years 2010, 2015 and 2023. Tolls are expected to increase about every five years to take accouni:
of inflation. Some vehicles will be exempted (such as those of police, military and ambulances), which is
expected to be 5% of total traffic. The operating taxes are, business tax at 5% of the revenue and city and
education taxes at 7% and 2% of the business tax, respectively. The income tax is 33%.
-44 -



Proposed TGE Tolls (Yuan/vehicle-km)
Vehicle                 2005       2010        2015         2023
Class
Small Passenger Vehicle    0.40     0.50       0.60         0.80
Large Passenger Vehicle    0.60     0.75        0.90        1.20
Small Freight Vehicle   0.40        0.50       0.60         0.80
Medium Freight Vehicle    0.60      0.75        0.90        1.20
Large Freight Vehicle   1.00        1.25        1.50        2.00
Trailer                 1.00        1.25        1.50        2.00
5.     Operating Costs. The operating costs of the TGE include: (a) wages and benefits, (b)
maintenance of the expressway and tunnels, (c) operating materials and supplies, (d) administration, (e)
others and (f) depreciation. Wages, administration and benefits amount to around 4.00 Yuan million per
year for about 500 staff. Maintenance of the expressway is estimated to be 0.06 Yuan million per km per
year and tunnel maintenance about 2.00 Yuan million per year. The cost of resealing the surface of the
expressway once in 5 years is estimated to be 0.50 Yuan million per km. All maintenance and operation
costs are expected to increase by 4% annually to take account of inflation.
6.    Financial Evaluation. Table A presents the expressway company income statement from 2005 to
2015, showing that the company would be able to pay all expenditures (including operating, non-operating
expenses and routine, medium and major maintenance) for operation of the expressway. Table B presents
the sources and application of funds, indicating that the capital requirements for project investment would
generate cash pressure on the company, particularly during the first two years of operation. It is expected
that cash pressure on the company would be fully relieved after 2007. Table C presents the balance sheet,
which shows that the shortage of cash in 2005 and 2006 would affect the current ratio (the liquidity of the
company) during those years. The table also presents the debt/capital ratio and the debt/equity ratios of the
company that are relatively good, due to the high degree of self-financing (about 53%).
7.    The result of the evaluation shows that the financial internal rate of return (FIRR) for total capital
investment is 7.0%, with a NPV of 4,222 Yuan rnillion at a 6% discount rate, while the FIRR on equity is
8.9%, with a NPV of 773 Yuan rnillion at a 6% discount rate. A sensitivity analysis considering an
increase in investment costs of 20% or a decrease in benefits of 20%, yields a 5.7% FIRR for total capital
investment and 7.6% FIRR on equity.
8.    The level of tolls need to satisfy 2 objectives: (a) to generate enough revenue to obtain a higher
financial rate of return on investment, but (b) not deter potential users and compromise economic
objectives. These objectives can be contradictory, since the former requires a higher toll, while the latter a
lower one. The following table shows the resulting sensitivity analysis of FIRR and ERR for different toll
levels. Increasing the tolls to 175% of the proposed tolls increases the FIRR to 8.0%, but the EIRR
reduces to 15.3%, which could make the project only marginally economically justified. Reducing the tolls
to 50% of the proposed tolls increases the EIRR slightly to 20.0%, but renders the project not financially
justified with a FIRR of 2.5%. Therefore, the proposed toll levels are appropriate both from an economic
and financial point of view.
- 45 -



Sensitivity of Results to Va- ations in Toll Charge
Toll Level                                            Toll    Traffic  FIRR    EIRR
Scenarios                                      Multiplier Multinlier _?L( L    (/)
Tolls reduced to 25%  of proposed tolls               0.25        1.10    -1.7      20.2
Tolls reduced to 50% of proposed tolls                0.50        1.08     2.5     20.0
Tolls reduced to 75% of proposed tolls                0.75        1.05     5.2      19.7
Proposed tolls                                        1.00        1.00     7.0      19.2
Tolls increased to 125%  of proposed tolls            1.25        0.88     7.8      18.0
Tolls increased to 150%  of proposed tolls            1.50        0.75     8.0      16.6
Tolls increased to 175%  of pronosed tolls            1.75        0.65     8.0      15.3
Annex 5, Table A: Income Statement
2005    2006    2007    2008    2009    2010    2011    2012    2013    201420    15
Trafftc (millionveh-ks)    431      445     471      499     529      561      594     630      668     708      741
Revenoe
Tolls                      255      286     320      339     360      415     464      492      521     602      666
Operatine Taxes
Business tax              14.00    15.75   17.61    18.66   19.78   22.81   25.51    27.04   28.66   33.11   36.62
Citytax                    0.98    1.10     1.23    1.31     1.38     1.60    1.79     1.89    2.01    2.32    2.56
Education levy             0.28    0.32    0.35     0.37     0.40    0.46    0.51    0.54    0.57       0.66    0.73
Total                     15.26    17.17    19.19   20.34   21.56   24.87   27.81    29.47   31.24   36.09   39.91
Net Revenue                239      269     301      319     338      390      436     462      490     566      626
Oyeratng Costs
Wages and benefits         2.58    2.68    2.79    2.90    3.02    3.14    3.27    3.40    3.54         3.68    3.83
Expressway maintenance     7.69    7.69    7.69   63.46      7.69    7.69    7.69    7.69   128.20    7.69    7.69
Tunnel maintenance         2.08    2.16    2.24    2.33      2.43    2.52    2.63      2.73    2.84    2.95    3.07
Administration             1.55    1.61     1.67     1.74    1.81     1.88    1.96    2.04    2.12      2.21    2.30
Total working costs       13.90    14.14    14.39   70.43    14.95    15.23    15.55    15.86  136.70   16.53    16.89
Depreciation             94.11    94.11    94.11    94.48   94.53   94.58    94.63   94.69   95.53   95.58   95.63
Total operatingcosts     108.01   108.25  108.50  164.91  109.48  109.81   110.18   110.55  232.23   112.11   112.52
Operating Proft          131.30  160.88  192.47    154.1  228.62  280.08  325.81   351.56   257.6  453.75  513.35
IBRD Financial Charges    86.37   82.54   78.44    74.06   69.37   64.34   58.97   53.22   47.07   40.49   33.45
ProfitBeforeTaxes        44.93   78.34   114.03   80.01   159.25  215.74  266.84  298.34  210.56  413.26  479.90
IncomeTax                 14.83    25.85    37.63   26.40   52.55   71.19   88.06   98.45   69.48  136.37  158.37
NetProfitAfterTaxes       30.10   52.49   76.40   53.61   106.70  144.54  178.78  199.88  141.07  276.88  321.53
- 46 -



Annex 5, Table B: Sources and Application of Funds (2001-2007)
2001       2002      2003       2004     2005      2006     2007
Sources:
Netprofits                            -         -           -              30.10     52.49   76.40
Depreciation                          -         -          -               94.11     94.11   94.11
State contribution               192.15    256.20      96.08     96.08         -         -       -
Provincial contribution          491.25    655.00     245.63    245.63
IBRD Borrowing:                  385.50    514.00      192.75   192.75-
Total                          1.068.90   .425.20     534.46    534.46    124.21    146.60  170.51
ApDlications:
Capital expenditure            1,068.90   1,425.20   534.4590   534.45-        -         -       -
Other expenditure                 44.98     64.25       77.10        -         -         -       -
IBRD Loan repayment:                  -         -          -    51.14      54.72     58.55   62.64
Change w/ capital                                                        (25.211    (3.14)  (3.35)
Total                          1.113.88   1,482.45    611.55    585.59    29.51      55.41    59.29
NetFunds Flow                   (44.97)    64.25      (77.09)   (51.13)    94.71     91.19  111.21
Open balance                          -    (44.97)   (109.23)  (186.32)  (237.44)  (142.73) (51.54)
Closing balance                 (44.97)  (109.23)   (186.32)  (237.44)  (142.73)     51.54   59.67
D/S Cover                                                                227.0    250.4      272.2
Annex 5, Table B: Sources and Application of Funds (2008-2015)
2008         2009       2010       2011      2012      2013      2014     2015
Sources:
Netprofits                        53.61      106.70    144.54      178.78    199.88    141.07    276.88  321.53
Depreciation                      94.48       94.53     94.58       94.63    94.69     95.53     95.58   95.63
State contribution                          -          -          -               -        -         -       -
Provincial contribution
IBRD Borrowing:
Total                             148.09     201.23    239.12      273.41    294.57    236.60    372.46  417.16
Applications:
Capital expenditure                   -        7.80      8.11        8.44      8.77     9.12      9.49    9.87
Other expenditure                     -           -         -           -         -        -         -
IBRD Loan repayment:              67.03       71.72     76.74       82.11    87.86    94.01    100.59  107.63
Change w/ capital                 (1.90)      (2.01)    (5.45)     (4.85)    (2.76)    (2.92)    (8.01)  (6.31)
Total                             65.13       77.51      79.40      85.70     93.87    100.21    102.07  111.19
NetFunds Flow                     82.96      123.72    159.72      187.71    200.70    136.39    270.39  305.97
Open balance                      59.70      142.60    266.35      426.07    613.78    814.48    950.87  1,221.3
Closing balance                   142.60     266.35    426.07      613.78    814.48    950.87  1,221.26  1,527.2
D/SCover                          220.9       280.6     311.6       333.0    335.3    251.7    370.3   387.6
-47 -



Annex 5, Table C: Balance Sheet
2005    2006   2007   2008   2009   2010   2011   2012   2013   2014   201'
Assets:
Fixed Assets
At cost                 2851.94 2851.94 2851.94 2863.09 2864.63 2866.17 2867.71 2869.25 2894.89 2896.43 2897.fi7
Less: Depreciation       188.22  282.33  376.44  470.92  565.45  660.03  754.66  849.35  944.88 1040.46 1136.t'9
Net fixed assets    2663.72 2569.61 2475.50 2392.17 2299.18 2206.14 2113.05 2019.90 1950.01 1855.97 1761.88
Current Assets
Inventory                 0.15    0.17    0.19    0.20    0.22    0.25    0.28    0.29    0.31    0.36    0.4)
Receivable                0.10    0.11    0.13    0.14    0.14    0.17    0.19    0.20    0.21    0.24    0.27
Cash                    -142.48  -51.54   59.67  142.63  266.35  426.07  613.78  814.48  950.87 1221.26 1527.2 3
Subtotal            -142.48  -51.26   59.99  142.97  266.71  426.49  614.25  814.97  951.39 1221.86 1527.9i)
Other Assets                         -           -       -       -       -      -       -           -
Total Assets         2521.5 2251_836 2535.51 2535.61 2565.91 2632.65 2727.32 2834.89 2901.42 3077.85 3289.8:
Liabilities & Equitv
State funds- Equity     1261.93 1310.59 1382.89 1443.26 1539.01 1671.96 1838.47 2025.38 2176.82 2439.17 2745.33
L/T loans: IBRD         1233.86 1179.15 1120.60 1057.96  990.93  919.21  842.47  760.35  672.49  578.48  477.89
Current Liabilities       25.46   28.63   32.02   33.94   35.97   41.48   46.38   49.16   52.11   60.20   66.58
Total Liabilities &    2521.25 a       2535.51 2535.16 2565.91 2632.65 2727.32 2834.89 2901.42 3077.85 3289.80
Equity
Debt/capital ratio        49.4   47.4   44.8   42.3   39.2   35.5    31.4    27.3   23.6    19.2   14.8
Debt/equity ratio         50/50   48/52   45955   43/57   40/60   36/64   33/67   29/71   25/75   21/79   17/83
Current ratio             (5.6)   (1.8)     1.9    4.2    7.4   10.3    13.2    16.6   18.3   20.3    22.9
- 48 -



Annex 6: Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements
CHINA: Second Jiangxi Highway Project
Procurement
I .    This Annex is based on a review conducted during project preparation of the agencies' capacity in
procurement and financial management. The Project Procurement Capacity Assessment (PPCA) is in the
Project Files, and its findings are summarized below. The Financial Management Review is presented in
Annex 12. Both assessments have (i) concluded that the capacity is generally adequate in view of the
experience of the agencies gained under the previous project, Jiangxi I Highway Project, and (ii)
recommended some improvements (additional training of concerned staff and preparation of
implementation of plans). These improvements have been accepted and acted upon by JPCD.
Summary of PPCA's findings
2.    The procurement activities for the project will be implemented by the World Bank Loan Project
Office (PO) of JPCD, except for the RIPC program, which will be jointly implemented with JPHAB. The
majority of staff of the PO are from Jiangxi Provincial High-Class Highway Administration Bureau
(JPHCHAB), which has many years of experience implementing the Bank-financed Jiangxi I Highway
Project (JHPI) and ADB-fmancial Jiujiang-Jingdezheng Expressway Project. As a government
organization, the PO has been fully authorized to implement the project.
3.    By early involvement of the implementing agencies throughout the preparation of the project, the
agencies have accumulated experience on the required Bank procurement guidelines and procedures,
particularly on procurement of consultant services and pre-qualification and bidding of major highway
(TGE). The PO has also prepared and discussed with the Bank its Procurement Management Manual, in
which the responsibility and ethics code for each level of its procurement units and staff, as well as the
procurement procedures based on the guidelines to be used in the project, are well spelled out. An
experienced procurement agent, CMC-ITC, was hired to assist the PO with large scale procurement work
under the project.
4.    The assessment confirmed that the provincial agencies are generally capable in managing highway
projects, however, some shortcomings were identified:
1) Intemal NCB procurement procedures for civil works vary from those of the Bank's (such as
bracketing and merit point system used in pre-qualification and bid evaluation): JPCD has
fully committed to strictly follow the Bank's procurement rules/policy for the Bank-financed
contracts. In case there are discrepancies between local policy and the Bank's requirement, the
Bank's policy and guidelines will prevail. For this purpose a supplemental letter to the
Loan Agreement will be signed by the government and further training will be conducted
to address these insufficiencies.
2) Non-existence of consolidated national procurement law: this is a country-wide issue being
addressed as part of the ongoing dialogue between the Central Governnent and the Bank.
3) Lengthy (one month to several months) review process by the Mechanical and Electrical
Products Import and Export Department on imported mechanical and electrical equipment: to
mitigate this risk, procurement planning will incorporate additional time for the review process.
5.    An action plan has been devised to further strengthen the procurement management capacity of
JPCD agencies. Based on the achievement of the proposed actions, the assessment concludes that:
-49 -



1) The proposed project can apply the thresholds (in terms of procurement methods or prior
review) as summarized in Annex 6, Table B, and
2) The general risk is rated "average."
Procurement methods (Table A)
6.    Procurement would be carried out as shown in Table A. Procurement under the project will be
carried out in accordance with the Bank's "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA
Credit" (January 1995, and revised in January, August 1996, September 1997 and January 1999) as well
as the "Guidelines for Selection and Employment of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers" dated January
1997, revised September 1997 and January 1999. The documentation for procurement, which covers the
prequalification of contractors, ICB and national competitive bidding (NCB) for civil works, and ICB for
goods and consultant services, was standardized for Chinese conditions by the Chinese government and the
Bank on the basis of model documents which would be used for all relevant procurement processes under
the project. Where no agreed model documents exist, Bank standard documents would be used. The
General Procurement Notice (GPN) for the project was published in the UN Development Business issue
No. 547 of November 30, 2000.
7.    Works (US$473 million). Civil works for Taihe-Ganzhou Expressway (TGE) would be divided
into 9 contracts, with an average size of about US$42 million, including contingencies. Electro-mechanical
works (EMW) would be handled as one contract of about US$10 million equivalent. The 9 civil works
contracts and the EMW contract for TGE would be procured under ICB procedures. There would be one
tender call for the 9 civil works contracts which would be bid on a slice-and-package basis; qualified films
would be allowed to bid for more than one contract as so to attract international contractors and large
Chinese contractors. Contractors bidding for civil works under ICB would be prequalified. China is
eligible for preference for domestic contractors. The Specific Procurement Notice (SPN) for the civil
works and consulting services required to supervise the TGE was published in the UN Development
Business No. 548 on December 16, 2000. For the contract for TGE electrical and mechanical works,
invitations to bid will be advertised as specific procurement notices in UN Development Business and
well-known technical magazines, newspapers, and trade publications that have wide international exposure.
Each contract for works estimated at US$50 million or more will provide for a dispute review board set
forth in the standard bidding documents (referred to in para. 2.42 of the above-mentioned Guidelines).
8.    Other works, including buildings (estimated at US$9 million), construction of interconnecting
roads (US$33 million), rural road improvements (US$40 million) and the highway safety prograrn (USS2
million) will be awarded following NCB procedures acceptable to the Bank. These works will involve
contracts of less than US$9 million each. Since they will be relatively small, scattered throughout the
province and implemented over four years, ICB will not be justified or practical; however, foreign firms
will not be prevented from bidding.
9.    Equipment (US$6.9 million). Contracts for goods and equipment over US$250,000 equivalent up
to a total amount of US$5.9 million will be awarded under ICB. Domestic manufactures competing under
ICB will be eligible for a margin of preference in the comparison of bids of 15% for goods, or the
prevailing customs duties, whichever is lower. Other items or groups of items covering maintenance
equipment, laboratories, research and environmental protection purposes estimated to be under
US$250,000 per contract package, with an aggregate amount not exceeding US$1 million, will be procured
following international shopping procedures on the basis of comparison of price quotations solicited frotr
at least three suppliers, from two countries, eligible under the Bank Guidelines for Procurement.
- 50 -



10.   Consultants (US$11.1 million). All consultants required for construction supervision, staff
training, technical assistance and studies to be implernented under the IST components will be selected and
employed under terms and conditions acceptable to the Bank according to Guidelines on the "Selection and
Employment of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers" (January 1997, revised in July 1997 and January
1999). For consultant services, the Standard Request for Proposals (July 1997, revised in April 1998 and
in July 1999), will be used. Consulting services with an estimated contract cost of more than US$100,000
to a total value of US$2.4 million for firms will be procured through Quality and Cost Based Selection
(QCBS). Services from firns to a total value of US$2.1 million will be selected through Least Cost
Selection (for training programs and technical studies). Individual consultants to a total value of US$0.2
million will be selected according to paras. 5.1 through 5.3 of the Guidelines. Services which are estimated
to cost less than the above threshold per contract, may, with the Bank' prior agreement, be procured by
single source selection in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.8 through 3.11 of the Consultant
Guidelines. Local experts from various independent provincial universities and institutes will be used as
much as possible. All consultant services above US$200,000 will be advertised in the UN Development
Business.
Prior review thresholds (Table B)
11.   Prior review procedures will be used for: (a) civil works contracts with an estimated cost of US$2
million or more; (b) equipment with an estimated cost of over US$250,000 per contract; and (c) consulting
services with an estimated contract cost of over US$100,000 for finns and US$50,000 for individuals.
Regarding consultant contracts, terms of reference and single-source selections-regardless of the value of
the contract-will be subject to prior review. This will apply to 98% and 100% of the total contract values
of works and goods financed by the Bank, respectively. For contracts below these limnits, post-review
procedures will be followed.
- 51 -



Disbursement
Allocation of loan proceeds (Table C)
Allocation of loan proceeds is shown in Table C.
Use of statements of expenditures (SOEs):
12.   Use of statements of expense (SOEs). Withdrawals from the loan account will be made on the
basis of SOEs for (a) civil works in contracts under US$2 million, (b) goods in contracts under
US$250,000, (c) services provided by consulting firms in contracts under US$100,000, and (d) services
provided by individual consultants in contracts under US$50,000 and (e) training.
Special account:
13.   Authorization, allocation and operation of the special account. To facilitate disbursements, a
special account will be opened with an authorized allocation of US$10 million equivalent, the esfimatae
average expenditures for a four-month period.
Retroactive financing:
14. Retroactive financing of up to US$1 rnillion will be applied to expenditures made after January 1,
2001 for the training under construction supervision and the purchase of laboratory and testing equipment.
- 52 -



Annex 6, Table A: Project Costs by Procurement Arrangement
(in US$ million equivalent)
Procurement method
ICB           NCB             Other al       N.B.F.'         Total cost
Works
Expressway
Civil Work                              379.6                                                           379.6
(154.6)                                                         (154.6)
E & M facilities                          9.6                                                             9.6
(7.1)                                                           (7.1)
Buildings                                                 8.9                                             8.9
(2.6)                                           (2.6)
Interconnecting roads                                      33.4                                            33.4
(13.5)                                          (13.5)
Rural road improvement                                     39.6                                            39.6
(10.7)                                          (10.7)
Black spot improvements                                     2.3                                             2.3
(0.7)                                           (0.7)
Subtotal                                                                                                  473.4
(189.2)
Goods
Equipment                                   5.9                             1.0                             6.9
(4.1)                          (0.7)                           (4.8)
Service
Construction supervision 5/                                                 2.4            6.4              8.8
(2.4)          (0.0)            (2.4)
Training and studies S                                                      2.3                             2.3
(1.6)                           (1.6)
Subtotal                                                                   11.1                            11.1
(4.0)                           (4.0)
Miscellaneous
Land acquisition & resettlement                                                           42.3             42.3
(0.0)           (0.0)
Front-end fees                                                              2.0                             2.0
(2.0)                           (2.0)
Total                                           395.1            84.2            10.7           48.7            535.7
(1C5.8)         (27.51           (6.7)           (0)           (200.01
a!  Other includes intemational shopping, and consultants and training.
b/  N.B.F. = Not Bank-financed.
c/  Selection of consultants according to the Bank's Guidelines for Use of Consultants.
Notes: (I) Figures in parentheses are the amounts to be financed by the Bank loan.
(2) All figures are rounded and include estimated physical and price contingencies but exclude the cost
of land acquisition and resettlement which is shown as a separate component.
- 53 -



Table Al: Consultant Selection Arrangements
(US$ million equivalent)
Consultant Services                              Selection   Method
Expenditure                                                                             Total
Category       QCBS       QBS       SFB       LCS        CQ       Other    N.B.F.    Cost I
A. Firms             2.4       0.0       0.0        2.1       0.0       0.0       6.4       10.9
(2.4)     (0.0)     (0.0)     (1.4)     (0.0)     (0.0)     (0.0)     (3.8)
B. Individuals       0.0       0.0       0.0        0.0       0.0       0.2       0.0   __0.2
(Q.0L     (0.0   (00.0)       (0.0)     (0.0)     (0.2)     (0.0)   __(0.2)
Total    2.4       0.0       0.0       2.1       0.0       0.2       6.4       11.1
(2.4)     (0.0)     (0.0)     (1.4)     (0.0)     (0.2)     (0.0)     (4.0)
1\ Including contingencies
Note: QCBS = Quality- and Cost-Based Selection
QBS = Quality-based Selection
SFB = Selection under a Fixed Budget
LCS = Least-Cost Selection
CQ = Selection Based on Consultants' Qualifications
Other = Selection of individual consultants (per Section V of Consultants Guidelines),
Training activities are not included in this Table Al.
N.B.F. = Not Bank-financed
Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Loan.
Table A2: Procurement Schedule for Consulting Services
Activity       Firm/ Individuals  Method of Selection   Estimated Cost  Procurement
Schedule
1. Construction          Firm              QCBS           US$ 2.4 million   Jan 01 - Jun 01
Supervision
(International)
2. Training Program      Firm               LCS           US$ 1.9 million     2002 -2005
(31 subiects)
3. Training Program    Individuals         Other          US$ 0.2 million     2002 - 2005
(Safety Seminar) by                                                           (once a year)
foreim exrts                                            ___               _
4. Studies (5 topics)    Firm               LCS           US$ 0.2 million     2002 - 2004
- 54 -



Annex 6, Table B: Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review
Contract value                 Contracts Subject to Prior Review/
(Threshold)     Procurement    Estimated Total Value Subject
Expenditure Category                     (US$ milion)        Method       to Prior Review (US$ million)
Works                           More than 10.0     ICB          10 contracts
US$389.2 million
More than 2.0      NCB          14 contracts
US$73.0 million
2.      Goods                           More than 0.25     ICB          6 contracts
US$5.9 million
Less than 0.25     IS           US$ 1.0 million
3.      Services                        More than 0.10     QCBS         Supervision contract
for firms, more                 US$2.4 million
than 0.05 for
individuals
Total value of contracts subject to prior review:               USS471.5 million
- 55 -



Annex 6, Table C: Allocation of Loan Proceeds
(US$ million)
Amount in
Expenditure Category             US$
million                Financed Percentage
Works
Expressway
Civil Works                         143.7                    44% of total expenditures
E & M facilities                      6.6                    80% of total expenditures
Buildings                             2.3                    30% of total expenditures
Interconnecting roads                 12.6                    44% of total expenditures
Road improvement                      10.0                    30% of total expenditures
Black spot improvements                0.6                    30% of total expenditures
Construction supervision                2.2                     100% of expenditures
Equipment                               4.5                     100% of foreign expenditures,
100% of local expenditures
(ex-factory cost) and 75% of
local expenditures for other
items procured locally
Training                                 1.5                   100%/o of total expenditures
Studies                                 0.0                     100% of expenditures
Front-end fees                          2.0
Unallocated                             14.0
Total                         200.0
- 56 -



Annex 6, Table C-1: Estimated Disbursement Schedule
(US$ million)
Disbursement profile of transport
Bank FY       Annually        Cumulative          %               projects in China
FY 2002          13                13              7                  16
FY 2003          32                45              16                 22
FY 2004          46                91             23                  22
FY 200S          52               143             26                  18
FY 2006          57               200             28                  22
Annex 6, Table C-2: Financing Plan
(US$ million)
($1.00=Y8.3, January 2001 prices)
Government          Bank        Total  Bank Financing
Provincial  Central
1. Works
a) Expressway
i) Civil Works                  101.4        80.0       143.76      325.1        44
ii) E& MFacilities                1.7                     6.6         8.3        80
iii) Buildings                    5.3                     2.3         7.6        30
b) Interconnecting roads            16.0                    12.6        28.6        44
d) RIPC                            23.9                     10.0        33.9        30
e) Black spot improvements           1.4                     0.6         2.0        30
Subtotal                     149.7        80.0       175.8       405.5
2. Supervision of construction         6.0                     2.2          8.2        27
3. Equipment                           2.0                     4.5          6.5        70
4. Training                            0.1                      1.5         1.6        95
5. Studies                             0.5                      0.0         0.5         0
Subtotal                                                         422.3
6. Contingencies                      55.1                     14.0        69.1         0
7. Land acquisition and resettlement  42.3                      0.0        42.3         0
8. Front-end fees                      0.0                     2.0          2.0       100
Project Total                      255.7        80.0       200.0       535.7        37
Percent of Total                    48          15          37         100
-57 -



Annex 7: Project Processing Schedule
CHINA: Second Jiangxi Highway Project
Project Schedule;                                 Plann ;V:7;  0 t:  00;;t;00 00    ~  f i:4hrced:: ::5  Actual
Time taken to prepare the project (months)      16.5                _    .____ ..._
First Bank mission (identification)             12/12/99                     12/12/99
Appraisal mission departure                     12/11/2000                  03/16/.2001
Negotiations                                   01/29/2001                   04/23/2001
Planned Date of Effectiveness                  06/30/2001
Prepared by:
Jiangxi Provincial Communications Department
Preparation assistance:
Spanish Trust funds
Bank staff who worked on the project included:
Name                                    Speciality
Yasuhiro Kawabata, EASTR         Task Team Leader
Anil Somani, EASES               Enviromnent
Zhang Chaohua, EASES              Social/Resettlement
Rodrigo Archondo-Callao, INFTD    Economic/Financial
Hoi-chan Nyugen, LEGOP           Legal
Simon Bradbury, LOAAS            Disbursement
Gopalkrishnan R, EAPCO           Procurement
Yang Dawei, EACCF                Procurement
Chau-Ching Shen, EACCF           Financial Management
Chu Junxue, EACCF                Disbursement
Ian Ferguson, EASTR              Team Assistant
Xin Chen, EACCF                   Operation Assistant
Setty Pendakur, Consultant       Rural Road/ Social
Dick Johnson, Consultant         Institutional and Highway Safety
Jean-Marie Braun, Consultant      Engineer
-58 -



Annex 8: Documents in the Project File*
CHINA: Second Jiangxi Highway Project
A. Project Implementation Plan
Project Implementation Plan                                             October 2000
B. Bank Staff Assessments
C. Other
The World Bank financed Taigan Expressway Project: Feasibility Study    December 1999
The World Bank financed Taigan Expressway Project                       December 1999
Feasibility Study (appendixes and drawings)
Wan'an Interconnecting Highway Feasibility Study Report                 February 2000
Suichuan Interconnecting Highway Feasibility Study Report               February 2000
Ganzhou Interconnecting Highway Feasibility Study Report                February 2000
Feasibility Study Report for Yutian-Xingjiang                           August 2000
Feasibility Study Report for Suichuan-Jinggangshan                      September 2000
Feasibility Study Report for Shashibu-Wangmudu                          April 2000
Feasibility Study Report for Tangjiang-Dongjiang                        April 2000
Feasibility Study Report for Yutian-Xingjiang                           September 2000
(Attachments, Drawing & Tables)
Feasibility Study Report for Suichuan-Jinggangshan                      September 2000
(Attachments, Drawing & Tables)
Feasibility Study Report for Shashibu-Wangmudu                          September 2000
(Attachments, Drawing & Tables)
Feasibility Study Report for Tangjiang-Dongjiang                        September 2000
(Attachments, Drawing & Tables)
Supplemental information to Feasibil ity Study for the Taihe-Ganzhou (I)  February 2000
Supplemental information to Feasibil ity Study for the Taihe-Ganzhou (II)  February 2000
The Taihe-Nankang Section of Ganyue Expressway Investigation Report on Ancient  September 2000
Cultural Relics and Architectures
RIP under Taigan Expressway Investigation Report on Ancient Cultural Relics and    October 30, 2000
Architectures
Environmental Impact Assessment Report for Yutian-Xinjiang              December 2000
Environmental Impact Assessment Report for Shashibu-Wangmudu            December 2000
Environmental Import Assessment Report for Tangjiang-Dongshan           December 2000
Environmental Impact Assessment Report for Suichuan-Jinggangshan        December 2000
Outline of Environmental Impact Assessment for Tangjing-Dongshan        October 2000
Environmental Impact As sessment TOR for Taihe-Ganzhou Section          March 2000
Environmental A ssessment Summary for Taihe-Ganzhou Expressway and its  December 2000
connecting roads
- 59 -



Environmental Impact Assessment Report for Taihe-Ganzhou Section        December 2000
Environmental Impact Assessment Report for Suichuan connecting road     December 2000
Environmental Impact Assessment Report for Wan'an connecting road       December 2000
Environmental Impact Assessment Report for Ganzhou connecting road      December 2000
Environmental Action Plan for Taihe-Ganzhou section                     December 2000
Environmental Action Plan for Suichuan connecting road                  December 2000
Environmental Action Plan for Wan'an conn ecting road                   December 2000
Environmental Action Plan for Ganzhou connecting road                   December 2000
Environmental Action Plan for RIP C                                     March 2000
Resettlement Action Plan for Taihe-Ganzhou Expressway                   December 2000
Resettlement Action P lan for RIPC                                      December 2000
Financial Management Manual                                             October 2000
Taihe-Ganzhou section Route Plan Consultation Report                    April 30, 2000
Taihe-Ganzhou section Final Feasibility Study Report Consultation Report  June 25, 2000
Taihe-Ganzhou section Two-stage Preliminary Design Consultation Report  July 11, 2000
Road Project Input form for each Expressway section or Road Project     February 18, 2000
Feasibility Study Report (supplementary report) for Taihe-Ganzhou section  May 2000
RIPC Resettlement Action Plan (draft Chinese version)                   November 2000
Procurement Manual                                                      July 2000
Prequalification document for TGE civil works                           November 2000
Request for Proposal                                                    November 2 000
*Including electronic files
- 60 -



Annex 9: Statement of Loans and Credits
CHINA: Second Jiangxi Highway Project
Jan-2001
Difference between expected
and actual
Original Amount in US$ Millions                             disbursements
Project IO    FY   Purpose                                       IBRO         IDA                  GEF    Cancel.   Undisb.       Orig  Frm Rev'd
P058844       2000 3RD HENAN PROV HWY                               150.00      0.00                 0.00       0.00     150.00      0.00      0.00
P045910       2000 CH-HEBEI URBAN ENVIRONMENT                       150.00      0.00                 0.00       0.00     150.00      0.00      0.00
P056424       2000 TONGBAI PUMPED STCRA                             320.00      0.00                 0.00       0.00     320.00      2.00       0.00
P042109       2000 CH-BEIUNG ENVIRONMENT II                         349.00      0.00                25.00       0.00     373.34     20.94      0.00
P058843       2000 GUANGXI HWY Project                              200.00      0.00                 0.00       0.00     200.00     13.00       0.00
P049436       2000 CN-CHONGQING URBAN ENVIRCNMENT                   200.00      0.00                 0.00       0.00     200.00      0.00      0.00
P045264       2000 SMALLHLDR CATTLE DEV                              93.50      0.00                 0.00       0.00      91.10     19.10       0.00
P064730       2000 Yangtze Dike Strengthening Project               210.00      0.00                 0.00       0.00     198.90     -11.10     0.00
P056216       1999 LOESS PLATEAU II                                 100.00     50.00                 0.00       0.00     128.39     35.39      0.00
P046051       1999 CN-HIGHER EDUC. REFORM                            20.00     50.00                 0.00       0.00      54.73     27.01       0.00
P049665       1999 ANNINGVALLEYAG.DEV                                90.00     30.00                 0.00       0.00      65.46      5.13       0.00
P050036       1999 ANHUI PROVINCIAL HWY                             200.00      0.00                 0.00       0.00     154.00     19.90       0.00
P051705       1999 FUJIAN 11 HWY                                    200.00      0.00                 0.00       0.00     182.28     41.78       0.00
P046829       1999 RENEWABLE ENERGY DEVELOPMENT                     100.00      0.00                35.00       0.00     100.00      O.00       0.00
P046564       1999 WESTERN POVERTY RED                               60.00    100.00                  0.00      0.00     134.29     17.06       0.00
P051856       1999 ACCNTG REFORM & DEV                               27.40      5.60                 0.00       0.00      27.38     17.63       0.00
P051888       1999 GUANZHONG IRRIGATION                              80.00     20.00                 0.00       0.00      87.23     23.96       0.00
P057352       1999 CN-RURAL WATER SUPPLY IV                          16.00     30.00                 0.00       0.00      43.03      7.27       0.00
P042299       1999 TEC COOP CREDIT NV                                10.00     35.00                 0.00       0.00      40.94      -2.27      0.00
P041690       1999 LIAONING URB TRANSP                              150.00      0.00                  0.00      0.00     124.37     41.87       0.00
P003653       1999 CONTAINER TRANSPORT                               71.00      0.00                  0.00      0.00      67.15     62.45       0.00
P036953       1999 CN-HEALTH IX                                      10.00     50.00                 0.00       0.00      54.42      5.93       0.00
P041268       1999 NAT.HWY4-HUBEIHUNAN                              350.00      0.00                  0.00      0.00     302.99     31.99       0.00
P060270       1999 ENTERPRISEREFORM LN                                0.00      5.00                 0.00       0.00       4.86      5.34       0.00
P043933       1999 CH-SICHUAN URBAN ENVIRONMENT                     150.00      2.00                  0.00      0.00     152.02     11.10       0.00
P063123       1999 YANGTZE FLOOD EMERGY                              40.00     40.00                 0.00       0.00      18.47     13.39       9.39
P058308       1999 CN-PENSION REFORM PJT                              0.00      5.00                 0.00       0.00       4.74      4.00       0.00
P045788       1998 TRI-PROVINCIAL HWY                               230.00      0.00                  0.00      0.00     154.21     55.91       0.00
P003619       1998 2ND INLAND WATERWAYS                             123.00      0.00                  0.00      0.00     109.84     52.84       0.00
P036949       1998 NAT.HWY 3-HUBEI                                  250.00      0.00                  0.00      0.00     176.90     26.90       0.00
P046952       1998 FOREST. DEV. POOR AR                             100.00    100.00                  0.00      0.00     163.47      7.99      49.24
P036414       1998 CH-GUANGXI URBAN ENVIRONMENT                      72.00     20.00                  0.00      0.00      84.70     26.26       0.00
P035698       1998 HUNAN POWER DEVELOP.                             300.00      0.00                  0.00      0.00     300.00    127.50       0.00
P046563       1998 TARIM BASIN II                                    90.00     60.00                 0.00       0.00     112.78     43.70       0.00
P003614       1998 GUANGZ CITY CRT.TRP                              200.00      0.00                  0.00      0.00     142.92     96.66       0.00
P056491       1998 CH-HEBEI EARTHQUAKE REHABILITATION                 0.00     28.40                  0.00      0.00       0.13      -1.17      0.00
P003591       1998 STATE FARMSCOMMERCI                              150.00      0.00                 0.00      80.91       8.45     25.29      -0.20
P003539       1998 SUST COAST RES DEV                               100.00      0.00                  0.00      0.00      74.36     16.88       0.00
P003566       1998 CN-BASIC HEALTH (FILTH8)                           0.00     85.00                  0.00      0.00      64.86     ISA6        0.00
P040185       1998 CH-SHANDONG ENVIRONMENT                           95.00      0.00                 0.00       0.00      58.84     35.14       0.00
P037859       1998 EGY CONSERVATION PRO                               0.00      0.00                 22.00      0.00      13.65     17.17       0.00
P049700       1998 IAIL-2                                           300.00      0.00                 0.00       0.00     187.55     37.13       0.00
P003606       1998 ENERGY CONSERVATION                               63.00      0.00                 22.00      0.00      58.99      9.39       0.00
P051736       1998 E. CHINA(JIANGSU PWR                             250.00      0.00                  0.00      0.00     206.45     191.91    105.56
P035693       1997 FUEL EFFICIENT IND.                                0.00      0.00                 32.80      0.00      12.46     32.71       0.00
PDW3643       1997 XINJIANG HWY II                                  300.00      0.00                  0.00     60.00     116.07    136.07       0.00
P034081       1997 XIAOLANGDI MULTI. II                             430.00      0.00                  0.00      0.00     160.28     150.71      0.00
P003650       1997 TUOKETUO POWERAINNER                             400.00      0.00                  0.00    102.50     226.44    290.54      89.07
P003654       1997 HUNAN/GUANG HWY2-NH2                             400.00      0.00                  0.00      0.00     210.89     110.89      0.00
P038988       1997 HEILONGJIANGADP                                  120.00      0.00                  0.00      0.00      54.63      28.53      0.00
P036952       1997 CN-BASIC ED. IV                                    0.00     85.00                  0.00      0.00       8.60      -6.02      0.00
P003590       1997 QINBA MTS. POVTY RED                              30.00    150.00                 0.00       0.00     104.53     72.30       0.00
P003637       1997 CH-NATIONAL RURAL WATER III                        0.00     70.00                  0.00      0.00      49.91     29.69      23.01
P003635       1997 CN-VOC. ED. REFORM PROJ                           10.00     20.00                  0.00      0.00       3.50       1.64      0.00
- 61 -



Diffetence between
expected
Original Amount in US$ Millions                               .nd actual
dis 3ursements'
Project ID    FY   Purpose                                    IBRO          IDA                   GEF   Cancel.   Undisb.        Crig  Frm Rev'd
P044485       1997 SHANGHAI WAIGAOOIAO                            400.00       000                 0.00       0.00    355.74      92.44       0.00
P036405       1997 WANJtAZHAI WATER TRA                            400.00      0.00                0.00      75.00    136.03      793 03      0.00
P040513       1996 2ND HENAN PROV HWY                              210.00      0.00                0.00       0.00    129.66      92 66       0.00
P003507       1996 ERTAN HYDRO II                                 400.00       0.00                0.00       0.00      7.89      13 53       0.00
P034618       1996 CN-LABOR MARKET DEV.                            10.00      20.00                0.00       0.00     15.92      1812        0.00
P036950       1996 CN-BASIC ED. POOR El                             0.00    100.00                 0.00       0.00      0.93       8 76       0.00
P003569       1996 SHANGHAI-ZHEJIANG HI                           260.00       0.00                0.00      53.34     26.78      8012        5.12
P003638       1996 SEEDS SECTOR COMMER.                            80.00      20.00                0.00       9.40     36.95      28 89       0.00
P003589       1996 CNODISEASEPREVENTION(HLTH7)                      0.00    100.00                 0.00       0.00     26.41      3e79        0.00
P003594       1996 GANSU HEXI CCRRIDOR                             60.00      90.00                0.00       0.00     102.66     4S 46       0.00
P003599       1996 CH-YUNNAN ENVIRONMENT PROJECT                   125.00     25.00                0.00       0.00     122.03     73 28       2.54
P003602       1996 CH-HUBEI URBAN ENVIRONMENT                      125.00     25.00                0.00      28.32     74.49      9777       17.23
P003652       1996 2ND SHAANXI PROV HWY                            210.00      0.00                0.00       0.00     66.62      se 52       0.00
P003649       1996 SHANXI POVERTY ALLEV                             0.00    100.00                 0.00       0.00      18.39     iC 81       0.00
P003648       1996 CH-SHANGHAISEWERAGE PROJECT 31                  250.00      0.00                0.00       0.00     114.82    102 72       0.00
P003646       1996 CN-CHONGOING IND POL CT                         170.00      0.00                0.00     153.99      14.71    154 70      25.70
P003563       1996 ANIMAL FEED                                     150.00      0.00                0.00      95.00     37.32     132.32      82.32
P037156       1995 CN-IODINE DEFICIENCY DISORDERS OONTROL           7.00      20.00                0.00       7.00      0.31       9 38       2.98
P003612       1995 XINJIANG HIGHWAY I                              150.00      0.00                0.00       0.00      0.79       0 79       0.00
P003603       1995 CH-ENTERPRISE HOUSING & SOC SEC REF            275.00      7500                 0.00      20.00    129.58     14828       25.26
P003600       1995 TECHNOLOGY DEVELOPME                           200.00       0.00                0.00       3.02     67.26      58 18       0.00
P00359B       1995 CH-LIAONINGENVIRONMENTPROJECT                   110.00      0.00                0.00       0.00      34.47     34 17       0.00
P003596       1995 YANGTZE BASIN WATER                             100.00    110.00                0.00       0.00      6.85       5 19       0.00
P003585       1995 SHENYANG IND REFORM                             175.00      0.00                0.00       0.00      54.32     49 32       0.00
P003571       1995 RAILWAYS Vil                                    400.00      0.00                0.00      29.00     221.69    200 ;9      84.78
P003493       1995 INLANDWATERWAYS                                 210.00      0.00                0.00      15.00      7.86      22 36       2.46
P003402       1995 NATURE RESERVE MGMT                              0.00       0.00                0.00       0.00       1.76      2 1        0.0o
P003634       1995 ON-MATERNAL CHLD HEALT(HLTH6)                    0.00      90.00                0.00       0.00      8.38      11J5        0.00
P003647       1995 ECONOMIC LAW REFORM                              0.00      10.00                0.00       0.00      4.88       5.15       0.00
P003636       1995 CN-BASIC EDLC IN POOR & MINORITYAREAil           0.00    100.00                 0.00       0.00      0.48       2A.6       0.00
P003639       1995 SOUTHWEST POV. REDUC                            47.50    200.00                 0.00       0,00      46.79     58.98       0.00
P003642       1995 ZHEJIANG POWER DEVT                             400.00      0.00                0.00       0.00      87.48     49.93       0.00
P036947       1995 SICHUANTRANSMISStCN                             270.00      0.00                0.00      65.00     46.33     111.:-3     43.18
P036041       1995 FISCAL&TAXREF.&                                 25.00      25.00                0.00       0.00      19.75     22.:5       8.31
P003593       1994 SONGLIAOPLAINADP                                 0.00    205.00                 0.00       0.00      10.73      s.; 1      0.00
P003557       1994 FOREST RESOURCE DEV                              0.00    200.00                 18.40      0.00      12.93     16.; 5    -28.72
P003586       1994 CH-SHANGHAI ENVIRCNMENT PROJECT                 160.00      0.00                0.00       0.00     47.75      47.; 5      7.65
P003644       1994 XIAOLANGDI RESETTLEMENT                          0.00     110.00                0.00       0.00      17.47     14.3        0.00
P003404       1994 SICHUAN GAS DEV. CON                             0.00       0.00               10.00       0.00      0.29       1 ( 5      0.00
P003562       1994 XIAOLANGaI MULTIPURPOSE                         460.00      0.00                0.00       0.00       0.22      0.i2       0.00
P003502       1994 CN-RURALHEALTHMANPOWER(HLTH4)                    0.00     110.00                0.00       0.00      4.73       3.89       0.00
P003540       1994 LOESS PLATEAU                                    0.00     150.00                0.00       0.00      10.71      -5.i4      o.0o
P003626       1994 FUJIAN PROV HIGHWAY                             140.00      0.00                0.00       0.00      32.10     32.10      22.60
P003641       1994 YANGZHOU THERMAL POW                            300.00      0.00                0.00       0.00      34.00     34.C0       0.00
P003609       1994 SICHUAN GAS DEV & CONSERVATION                  255.00      0.00                10.00      0.00      63.66     56.16       0.00
P003622       1994 SHANGHAI MTP II                                 150.00      0.00                0.00       0.00       3.89      3.E9       0.00
P003595       1994 RED SOLS 11 DEVELCP                              0.00    150.00                 0.00       0.00      21.00     16.35       8.66
P003623       1993 FINANCIALSECTORT.A                               0.00      60.00                0.00       0.00      19.44     13.97      12.61
P003473       1993 CH-ZHEJIANG MULTICITIES DEVELCPMENT               0.00    110.00                0.00       0.00      10.32     10.26       5.21
P003627       1993 GRAIN DISTRIBUTION P                            325.00    165.00                0.00       0.00     144.73    145.53      60.53
P003632       1993 CN-ENVIRCNMENT TECH ASS                          0.00      50.00                0.00       0.00      7.51       8.,t3      7.97
P003559       1993 AGRIC.SUPPORTSERVI                               0.00    115.00                 0.00       0.00       4.08     -1.64       0.00
P003592       1993 REF. INSTL.& PREINV                              0.00      50.00                0.00       0.00      5.41       5t93       0.00
P003597       1993 TAIHUBASINFLOODCO                               100.00    100.00                 0.00      0.00       4.79      0.43      -2.00
P003580       1993 CHINA-SO. JIANGSU ENVMT PROTECTION PROJ        250.00       0,00                0.00       0.00       9.75      9.55       0.00
- 62 -



Difference between
expected
Original Amount in US$ Millions                               and actual
disbursements
Project ID    FY  Purpose                                     IBRD          IDA                  GEF      Cancel.   Undisb.       Orig  Frm Rev'd
P003570       1993 RAILWAY VI                                     420.00       0.00                0.00       2.82       35.90    38.72      12.23
P003516       1993 TIANHUANGPINGHYDRO                             300.00       0.00                0.00       0.00       49.38    44.38       0.00
P003624       1992 CN-INFECTIOUS DISEASES(HLTH5)                    0.00    129.60                 0.00       0.00       15.31    11.71      11.67
P003568       1992 CH-TIANJIN URBAN DLI & ENVMT                     0.00    100.00                 0.00       0.00        4.65     1.97       2.15
Total:   15489.40    3955.60             175.20      800.30    8912.85    4478.47    896.53
- 63 -



CH1NA
STATEMENT OF IFC's
Held and Disbursed Portfolio
Jan-2001
In Millions US Dollars
Committed                       Disbursed
IFC                            IFC
FY Approval        Company                      Loan   Equity   Quasi  Partic   Loan  Equity   Quasi  Partic
1999/00           Bank of Shanghai               0.00    3.84    0.00    0.00    0.00    3.84    0.00    0.00
1996              Beijing Honmel                 3.57    0.50    0.00    3.30    3.57    0.50    0.00    3.30
1998/00           CIG Holdings PLC               0.00    3.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
1996              Caltex Ocean                  21.00    0.00    0.00   45.00   21.00    0.00    0.00   45.00
1998              Chengdu Chemical               0.00    3.20    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
1998              Chengxin-IBCA                  0.00    0.36    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.36    0.00    0.00
1987/92/94        China Bicycles                 0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
1994              China WaldenJV                 0.00    3.86    0.00    0.00    0.00    3.86    0.00    0.00
1994              China Walden Mgt               0.00    0.01    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.01     0.00    0.00
1994              Dalian Glass                   0.00    2.40    0.00    0.00    0.00    2.40    0.00    0.00
1999              Dujiangyan                    25.59    0.00    0.00   30.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
1995              DupontSuzhou                  18.69    4.15    0.00   31.20   18.69    4.15    0.00   31.20
1994              Dynamic Fund                   0.00   10.23    0.00    0.00    0.00    8.57    0.00    0.00
2000               Elkem Carbon                  6.30    0.00    0.00    6.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
1999              Hansom                         0.00   16.10    0.00    0.00    0.00   16.10    0,00    0.00
1996              Jingyang                      40.00    0.00    0.00   92.31   40.00    0.00    0.00   92.31
1998              Leshan Scana                   6.10    1.35    0.00    0.00    4.50    1.35    0.00    0.00
1996              Nanjing Kumho                  9.74    3.81    0.00   27.68    9.74    3.81    0.00   27.68
1995              Newbiidge Inv.                 0.00    2.13    0.00    0.00    0.00    2.13    0.00    0.00
1997              Ningbo                         0.00    2.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    2.00    0.00    0.00
1997              Orient Finance                13.33    0.00    0.00   16.67   13.33    0.00    0.00   16.67
1997100           PTP Holdings                   0.00    0.03    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.03    0.00    0.00
1997              PTP Hubei                     12.63    0.00    0.00   25.38   12.63    0.00    0.00   25.38
1996              Pacific Ports                  0.00    3.64    0.00    0.00    0.00    3.64    0.00    0.00
1998              Rabobank SHFC                  1.80    0.00    0.00    1.80    1.80    0.00    0.00    1.80
1998              Shanghai Krupp                30.00    0.00    0.00   68.80    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
1999              Shanxi                        19.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    8.30    0.00    0.00    0.00
1993               Shenzhen PCCP                 3.76    0.99    0.00    0.00    3.76    0.99    0.00    0.00
1995              Suzhou PVC                    18.33    2.48    0.00   18.50   18.33    2.48    0.00   18.50
1998              WIT                            5.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00     0.00    0.00
1996               Weihai Weidongri              3.20    0.00    0.00    0.00    3.20    0.00    0.00    0.00
1993              Yantai Cement                 10.39    1.95    0.00    5.54   10.39    1.95    0.00    5.54
1998              Zhen ling                      0.00    2.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    2.00    0.00    0.00
Total Portfolio:      248.43   68.03    0.00   372.18   169.24   60.17    0.00  267.38
- 64 -



Approvals Pending Commitment
FY Approval       Company                         Loan    Equity    Quasi    Partic
1998              PTP Hubei BLINC                 0.00      0.00     0.00   1 M00.00
2000              SBCF I                          0.00      0.00  15000.00     0.00
2000              SBLAV                            0.00     0.00  15000.00     0.00
2000              SIGC                            0.00      0.00   6000.00     0.00
2000              Shizuishan Carbn                0.00      0.00   1700.00     0.00
2000              Wan Jie Hospital             15000.00     0.00      0.00     0.00
2000              CIG Zhapu                     6000.00   5000.00     0.00     0.00
2000              CIMIC Tile                   15000.00   5000.00     0.00  15000.00
1998              Chengdu Chemical             7400.00      0.00      0.00   8600.00
1997              Chinefarge                   12800.00     0.00     0.00  20000.00
2000              Jinfeng                       9000.00     0.00      0.00   7300.00
1998              Orient Fin A Inc             3333.33      0.00     0.00      0.00
Total Pending Commitment:   68533.33  10000.00  37700.00  52400.00
- 65 -



Annex 10: Country at a Glance
CHINA: Second Jiangxi Highway Project
East   Lowam
POVERTY and SOCIAL                                              Asia &     iddle-..
China    Pacitfc   Income       Development dlamond
1999
Pontilation mid-vtear /miDiions:)                       765. 6f   1 R37     2 094                  Life expectancy
rGNP ner nanita tAtlas mathort USSI                     7Rn       I n(n     1 7nn
G NP (Atlas mrethod USS billionsl                     '177 A     1 A33      2 f1i3
Av*rase annual orowth. 1993-09
Pnnotathn fltt                                           1n         1 7       1 1
Labor force /%)                                          10         1.3       1.2     GNP                                Gro-s
per    i40                       prima,y
Most recont estimalut tatlest vear avabtu  1b -                                        capita                         nprilma :t
Povertv f% of Dooueation below national ooveriv line)     S           .         .
tirhan noraitatinn 1% of totat oonutationtl              31         34        43
I it. Pxnectan,v at birth (vearsi                        7          fi A      S9                         .
Infant mortalitv (oer 1. 000 live births)                31         35        33
Child maintritinn 1% of chi)dren under 5)                1S         77         16                Access to sate water
Amcess to imoroved water sourcr t% of ooDohtlion)        83         84        86
lllitAcsr.v 1% of oooufation aoc 15+1                     17        1*         IA
Gross nrimarv enrollment (%of school-eacoDooulation)    123        119        114              China
Malr                                                  123        121       114               Lower-middle-income group
Femral                                                123        121        1t6
KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS and LONG-TERM TRENOS
1979     1989       1998      1999                 . 
Economic rallos
GDP fUSS billions)                           175 6    342,3      938 3      996 3
GrngR dnmestir investmenttrtP                 A .46 S    .S0      3R A       -t R                     Trade
Exoorts of ooods and serviceslGDP              6.4      127       21.9       22.1
Grn.-s dmestic gavinosirtDP                   3S53      3r 3      43.2       41 7
Grossm natinnaI gavinnO/GOP                   36 i       54       419        t99
trrent aoaminr hatancelGfiP                  .1 4      .t.         3 1       1 A      Domestic
lret.restnavme.ntsllP                          a 1       n07       0R n  R   Sa vinas                               investmen-
Totai debttGDP                                  1 2     13. 1      16.5      12 8     S
Trtal debt Aervi e enrts                       Ii4       9 A        A A       5 A
Present value of debIlGDP                                         1144
Present value of uleht/exrnrts                                    f3 3
Indebtedness
1979-89  1989-99     1998       1999   199S43
eavoreco annual orowth i
r:OP                                 10        105      78         71        77          -Chin
GNP netr anita                        A 9      9 0       A 7        A 4       R3  7             Lower-middle-income group
Exsorts of oood. ansd services       19.6     14.0       7 3       13 9      10.5
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
1979     1989       1998      1999      Growth of Investment and GDP 1%)
t% of GDP)                                                                            30
Aoriculture                                   31.2      25.0       18.W      17.3
Industrv                                      47.4      43.0      49.3       49.7     2
Manuf-a.tunrinn                              402      345 .      37 A      37 A     10
ServicA                                       21 4      37 0       37 1      32 9
Private rnnqsumntinn                          495       52 7      44.7       45.8            54   95   91  9S   9a  9n
General aovernment consujmntinn               15.2      12.(0      12.1      12.9                     GDI    -GDP
ImDorts of ooods and services                  7.5      13.5       17.5      19.1
1979.89  1989-99       1998      1999      Growth of exports end Imports (%)
taveraoe annua/ orowfht
Anriculture                                    6.0       4.4        3.5       2.8    30
Indtustrv                                     11 3      14 7        R 9       4 I
Manufacturina                                10.5     13.6        8.7       7.7    20
Servir.e                                      140       9A          83        75
Private consumDtion                           10.1       8.7        6.2       9.3
GenerAl nnvernment rc,nnimntion                99        9 R       8 4        7 9     o
Gross domestic investment                     11 n      17n         76        3R             94   95   go   97   98   99
Imnorts nf noofd and ervice                   2n 4      17 7       3 0       20 7                  Exports      GImportse
(Gros natinnat nr-r1-t                        105S      1n 2        7 R       7 3
Note: 1999 data are pretiminary estimates.
The diamonds show four kev indicators in the countrv tin bold) comnared with its income-aroun everane. If data are rnassino. the diamond will
he inenmntete
- 66 -



China
PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
Domestic prices                             1979    1989       1998      1999      Inflation (%J
(% ChMgW)                                                                          30
Consumer prices                                       18.0      -0.8      -1.4    20
Implicit GDP deflator                         3.9      8.6      -2.4      -2.2    10
Government finance                                                                 a
(% of GDP, includes curent grants)                                                        94   95   96   97   98
Currentrevenue                                        19.3      13.0      14.2    -10
Current budget balance                                 2.8       1.4       1.2                 GDP deflator  -CPI
Overall surplus/deficit                      -3.4    -0.9       -1.2      -2.1
TRADE
(US$ millions)                              1979    1989       1998      t999      Etport and Import levels (USS mill.)
Total exports (fob)                        13,658   52,551   183,529  194,931     200.00
Food                                               6,145    10,619    10,459          -                              L
Fuel                                               4,321     5,181     4,646     190,00_
Manufactures                                      37,460   163,157   175,003                      _   _ 00_   _
Total imports (cid)                                 59.140   140,168  165,718
Food                                               4,192     3,793    3,618      so          *              * 
Fuel and energy                                    1,850     6,773    8,912               E          E
Capital goods                                     18,207    56,768   69,469          o
92  94  99  99  97  98  99
Exoort orce index (1995=100)                  25       38        88        81
Imoort Drice index 11995=100)                 24       38        89        84                 *Exports      *Imports
Terms of trade (1995=100)                    104      100        99        97
BALANCE of PAYMENTS
1979    1989       1998     1999      Current account balance to GOP (%)
(iJSS millionsI
Exportsofgoods and services                15,046   57,101   207,586  218,711     4
Imports of goods and services              17,842   60,655   165,899   189,799
Resource balance                           -2,796   -3,554    41,687   28,912                            I    I     I
Net income                                   -319     229   -16,645   -17,973
Net current transfers                        626      381      4,278    4,943
Current account balance                    -2,489   -2,944    29,321    15,882     o
95  99  9?  99   99
Financing items (net)                       2,489    2,386   -23,073    -7,377
Changes in net reserves                        0      558    -6,248    -8,505    -2_
Memo:
Reserves includina aold (USS millions)         ..       ..  149.811   158.337
Conversion rate (DEC. locaiUSSI              2.3      4.9       8.3       8.2
EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
1979    1989       1998     1999
fuLSS millions)                                                                    Composition of 1999 debt (US$ mill.)
Total debt outstanding and disbursed        2,183   44,932   154,603  127,639
IBRO                                         0    2,330      9,644    10,639
IDA                                          0    2,296      8,693    8,907                       G:4 A: 10,639
Total debtservice                             81    5,650    18,186    13,204                                 :8,907
IBRD                                         0      223       941     1,161
IDA                                          0       14        97       118                                     .7
Composition of net resource flows                                                            (       !    _
Official grants                            -30      143        91       201                                   E: 24,238
Official creditors                         199    2,277.-  2,288    3,913           F: 79,576
Private creditors                         1,580    3,801     1,642    -2,945
Foreigndirectinvestment                     57    2,613    41,118   38,752
Portfolio equity                             0     -180    -3.927    -9,836
World Bank program                                                                 A - IBRD                    E - ilateral
Commitments                                  0    1,760      2,636    2,311      B - IDA    D - Other mulilateral  F - Private
Disbursements                                0    1,111      2,066    1,780      c - IMF                    G - Slort-term
Principal repayments                         0       62       434       558
Net flows                                    0    1,049      1,632    1,222
Interest payments                            0      175       604       720
Net transfers                                0      874      1,028      502
Development Economics                                                                                               8130t00
- 67 -



Additional
Annex 11
Jiangxi Highway Sector Revenues and Expenditures
CHINA: Second Jiangxi Highway Project
1.     The roads under RIPC are toll free roads. The financial evaluation of these non-revenue earnings
should ensure that JPCD maintains a sound financial practice to rninimize the financial risks, i.e. the lack
of counterpart funds for the construction including the future operating expenses to the project roads.
2.    JPCD has provided the financing plan for total revenue and expenditure of JPCD for the Ninth
Five Year Plan (9th FYP, 1996 - 2000) and the 10th FYP (2001 - 2005). Based on the Jiangxi highway
development plan, JPCD has acquired the sufficient funds to cover the funds demanded on new road
construction and the existing road network maintenance. In addition, a moderate self-financing ratio of
JPCD would ensure the implementation of the development plan. The latest actual data from 2000 revealed
that over two thirds of JPCD's total revenue are generated from the internal cash flow. The data shows
that borrowing of foreign and domestic loans has increased beginning 1998 except 2000 and 2001, in
which revenues are expected by transferring the rights and shares of the operation to the expressway
company. Since the operation of three expressways was transferred to the expressway company in 1999,
the revenue from the expressway tolls also decreased. However, the expenditure for maintenance of these
expressways was reduced. During the next five years (2001-2005), 6 major expressway construction
projects (including TGE) are planned. Thus, more MOC's grants and domestic/foreign loans are expected.
The detailed source and expenditure for 1996 - 2005 is shown in Table 1 and Table 2 of this Annex.
3.    Following the increases in the length of the provincial road network every year, JPCD also
provides additional resources for maintenance on the existing road networks. During the 9th FYP and she
I 0th FYP, the increases in rate of an average unit road maintenance expenditure is much faster than the
increases in rate of road network. It is estimated that increases of road network and average unit
maintenance expenditure for the 9th FYP and the 10th FYP are 0.8 percent vs. 5.7 percent. The soundness
of these allocation in terms of (i) level of returns and (ii) distribution across types of works will be reviewed
as part of the Road Improvement in the Poor Counties-program. The overall program shows that the
expenditures and road construction and maintenance for the "toll-free" roads included in the project
constitute only a small fraction of JPCD's fund flow. Therefore the fiscal impact would be minimal.
Based on the JPCD plan, the capital investment of RIPC is less than 2.1 percent of annual total JPCD
revenue. In addition, the required maintenance expenditure of RIPC is less than 0.5 percent of the total
maintenance expenditure of JPCD. These low ratios indicate that the project presents a modest financial
risk regarding availability of counterpart fund for construction and maintenance of the project roads. The
details are shown in Table 1 and Table 2 of this Annex and summarized as follows:
JPCD: Average Increase in the Road Network and
Road Maintenance Exgenditures (in %)
9 FYP   1 o FYP  Growth pa
Total length of the road network ('000 km)      181.1    188.7     0.8%
Averaze unit road maintenance exvend itures ('000 Y/km)    17.4  23.0  5.7%
- 68 -



JPCD: Investments. Revenue and Maintenance ExRenditures (million Yuan)
2002      2003      2004       2005       Total
Investments and Revenue:
RIPC Investments (a)                     57.39    130.93    129.94      54.41     372.67
Total JPCD Revenue (b)                5,338.55   6,292.90   6,243.15   4,896.95   22,771.55
Ratios (a)/(b)                           1.1%      2.1%       2.1%       1.1%       1.6%
Maintenance Expenditures:
RIPC (c)                                  1.74      4.42      4.42       4.42       15.00
Total JPCD Maintenance Expenditure (d)  875.00    893.00    850.50    870.00    3,488.50
Ratios (c)/(d)                           0.2%      0.5%       0.5%      0.5%        0.4%
Annex 11
Table I
Jiangxi: Highway Revenue and Expenditure During Ninth Five Year Plan
(Yuan million)
1996    1997    1998    1999    2000    Total
Revenue
I Road maintenance fee                          481.10  476.33  464.17  446.13  485.00  2,352.73
2 Expressway toll                                106.30  113.65  186.89  304.21   42.00   753.05
3 Surcharge on other roads                       386.90  474.50  456.96  309.20  245.00  1,872.56
4 MOC subsidy                                    488.60  487.70  373.41  361.91  341.70  2,053.32
5 Foreign loan                                        -    1.59  130.94  221.81  268.20   622.54
6 Domestic loan                                  590.33  278.99  561.72  458.56  452.84  2,342.44
7 Other funds                                    930.93  887.99 1,076.18 1,053.90 1,958.50  5,907.50
Total                                        2.984.16 2.720.75 3.250.27 3.155.72 3.793.24 15904.14
Expenditure:
I Transport and energy funds                       4.62       -       -        -       -     4.62
2 Traffic safety supervision                      14.43   14.27   13.62   15.37   14.50    72.19
3 New construction                             1,908.67 1,560.46 1,966.10 1,677.37 2,262.90  9,375.50
4 Maintenance:
a. Routine                                     154.55  154.00  145.35  156.37  157.47   767.74
b.Mediumandmajor                               147.67  128.53  131.37  143.73  122.17   673.47
c. Upgrading the existing road                 180.00  180.00  300.00  525.00  525.00  1,710.00
S Administration                                 130.67  179.80  183.55  161.42  172.50   827.94
6 Other                                          203.80  240.70  314.99  278.96  288.70  1,327.15
expenditures
7 Repayment of interest and principle            239.75  262.99  195.29  197.50  250.00  1,145.53
Total                                        2.984.16 2720.75 3.250.27 3.155.72 3793.24 15904.14
Total Road Network (km) -(a)                         34.963  35.234  36,867  36.918  37,120  181.102
Total maintenance expenditure (million Yuan)-(b)     482.22  462.53  576.72  825.10  804.64  3,151.21
Average unit maintenance expenditure ('000 Y/km)- (b)/(a)    13.79   13.13   15.64   22.35   21.68    17.40
Actual :1996-2000.
-69 -



Annex 11
Table 2
Jiangxi: Highway Revenue and Expenditure During Tenth Five Year Plan- Forecast
(Yuan million)
2001    2002    2003    2004    2005    Total
Revenue
I Road maintenance fee                         505.00  535.00  560.00  585.00  615.00  2.800.00
2 Expressway toll                               78.00   85.00   95.00  150.00  170.00   578.00
3 Surcharge on other roads                     290.00  320.00  335.00  370.00  400.00  1.715.00
4 MOC subsidy                                 1,287.00 1,357.00 1.647.00  807.00  290.00  5,388.00
5 Foreign loan                                  176.70  550.00  600.00  300.00  110.00  1,736.70
6 Domestic loan                                350.00 1,501.55 2,005.90 2,941.15 2,161.95  8,960.55
7 Other funds                                  950.00  990.00 1,050.00 1,090.00 1,150.00  5,230.00
Total                                       3,636.70 5.338.55 6.292.90 6.243.15 4.896.95 26.408.25
Expenditure:
I Transport and energy funds                        -       -       -       -       -
2 Traffic safety supervision                     15.15   16.05   16.80   17.55   18.45    84.00
3 New construction                            1,958.55 3,351.00 4,351.00 4,364.30 3,225.00 17,249.85
4 Maintenance:
a. Routine                                    165.00  175.00  183.00  190.50  200.00   913.50
b. Medium and major                           130.00  140.00  150.00  160.00  170.00   750.00
c. Upgrading the existing road                560.00  560.00  560.00  500.00  500.00  2,680.00
5 Administration                                180.00  189.00  198.00  208.00  218.80   993.80
6 Other                                        303.00  318.00  334.30  351.00  368.50  1,674.80
expenditures
7 Repayment of interest and principle          325.00  589.50  499.80  451.80  196.20  2,062.30
Total                                       3,636.70 5.338.55 6.292.90 6.243.15 4.896.95 26.408.25
Total RoadNetwork (km) -(a)                        37,231  37,385  37,710  37,933  38,451  188,710
Total maintenance expenditure (million Yuan) -(b)  855.00  875.00  893.00  850.50  870.00  4,344.00
Average unit maintenance expenditure ('000 Y/km)- (b)/(a)    22.96   23.41   23.68   22.42   22.63    23.02
Estimate: 2001; forecast: 2002-2005.
- 70 -



Additional
Annex 12
Review of Financial Management System
CHINA: Second Jiangxi Highway Project
I.    Background
1.    This report is the result of a financial management review and analysis of the proposed Second
Jiangxi Highway Project (the "project") as conducted by Junxue Chu (Financial Management Officer,
EACCF) and Tony Shen (Financial Management Specialist, EACCF) to determine whether the Project has
in place an adequate financial management system as required by the Bank OP/BP 10.02. The review was
performed in accordance with the following:
* Guide for Review and Design of Accounting and Reporting System for World Bank Projects
(Prepared by Central Operational Services Unit, East Asia and Pacific Region, December
1997);
* Review of Financial Management System as stipulated in Annex II of LACI Implementation
Handbook; and
* Project Financial Management Manual (Loan Department, February 1999).
2.    The review consequently included procedures as were considered necessary and appropriate to the
Project's circumstances, including site visit, discussion and observation. As a result, the task team has
discussed and reviewed the following plans, procedures and guidelines for establishing a sound project
fmancial management system, inter alia, accounting system, staffing and training, intemal controls, project
reporting, auditing and budgeting. The project financial management is to be handled by the following
agencies:
Jiangxi Provincial Finance Bureau (JPFB)
Jiangxi Provincial High-Class Highway Administration Bureau (JPHCHAB)
Jiangxi Provincial Highway Administration Bureau (JPHAB) under Jiangxi Provincial
Communication Department (JPCD)
II.    Project Objective, Structure and Costing
3.    The project aims to provide a more efficient, safe and effective transport infrastructure in support
of social and economic development in Jiangxi Province. To meet the above development objective, the
project will produce the following outputs:
Traffic congestion relieved and mobility increased in the Nanchang-Shenzhen transport
corridor, a key section of the Beijing-Shenzhen expressway;
Accessibility to low-income areas in the province improved; and
Efficiency and effectiveness in public sector management of the road network enhanced
through institutional and management measures in support of improved asset preservation,
safety and construction quality, while preparing the sector for commercialization opportnities.
4.    The financing of the project will be supported by the IBRD (US$200 million) and the Government
(US$336 million) for a total estimated project cost of US$536 million.
- 71 -



5.    The project consists of the following components: i) Taihe - Ganzhou Expressway (TGE); ii, Road
improvement and upgrading program; and iii) Institutional, policy reform and traffic safety. The project
also comprises the following disbursement categories: i) Goods; ii) Civil Works; and iii) consultant service,
training and TA.
lIl.   Organizational Structure of Project Financial Management
6.    The overall responsible agency for the Project is Jiangxi Provincial Communication Department
(JPCD). The Project Office (PO) was set up under JPCD to handle the day-to-day implementation work of
the project. The JPHCHAB is currently responsible for domestic financed expressway construction and
JPHAB is responsible for domestic financed road improvement projects. Most staff of the PO will be from
JPHCHAB and JPHAB respectively, to maximize work efficiency and effectiveness and minimize
inter-department coordination. The financial management section under the PO will be responsible for
project financial management, such as bookkeeping, preparation of financial reports, budgeting, etc.
Original invoices and supporting documents will be kept by the PO as well.
7.    The JPFB will be also involved in project financial management, particularly in IBRD funds
disbursement. The Foreign Loan Division of JPFB will be responsible for the monitoring, maintenance and
reconciliation of the special account to be set up for the Project, checking and monitoring withdrawal
applications and verifying payment requests in line with Bank requirements. Funds will flow from the
Bank to JPFB through on-lending arrangements and then onto vendor/contractors or the PO. The financial
management section of PO will be responsible for collecting all supporting documents, monitoring contract
payments and preparing payment requests before submitting to JPFB. JPFB will further verify, approve
and process withdrawal applications before submitting to the Bank for disbursements. Original financial
and disbursement documentation will be kept in the PO.
8.    Institutional experience with Bank-Financed Projects. The JPFB has had substantial previous
experience with Bank-financed projects (e.g. forestry, agriculture projects) and is familiar with existing
disbursement, financial reporting and auditing requirements. JPHCHAB also implemented the First Jiangxi
Highway Project, which was completed in 1992. The current director of PO/JPHHB is in charge of the
proposed Project. However, financial staff of the PO are new to Bank financed project.
IV.   Internal and Other Controls
9.    A well-designed internal control system is one of the key elements critical to the success of a
project. A Financial Management Manual (the "Manual") has been prepared by the PO. The objectiN e of
the Manual developed by the PO is to document the operational procedures and guidelines for project
financial management and covers the following key areas:
Project financial management structure and staffing;
Job description of financial positions in the PO;
Identification of accounting standards to be used by the Project and participating agencies;
Key internal control features such as a system of authorization, verification, reconciliatior and
project reporting to provide adequate control over project costs, cash and asset management
and segregation of incompatible duties;
Reporting formats tailored to project specifics;
Procedures for disbursement and counterpart fund management;
Budgetary procedures; and
Auditing arrangements.
- 72 -



The draft Manual has been reviewed by the Bank and discussed with the PO. The Manual has also been
finalized after pre-appraisal in November 2000 and will be distributed to relevant staff before Project
effectiveness.
V.    Project Financial and Accounting System
10.   The administration, accounting and reporting of the Project will be set up in accordance with the
following regulations/circulars issued by MOF:
(i) In line with other Bank financed projects in China, the Project will use "Temporary
Regulations on Financial and Accounting Management for Projects Financed by the World
Bank" (Circular #127 issued in 1993) by MOF as a basis for bookkeeping and preparation of
project financial statements and management reports. Accrual accounting and double entry
bookkeeping basis will be adopted by the Project.
(ii) Circular #12: "Regulation for the Submission of Withdrawal Applications" issued in
December 1996 by MOF - includes detailed procedures for preparing and submitting
withdrawal applications and retention of supporting documentation.
(iii) Circular #6: "Temporary Regulations on Financial Management Reporting for Projects
Financed by the World Bank" issued by MOF in January 1997. The circular dictates format
and content of project financial reporting for Bank financed projects and provides detailed
instructions on report preparation.
(iv) Circular #13: "Accounting Regulations for World Bank Financed Projects" issued in January
2000 by MOF. The circular provides in-depth instructions of accounting treatment of project
activities and covers the following:
- Chart of account
- Detailed accounting instructions for each project account
- Standard set of project financial statements
- Instructions on the preparation of project financial statements
The standard set of project financial statements mentioned above has been agreed to between the Bank and
MOF and applies to all Bank projects appraised after July 1, 1998 and includes the following:
Balance sheet
Statement of source and use of fund
Statement of implementation of credit/loan agreement
Statement of special account
The above standard set of project financial statements outdates the one prescribed by circular #6.
Both circular #127 and #13 are simplified versions of the Accounting Standards for State-owned,
Infrastructure Oriented Projects (the "Standards"), taking into consideration unique characteristics of Bank
projects. The Standards are modeled after the principles of International Accounting Standards and
provides detailed guidelines to accounting for project activities in an infrastructure project.
-73 -



VI.   Special Account, Disbursements and Supporting Documentation
11.   Special Account. Only one Special Account under the Project, to be held in U.S. dollars, will be
maintained and managed by the Foreign Loan Division of Jiangxi Provincial Finance Bureau (JPFB)
JPFB will check and monitor withdrawal applications and verify payment requests in line with Bank
requirements. Corresponding bank accounts for Special Account related transactions will be held at ihe
PO.
12.   Disbursements and Supporting Documentation. The project will disburse with the traditional
disbursement techniques and will not use PMR-based disbursements, in accordance with the agreement
between the Bank and the Ministry of Finance (MOF). The original supporting documentation and copies
of each withdrawal application will be maintained by the PO. In addition, one copy of key disbursernent
documents, such as Statements of Expenditures, will be maintained at JPFB. JPFB will submit
replenishment applications to the Bank at monthly intervals, or when the balance in the Special Account
reaches about 50% of the initial deposit, whichever comes first.
VII.  Staffing and Training
13.   Staffing. The project chief accountant in the PO is seconded from the financial section of
JPHCHAB and has already reported to duty. The chief accountant has been certified professionally, has
college education in accounting, and has worked on the financial/accounting aspect of highway consthuction
for 6 years. In addition, the financial departnent set up under the PO has been staffed with 5
financial/accounting staff from financial sections of JPHCHAB and JPHAB, and based on the CVs
provided, we noted that the staff have the educational background and work experience relevant to the work
responsibilities expected of them.
14.   Training. As the five financial/accounting staff are new to Bank financed projects, it has been
agreed that well-designed and focused training will be provided by the PO and JPFB to the five staff and all
other relevant personnel at the PO to ensure a correct understanding of Bank policies and procedures. as
well as PRC relevant law and regulations. The following areas are expected to be covered by the training
program: (i) Bank procedures and requirements on the withdrawal of Bank funds; (ii) the Project financial
statement formats; (iii) Project Financial Management Manual; (iv) project audit requirements; and (v)
highway sector financing and management. Based on the training program developed by the PO, we noted
that topics covered by the program are in line with the suggestions above.
We further noted that four of the five financial staff from the PO have already participated in the
Disbursement/Financial management workshop conducted by the World Bank Office in Beijing in
November 2000. In addition, the Project Launch Workshop will also include one section on project
financial management and financial/disbursement staff from the field office will participate in the workshop
to re-address key areas of project financial management.
- 74 -



VIII. Reporting Requirements
15.   As stated in section IV, the Bank and MOF have agreed to a standard set of project financial
statements applicable to all projects appraised after July 1, 1998. In terms of reporting cycle, the project
financial statements will be submitted bi-annually (no later than October 1 and April 1 respectively) by the
PO and include the following:
Balance Sheet
Statement of Sources and Uses of Funds by Project Activity
Statement of Implementation of Loan Agreement
Statement of Special Account
IX.   Audit Arrangements
16.   The Bank requires that annual project financial statements be audited in accordance with standards
acceptable to the Bank. In line with other Bank financed projects in China, the project will be audited in
accordance with the Governmental Auditing Standards of the People's Republic of China (1997 edition).
The Jiangxi Provincial Audit Bureau will be responsible for auditing both the Project and the participating
agencies (e.g. PO and JPFB). The audit report will be due to the Bank within 6 months after the end of
each calendar year, with separate opinion on the statement of expenditure and special account.
X.    Budgeting
17.   Counterpart funding is mainly from the central and provincial communication sector budgets.
Financing procedures will be based on the current government budgeting process and all counterpart funds
from various resources are expected to be ultimately deposited into the PO account.
18.   An annual budget will be prepared by the PO and reviewed and approved by JPFB and the
Provincial Planning Committee. Details of the budget preparation and approval process have been included
in the Manual and serve as a guide for all parties involved.
XI.   Issues/Proposed Actions
19.   Financial Management Systems Manual. The Manual should be issued to all relevant staff
before project effectiveness. See attachment for further information.
20.   Staffing and Training. As noted in Section VII above, staff at the PO should receive proper
training before project implementation. See attachment for further information.
XII.  Conclusion
21.   Subject to the proposed actions described in section Xl, the financial management team has
determined that the Project will satisfy the Bank's financial management requirements as required by
OP/BP 10.02. In terms of disbursement procedures, the Project will disburse based on traditional
disbursement techniques and will not use PMR-based disbursements, in accordance with the agreement
reached between the Bank and the Ministry of Finance.
- 75 -



Attachment
Proposed Action Plan
Description                               Borrower          Bank               Target
Responsibility    Responsibility    Date
A. Pnoject Financial Management Manual
1. The Manual to be issued to relevant staff  PO            FMOIFMS           Before project
effectiveness
B. Staffing and Training
1. Training prograrn to be delivered by PO  PO              FMOfMS            Before
hnpklmentafon
C Special Account
1. Obtain domestic clearance for opening SA  JPFB/PO        Disbursement      Before withdrawal
2. Open conrsponding RMB bank account      PO                Officer, WBOB     of initial deposits
3. Submit authorized signatue to MOF and then  JPFB/MOF
to the Bank
MOF = Ministry of Finmce
PO = Project Office
JPFB - Jiangxi Provincial Finance Bureau
WBOB = World Bank Office in Beijing
- 76 -



Additional
Annex 13
Environmental Assessment and Action Plan Summary
CBINA: Second Jiangxi Highway Project
A. Background
1.    The Environmental Assessment (EA) activities for the Taihe-Ganzhou section (main expressway)
of the Gan-Yue Expressway and the three interconnecting roads started in December 1999 and was carried
out by the Highway Research Institute of the Ministry of Communications (MOC). The Terms of
Reference (TOR) for carrying out the EA were reviewed and approved by the National Environmental
Protection Agency (NEPA). In June 2000, the Environmental Impact Assessment (EIA) for the project was
reviewed by experts sponsored by the MOC. The EIA reports have been submitted to NEPA for approval.
In October 2000, the Jiangxi Provincial Environmental Research Institute was engaged to undertake the EA
for the four RIPC roads.
2.    Preliminary draft EIA and EAP reports for the main alignment were commented on by the Bank in
May 2000. As the Expressway alignment selection proceeded and the selection of the interconnecting roads
was finalized, the Bank reviewed and corniented on successive revised EA reports. In November 2000,
for the first time, the Bank also reviewed and commented on the four RIPC components. The final version
of the ELAEAP reports of the main expressway alignment, the three interconnecting roads and the four
RIPC roads and the EA Summary report were submitted to the Bank in January 2001 and these documents
were released to the Public Information Center in Washington.
3.    In preparing the Termns of Reference (TOR) and the EA, residents along the project route were
regularly consulted, and their opinions have been reflected in the project design and proposed environmental
mitigation measures.
4.    The project follows the policy and administrative requirements for environmental assessments of
development projects in China, as well as the Bank's OP 4.01 on Environmental Assessments (March
1999). Major PRC laws and regulations that applied to the EA for the Second Jiangxi Highway Project
include the Law on Environmental Protection ofPRC" (December 26, 1989); "Law on Ambient Noise
Pollution Control ofPRC" (October 29, 1996); "Law on Water Pollution Control of PRC" (May 15,
1996); "Law on Atmospheric Pollution Control of PRC " (December 29, 1995); and the Cultural Relics
Protection Law. The EA also followed Circular No. 324 on "Strengthening Environmental Impact
Assessment of Construction Projects Financed by Intemational Financial Institution" (NEPA, 1993).
5.    The scope of the EIA and the criteria used include the following:
a) Noise. Noise assessment was carried out for all receptors within 200 m on both sides of the
alignment. Class I noise standards (55 dB(A) in daytime and 45 dB(A) at night) were applied
to schools and hospitals and other sensitive locations. Class IV standards (70 dB(A) in daytime
and 55 dB(A) at night) were applied to residential areas (GB 3096-93).
b) Air pollution. The coverage of air pollution was the same as those for noise. Class II
standards (GB 3095-96) were applied.
c) Ecological conditions. The EA was extended to cover sensitive locations beyond 200 m.
d) Target year for the predictions. Given the construction schedule and traffic forecast,
environmental predictions were made for the years 2004, 2015 and 2023.
- 77 -



B. Brief Project Description
6.    The project includes: (i) 128 km of the Taihe-Ganzhou section of the Gan-Yue Expressway; (ii)
three interconnecting roads comprising 14 km of the Wan'an road, 21 km of the Suichuan road, and 14 km
of the Ganzhou road, and (iii) four roads in the RIPC, namely, 79 km of Suichuan-Chezi'ao road (RIPC 1),
46 km of Yutian-Xinjiang road (RIPC 2), 26 km of Shashibu-Wangmudu road (RIPC 3) and 29 km of
Tangjiang-Dongshan road (RIPC 4).
C. Baseline Environmental Description
7.    Natural environment. The project area belongs to a semi-tropical monsoon climate characterized
by cold winters, springs, hot summers and dry autumns. The rain falls early in the summer and averages
1372-1595 mm. The annual average temperature ranges from 17.7 to 19.2 C. The proposed alignment of
the Taihe-Ganzhou section lies in the southern part of Jiangxi Province and runs north to south along the
west bank of the Ganjiang River. The area along the alignment is high in the south and low in the north.
The starting section at Mashi (Taihe) is in a hilly area with sharp undulating landforms rising to steep
mountains and numerous mountain gullies. Towards the end, approaching Nankang, the terrain becomes
flat with low hills and blends into the alluvial plains of the Shangyoujiang and Zhangjiang Rivers. The
landform along the three interconnecting roads is relatively flat with low hills. The RIPC roads lie mairly
in the hilly areas.
8.    Ecological Environment. The forest coverage along project corridors is between 49-68 percent.
The vegetation is comprised of broad leaf evergreen plants, sub tropical coniferous trees, bamboo trees and
other mixed vegetation. The coverage along the road is mostly cultivated vegetation and some shrubs and
bushes and occasional grassy areas. The farmland vegetation is mostly rice, cotton, sugar cane, citrus and
oil trees. The EA confirms that there are no natural habitats or environmentally protected areas or
protected flora and fauna within 500 m of the roadsides. The absence of natural habitats and protected
areas was also confirmed by reference publications such as "Biodiversity Review of China, " by J.
MacKinnon, M. Sha, C. Chcung, G. Carey, Z. Xiang, and D. Melville. WWF-HK (1996); "A Directory of
Asian Wetlands, " ed. Derek Scott, IUCN, Gland, Switzerland (1989); and "China: Biodiversity
Conservation Action Plan, " ed. Charlotte Maxey and Julia Lutz. GEF (1993).
9.    Soil erosion ranges from low in Suichuan county to mild in all other counties. The area along the
Wan'an and Suichuan interconnecting roads is slightly eroded, while that along the Ganzhou connecting
road is heavily eroded. RIPC 3 and 4 roads are located in heavy erosion areas.
10.   Socio-economic conditions. The proposed alignment passes through the Ji'an City and Ganzhou
City prefectures. The region supports a population of around 3 million. The area has abundant fertile land
and is rich in agriculture. It is also strong in industrial production, especially in power, machinery,
chemicals and textiles. The area is also rich in tourism, with historical sites and scenic mountains, such as
the Jinggangshan Mountain. The Ganzhou prefecture is rich in natural resources and is one of the key
non-ferrous metals (tungsten, rare-earth, etc.) production bases in China. The City is also famous for its
cultural relics of the Song Dynasty. Farmers' per capita income vary from a low of 1,357 RMB in
Ganxian County to 2,651 RMB in Ganzhou County.
11.   Air and noise quality. The ambient air quality was monitored at thirteen sites - five along the
main expressway alignment, one each along the three interconnecting roads and five along the RIPC roads.
Since the TGE and the other roads traverse mostly rural areas, the ambient air quality and noise levels are
well within the norms. Air quality monitoring results show that NOx and TSP concentrations along the
proposed alignments meet the Class 11 standards although, there are a few large-scale fixed pollution
- 78 -



sources. Noise levels too, monitored at various locations along the proposed alignments, fall well within
the Class II Standards at all villages and locations. The noise monitoring results for the three
interconnecting roads comply with Class I standard.
12.   Water quality. Ambient water quality was monitored at four river crossings along the proposed
alignment. Results show that water quality is well within the Class III standards and often meets the Class
II standards. The EA states that there are no industrial pollution sources along the alignment, but that the
rivers may be impacted by agricultural runoff. The EA did not identify any drinking water intakes along
the river banks within the assessment area. Groundwater is the main drinking water source in the area.
13.   Cultural relics. In the Report on the Cultural Relics Survey for the TGE and the other projects
roads carried out by the Jiangxi Provincial Cultural Relics Archeology Institute, 21 cultural relic sites were
identified by the report. These sites are located from 700m to 2000m from the proposed alignments and
will not be impacted by the roads. The RIPC roads are mostly based on the existing alignment, and their
upgrade is not expected to cause any impact on the cultural relics sites.
D. Potential Environmental Impacts and Mitigation Measures
14.   Major environmental impacts and their mitigation measures are reflected in the project documents
and are summarized below.
Design Phase
15.   Analysis of alternatives. The selection of the alignment for the TGE was carried out in three
stages. During the pre-Feasibility Stage, the West Ganjiang alignment with Alternative I (out of 3
alternatives) was selected based on the shortest length, low cost, fewer construction issues, etc.
Environmentally, it occupies more farmland than Alternative II, but it is far away from NH No. 105, the
environmental issues are easier to mitigate and it is the preferred alternative for the counties. In the
Feasibility Stage, the Taihe Alternative II, Suichuan Alternative I, Fuzhing Alternative I and Mashuang
Alternative III were selected based on lower occupancy of farmland, shorter mileage, lower construction
costs and better technical design. Environmental factors such as noise, number of river crossings, excess
waste material disposal, etc. were taken into account. In most cases, the alternatives were similar in terms
of impacts or had slight differences, in which case, local government and county preferences were
considered in making the selection. Based on the above, a total of nine alternatives were chosen to arrive at
the final alignment in the pre-design stage. Finally, the nine alternatives were subjected to minor
adjustments to fiurther minimize the impact on communities, reduce resettlement, reduce loss of agricultural
land, minimize noise, etc. The analysis of "the situation without project" indicated that the increased traffic
volume on the existing road would exceed the capacity and worsen environmental conditions and traffic
safety, and would hinder economic development.
16.   Social disruption. To minimize the separation of communities and social and economic
disruptions, and to ease the transportation burden, the proposed TGE has 53 grade separations and 328
passage ways. The project will also build a number of bridges to meet the traveling needs of the local
populace. In the Wan'an interconnecting road, the project intends to build a large bridge to meet local
demand for river crossings.
17.   Drainage and Flood Protection. The project design includes a complete drainage system for
subgrade and pavement protection, a number of bridges and 382 culverts. Large bridges are designed for 1
in 300 year floods while smaller bridges are designed for 1 in 100 year floods. Similar bridges on the
interconnecting roads are designed for 1 in 100 year and 1 in 50 year floods, respectively. In case of severe
- 79 -



flooding, the passage ways will also act as floodways.
18.    Soil erosion. Mitigation measures such as rationalization of earth and stone works, road side
planting, proper design and protection of slopes, minimumn excavation and use of excess soil, construction
of ditches and other drainage structures are incorporated in the design to prevent and minimize soil ercsion.
These measures are also included for the other roads.
19.    Noise and air polution. The EIA report for the TGE has identified 12 villages, three schools, one
clinic and one old people's home which will be affected by noise from the TGE. In addition, 309
households will be affected. Of these, 56 households, one school and the old people's home will be
resettled. 253 households will be provided with sound proof windows and the remainder will be provicted
with noise barriers. Similar protection is also provided to the sensitive receptors along the interconnecting
roads and the RIPC roads. These mitigation measures will be implemented prior to operation of the roads.
Air quality forecasts indicate that the concentration of CO and NOx will increase, but the amount of
increase is small and the pollutants will meet air pollution standards.
20.    Water poUution. Sewage treatment facilities are included in the design to treat wastes from
service areas, toll stations and construction camps.
Construction Phase
21.    Dust, noise and water pollution were identified as potential impacts during the construction phase.
22.    Dust pollution. Dust was identified as a major environmental impact during construction. The
construction sites will be sprayed regularly with water to minimize and control dust. Trucks transportinag
excavated material will be covered. All storage sites and soil, cement and bitumen mixing stations will be
located on the leeward side, at least 300 m from residential areas.
23.    Noise. Use of heavy machinery and other construction activities will cause adverse impacts in
residential areas, particularly at environmentally sensitive sites such as schools and hospitals. Thus,
construction schedules will be strictly regulated to prohibit construction near these areas from 10:00 p.m.
to 6:00 a.m. Temporary access roads would be located away from the sensitive and residential areas.
Along NH No. 105, precautions will be taken to minimize noise impact. The sensitive locations will be
monitored, and if necessary, temporary noise baniers will be installed. In some cases, economic
compensation may be made to the impacted residents.
24.    Soil erosion prevention. To minimize soil erosion and loss of vegetation, the work area and
construction sites will be minimized and trees and grasses will be planted. Road sections with deep cuts
will be protected with retaining walls, side slope plantation, terracing and interception ditches. Top soils
will be carefully scrapped and stockpiled for later use in land reclamation. Temporary drainage systems
will also be installed to protect the nearby waterbodies.
25.    Water polution. To prevent accidental oil spills and the discharge of polluted water from
construction sites into rivers and irrigation ditches, e.g. during bridge construction, the machinery service
areas and oil supply tanks will be located away from the water. Wastes (garbage, sewage, oily rags anc
discards, etc.) from construction sites and construction camps will be handled, collected, stored and
disposed of regularly to prevent water pollution and sanitation problems.
- 80 -



26.   Cultural relics. The construction of the TGE and the other roads is not expected to unearth
cultural relics. However, if new cultural relics are discovered during road construction or excavation
activities, the construction will be halted and the local Cultural Relics Authorities and local government
will be informed, the sites will be surveyed and appropriate measures will be taken.
27.   Public Consultation. Complaints lines will be set up by the contractors at each location and the
complaints telephone number will be displayed prominently at each construction camp. Complaints will be
logged and the PIU and the Contractor will contact the local Environment Department to resolve the
complaints within 24 hours.
Operations Phase
28.   Noise and air pollution. Noise barriers and/or other preventive measures will be installed at
locations where the noise exceeds the standards, based on the EIA report and additional monitoring.
Permanent buildings, including schools and hospitals, will not be constructed within 200 m of the TGE,
100 m from the interconnecting roads and 40 m from the RIPC roads. Villages, households and sensitive
locations with excessive noise will be monitored to determine additional mitigation measures.
29.   Vehicle management. Maintenance/management will be improved to keep vehicles in good
condition. Vehicle noise and emission inspections will be strengthened. If vehicles do not comply with the
noise and/or emission standards, they may be prevented from using the expressway. Awareness and
education programs will be promoted to familiarize the public with related regulations and with the
problems of excess air and noise pollution from vehicles.
E. Environmental Monitoring
30.   During the construction and operations phases, the environment will be monitored to identify
unexpected problems at an early stage and to take appropriate actions, as needed. Quarterly monitoring
reports will be furnished to the Bank at the end of March, June, September and December of each year,
during the construction phase. An annual report will be furnished by March 31 for each of the first two
years after the construction is completed and the TGE becomes operational. The total budget for
monitoring of the Expressway is 480,000 RMB. An additional budget of 100,000 RMB is included for
five hand-held noise meters for use at the construction sites.
Construction Phase
31.   Noise, TSP (dust), bitumen and smoke will be regularly monitored at major sensitive sites along
the TGE and on an ad-hoc basis, as required. Water quality monitoring will include pH, COD, SS and oil.
Detailed information about monitoring activities such as frequency, sites and methods to be used is
included in the EAP.
Operations Phase
32.   Noise, air quality (NOx, CO and TSP) and water quality (pH, COD, SS and oil) will be monitored
at major sensitive sites. Detailed information about monitoring activities such as frequency, locations and
methods is included in the EAP.
- 81 -



F. Institutional Arrangements and Training
33.   The Environmental Protection Section of the Project Office (PO) of JPCD will be responsible for
the overall environmental protection supervision and implementation of the EAP during the construction
phase. The Environmental Protection Section will be staffed by nine Environmental Supervision Enginieers.
During the operation phase, the responsibilities for environmental management will shift to the Jiangxi
Provincial High Class Highway Administration who will be staffed by four environmental experts and
assisted by three enviromnental experts at the county level. During construction and operations, the
Environmental Monitoring Stations of Jian and Ganzhou will undertake monitoring. Training will be
provided for about 25 staff from JPCD and 20 staff from contractors. During the operations phase, bidget
is provided to train staff from toll stations, tunnels, service areas, etc. on the transport of hazardous wastes,
emergency response, fire fighting, etc. A training budget of 425,000 RMB and an equipment budget of
20,000 RMB has been included in the cost estimates for environmental protection.
G. Public Consultation and Information Disclosure
34.   Public consultation and feedback Beginning with the preparation of the Terms of Reference in
November 1999 and the preparation of the draft final EA reports in November 2000, consultants carned
out four public consultation and participation surveys. The consultations and surveys were carried out
either through family or individual interviews, group interviews or discussion meetings attended by
govemmental and non-govemmental organizations. The main expressway involved consultation with 586
persons, 75 villages/towns and 12 organizations. For the three interconnecting roads, seven group
interviews were conducted involving 178 families and three discussion meetings were held. For the foar
RIPC roads, five group interviews were carried out. Resettlement related issues figured prominently il all
the consultations. The public was concerned about adverse environmental impacts on living conditions
caused by noise and dust and expected mitigation measures to be implemented, especially at schools. Early
completion of the roads was also requested. The public requested continuous update and consultation
during project implementation. These concems were integrated in the engineering designs and EAP.
35.   Information disclosure. Final EIA, EAP and EA Summary reports were submitted to the Bank in
January 2001 and were disclosed in the PIC. In Jiangxi, the documents were originally made public on
September 10, 2000 in the resettlement offices and libraries in Nanchang City, Ji'an City, Ganzhou C: ty,
Taihe County, Suichuan County, Wan'an County, Nankang City and Zhanggong District. At the locations
in Jiangxi listed above, final EA reports have since replaced the original reports and have been made
public.
H. Environmental Protection Cost
36.   Environmental Protection and Monitoring Costs. The tables below provide the estimated costs
for environmental protection for the Taihe-Ganzhou Expressway (Table A), the three interconnecting roads
(Table B) and the four RIPC roads (Table C). The estimates cover afforestation, sound barriers,
double-glazed windows, sanitation facilities at construction camps and service areas, removal and
relocation of families and facilities impacted by noise, equipment procurement, environmental training and
monitoring. The estimated budget for environmental protection is 14.96 million RMB for the main
Expressway, 2.35 million RMB for the three interconnecting roads, and 10.59 million RMB for the four
RIPC roads. The total budget for the entire project is 27.9 million RMB.
- 82 -



Table 1: Cost of Environmental protection for the Taihe - Ganzhou Expressway
No.    Protection        Measure         Quantity    Unit cost   Cost   Remarks
Measure        Description                            (10,000
vuan)
I    Planting and   Planting in the earth   46 places  50,000   230.00
vegetation    borrowing sites and
recoverv        waste areas
2    Sound barrier   Acoustic protection  1480m      1800/m   266.40
for Mashuang High
School. etc.
3    Removal and      Removal and      56 families    30,000   168.00
resettlement    resettlement for               yuanl
acoustic                    familv
environmental    Daping olds   100,000   10.00
protection        home        vuan
Zhuhu school    40.0    40.00
4    Installation of  Protection of    253 families    5,000    126.50
soundproof        acoustic                     yuan/
windows        environment                    familv
5      Environ.    Septic tank, garbage  9 bid sections   40,000    36.00
Protection and   tank will be set up          yuan! bid
management    in construction                  section
during      camp. Operators
_ construction stage  working securitv
6  Sewage treatment  Sewage treatment   8 places    400,000   320.00
facility   in the service areas              yuanl
and marking lots                Dlace
7    Cultural relics   Survey and                             120.00
l_l    _protection       excavation  I___l__
8   Environmental    Completion of                            48.00   Including
monitoring     environmental                                    Road 105
monitoring plan                                     and
temrporary
9   Training for EP  See the EP training                      42.56
l __________l  L       ian     l              L
10    Equipment    Fire extinguishers    66 groups   150 vuanl   1.98
procurement     in the tunnel    totaling 132   each
extinguishers
Hand automatic        5        20,000    10.00
noise monitor                  yuanl
each
11     Sign board    Yellow board for      54         1000     5.40
careful driving, red             yuan!
board for speed                 each
limit and blue board
for remindine
12    Contingency    5% of the above                           71.24
total
13       Total                                                1496.08
- 83 -



Table 2: Cost of Environmental Protection for the Ganzhou, Suichuan and
Wan'an Interconnecting Roads
No. Protection Measure      Ganzhou             Suichuan            Wan' an
(10.000 vuan)      (10.000 vuan)       (10.000 vuan)
I       Plantine             25.0               22.5                20.0
2   Environ. protection      24.0                15.0                36.0
cost during
I   construction
3    Environmental           9.0                 12.0                9.0
_   monitoring
4     Sound barrier          15.0                                    15.0
5     Sound barrier                              18.0
building during
operation phase
(Zhanctanc school)
6      EP Training            1.0                1.0                  1.0
7   Speed limit sign at                          0.6
school place
8    Wamine board                                                    0.4
9  Contingency (5% of        3.70                3.46                4.07
above)                             _
I10       Total              77.70               72.56               85.47
Table 3: Cost of Environmental Protection for the Roads
under the RIPC Progr
No.         Items             RRIPI         RRIP2        RRIP3          RRIP4
1 1 | (~~~~10.000 vuan). (10.000 Yuan) (10.000 vuanl (10.000 vuan)
t  Side slope greening and    I158.00      91.69         65.63         43.08
grade crossing
beautification
2  Construction monitorinX    4.5           3.0           1.6           2.4
3   Operation monitoring      3.0            1.8          1.5           1.8
4      Heightening of         84.2         206.2          44.0          92.5
encirclement or
installation of noise
isolation window
5    Installation of simple   6.0           2.8
noise isolation barrier,
designed and arranged in
combination with the
encirclement
6  Environmental protection   10.0          10.0          5.0           5.0
_    in construction               _         _    _
7      Reclamation of         45.0          35.0          30.0          35.0
temporarily used land
8   Plan of environmental     5.0           5.0           5.0           5.0
trainin_
9   Other unexpected cost     15.85        17.77          7.63          9.24
10          Total            331.55        373.26        160.36        194.02
- 84 -



Additional
Annex 14
Social Assessment and Poverty Alleviation Impacts
CHINA: Second Jiangxi Highway Project
1.    Introduction. The broad objectives of the social assessment (SA) agreed between the Bank and
JPCD were three fold: i) to support low income groups by sharpening the project to focus on the poor, ii) to
establish a participatory framework which enhances the inclusion of the poor in the development process
and iii) to establish a basis for monitoring and evaluation. The China Cross-Cultural Consulting Center of
Zhongshan University was retained by JPCD to conduct the SA. The SA was carried out by carefully
selecting sample villages in the influence area to provide a cross section of economic, social and
demographic conditions. The influence area covers the entire JHP2: the expressway (TGE), the
interconnecting roads (IR) and the road improvement program (RIPC), targeted primarily in the poor
counties. SA methods included questionnaire surveys, RPA and focus groups.
2.    The Influence Area. The influence area for the SA was not determined exclusively by geographic
criterion of distance from the road. It was defined as a minimum of 15 Km on either side of the
expressway, the interconnecting roads and the local roads and wider, where necessary, taking into
consideration the economic and social linkages of the communities to JHP2 system. The influence area is
in seven counties (5 counties: Taihe, Wan'an, Suichuan, Shangyou and Ganxian, one county level city:
Nankang, and one county level district: Zhanggong). Four of these are designated poor counties (Wan'an,
Suichuan, Shangyou and Ganxian).
3.    Target Beneficiary Population. The total population of Jiangxi province is 41.9 million. The
average per capita annual income was 6,102 RMB in 1999. The poverty line established by the state is
700 RMB per capita per year and the population living under the poverty line is estimated at 2.2 million,
equal to 5.2% of total population. The total population of the seven counties impacted by JHP2 is 3.3
miillion, equivalent to 7.8% of Jiangxi total. The average per capita income in these seven impacted
counties is estimated at 4,468 RMB, 73% of the average per capita income for Jiangxi. However, most of
Jiangxi poverty-stricken people live in this region.
4.    The population of the four poor counties in the JHP2 impact area (Wan'an, Suichuan, Shangyou
and Ganxian) is 1.6 million, equal to 48% of the population of the entire impact area. The average annual
per capita income in these poor counties is 2,048 RMB. However, the average annual income of the
farmers is lower than this. It varies from a low of 1,334 RMB in Shangyou County, 1,389 RMB in
Ganxian County, 1,451 RMB in Suichuan county and 1,999 RMB in Wan'an County.
5.    Although poverty levels are decreasing, rural poverty still persists. For example, in Ganzhou City
Prefecture in the southern section of the impacted area, 1.05 million people are living below the state
established poverty line, about 30% of the poverty population in the province as a whole. The people in
these counties are the direct beneficiaries. In general, 92% of the persons interviewed in the impacted
villages supported the construction of JHP2, 7% had no opinion and only 1% were concemed about any
negative safety and environmental impacts. In addition, there are eight other counties who will be the
indirect beneficiaries as they are close to the influence area and their transport networks are influenced by
JHP2.
- 85 -



6.     Economic Aspects. The impacted region is quite mountainous with varying types of hill cotmtry.
The climate is semi-tropical with good rainfall and four distinct seasons. Agriculture is still the main stay
of the economy. Rice cultivation is common. Most of the early rice is for family consumption and late rice
is sold on the free market. The industry and service sectors have not been fully developed although these
counties have measurable forest and tourism related resources. Forestry activities also are important to the
rural population, especially in this mountainous region well endowed with forests. This sector is not fully
developed yet and in general forestry contributes about 20% of rural incomes.
7.    Export of Labor. There is diminished cultivable land with an increasing dependent population.
The SA reveals that labor export, both seasonal and permanent, has already become a new income source
for many rural households in the impacted area. These labor pools are headed mainly to Guangdong.
Shanghai, Fujian and Zhejiang to work in clothing factories, construction, manufacturing and electronics.
In recent years, there is a shift towards both husband and wife working away from the village with children
staying back with grandparents in the village. Their current average annual income is around 5,000-6,000
RMB, which is three times what they can eam at home.
8.    In some villages, it is not unusual to have nearly 50% of the men away working in other cities and
provinces. Labor export has already changed the life styles in these villages from tradition centered to
modernity centered ones, emphasizing mobility and incomes. The SA indicates that JHP2 will contribute
substantially to this labor mobility and thus increase the incomes of the rural population. The villagers are
aware of the close correlation between the availability, condition, safety and cost of transport and their net
income from working outside. The rural population feel that JHP2 will increase safety, decrease costs and
travel times for their work in other towns and commute back to the villages. They expect JH1P2 to open up
more employment opportunities outside.
9.     Transporation Demand of Farmers, Small Enterprises and Factories. Forests cover 50%1z of
Jiangxi, higher than the national average. The impacted area is abundant with forest cover with conif-rous
trees, Mao bamboo and broadleaf trees. Mao bamboo is mainly used for chopsticks, poly woods, sling
chairs, summer sleeping mats and other light furniture. Hard wood logs are sent by truck to other
provinces for further processing. Villagers indicated that the low quality of roads and lack of efficieni;
transport is a hindrance to the development of these resources. They expect JHP2 to reduce travel time and
travel costs.
10.   Education and Health Benefits. Since RIPC is primarily upgrading and rehabilitating existing
roads in the poor counties, it will not increase any basic access but will substantially improve accessibility
and decrease transport costs. Practically every village in the impacted area has primary and middle
schools, and almost all bigger villages have high schools. Students from small villages go to high schools
in the nearby towns. In these cases, the improvement of the roads will make it better for the families by
cutting travel times, increasing safety and hopefully decreasing the cost. The villagers would like these
transport improvements to come sooner rather than later.
11.   All the villages in the impacted area have village clinics and medical units. Central hospitals are
generally in bigger townships or county administrative centers. JHP2 will make emergency medical
transport substantially more efficient, as well as decreasing the time and cost of visiting central hospitals.
Villagers have indicated that health and education costs are a heavy burden on them.
12.   Gender Related Issues. Rural women work at home as well on the farms alongside men. In
addition, women do all household chores. In recent years, women also have-gone out of the village to other
-86-



towns and cities in Jiangxi as well as other provinces to work. In the impacted area, the proportion of men
and women working outside the village is about equal; in some villages women are a higher portion of the
exported labor. Working outside the village and earning more money increases the economic and social
status of women in the village.
13.   Women are less skilled and experienced in using motorcycles and other motor vehicles than men.
This becomes a disadvantage regarding their mobility, especially when the family has these vehicles.
Women supported JHP2 fully as they were concerned about the travel time and cost of visiting their
parents, husband's parents and their children working elsewhere in other villages and towns. They were
also supportive of JHP2 because they felt that it would make it easier for them to go to the markets for
selling their farm products as well as buying household goods.
14.    Ethnic Minorities. Jiangxi does not have a significant number of ethnic minorities. Only 110,000
persons (0.26% of total) out of a total provincial population of 41.9 million belong to ethnic minorities,
mostly She with a very small number of Hui, Yao and Man minorities. Out of a total population of 3.3
million in the seven impacted counties, only 24,600 persons (0.75% of total population) are ethnic
minorities, almost all belonging to She minority. All, except one of the minority community villages, are
farther than 15 Km from any of the proposed roads. One village, Longtou, is 13.5 Km from Wan'an
connecting road. The remaining minority villages are from 16 to 65 Km from the proposed roads. Under
these circumstances, there are no direct adverse impacts of JHP2 on the ethnic minorities. However, they
will receive all the direct and indirect benefits.
15.   Rapid Participatory Appraisal and Civil Society. In general, 92% of the persons interviewed in
the impacted villages supported the construction of JHP2, 7% had no opinion and only 1% were concerned
about any negative safety and environmental impacts. 47% of the directly impacted land owners wish to be
compensated in cash, 13% would prefer compensation in land and cash, 23% would like JPCD to assist
them in getting other jobs and the remaining had no preferences.
16.   The SA revealed that the villagers are concerned with transparency regarding land acquisition,
resettlement and compensation. Their main concern is about local government retaining some of their
compensation amounts under various categories. The villagers would like the entire process to be
transparent. They would like the compensation rates and amounts to be publicized and be available to
everyone. All affected infrastructure facilities, such as drinking water and irrigation wells, should be
replaced before the existing ones are taken out of use.
17.    The villagers would like to have an open consultative mechanism to resolve complaints and
disputes. These concerns include safety during construction, traffic safety along roadside markets, safety
of children, measurement and compensation for land and resettlement and any other issues that might arise.
They would like such a system to be accessible and transparent.
- 87 -



Additional
Annex 15
Summary of the Resettlement Action Plan
CHINA: Second Jiangxi Highway Project
Project Description
I .    The proposed project includes the construction of an expressway, its link roads and the rehabilitation of
four rural roads. The expressway is designed to have four lanes, 26 meters in width and 128 kilometers in
length. The link roads are 49 kilometers in length. Four roads have been identified for rehabilitation in the
poverty counties and their total length is 180 kilometers.
Resettlement Planning
2.     Project planning and design started in 1994. Different alignment altematives have been consider, d to
avoid towns, mining areas, cultural properties and minimize land acquisition and structure demolition. T]le
alignment was finalized in consultation with local governments and communities. Resettlement planning was
based on preliminary technical designs.
3.     The project resettlement office contracted Jiangxi Provincial Communications Design Institute,
Resettlement Research Center of Wuhan University and Population Research Center of Jiangxi Normal
University to assist in the planning process. The census, inventory and socioeconomic survey were condLcted
on the expressway component during May-June 2000, and on the RIPC component during
September-November 2000. The Anthropology Department of Zhongshan University conducted a social
assessment for the project during November 2000 to assess the social impact of the entire project.
4.     These resettlement planning activities provide a detailed record of project adverse impacts, including
land, house, industries, institutions and the number of people affected. The socioeconomic survey and social
assessment were conducted through questionnaires, interviews and focus group discussions. They provide a
baseline socioeconomic living standard and facilitated the consultation process with key stakeholders in the
resettlement planning process. Their feedback was incorporated in the development of the RAP.
Project Impacts
5.     The expressway component will affect 97 villages largely through land acquisition and structure
demolition. The project will require the acquisition of 13,310 mu of land, 86,855 mu of which are farmland
and the demolition of 172,868 square meters of houses, 166,764 square meters of which are farmer residential
areas. The expressway component will affect 5,415 people in 1,547 households through land acquisition and
house demolition. About 2,764 people in 791 households will need to relocate.
6.     The RIPC component will require 2,443 mu of farmland and the demolition of 66,189 square met lrs of
houses. About 2,933 people in 532 households in 70 villages will lose part of their fannland. About 648
people in 115 households will lose their houses and 1,113 people in 202 households will be affected through
loss of part of their farmland and residential houses.
7.     The impact analysis indicates that, given the linear nature of the project and the minimization efforts,
the project impacts are quite scattered along the roads. Of the 91 villages surveyed along the expressway, for
example, only two villages will lose more than 20% of their farmland, and 78 villages will lose less than 1)%
- 88 -



of their farmland, including 58 villages who will lose less than 5% of their farmland. The socioeconormic
survey indicates that the income structure of the affected farmers are quite diverse and on-farm income is only
one of their many sources of income.
Legal Framework
8.    The RAP was prepared in line with relevant Chinese laws, regulations and World Bank Operational
Directive 4.30 on Involuntary Resettlement. A project affected person (PAP) is defined to include all whose
income or livelihood is adversely affected as a result of the project. The following basic principles were
adopted for resettlement planning:
Compensation will be paid at replacement cost without depreciation;
* Land compensation will be paid before acquisition;
* House compensation will be paid before construction of the new house;
* Compensation rates must be finalized through consultation;
Lack of legal title will not bar a PAP from his or her entitlements; and
* The objective of resettlement is to enable the PAPs to improve or at least restore their living
standard.
Rehabilitation Strategy and Action Plan
9.    The livelihood rehabilitation strategy follows the traditional Chinese approach, which is land and
agriculture based, and depends on village collectives for livelihood restoration. All affected farmers will be
allocated farmland within the village and the land compensation fund will be used collectively in the villages for
agriculture and sideline development. Potential areas of investment have been identified through the
consultation process and are documented in the RAP. These include land development, on-farm irrigation,
agro-processing and small non-farm industries, etc. Investment plans will be developed for each village by the
affected villages for the productive use of land compensation funds.
10.   Given the linear nature of the project, the number of households to be relocated in each village is small,
averaging six households in each village. They will all be provided new sites within their own village. No
resettler household is expected to move away from his existing village. The resettlers will construct their own
house with house compensation.
Management Organization
11.   A multi-level organization has been established for the implementation of the RAP. This organization
includes the Project Resettlement Office, two prefecture leading groups and offices for resettlement, county
resettlement offices and town resettlement offices. An independent monitor has been selected for resettlement
implementation. Resettlement Research Center of Wuhan University has been contracted to advise in the RAP
implementation. All the offices have been established, staffed and equipped. The RAP contains detailed a
staffing list and their detailed responsibilities. A training program is also proposed for resettlement officers.
Public Consultation And Participation
12.   Public consultation and participation has played a key role in formulating the RAP. The affected
farmers, village leaders and local governments participated in the census and inventory and they have been
widely consulted through the socioeconomic survey and social assessment on the project alignment,
compensation rates, livelihood rehabilitation strategy and relocation sites. Their feedback has been
incorporated in the RAP.
- 89 -



13.   Public consultation and participation will continue in the RAP implementation. Affected farrme-s will
play a key role in farmland allocation, formulating village investment plans of land compensation funds. new
site identification and new house construction. Project information will be provided to the affected farnmers
through TV, radio broadcast, newspapers, bulletins and posters. The RAP will be summarized into a
resettlement information booklet (RIB) and distributed to every affected household. Regular consultaticn
meetings will be held in villages. The RAPs were placed in the Bank Info Shop in January 2001 and in all
county/city libraries on September 5, 2000. The availability to these reports in these libraries was advertised in
four local newspapers.
Grievance Redress mechanism
14.   A mechanism has been designed for grievance redress under the project. All grievances can be tiled in
both written and verbal forms. The redress channel lies within the project management systems at village,
township, county and project resettlement offices. Recording requirements and timeframes have been
established for grievance resolution. This mechanism will be disclosed as part of the RIB.
Resettlement Implementation Monitoring
15.   Internal and external monitoring have been designed as part of the project. The project resettlement
offices will carry out internal monitoring of the resettlement implementation. The monitoring procedure.,
content, staffing, responsibility, timeframe and reporting have been detailed in the RAP. An external mcnitor
and a resettlement advisor have been contracted for independent monitoring of RAP implementation. A
monitoring guideline has been developed and attached to the RAP. Independent monitoring will cover physical
progress of RAP implementation, including compensation payment, allocation of residential sites, farmland
allocation and restoration of infrastructure. The independent monitor will also review the public consultation
process, operation of the resettlement project offices, grievance redress mechanisms and restoration of
livelihood of the affected farmers. Independent monitoring will be conducted twice a year during the pro ect
implementation period.
Compensation And Resettlement Budget
16.   The RAP contains compensation rates for various impacts. Land compensation rates included land
compensation and resettlement subsidy. Different rates were developed for different types of land in line with
the "Land Administration Law". The RAP contains detailed calculation tables and the different compensation
rates. Compensation rates for structures are calculated for replacement costs. Unit rate analysis has been
conducted for the replacement cost of different types of houses and they are detailed in the RAP. The afficted
infrastructure will be compensated for reconstruction and the compensation budget was finalized through
negotiation with the owning government agencies.
17.   The RAP contains a detailed resettlement budget that covers all basic resettlement costs, management
costs, contingencies and taxes. The basic resettlement cost includes compensation for land, houses, other
structures, standing crops and trees as well as the cost for land leveling at new sites and infrastructure
development, reconstruction of affected infrastructure and relocation subsidies. Management cost, including
independent monitoring, is included in the budget as well. A total contingency of 20% is provided in the
budget. The total resettlement budget is estimated at 261 million yuan, equivalent to 31.57 million USD. Fund
disbursement procedures and monitoring mechanisms are designed and documented in the RAP.
- 90 -



IBRD 31243
70'                   \ 8                           90:                      10'                      110'                      120'                      130'
' 50' 
RUSSIAN  FEDERATION
SO'
KAZAKHSTAN                                                            Tfg
-UZBEKISTAN                             "                        I                                                                                                 HAREIN
N~ ~~ H- uu                                                               M O N G O L I A                                  j                                           :!
.       -KYRGYZ  ' {   ~ 7  hUulasbarl ~    _  C,HANGCHUN
'    'KYRGY               F.
'\EPU              -  -                                                                                                                                      ShENYANG tLI
0~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0
< ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~--                                     > 7    CLP'St __                             Z _H E_ P G                                   ;  eaO
35' MSe DeICHn UnU, oA 7he                         :                     Y NCHUAN  l     C9H -g SHHH                                           R E N.0'FR
cslow denom,no/ons ond         {^ ! N G H A I           \              t-                        }  w5xsz              >                   XKOREA r~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~IfEINGKORA-i
0  N G H A I  'iI -,\O
J.   '.'                                                      NNN L AA'-.        CHENGG
CHINA                                  EN>  t  t   )  .'    '  1ANC9A1LG                  .
M / s   /          _          f          n                    F i :4 yd ,  g> ZNA
SECOND JIHANGXI HIHA   PROJECTDrwq                                                                              /\________        / /
COMPRETED                         '  PROV NCE CAPITALS           t\  YUJ N N A N              K>  < G IJ\  N/G  A' t  t. ~ U A   '' ZD ! G I C H
UNDSER CONSTRUCTION        qN 4AT NA,_CAPAHAL                                                                                                i
- PLANNED BEFORE 2005 PO C ONA S<t.a< NNll Oh1.   :f
-s ts - PLANNED AFTER 2005   ~   ~      NTERNATONAL BOUNDARIES    Z   7-  i  j  >)    VIETNAM | *>, >K+ffiffi;j;hO02   * r  rt r |  ;    0 0                                  2HN
CE   t   p.     S      X      ww*}hLlm~~~~~~0  2               *     IQJi   400 ;ii,e   OGOilAHILE
* ' DEW  RE  '      ,54 iE 'R N ' ..            G.,                 r 00T        ,    >8IXLSTR
THAIOAND                4 ,   J*_>  \ ,     t. 1   1 ,n;;,AG_
CHINA~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~MRH20






SECOND JIANGXI HIGHWAY PROJECT
TAIHE - GANZHOU EXPRESSWAY AND
RURAL ROAD IMPROVEMENT PROGRAM
^  PROPOSED TAtHE - GANIZHOU EXPRESSWAY                   fl Exising expressway of Nonchong to Jiujiong                                  INTERCONNECTING ROAD
PROPOSED-TAIHE - GANZHOU EXPRESSWAY                  0   Th. total lngth: 136 km
- - - EXPRESSWAYS UNDER CONSTRUCTION
.----- PLANNED/PROPOSED EXPRESSWAYS                           0 The tota length: 128.2 km                                                W   The tto 6nngth: 13.86 km
O    PROPOSED INTERCFiANGES                                    P.  0d/p-d ep--y F Ganhob D, n                 Y- (ae1-9)                  Suichxe  Cenecling Rooad (Class 11)
-       PROVINCE HIGHWAYS                                     0   T      19ah132e k                                                           Th.   Co62ngt6necting RoodClean0Il
NATIONAL HIGHWAYS                                        Exh.istingteprsao of4. Jijin toJoelxo                                  w r  total lenth: 14.16 km
EXISTING EXPRESSWAYS                                 f   Ecistng expressway of Nanchong t Zhangshu lChnngfU
RAILROADS                                                 The tl length: 103.4 km
_    RURAL ROAD IMPROVEMENT PROGRAM
=   RIVERS                                                9  Planned/proposed nopresswoy oF Chosgfo to Toihe
*    SEAT OF TOWN GOVERNMENT                                   Th. toal lenghh 147.8 km                                                    Suichoan to Cheo,oo Highway 79 km
O     SEAT OP COUNTY GOVERNMAENT                           fl Expressway oF E>j=n bt Wenjiohen under -onesxtios                       W   (Cls 11 Highway: 26 kh, Class III Highway: 53 km)
     SEAT OF LOCAL GOVERNMENT                                  The total length: 244.76 H                                            0    Yutian to Xisji-ng Highway: 46 km (Class Illj
*    SEAT OF PROVINCE GOVERNMENT                           0   The total length: 35.0 k   b                                                Shashiku to Wangmudu Highway: 26 he (Class III
PREFECTURE ROUNDARIES                                f    Planned/rnspos-d expressway oF Changh, o ihiy-shi                     9   Tngjiaig to Dongshonexe Highway: 29 kh (Class 11)
-  PROVINCE ROUNDARIES                                       The totl ngh: 167.0 he
30' ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~    ~     ~    ~     ~    ~     ~    ~    ~     ~    ~    ~    ~    ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~0
;Di n 
\~~~~~~~~~~~~~UE HUN.<tg-                                                                                                          
,}gn8g33f   7  r b  /hang< ou    t                 ~lianningEFUJIA
Lingxirnn    n  r          o 0  - : . t-
-262 ~ ~      ~     ~     onie Gudn  0                          nyno //       u             11 /X    r 'wopin              REP
Swb -hinihng    '          dgemn         hes:       slezd Xuw    4    kT
K~~~~~~ah
t    s( PiX  _ > -                                         F-hOroA,XF
GUAN                                           G         DONG                                                            -'       0 _N 't ' nlcxp rl
I   Wengyunn                           7                                                                  - -Inmoarsea Enundo   s  \-'        E   - Yi_
0     1114>                               '                               ~~~~~~~116'                                                ,' -fRs or,,   o             rlFF6 ~






IBRD 31245
ANHUI
CHINA                                                                                         ,   HUBEI
SECOND JIANGXI HIGHWAY PROJECT                                                                                                   J  ,
0
TAIHE - GANZHOU EXPRESSWAY                                                                                         .5
HUNAN   ', _
PROPOSED EXPRESSWAY OF TAIHE GANZHOU                                            0   SEAT OF COUNTY GOVERNMENT                                       oX yu          '
PROPOSED CONNECTING ROAD (CLASS 11 ROAD)                                                                                                         ig SEATOF LOCAL GOVERNMENT  5  Pn. -- 
a     PROPOSED INTERCHANGES
'.-RIVERS                                                              i,on-
~C3~   EXISTING NATIONAL HIGHWAYS                                                   PREFECTURE BOUNDARIES                                                                   FUJIAN
S3    EXISTING PROVNCE HIGHWAYS                                                                                                                       ,
RAILROAD                                                                                                                                          . ._
.  Yw_,. .  * -PROIANCECAPITAL
,, - ,   ;    - .- PROV1NCE
GUANGDONG                   1.
sbo  on*oop do no,in41. onIeuol Wo,d8i
iShangyou                                                                 Suicbuon
\   |   End of lsihe to   | : f                   | Tangcun I terchange                                                                 n an                                  M  \001ntercM
Gmazou'Expiressway|   b                                                   \/\                                         /  
?~~~~~~Gnzo Interch... angSichan .............  
Gdongoon-g    .....   ...  \\ j          \                                                          /                                                            I   /    rO@--~~~~~~~~~onnetin
\\t',9-J->                           \                    /                                                                         _~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~occ
+~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~K0                                                                                                            Star of Ta to
L _                                    Go~~~~~~~~~~~~nxian \\1 
MARCH 2UDI



