E425
Volume 14
People' s Republic of China
World Bank Financed Jiangxi No. 2 Highway Project
Taihe-Ganzhou Expressway Mainline, the Inter-connecting Roads,
and the Rural Roads Improvement Program (RRIP)
Environmental Assessment Summary
(Fourth Edition)
FILE COPYf
Research Institute of Highway, MOC
January, 2001
SCANNED



People ' s Republic of China
World Bank Financed Jiangxi No. 2 Highway Project
Taihe-Ganzhou Expressway Mainline, the Inter-connecting Roads,
and the Rural Roads Improvement Program (RRIP)
Environmental Assessment Summary
(Fourth Edition)
Research Institute of Highway, MOC
January, 2001



Contents
A. Project Background .1
B. Project overview ......................................................               3
C. Current Environmental Description ...................................................... 4
D. Predicted Environmental Impacts and Mitigation Measures.                              8
E. Environmental Monitoring .20
F. Environmental Management Organization .*------------------------------------          20
G. Ability Development and Environmental Protection Training Plan .23
H. Public Participation and Information Disclosure .23
I. Resettlement .**-----..------------..------*----------------------*------*------.*--25
J. Conclusion .                                                                        25
Annex I EAP Key Factors .27
Annex II  Environmental Monitoring Plan .----------30
Annex III Environmental Supervision Plan .                                               I3 1
Annex IV   Investment for Environmental Protection ..........................-..---32
Annex V       Public Investigation summary .*............................ 35
Annex VI  The People'  Republic of China Environmental and Resettlement
Bulletin for the Jiangxi No.2 Highway Project ........................37
Annex VII  Environmental Standards (Air, Noise, Water) .*---------------  -            38
Annex VIII  Relevant documents List .           ---..................................... ...39
Attached Figure 1: Geographic Position of the Proposed Road
Attached Figure 2: Alignment of Taihe-Ganzhou Expressway
Attached Figure 3: Culture Relics Distribution Map of the Main line and connecting
roads
Attached Figure 4: Culture Relics Distribution Map of the RRIP
Attached Figure 5: Alignment schemes of the main line in west ganjiang in pre-
feasibility study phase



A. Project Background and Legal Basis of EA
1. Jiangxi No.2 highway project financed by the World Bank loan includes the Taihe-
Ganzhou Expresway Mainline, three inter-connecting roads in Wan' an, Suichuan
and Ganzhou and four Rural Road improvement program (RRIP) as
Suichuan-Chezi' ao,    Yutian-Xinjiang,    Shashibu-Wangmudu       and
Tangjiang-Dongshan. The study of the Taihe-Ganzhou expressway main line was
started from Sept. 1994. In Dec. 1999, the Feasibility Study Reportfor the Gan-Yue
Expressway (Taihe-Ganzhou Section was compiled and its supplementary report
was compiled in May 2000. By July 2000, the two-stage preliminary design was
completed. As to the three connecting roads, Feasibility Study Report for Wan' an,
Suichuang and Ganzhou were completed in February 2000 and their Two-Stage
Preliminary Design were finished in September, 2000. The study for the RRIP
started from April, 2000 and their Feasibility Study Report was completed in the
same year.
2. The Research Institute of Highway under the Ministry of Communications (MOC),
a holder of class A environmental assessment certificate issued by the China
National Environmental Protection Agency (SEPA), was entrusted by the Jiangxi
Provincial Communications Department (JPCD) in Dec. 1999 to undertake the
environmental assessment for this project. In March 2000, the Terms of Reference
(TOR) for this project was reviewed and approved by SEPA. In June 2000, the
environmental impact assessment (EIA) report for this project has passed the
experts' reviewing sponsored by the MOC environmental office, now it is waiting
for the SEPA' s approval.
Jiangxi Provincial Environmental Protection Research Institute (holding class A
environmental assessment certificate issued by the SEPA) was entrusted by the
Jiangxi Provincial High-Class Highway Administration in Dec. 1999 to undertake
the environmental assessment for the four RIP roads.
3. The EIA and EAP (first version) of Gan-Yue Expressway Taihe-Ganzhou Section
(including the Wan' an, Suichuan and Ganzhou connecting roads) were completed
in March 2000. In May 2000, the World Bank environmental experts have reviewed
the documents in Nanchang. In June 2000, according to the options of the World
Bank experts, the assessment unit and the JPCD revised these environmental
documents and compiled the EIA and EAP (second version) for the main line, and
compiled separate EIA and EAP (first version) for the three connecting roads. In
July 2000, World Bank experts reviewed them in Nanchang and presented revising
opinions. In Sep. 2000, the assessment unit finished the EIA, EAP (third edition)



for the main line and the EIA, EAP (second version ) for the connecting roads. The
EIA, EAP (first version) for the RIP were compiled by Jiangxi Provincial
Environmental Protection Research Institute in November, 2000.
In November 2000, the World Bank experts reviewed these documents in
Nanchang and presented revising opinions. In December 2000, the assessment unit
finished the EIA, EAP (fourth version) for the main line and the EIA, EAP (third
version) for the connecting road; the EIA, EAP (second version) for the RIP
projects and the environmental assessment summary (EAS, third version).
4. Concerned departments in Jiangxi province have participated in the reviewing of
the reports, including environmental protection department and research institutes,
etc. Opinions have been extensively solicited from some units and non-
governmental organizations that may be impacted and particularly from people who
will be land acquired, removed and resettled.
5. The Environmental Impact Assessment was compiled and inspected in accordance
with the Chinese policies and regulations regarding project environmental
assessment as well as the WVorld Bank Working Handbook OP/BP/GP4. 01
Environment Assessment, March 1999. The followings are the major laws and
regulations applied to this assessment.
(1) Law on Environmental Protection of People I s Republic of China (26 Dec.,
1989);
(2) Law on Water and Soil Conservation of People' s Republic of China (29
June.1991)
(3) Law on Land MWanagement of People ' s Republic of China (29 Aug.,1998)
(4) Law on Ambient Noise Pollution Control of People ' s Republic of China (29
Oct., 1996);
(5) Lawv on WVater Pollution Control of People ' s Republic of China (15 May,
1996)
(6) Lawv on Atmospheric Pollution Control of People ' s Republic of China (29
Dec., 1995)
(7) Lawt, on Solid Waste Pollution Control of People ' s Republic of China (Oct.
30.1995)
(8) Law on Highways of People ' s Republic of China. (July 3,1997)
(9) Environmental Protection and Management Regulation for Construction
Projects [The State Council, C. 253] (Nov. 18., 1998);
(10)Environmental Protection and Management Measures for Construction
Projects of Communications (The Ministry of Communications, C.(90) 17);
2



(1 l)Announcement on Further Strengthening Environmental Impact Assessment
of Construction Project Financed by International Financial Institution
[(1993) No.324 Document on Environmental Supervision, issued by China
National Environmental Protection Agency etc.];
(12) World Bank Working Handbook OP/BP/GP4.01 Environment Assessment,
March 1999
(13)Technical Guidelines for Environmental Assessment (HJ/T2.1-2.3-93,
HJ/T2.4-1995, HJ/T19-1997, SEPA)
(14)Management Category of Environmental Protection Classification for
Construction Projects (tentative), SEPA document (1 999)No. 99
(15) Environmental Assessment Code for Road Construction Project (tentative),
(JTJO050-96, MOC)
(16) Environmental Protection Regulation for Construction Projects in Jiangxi
Province (April 29,1995);
6. The environmental standards applied to this assessment are as follows, their
specific standard limits are listed in Annex VI.I
(1) GHZB I - 1999 Surfcace Water Environmental Quality Standard
(2) GB8979-1996 Sewage Discharging Standard
(3) GB5084-92 Farmland Irrigation Water Quality Standard
(4) GB 12523-90 Construction Site Noise Limits
(5) GB3096-93 Urban Area Ambient Noise Standard
(6) GB3095- 1996 Ambient Air Quality Standard
(7) GB 16297-1996 Atmospheric Pollutant comprehensive Discharging Standard
(8) JTJO25-90 Industry Standard of P.R.C Design Specifications for Highway
Tunnels
B. Project Description
7. With design speed of 100km/h, 4 lanes and subgrade width of 26.0m, the Gan-Yue
Expressway Taihe-Ganzhou Section is 128.4454km in length with 4 interchanges
(another for reserve). 53 grade separations and 9 extra-large/large bridges and 2
tunnels. The whole line also sets up relatively perfect traffic engineering facilities,
of which there are two service areas, two parking lots and 5 tollgates. It will take up
a land of 13137.69 mu.. The estimated total investment is 3,562.713638 million
yuan. The project has three connecting roads totaling 48.615km (including
Wan' an Ganjiang extra-large bridge ). The four RIP roads totals 179.8 1km.
8. With a total length of 13.860km, the Wan' an connecting road is a class II road
3



with its design speed of 80km/h, subgrade width of 12.Om and one huge bridge.
The total investment is 102.480873 million yuan.
9. With a total length of 20.598km, the Suichuan connecting road is a class II road
with its design speed of 80km/h, subgrade width of 12.Om and four medium bridges.
The total investment is 98.373143 million yuan.
10. With a total length of 14.157km, the Ganzhou connecting road is a class II road
with its design speed of 80km/h, subgrade width of 17.Om and 2 grade separations.
The total investment is 103.846558 million yuan.
11. The total length of the RIP road no.1 Suichuan-Chezi' ao is 79.0km, of which,
18.3km of class II road in hilly area is designed with speed of 80km/h, 12.Om for
subgrade width and one bridge; 7.7km of class II road in heavy rolling area is
designed with 40km/h. 8.5m for subgrade width; 53km of class III road in heavy
rolling area is designed with 30km/h, 8.5/7.5m for subgrade width. The total
investment is 99.8068 million yuan.
12. With a total length of 45.8455km, the RIP road no.2 Yutian-Xinjiang is a class III
road with its design speed of 30km/h, subgrade width of 8.5m, one bridge and one
tunnel. The total investment is 95.195 million yzian.
13. With a total length of 26.251km, the RIP road no.3 Shashibu-Wangmudu is a
class II road with its design speed of 40km/h, subgrade width of 12.0m. 2 medium
bridges . The total investment is 96.069885 millionyuan.
14. With a total length of 28.7157km, the RIP road no.4 Tangjiang-Dongshan is a
class II road with its design speed of 40km/h, subgrade width of 12.0m, one bridge.
The total investment is 81.4949 millionyuian.
C. Current Environmental
15. Topgraphy and Landform
(1) The Gan-Yue Expressway Taihe-Ganzhou section main line lies in the south part
of Jiangxi province. basically strikes from north to south at the west bank of the
Ganjiang river. The area is high in the south and low in the north. The starting
section Mashi (Taihe)- Luomukeng(Nankang) is hilly area with sharp undulation
in landform, steep mountains and numerous gullies. The section from
Luomukeng- Lijiashan(destination, Nankang) is low hilly flat terrain with partial
4



alluvial plain of Shangyoujiang river and Zhangjiang river.
(2)The Wan' an connecting road lies in a rising and falling terrain from its origin
to Shaokou and from Baijia to destination, and lies in the alluvial plain of
Ganjiang river from Shaokou to Baijia.
(3)The Suichuan connecting road lies in a rising and falling terrain from its origin
to Dongtang, and lies in the alluvial plain of Suizhoujiang river from Dongtang
to destination with flat and open landform, but low terrain.
(4) The Ganzhou connecting road lies in the Ganzhou region in the south part of
Jiangxi province, where the landform is relatively flat and the topography is
mainly hills, followed by plains and hilly-lands.
(5) The RIP road Suichuang-Chezi' ao is featured with hilly and low mountain
topography, with a terrain strikes from southeast upward gradually to northwest.
(6) The RIP road Yutian-Xinjiang lies between the Jinggansha and Yushan
mountains, hilly terrain interval with low hilly land. It is featured with hilly land,
downs, plains, etc but dominated by hilly land.
(7) The RIP road Shashibu-Wangmudu goes along the low hilly land.
(8) The RIP road Tangjiang-Dongshan goes along the Luoxiao Mountains. The
route in the middle hilly area is aligned along the river valley, flat terrain.
16. Climates and Hydrology
(I)The project area belongs to subtropical monsoon climate characteristic of cold
winter and spring, hot summer and dry autumn, rainy early summer, rich clouds
and little sunshine, long frost-free days sufficient heat, large temperature
difference, abundant but uneven rainfall. The annual average temperature is
17.7-19.2°C, the annual average rainfall is 1372-1595mm. Summer prevails
south wind, other seasons prevail north wind with annual average wind speed of
1 .9m/s. The climate for the four RIP roads is similar to the above.
(2) Rivers within the project area mostly belong to the Ganjiang river water system,
they all enter into the Ganjiang river which pours into the Poyang Lake. Runoff
mainly comes from rain, centering in April-June. River flow has big changes
in every season.
(3)The quality of major water bodies is good, is the major water source for
agricultural and industrial production. The underground water along the road is
relatively developed and of good quality, it is the main source for drinking.
17. Social Economy
The project area are all within JiI an city and Ganzhou city which are strong in
industry, especially the power, machinery, chemical and textile are of some important
5



position in Jiangxi province. Fertile in land and rich in produce, the agriculture is well
developed.
According to 1 999year-end statistics, the population in the region is 2.999 million
people, a density of 228persons/km2. The Ganzhou prefecture where the project lies in
is very rich in natural resources; it is one of the key non-ferrous metal production
bases in China, with strong industrial power and great development potential for
agriculture.
18. Ecological environment
The project area lies in subtropical zone with its major plants are evergreen
broadleaf trees, subtropical coniferous trees, subtropical broadleaf and coniferous
mixed trees, subtropical bamboo trees. The forest coverage rate is 49.0-67.5%.
Along the road there are mostly cultivated vegetation and a few amount of bushes or
natural grass. The farmland vegetation is mainly rice, cotton, and sugar cane or cash
crops. Along the assessment scope there are mostly distributed by masson pines,
citrus and oil trees. There are no endangered or rare species of animals and plants
500m within the roadside (including the three connecting roads and the four RIP
roads), nor natural reserve zones.
19. Tourism and Cultural Relics
(1)Tourism resources in the area are very rich. In the Ji' an prefecture, there are 3
scenery spots such as Jinggangshan Mountain, Qingyuanshan Mountain and
Yusishan Monutain. and 9 national revolution remains. The south Ganzhou
prefecture is rich in natural and historical interests; the Ganzhou City is a
national historical and cultural city, endowed with many sceneries of the Song
Dynasty. The above sceneries are all more than lOkm away from the proposed
highway.
(2)According to the Cultuiral Relics Sutrvey Report for the Taihe-Ganzhou
Expressway of the Jiangxi No. 2 Highway Project financed by the World Bank,
provided Jiangxi Provincial Cultural Relics Archeology Institute, a total of 21
relics found along the road are 0.7-2km away from the road, which are at city
and county protection level. Since the RIP projects only involve improvement on
the existing roads along which the culture relics have been properly handled
before.
20. Air Quality
Along the proposed road (including the three connecting roads), 8 representative
points were monitored for their current ambient air quality (NOx, TSP), 5 points
6



were monitored for the four RIP road project. The results show that only Huangsha
Middle School along the Tangjiang-Dongshan road has exceedance in TSP as the
school was having the sports meeting at the monitoring time, the NOx and TSP
concentrations in other 12 points all comply with class II standard, and the NOx has a
large tolerance margin, providing good conditions to the road construction.
21. Acoustic Quality
The monitored results show that except individual village that exceeds class I
noise standard but complies with class II standard, most of the ambient noise complies
with class I even class zero standard. The monitored results of current noise
conditions of schools, Kangfucun and dermatophyte clinic comply with class I
standard. The monitoring results for the three connecting roads comply with theclass I
standard.
As to the RIP project, Suichuang-Chezi' ao road, schools and clinic meet class I
standard; the rest meet class II standard. Half of the points in daytime and two third of
the points at nighttime in villages along the Shashibu-Wangmodu road section meet
class II standard. While the monitoring points along Tangjiang-Dongshan road have
noise exceedance. For Yutian-Xinjiang road, 2 schhols have slight noise exceedance
in daytime, the rest all meet class II standard.
According tot he monitored results, generally speaking, the acoustic environment
either for the main line project or the connecting roads are quite good, able to meet
the requirements of each sensitive location to acoustic environment. However, the
acoustic environment for the RIP roads is not good.
22. Water Resources and Water Quality
The project area belongs to Ganjiang river system with the major rivers are
Ganjiang river. Suiehuan river, Shangyoujiang river, Zhangjiang river and their
tributaries. The monitored results of current condition show that each water quality
indicator is 100% compliant, indicating a good water quality and ability to meet water
requirement (class III).
23. Soil Erosion
Within the four cities or counties of the project area, except Suichuan county that
is slight in soil erosion, the other three counties have a higher soil erosion level than
the provincial average. But most sections of the main line are slightly and mildly
eroded area; very few are heavily eroded area.
Of the three connecting roads, the areas along the Wan' an and Suichuan
connecting roads are slightly eroded, while the area along the Ganzhou connecting
7



road is heavily eroded area.
The RIP road Suichuang-Chezi' ao and Yutian-Xinjiang roads are slightly eroded;
Tangjiang-Dongshan road and Nankang have heavy soil erosion, being the strong
eroded area; Shangrao territory have slight soil erosion, being lightly eroded area.
While Shashibu-Wangmodu road is medium eroded area. The on-the-line areas are of
slight soil erosion areas and heavily eroded area.
24. Traffic and Transportation
Transportation infrastructure in Jiangxi province is relatively backward. Today a
comprehensive transportation system was formed that combines railway, roadway,
waterway, airway, and pipeline. In recent years, with rapid economic growth and
increasing traffic volume, the original roads can not meet the economic demand,
leading to steady deterioration of traffic condition, especially road transportation have
many problems.
D. Environmental Impacts due to the project and Mitigation
Measures
25. The environmental impacts and their mitigation measures for this project are
stated and implemented in three stages. The EAP key factors for this project are
summarized in Annex I.
26. Design Stage
(1) Selection of the Alignment
The selection of the alignment for this project has been discussed and consulted
many times among the design unit, environmental unit and the employer on the
principle of rationality and lower cost together with the full consideration to factors
such as protection of farm arable land, schools, residential quarters, cultural relics,
flood control and discharge, urban development program, building materials source
and quarries, etc. The current alignment has been finally chosen after wide
consultation with relevant experts, local governments on the line and the people from
every field.
The mainline alignment is selected after comparison and optimization in three
stages as pre-feasibility study (Pre.F/S), feasibility study (F/S), and design (as shown
in figure D-l).
T In pre-feasibility study phase, after excluding the impossibility of upgrading
national road 105 to high-class highway and refusing to the East Ganjiang alignment
for the main line, the west Ganjiang alignment is decided. Three schemes in the
8



Upgradin| jg naioa       EatGnin                        West GanAjiantg           .........
highwvay 105                       alignment                    alignment 
| West G anj iang                     
aligNnment                         
Scheme I in Pre-F/S             Scheme 11 in Pre-F/S      |  Scheme III in Pre-F/S
Scheme I in Pre-FIS
Taihe alternative          Suichuan                Fuziling              Mashuang
section          alternative section     alternative section    alternative section
Taihe Altemative           Suichuan                Fuziling               Mashuang
1         |      Alternative I           Alternative I          Alternative 11 It
Add Wa, an                   Add Fenggang                  Adjust Fuziling
alternative section           alternative section           alternative section                           D
| a  an a termative I         Fenggang al ernative It         Fuzilinng alternative 1|
Taihe             a  an          Suichuan            Fuziling~        Mashuang        FeFnggarig
[ternative 11|   alternative I    alte[ ative I      alternative 11   alternative 11   alternative It
I       I                  I      I          ~        ~        ~      ~       ~~~I  I  I            o
The preliminary design alignment has been optimized for 9 sections in
total, the optimized length is about 40km.
Figure D-1 Alignment Selection Procedure of Taihe-Ganzhou Expressway
west Ganjiang were compared in the respect of engineering and environmental
protection (as shown in table D-1).
Table D-1 Three scheme comparison in pre-feasibility study
Scheme I                             Scheme 11                           Scheme tII
1. Occupy more farmland. targe     I Occupy less farmland. small quantities of   I largest quantities of land
quantities of resettlement         land acquisition and resettlement        acquisition and resettlement
2 far wva% from highwa% 105, less  2 shori mileage to Jinggangshan, good to  2. Adjustment is required for the
interruption during construction  tourism development                       airport program-ed by Ganzhou
Efviron       3. alleviate the pollution along the  3. close to highway 105, so much interruption  municipality
comparison    highway 105                        in construction phase, and increase the air    3. Beneficial to the development
4.good to Wa' an and Suichuan      pollution and noise                      which provide model etTect to
counties. conformitv kvith the local   5. not in line with the local govemment and   east Ganjiang
govemment and public opinion      public opinion
9



Scheme III is not as good as other two alternatives no matter in terms of
engineering and environment. Scheme II is put forward in comparison with scheme
III in farmland occupation, however it arouse many other environmental and social
problems. Scheme I is most superior in engineering though not perfect in
environmental aspects, but no severe environmental impact. Therefore, Alternative I
is recommended.
(©) In the feasibility study phase, alternatives are compared and optimized in 6
partial sections (as shown in table D-2).
Table D-2 Comparisons and selection of the sectional alternatives
Section      tine                      Advantages and disadvantages                      Recommended by environmental factor
I. shorter mileage, and less land occupation,                       The tvo alternatives have no obvious
2. some impact on Taihe airport. 3km  further away from  Taihe
difference  and  no  big  irreversible
Taihe              county urban area comparing with altemative 11.
Section               I. less bridge and interchanges and less resettlement:           enironmental changes. Considering the
11     2 3km shorter to Taihe coUnty Lurban area comparing to altemative l local government along wvith the public
3 more land and paddy land occupation                             opinions, alternative 11 is recommended
I shorter mileage, and occupY less land,
l      2 no interrupted ba Guanming reservoire and Luotangming Posser  After comparison  of enivironmental
Wanr  an             station                                                            factors. alternative I is obviouslx superior
Section               I high level.vertical indicators                                  than altemative 11 therefore altemative I
11     2 more protection and bridge %orks                                is recommended
3 close to GLianming reservoire and Luotanemine Povwer station
lo. over cost.
2. longer tlais schemie tI  but enigineering  vork  is less thall  Altematixe   I  thoLigh   has  large
S.IiChUan           altematise 11.                                                    quantities of resettlement. but superior
Stichlan              3 construction conditions is better than alternative II.          than alternatis e 11 in other ens ironmental
Ih igh cost.                                                     factors  therefore  alternativ e   I  is
It    2. difficult construction vork v% ith large quiantities,          recommended
3 geological conditions is not so good as altemativ e 1.
I lower cost.
2 greater resettlement svork                                        Altematie 11 is obviously  superior
Fulzi in              I high cost                                                       than altemative I. therefobre alterative i
FLIZimln      1     2 more difFicult in tuinnel constrtiction, higher maintenance cost in .
operatson period,                                                   is recortisietided
3 shorter than that of alternative I
I less paddy land occuipation though more land occtipation:         There is no big environmental changes
1     2 greater resettlement work:
3 one more viaduct with great vork amount.                        among  the  tow   altematives,  but
Mlashuang              I shorter mileage usith one viaduct less,                         altemative 11 is superior than alternative
2 more protection wvork amount.                                   1 so altemative 11 is recommended.
I short connection line.
I     2 more land occupation.                                              There is no big environmental changes
3 large rescttlement.                                             among  the  tow   alternai\ es.  but
eniggang               I slhort mileage but long connection line:                        alternative 11 is stiperior than alternative
11     2 great amount of protection \\ork.                               1 so alternative ll is recommended
3 more paddy land occupation
) Partial alignment optimization has been done among 9 sections in construction
design phase with a total distance of 40krn, equivalent to 30 percent of the total
mileage of the main line. According to the survey, there are no major environmental
factors among the 9 optimized sections (as shown in table D-3).
10



Table D-3 Optimization of environmental factors after 9 partial Section adjustment
Section no.   Origin-end stake No. after                         Changes of environmental factors
adjustment
I         K  148+600-K 153+160          I. The negative impact of land occupation and resettlement difficult will increase
2. Impact on the sensitive locations has no change
ll K 161+400- K 168+800                  I. Reduce the negative impact of land occupation and resettlement difficult
2. Increase the Impact on the sensitive locations
III        K 177+500 -- K 185+900        I. Reduce the negative impact of land occupation
2. Reduce the negative impact on the sensitive locations
I. The negative impact of land occupation and resettlement difficult will increase
RI         K196+500  K201+400            2. Longitudinal gradient reduced, alleviate the vehicle tail gas exhaust
3. Impact on the sensitive locations reduced
I. Reduce the negative impact of land occupation
V          K204+638-K207+200             2. Soil erosion reduced
3. Increase the Impact on the sensitive locations
%I         K209+720-K211+620             1. Increasee the negative impact of land occupation as well as resettlement difficult
2. Reduce the negative impact on the sensitive locations
s'Vil      K217+600- K221+300            I. Reduce the negative impact of land occupation and resettlement ditficult
2. Impact on the sensitive locations has no big change
Vol        K263+000- K270+000            I . Reduce the negative impact of land occupation and resettlement difficult
2. Reduce the impact on the sensitive locations. avoid one school
IX         K273+000-  K276+000           I Increasee the negative impact of land occupation
2. Stight increasc of the negative impact on the sensitive locations
The Ganzhou connecting road designed 2 proposals to match the main line
Fenggang proposal; the Wan' an connecting road designed 2 proposals aiming at the
Ganjiang river bridge. The current proposals are determined from the viewpoint of
reduced land acquisition and resettlement, diversion from schools and residences as
well as other engineering, environmental and social considerations.
(2) Personal Interconnection
Road construction will separate villages, causing some inconvenience to
people' s traveling and farming. For this, the proposed highway has designed 53
grade separations and 328 passageways. In addition, the project will build a number
of large, medium or small bridges to meet the traveling requirements of local people
and vehicles.
The Wan' an connecting road intends to build a huge bridge to meet people' s
travelling demand crossing the river.
(3) Soil Erosion
Aimed at the current soil erosion of the project area, and road construction will
produce new erosion, so prevention measures are required. The main measures are:
transit and rationalization of earth and stone works, road planting design, planting
arbor, bush, grass and climbing vegetation on slopes, skeleton turfing, face wall and
mortar pitching. Subgrade protection works will be designed such as intercepting
ditch, side ditch, face wall, berm, retaining wall and grid fence. Cut sections are
designed with drainage works. The above measures also apply to the three connecting
11



roads and the RIP roads as well.
(4) Reduction of Land Acquisition
The selection of earth borrowing and waste disposal areas for this project adheres
to the principle of "local borrowing and reclaiming land", so as to be economical
and reduce land occupation. The earth borrowing sites are mostly located in barren
hills, the waste disposal sites are in barren hills or sterile fields. Partial sections of the
main line lies at hilly area with more cut than fill, so there will be a waste disposal of
2,081,171m3. The main line has 26 earth borrowing sites and 20 waste disposal sites.
The Wan, an and Ganzhou connecting roads have more cut than fill, while the
Suichuan connecting road has more fill than cut. Their earth borrowing and waste
disposal areas will be selected by the above principle. The RIP road Suichuang-
Chezi' ao has more fill than cut; the rest three roads have more cut than fill.
(5) Land Acquisition and Resettlement
In selection of alignment, efforts have been made to divert from villages and
fertilc farmlands so to minimize removal and land occupation. The quantities of the
land acquisition and resettlement are presented in Table D-4. The project owner has
established resettlement offices at city, county and village level to ensure completion
of resettlement before the contractors enter into the site. Refer to RAP for details.
Table D-4 The Quantities of the Land Acquisition and Resettlement
Name of the roads           Land acquired (niu)         Remo%ed buildings (m2)
Taihe-Ganzhou Expresswvay main line      11.218.8                 129.335.0
Wan' an connecting road                  649.6                     7.068.6
Suichuang connecting road                818.4                     25.549.5
Ganzhou connecting road                  721.2                     9.803.1
RRIPI: Suichiuan-Chezi' ao              765.97                    27,086.88
RRIP2: Yutian-Xinjiang                  606.26                     10M548.3
RRIP3: Shashibu-Wangmodu                 601.5                     8,379.6
RRIP4: Tangjiang-Dongshanzhen           461.76                     21.294
(6) Noise Pollution
According to forecasting, the schools and residences and other sensitive locations
along the road during operation stage will be impacted by traffic noise to various
extent, so noise mitigation measures will be taken and be incorporated into the design
and tendering documents. As optimization has been done for most of the sensitive
locations, the rest schools hospitals won, t be impacted by the project. The
mitigation measures for both the main line and the connecting roads are presented in
Table D-5 , which will be implemented prior to the operation of the roads. The noise
mitigation measures for the RIP roads are presented in Table D-6.
In addition to the noise mitigation measures taken for the above sensitive
12



locations with large noise excess, monitoring will be enhanced for other sensitive
locations with small noise excess, and suitable measures will be taken according to
the monitored results.
Table D-5 The mitigation measures for the main line and the connecting roads
Name of the roads      Mitigation measures           Location           Work           Remark
Quantities
Mashuang middle school,
Qiubian primary school,
Kangfueun, Nakang Skin
Sound barrier         Disease Treatment clinic,  1480m
Nitangeun,      Zihecun,
Pang' aneun,  Dayingli,
etc
Taihe-Ganzhou Expresswav                                                                   Removal
Main Line                                         Daping Olds' Home                        required
by road
Resettlement          Zhuhu primarv school                     wborks
villagc residents         56 households
Install   soundproof  village residents         2o3
windolws                                         households
Suichuang connecting road   Simple sound barrier   Zhangtang primary school   150mx2.5m
Wan' an connecting road    Simple sound barrier   Tianbei                   150mx2.5m
Ganzhou connecting road    Simple sound barrier   Heshanxia                 I 50mx2.5m
Table D-6 Mitigation Measures for the RIP Roads
Name of the roads       Mitigation                   Location                    Work        Remark
measures                                              Quantities
Install soundproof
RIPI:                windo\s             Nanjiang hospital                        60 m-
Suichuan-Cheziao                         Zhutian  hospital. Shanghai youdian      360
hope school. 7uoan high school
Removal            A two-floor teaching building of the
RIP2:                Removal             Hengling Central primary school
Yutian-Xinjiang      Build wall          Shangwu  primary  school, Xiniiang       140m-
middle school
RIP3:                Install soundproof  Bushangcun, Wumudu                       100 m2
Shashibu-Wangmodu  wvindow s
Install soundproof  Tangiang town.  Shangping.              145 m
RIP4:                windows             Laowvuchang. Laoshuzui. Tiantou
Tangjiang-Dongshan   Build \wall           fluangsha middle school                30 m2
(7) Atmospheric Pollution
According to forecasting, the NOx and CO concentration at all sensitive locations
along the main line, its three connecting roads and the RIP roads meet class II
standard during operation stage. Under bad climate, the NOx concentration at Fanwvu
and  Zihecun    may  exceed  the  standard. The  auto  emission  pollution  will be
controlled by improving auto emission technique, enhancing tail gas inspection and
reducing NOx and other exhaust.
The living facility of road service area is set up 1 OOm beyond road center and the
road management station is set up 200m beyond the interchange. To prevent impacts
on residences and schools by stone quarries, earth borrowing and waste disposal sites,
13



stabilizing earth and bitumen mixing plants, the above sites are located to divert from
residences and schools.
(8) Water Pollution
In designing, each road encompasses and builds sufficient permanent and
temporary drainage systems, such as to rebuild ponds and canals so as to minimize
surface water pollution and interference with existing irrigation and drainage system.
In the Suichuan and Ganzhou service areas of the main line, sewage treatment
facilities will be installed, sewage must be treated before discharging. The pavement
drainage ditch for large bridges is designed by the historical max. rainfall.
(9) Cultural Relics Protection
The Jiangxi Provincial Cultural Relics Archeological Institute were entrusted to
make cultural relics investigation along the roads, which shows that the main line, its
three connecting roads and the four RIP roads are all far away from the discovered
relics.
(10) Flood Control
The project has designed complete drainage system for subgrade and pavement as
well as enough bridges and culverts. For example, the main line has designed 9 huge
and large bridges, 22 small bridges and 10 middle bridges as well as 382 culverts.
Their design flood frequency is one big flood in 300 years for large bridge and 100
years for medium and small bridges. The design flood frequency for the three
connecting roads is one big flood in 100 years for huge bridge and 50 years for middle
and small bridges. Also there are a number of passageways. These works can meet
flood requirement for safe discharging.
27 Construction stage
(1) Ambient Air Pollution The major pollution sources during construction stage
come from the dust produced from stabilizing earth mixing, construction machines.
road building machines. Bitumen and concrete mixing and the paving can also
produce a small amount of bituminous smoke. The following measures will be taken:
a. The stabilized soil and bitumen mixing plants would be set up at the leeward side
300m away from the sensitive locations of residences, hospitals and schools. The
mixing plant would be equipped with sealing device, shock absorber and dust
remover. Labor protection measures would be provided to the operators of the
construction machine such as eye mask and mouth mask.
b. Bulk construction materials transported by truck would be covered to prevent
spillage as much as possible.
c. Hauling roads and construction site, particularly the stabilized soil mixing plant,
would be sprayed from time to time to prevent secondary dust flying.
14



d. In the process of subgrade filling, spraying would be made according to the need
of compaction. After the compaction, the contractor would spray the compacted
ground from time to time to prevent flying dust.
e. The storage of the bulk construction materials would be covered and over 300m
away from the school and village sensitive locations
(2) Noise Pollution   Noise during construction stage mainly comes from
construction machines and hauling vehicles. Strong noise, if persistently imposed on
human body, can induce various diseases and noise deafness. The following measures
will be taken:
a. When the construction site is close to school, no construction work with heavy
noise machines would be arranged at school time; when the construction site is
close to densely populated residence, construction work with strong noise
machines would not be arranged at nighttime (22:00-6:00).
b. To use construction machines with low noise level as much as possible. For
construction machines with high noise level, temporary sound barrier would be
adopted to mitigate the noise impact. The construction materials storage site and
the mixing plant would be set at places 300m away from the acoustic sensitive
locations.
c. The construction operator' s work time would be arranged in accordance with the
labor hygiene standard, and personal protection measures such as wearing ear-
plugs and helmets, etc. would be provided to the operators.
d. The excess roads for the highway construction would be selected away from such
sensitive locations as schools, residences and hospitals. When dense residences
exist 50m within excess road, transportation of building materials is forbidden in
such excess road at night.
e. If the transportation of building materials does make the acoustic environment of
residences along the existing national highway (105) deteriorating, supervisory
engineer is required to enhance noise monitoring. Monitoring points have been set
up at places as:
For main line, Gaopo town of Wan' an county, Jigongduancun of Shaokou
township, Quanjiang of Suichuang county, Luowencun of Jinshi township,
Changshengcun of Fenggang town, Bazicun of Mushuang town; For wan' an
connecting road, Xiaketang; For Suichuan connecting road, Naxi of Taihe; For
Ganzhou connecting road. lingzinao.
If necessary, the hauling route may be considered for a change or some economic
compensation may be made to local residents.
15



(3) Protection of Ecological Resources
a. To enhance workers, awareness of environmental protection of natural resources
and not to damage wild life and not to cut trees.
b. Sewage and garbage from construction camp shall be collectively treated or made
into family fertilizers.
c. Earth borrowing and waste disposal shall be conducted strictly in accordance with
design requirements so to well protect and to restore the surrounding envirornment.
The top soil (30cm) of the acquired land shall be kept for reclaiming and
compensation.
d. Construction vehicles shall run in excess roads, not in agricultural fields and
woodlands.
The above measures will be specified in the contracts to be sighed with the
contractors. In case of offence, penalty shall be given to the contractors.
(4) Water Conservation
To prevent soil erosion during construction stage, the following measures are
required:
a. Engineering measures
(0 To reduce the area and number of construction sites as much as possible;
construction shall be carried out in designed site, the earth borrowing and waste arca
would not be enlarged casually so to reduce the exposed area of cutting. Don' t enter
the site so earlier if construction is not ready.
02 For road sections with deep cutting/filling (such as the section of K192+900-
K199+660.547. K221+000'-K260+000), the engineering measures such as earth
retaining wall, protection wall, concrete anchoring would be taken combined with
side slope grass planting to make it stable and to prevent sliding. Terrace would be
arranged for deep cutting section; intercepting ditch shall be set 5m away from the top
of the cut to discharge the run-off from the top surface of the side slope.
(  When it is raining, sand bag or straw mat may be used to cover the slope
surface to reduce soil erosion; and cutting would be avoided in rainy season.
40 As required by the design, water drainage ditch and intercepting ditch would
be built for the earth borrowing sites to reduce rainfall eroding force; surface of the
earth borrowing site would be flat as much as possible. If the borrowing is to be made
from a site with big slope, check dam and sediment control dam would be built
together with proper drainage system.
b. Planting measures
O  Planting works would be carried out in accordance with the planting design.
16



The turf selected for the slope protection when planting and covering
vegetation on the slopes in a lump would have the following features: fast
growing and fully covering the ground surface; strong bonding force with the
soil to prevent surface soil erosion; perennial plant in harnony with the
environment.
©  To get the best effect, the side slope plantation would be completed one
month in advance to the rainy season.
c. Land Reclaiming
(:  Reclaiming and planting measures would be taken after completion of the
borrowing and waste sites to prevent soil erosion by rainfall.
( Forestation or agriculture reclaiming will be considered respectively based
on the location (whether in hilly or farmland areas) of the waste areas.
(  As required by the local needs, the deep cutting areas may be built into
reservoir or fishpond; and some waste sites may be used for resettlement or
industrial buildings.
(5) Water Pollution Prevention
a. Septic tank and garbage tank would be provided by the contractor at the
construction camp and shall clean the wastes in time.
b. Sand sendimenting tank shall be set up in construction site near river or reservoir
to prevent mud from directly entering into water body.
(6) Construction Camp
a. Septic tank and garbage tank shall be set up at construction camp, which are to be
cleared by the contractor periodically so to prevent outbreak of disease. Drinking
water that complies with hygiene standard shall be provided at the site.
b. Contractors must adhere to labor protection regulations to provide helmets,
earplugs and periodic physical examination to workers.
c. the construction camp shall be staffed with a full-time health worker who provides
medical treatment and give periodic hygienic education to the construction
workers.
(7) Cultural Relics
During construction, if underground cultural relics are found, then construction
would stop and the supervisory engineer will protect the site, and concerned
department will be notified to handle it.
17



(8) Transportation Management Plan
a. To ensure a smooth operation of the expressway, construction excess roads must
be set up at the intersection of the expressway and other existing roads, which
would be generally located at one side of the original road and built into subgrade
after the interchange is completed.
b.Traffilc and transportation management over the National Highway 105 would be
enhanced. Passing time will be limited such as to avoid transporting building
materials at rush hours. Also contractors are required to make a good
transportation plan.
c. Materials will be prepared in advance. Sand and stone will be stored at less traffic
time.
d. Local public security and transportation management departments shall be well
coordinated with to mobilize traffic jam and to handle traffic accident so as to
ensure a smooth running.
e. Contractors are required to make measures to cover the bulky materials so as to
prevent spill and leakage in transportation.
(9) Accident risk
To ensure safety. the excess roads shall be installed with lighting devices and
safety marks, and traffic laws and regulation shall be strictly enforced.
(10) Public Participation
Complaint telephone number for environmental complains would be
conspicuously marked at the construction camp. For complaint problems, the owner
and the contractors shall contact the local environmental department and solve such
problem within 48 hours.
28 Operation stage
(1) Traffic Noise Control
a. To strengthen highway transportation and maintenance. Vehicles that make noise
over the limit standards are prohibited to run on the highway.
b.According to the predicted results, sensitive locations with excessive noise level
will be protected by sound barriers, resettlement, and installation of soundproof
windows.
c. Construction planning department is suggested not to plan schools and hospitals
within 200m from the road center for the main road, 100m for the connecting
roads and 40m for the four RIP roads, nor plan residences within 150m from the
road center for the main road, 50m for the connecting roads and 20m for the four
18



RIP roads.
d. For households with non-excessive but increasing noise, due to their relatively
long distances to the road (generally over 60m), so the existing noise reduction
effect is not good. By consulting with and agreed by the households that may
possibly be affected, noise monitoring will be enhanced during operation stage to
decide whether to remove, to install sound-proofing windows or to give economic
compensation according to the monitored results.
e. Noise monitoring plan will be implemented to decide supplementary acoustic
environmental protection measures according to the monitored results.
(2) Ambient Air Pollution control
a. Inspection shall be given at the highway entrance to those vehicles hauling bulky
materials such as coal. cement, sand and stone, and easily packaged fertilizers and
pesticides. Vehicles hauling the above materials would be covered.
b. Tunnel fans would be maintained to ensure good ventilation within the tunnels.
c. Planting would be set up at both sides of the road, which is good to absorb the
flying dust and to protect the ambient air quality.
d. Ambient air monitoring plan would be implemented to decide supplementary
environmental protection measures according to the monitored results.
(3) Ecological Restoration and Watcr Conservation
a. Maintenance shall be continued for the planting areas as side slope, central belt,
interchange, service area so as to recover the vegetation, to protect the subgrade,
and to reduce soil erosion.
b. The culverts would be cleared in time to ensure a smooth running of water in the
irrigation system.
c. Further improve the soil & water conservation works, planting works, and land
reclaiming works according to design requirements. A combination of grass,
flowers, bushes, and arbors may be used to form a stereo planting pattem. In the
later operation stage, planting would be prompt so as to protect the subgrade
stability and to reduce soil erosion.
(4) Water Pollution Control
a. The sewage treatment facility at the service area would be maintained so as to
ensure the sewage meet the discharging standard.
b. Execute the water- quality- monitoring plan and supplementary environmental
protection measures will be taken according to monitored results.
(5) Transportation of Hazardous Substances
19



a. Declaration system is enforced for vehicles transporting hazardous substance.
Drivers need to fill a declaration form, including certificate number of the carrier,
code of the hazardous cargo, names of consignor and consignee, loading and
unloading place, characters of the cargo, etc.
b. At the entrance and exit of the expressway, the driver' s three licenses would be
inspected, and the route bill would be accepted. After safety inspection, the cargo
is allowed to go.
c. Usually the hazardous cargo transport is arranged at off peak hours (12:30-15:00).
When the weather condition is bad, it is not allowed to be on road.
d. At the entrance of the expressway, the Safe Driving guideline for Gan-Yue
Expressway will be distributed to drivers, which prepared by traffic safety
experts, includes emergency handling, safety committee, s address and
telephone.
e. The declaration and inspection of vehicles transporting hazardous substance at
the expressway entrance are to be made by the tollgate charger. Relevant persons
will be trained on the management, declaration, safety inspection, work
procedure and firefighting, which will be incorporated into the training plan.
fi When the vehicles loaded with hazardous cargo as blasting cap. dynamite, etc.
will pass through the tunnel, the toll station staff shall notify in time the staff in
the tunnel who shall send specific person to escort the vehicle (s) passing through
the tunnel.
E. Environmental Monitoring
29. In order to ascertain the accuracy of EIA and to take remedial measures in time,
we prepared the environmental monitoring plan. According to the plan, the
environmental supervising engineer will conduct construction noise monitoring; other
monitoring work will be undertaken by local monitoring stations entrusted by the
project owner. The monitoring plan refers to Annex II.
F. Environmental Management Organization
30. The environmental management will be organized by the Planning Division of
Jianxi Provincial Communications Department (JPCD), and will be implemented by
the Project Office of JPCD which has set up an Environmental Protection Section.
Each supervising station will be staffed with one supervising engineer.
The organizations of the environmental management and supervision for the main
line and the inter-connecting roads are shown in Fig.F-l   Fig.F-3.
20



Planning Division, JPCD (6 persons)
Project Office of JPCD
Environmental Protection Section (4persons) of Project Office, JPCD
es gner          Environmental             Contractor          Provincial
Protection Supervision     (over I person )    Environmental
Engineer (9 persons)                        Monitoring Cente
|  Jian EMS    || Ganzhou EMS|
Note EMS refers to Environ. Monitoring Station
Fig. F-I  Environ. management organ. for main line and connecting roads
in construction period
Planing Division of JPCD (6 persons)
Jiangxi Provincial High-Class Highway Administration (JPHCHA)
Environmental Protection Section of JPHCHA   (4persons)
Environmental staff of     Environ. staff of       Environmental staff of
Taihe Manaage-ment     Wan  an Manage-mnent       Ganzhou Management
Agency (Iperson)        Agericy (I person)         Agency (Iperson)
Fig. F-2 Environ. management organ. for mainline and connecting roads
in operation phase
SEPA                EPO of MOC               World Bank
JPEPl                    JPCD
Local EPB  |-         Entrusted Unit                JPHCHA
Ji' an EMS
Ganzhou EMS
Figure F-3  Environ. supervision organ. for mainline and connecting roads
The environmental management and supervision organizations for RRIP during
construction and operation stages are shown in Fig. F-4 - Fig.F-6.
21



Planing Division of Jiangxi Provincial Communication
Department (6 persons)
Jiangxi Provincial Expressways Administration Bureau
Project Office, Suichuan County Transportation Bureau (RRIPI. RRIP2) or Ganzhou
Municipal Transportation Bureau (RRIP3. RRIP4)(3-6 persons)
I Designer    |   | Environmental       Contractor' s Environ.       liangxi Provincial
Construction         Personnel (I person)          Environ. Monitoring
Inspectors                                         Central Station
Jian Prefecture Environmental Monitoring Station(RRIPI.RRIP2)
Ganzhou Niunicipal Environm[iienital Monitoring Station (RRIP3.RRIP4)
Fig.F-4 Environmental Management Organization for RRIP in Construction Stage
Planing Division of Jian2xi Provincial Communication
Department (6 persons)
Jiangxi Provincial Expresswa\s Administration Bureau
Jiangxi Provincial Express,sa n Imestment & Development. Co.Ltd,(3 persons)
Suichuan County Transportation Bureau (RRIPI. RRIP2)
orGanzhou Mlunicipal Transportation Bureau (RRIP3. RRIP4)(Iperson)
Fig.F-5 Environmental Management Organization for RRIP in Operation Stage
Jiangxi Provincial Environmental Protection Bureau (JPEPB)
Ji I an Municipal Environmental Protection Bureaui (JMIEPB) for RRtPI. RRIP2
Ganzhou Municipal Environmental Protection Bureau (GMEPB) for RRIp3. RRIP2
Suichuan County Environmental Protection Bureau for RRIPI.RRIP2
Zhang Gong District and Gan Counts Environmental Protection Bureau for RRIP3
Nankang Municipal and Shangyou county Environmental Protection Bureau for RRIP
Fig.F-6 Organization of Environmental Supervision for RRIP
JPEPB, JMEPB and GMEPB are obliged to supervise the implementation of the
EAP and in accordance with the laws and regulations. The supervising plan refer to
Annex III.
22



G. Ability Development and Environmental Protection Training Plan
31. To enhance the organizational management ability for this project, a training plan
has been worked out (see Table G-1).
Table G-1 Environmental Training Plan for main line
N.  Training                                                                                          cs
No.   personnel               Training content                  Time             Place        Size        (RMB    Remarks
State regulations and standards, the
Environmental   main environmental issues of this   2 months before the              20 persons
I  supervision      project the responsibilities of    construction         Nanchang  for a period      10 00
engineer         supervision engineer, use of noise                                  of 15 davs
monitor instrument. etc.
Environmental   Share the overseas advancc          Within six months to                                     Executed in
2Emanvrmental   experience in environmental         12 months after the   O            persons for           Executin
personnagele     management and apply to this       commencement of                  half month               strtheing
project                           the construction
State regulations and standards and
the main environmental issues,    Within I  months                                         Training
Environmental   environmental points to be          b                                                        content and
3  wvork staff of    mentioned in construction and      before the           Nanchang   0 persons        10 00   cost
Contractors      actions to be taken. the           construction                     for IS das              incorporated
responsibilities of environmental    commencement                                          separately
stafT member
Statc regulations and rules                                        All persons
concerning the transport of                                         from toll              Incorporated
Inspectors of    hazardous subjects. basic
4  hiazardous        kinowledge about hazardous         Within 2 months      Nanchanm  stations.         7 00   into the normal
subjects tranisport sutbjects, vehicle application  before its opcration          _tunel                     operational
procedure. emergency plan and fire                                 dava
lfight knowxledge
Total                                                                                            42 56
The training for the connecting roads and the RIP roads will be conducted along
with that for the main line project. The total cost for training is 655.600 yuan; of
which, 425,600 yuan is for the main line, 30,000 yuan is for the connecting roads;
200.000 yuan is for the RIP roads.
H. Public Consultation and Information Release
32. In order to fully comprehend the public opinions and to really protect the interests
of influenced people, the concerned departments of construction, design, resettlement
and environmental assessment unit have made four public participation surveys and
consultation on Dec. 10-15, 1999, April 12-20, 2000, and May 18-June 5, 2000 and
Nov. 20-28,2000 respectively. The latest (the fourth on Nov. 20-28,2000) public
survey was carried out for those impacted by the optimized alignment (40km) in the
construction design for the recommended scheme. The survey places are cities,
counties and townships along the proposed line.
The public participation survey was carried out in three different forms:(l)Family
or individual interview; (2) group interview; (3) discuss meetings attended by
governmental and non-governmental organizations
For the main line, the survey involved 586 persons (based on the family), 75
villages/towns, 12 organizations. For the three connecting roads, seven group
23



interviews have been conducted, involving 178 families and three discussing meetings
have held for governrnental and non-governmental organizations. For the four RIP
roads, five group interviews have been carried out .
The public survey contents include:
0 Introduction of the necessity, construction scale, technical standard and the
basic principles of the alignment selection for the proposed expressway .
®  Environmental assessment unit explain to the public the major environmental
issues and the protection measures to be taken.
() Introduction of the state policies on the compensation for the highway land
acquisition, removal and resettlement, etc.
(®) To understand the publics, opinions about the environmental impact brought
by the expressway construction, their suggestions for mitigation measures as
well as their requirements.
The public participation results are summarized in Annex V.
The public' s opinions are summarized as follows:
(1) Hope the proposed expressway be completed and open to traffic as early as
possible
(2) The directly impacted people along the line are mainly farmers, therefore, after
the land acquisition; timely adjustment for arable land is necessary. Meanwhile,
the land compensation fee shall be drawn down to the village and paid to the
impacted households in full amount, no reduction.
(3) As to the negative impacts as dust, tail gas and traffic noise, mitigation measures
such as planting, removal, resettlement, soundproof measures, etc. shall be taken
into consideration.
(4) The owner shall keep close contact during the project design and construction
phase. proper number of culverts, bridges and passageways shall be set up .
33. Full consultation and exchange have been rmade with the local governrments,
relevant departments. village committee, collectives and individuals in respect of
alignment selection, setting of interchange and connecting roads, environmental
protection and resettlement. Therefore this project has received wide support from the
public. The World Bank Loan Project office of JPCD released the bulletin concerning
the environmental and resettlement in Nanchang Evening. Jingangshan Daily and
Ganzhou DailY dated Oct.10-11 (Refer to Annex VI). The Owner has put all
environmental documents in the Reference Room and the Resettlement Offices of
the concerned cities and counties for the availability of public consulting. Rclevant
information will be released in the above-mentioned newspapers in the future.
The owner has taken the public opinions into full consideration in the project
design, such as a special lane for farming-vehicle will be set up on one side of the
Shangyoujiang bridge, and one interchange will be set up for each of the counties, a
number of alternative schemes has be taken for comparison and selection.
After the alignment optimization. Wuling school is 100m further away from the
road center line (nowI80m in total), Mashuang school is 20m further away from the
road center line (now 40 in total).
24



As to the possible environmental issues arising from this project, the assessment
and design units have proposed corresponding protection measures as shown in Table
D-5 and Table D-6, which have been agreed by the influenced people.
During its preliminary preparation and design, full consultation and exchange have
been made with local governments, social associations and the public; and the public
opinions have been fully exemplified in the selection of alignment, setting of
interchange and connecting roads, environmental protection and resettlement.
Therefore this project has received wide support from the public.
I. Resettlement
34. The design of the project has always emphasized the principle of diversion from
villages, towns and few removal and land occupation. Hierarchical resettlement
offices were set up, and RAP was formulated, and the Jiangxi Normal University City
and Population Institute was hired as an independent supervisor. Details refer to the
RAP.
35. The reallocation of land and the reform of the original arable lands shall China
related policies. The Village committee will allocate the residential lot for house
building. The land and resettlement compensation fee can be used to develop
agriculture, industry, commerce and other servicing. Villagers' life and production
shall be well settled.
J. Conclusions
36. After the implementation of the environmental protection measures specified in
the EAP, adverse impacts can be minimized to an acceptable level or eliminated. so it
won' t produce significant, irreversible environmental damage.
37. With cooperation from relics department, this project has made investigation for
relics. During construction, national law on relics will be enforced. So, this project
will not damage cultural relics.
38. The risk for hazardous substance transportation of this project is not big, and will
not exert important impact on flood control along the road.
39. Removal, land occupation and resettlement will be settled locally, so will not
result in large number of farmers rushing into city.
25



40. The project will not impact wildlife; it is beneficial to tourism development and
utilization along the road.
41. The proposed expressway involves an investment of 14.96082 million yuan for
environmental protection, accounting for 0.42 percent of the total. Wan' an
connecting road costs 854.700 yuan, accounting for 0.74 percent of the total. Ganzhou
connecting road costs 777,000 yuan, accounting for 0.75 percent of the total. The
environmental benefit is larger than its loss. The adverse impacts produced by the
project development are acceptable to the environment.
42. In order to finalize each environmental protection work, a special environmental
protection organization was established which will be gradually perfected through
ability development and training.
43. The environmental action plan (EAP), environmental monitoring plan and
resettlement action plan (RAP) have been worked out and will be implemented as part
of the project.
26



Annex I:   EAP Factors for Taihe-Ganzhou Expressway, Wan' an, Suichuan,
Ganzhou connecting Roads and the RIP Roads
Environment           Environmental protection action taken or to be taken     Organization   Organ in
issues                                                                       for action    charge*
A. Design stage
1. Route       The alignment is selected on the basis of 3 overall programs and  Design unit,   JPCD
selection      further comparison under 6 sectional alternatives to minimize the
environmental and social impacts, and to avoid poor geological
condition and cultural relics
2. Partition   328 passage ways have been designed for the convenience of local  Design unit    JPCD
people
3. Soil erosion  - at proper road area and slope, plant shrubs, grass and build earth
retaining wall, intercept ditch, mortar pitching to prevent soil erosion.  Design unit    JPCD
-design permanent drainage system  replace the impacted irrigation
pond by re-excavation so as to minimize the impact on irrigation
system
-protection works have been designed for the 26 earth borrowing and
20 waste areas.
4. Dust/air    in addition to the item  I mentioned above,  places as earth  Design unit    JPCD
pollution     borrowving. wvaste banks. stabilizing earth & asphalt mixing plants are
identified to take into consideration of the dust impact on the
residential quarters. cultural and  education areas.
5. Water        sewNage treatment facility is designed in service area for the pre-  Design unit    JPCD
pollution      treatment before being discharged into public water body:
6. Noise         in addition to the item  I mentioned above. enough measure as  Design unit    JPCD
resettlement. sound barrier etc. are confirmed and incorporated into
the design and tender document
7. Cultural    survey has been made, so far no cultural relics have been discovered:    JPCRAI  JPCRB
relics
8. Flood &     - enough design has been done for the bridges and culverts so as to  Design unit    JPCD
meet the needs of flood discharge (  large bridges are designed for I
frequency/ 300 years  and I frequency / 100 years for others)
9   Hazardous- Design drainage sNstem. formulate emergency plan to prevent from   Design unit    JPCD
goods transport the impact on water source resulted from  the hazardous subjects
transport accidents.
B. Construction stage
1. Dust/Air    - sprinkle water during construction. in particular at places as
pollution      stabilizing  earth  mixing . asphalt concrete mixing plants and
temporary roads. While filling subgrade. sprinkling is necessary for
materials impacting. after that, sprinkling periodically to prevent
dusting
-wNarehouse and materials bank vards shall be properly covered
unless for prompt use
- hauling vehicles shall also be covered properly to reduce spillover           WBLPO
- proper arrangement of stabilizing earth mixing, asphalt concrete
mixing plants at least 300m leeward the residential areas.
- mixing equipment shall be wNell sealed. the vibrating facilities shall
be equipped wNith dust remover, and the workers shall take care of
protection.
JPCD - Jiangmi Prorince Conttmnication Deparztment    JPHCHA - Jangwi Provincial High-Class Highwnay .Administration
ii BLPO-The oibrld Bank Loan Project Office of JPCD  JPCRB -Jiangxi Cultural Relics Bureau
JPCRAI-Jiangxi Provincial Cultural Relics Archaeological Institute
(To be continued)
27



The Key Factors in the EAP
Environment           Environmental protection action taken or to be taken        Organ for   Organ in
issues                                                                          action      charge*
2. Soil erosion, - Plant trees and grass at proper road area and slope, in particular stone
water pollution  walls and grass are necessary at high filling and deep cutting slopes.
- timely restoration of damaged drainage & irrigation system and
ponds if damaged.
-lime shall be piled together and fenced with bricks or earth, awva)
from water source.                                                              JPHCHA
-when    building   permanent   drainage    system,   temporary                 WBLPO
irrigation .drainage and culvert shall be built.
-take necessarv action to prevent earth -stone from blocking river path
or existing irrigation and drainage system
--take all rational measures to prevent direct discharge of wastes into
water body.
3. Labor camp   - garbage tank & septic tank would be provided in the labor camp.
periodic treatment and cleaning:                                   CPIICIIA
-drinking water would meet the national drinking water standard    Contractor   WBLPO
- give sanitary education periodicallv to the construction workers
4. Noise        - abide by the industrial noise standard, to protect workers from noise
pollution     impact: wnorkers close to high noise shall wvear earplugs and helmet.
limiting the working time
- stop machine work at night when there is resident area xvithin 150m
form 22:00 to 6:00 next morning:                                                JPHCHA
- strengthen maintenance ot xchicles & machine to minimize noise Contractor
level:
- mobile noise barrier are necessar\ for schools at dax timc
construction when it exerts impact:
- no night hauling wehen there is large resident areas wNithin 50m from
excess road.
5. Ecological   - earth borroNwing. materials stacking and temporary camp are not
environment   allowzed in wood land area:
protection    - to avoid earth borro%N ing on farm land. if it has to do so. the surface
soil (30cm) wvould be set aside and to be put back when the borrowing           JPHCHA
is finished to minimize negative impact:                           Contractor  JCBLPO
- strengthening education and training of the workers to be conscious
of protection of wvild life and natural resources. hunting is prohibited:
- working vehicles shall run on hauling road to avoid damage on farm
land and vegetation.
6. Accident risk - lighting & safety sign for temporary road. implementation of traffic
rule:
- safety and warning measures for quarry explosion area and strict
managcment of the explosives according to the rules of the PSB w-ith
proper time schedule for the explosion.                                         JPHCHA
-careful check before blastin-                                      Contractor
c                                      ~~~~~~~W'BLPO
-set up a safety watcher to prevent people and vehicles passing by'
before the blasting is over. Blasting is not allowed at peak hours to
avoid traffic jam and inJury
- the use and management of blasting materials wvill follow the security
rcquirements of the Ministry of Public Security
JPCD - Jang.x Prov ince Comm ein,cation Departmene    JPHCH.-   Jangxi Prov incial High-Class HighnmAd .ndmimstra,ion
IVBLPO  The obr-ld Bank Loan Projecr Office of JPCD  JPCRB -Jiangxi CnItural Relics Btiureazu
JPCRAI-Jiangxi Pros inciat Cultural Relics Archaeological Institute
(To be continued)
28



The Key Factors in the EAP
Environment  Environmental protection action taken or to be taken Organization    Organ in charge*
issues                                                         for action
- in case any relics to be discovered, it would be
reported immediately to the cultural relics protection  Contractor,     JPCRB
7. Cultural relics  department and the construction would stop and not   CRAI             JPHCHA
proceed until proper treatment having been done by   JPCRAI             WBLPO
the archaeological professionals;
- use the local materials as much as possible to avoid
8.  Traffic  and long-distance transport, in particularly, the earth &
transport         stone work.
management        - in cooperation with the local communications &   Contractor       JPHCHA
public security bureau (PSB) to guide the traffic to                WBLPO
prevent traffic congestion;
- to build temporary road for highway interchanges;
- Preparation for materials in less traffic season
(Jan./Feb. and Sept./Oct.)
-make a proper materials transport plan to avoid the
peak hour of the existing traffic road.
C. Operation stage
-   prefecture   or   municipal   communication
I.Risk of danger- administration  shall set up an  organization to
ous      materials coordinate the harmful chemicals transportation                  Local Communication
spillover         -  harmful  chemicals  transport  requires  three                bureaus. Public Security
certificates (Permission certificate. driving license   JPHCH       & Fire Fighting
and escort certificate) issued by MOC. All the                       Administration
concerned  vehicles  have  an  uniform  sign  in                         LEPB
accordance wvith the regulation of the MOC.                            JPI-ICHA
vehicles with hazardous goods shall followx the
designated  route  by  public  security. transport
management agency and fire fighting department.
park in designated place:
-Registration system will be applied to the transport
of hazardous cargo for this project
- in case there is any dangerous goods spillage.
report to conceriled departmenits and wNork out an
emergency plane and handle it promptly.
- to strengthen vehicle noise and tail gas check.
2. Vehicle        vehicles not meeting the requirements shall not be
management        allowNed on expresswva%:                             JPHCH              JPHCH
-  strengthen   education   and   publicity   of
environmental protection to reduce vehicle emission
pollutants and relevant regulations:
- check of trucks loaded wvith bulk materials at the
entrance of expresswav. such as coal. cement. sand.
simple package fertilizer, agricultural chemicals. to
prevent spillage on road.
In accordance with the monitoring results. noise   JPHCH                JPHCH
3. Noise          barriers and other mitigation measures shall be taken
for the noise interrupted locations
4. Drainage       Periodical cleaning  of the  drainage system  to   JPHCH                 JPHCH
system            ensures functioning of the system
No more new buildings allowned on the road side       Land
5. Others         area within00rm: no schools/ hospitals are allowNed   aur            Land authority
wx ithin 200m
D Environmental Refer to Annex 11: Ensvironmental monitoring plan
monitoring
JPCD - Jiangxi Protince Cominimnication Departmenit    JPHCHA - Jangpi Provincial High-Class Highmpav Administration
I VBLPO- 7he Ior/d Balk Loan Project Office ofjJPCD  JPCRB -Jiang.vi Ciilti, -al Relics Buro-eau 
JPCRAI-Jiangxi Provincial Cultural Relics Archaeological Institute
29



Annex 11
Environmental Monitoring Plan
Environment                  Environmental protection action taken or to be taken             Organ tbr    Organ in
issues                                                                                       action      charge*
(I) Construction period
I Ambient air     a. Monitored item:       TSP, bitumen smoke
b. Monitoring frequency:  once/week or random
c. Monitoring time:    one day                                                            Environment
d. Monitoring sites:  stabilizing earth mixing plant, residential quarters, schools  LEMS  Supervision
close to unpaved hauling road, bitumen concretemixing plant                               Company
(2) Operation period                                                                          (ESC)
a. Monitored item:      NOx (CO for tunnels)                                                JPHCH
b. Monitoring frequency:  once/year (wvinter)
c. Monitoring time:     1 -2 days. 24 hours continuous monitoring
d. Monitoring sites    Yanggongshan tunnel,  Fanwu, Zihecun
2 Noise           (I ) Monitoring frequency
a. Construction period    once/month, & any time when necessary
b. Operation period:   4 times / year
c. Times monitoring   twice / dar
(2) Monitoring sitc
a.Construction period   construction sites where there are sensitive spots and
residential quaners v,ithin 1O0m of the main line. connecting roads and
the RIP roads. National highwaN 105, access roads. Gaopo town of
Wan' an  countv.JigonEduancun  of ShaokoLItovnship. Quanjiang  of  Environ-
Suichuang countr, Luo%sencun of Jinshi township. Changshengcun of   mental            [SC
Fcnggang town. Bazicun of Ntashuiang tonship. Wan, an Xiaketanig. Supervision    JPHCHA
Taihe Nanxi . Ganzhou Laoziling                                        Engineer
b Operation period:                                                         JPHCHA
Main line  Mashuang school.  Wuling middle school. QlLibian primarvschool
Kangfucin. Pijiazhou. Laoju. FlUangzhangduan   Qiaotou  Pang, an.
ZhangwsL. Huangshanit Fanghenegi. Jiezishimia. Fengxingpai. Zihecun
Shanzixia. Fangwu. Qiubian
Wals  ani coniiectinig road. Yuanbei. Tianibet. LiuJiLacin
Suichuanconnectingroad: Dongtang. Mcijiang.XitoUcun
GanzhoLu connecting road Shangxinrtang. Sheqiancun. Heshanria. Lingzilao
RIP roocds
SuichLuan-Chezi' ao   Huangao. Youdian FIlope school. Zhutian hospital etc
Yutian-Xinjiang   Yutian. Hengling center primar\ school. Xinjiang high school. etc
Shashibu-Wangmodu   Shashibu. Xirxing%sei. Wangmudu, etc
Tangjiang-Dongshan: Taneiiang. Shanaping. HLiangsha high school. Beitian primar
school. etc
3. Water qual it   (I ) Construction period
a. Monitored item       pH. CODcr. SS. oil
b. Monitoring freqUency according to the requirements in construction phase
c. Monitoring time:    one das
d Monitoring site , 100m up-stream  of SUiichuanjiang, ShangyouJiang  Ganjiang    LEMS       ESC
(Wan' an connecting road) bridge site and 200m down stream of the bridge site             JPHCHA
(2) Operation period
a Monitored item        pH. CODcr. SS. oil
b. Monitoring frequency   2 times  e \ car.
c Monitoring time        2 da\s
d. Monitoring site      , Ses\aue outlet of SuichLian and GanZhou ser ice areas
S0m dossn stream of Suichuan. Ganzhou (connecting road) riner bridge site
JPHCHA -Jangxi Provincial High-Class Highsavr Administration         JPCD -  Jiangxi Province Communication Depanment
ESC-Environmental supernision Corp.                          LEMS-Local Environmental monitoring station
30



Annex III:
Environmental Supervision Plan
Stage      Agency               Work content                               Purpose
1. Review TOR                     1. Guarantee a complete environmental and
Feasibility   SEPA                                            appropriate   assessment,   and   subject
Feasibility  SEPA                                          identification, emphasize the key points.
study      JPEPB      2. Review EIA                      2. Make sure it reflects the possible. significant
World Bank                                        potential problems which might be produced
by this project
3. Review EAP draft               3. Guarantee a concrete practicable action plan
of mitigation measures
World Bank  I.Review the preliminary design of 1. Strictiv execute three simultaneousness and
environmental protection and EAP  EAP
SEPA      2.Check if the EP investment in  2. Secure sufficient EP investment in place
JPEPB    place
3.1nspect the appropriateness of 3. Ascertain these sites in compliance with
material  yard.  and  lime-earth environment protection requirements
mixing site
JPEPB     4..Inspect dust and noise pollution  4. Minimize the environmental impacts by
Local EPB  control, decide on constniction time  construction, enforce applicable regulations and
laws governing environmental protection
5.  Inspect  the   pilling   and  5. Minimize  the  impacts  on  surrounding
loading/unloading  of  hazardous environment by construction. enforce applicable
Design                 substances. inspect whether the regulations and lawxs governing environmental
And                  discharge of atmospheric pollutants protection
construction             meet the requirements
6.1nspect  the   discharge   and 6. Guarantee the surface and underground w%ater
stage                treatment of daily sewNa2e and waste uncontaminated
machine oil in construction site
7.Reclaim    and   handle   earth 7. Guarantee the landscape and land resources
borrowving sites and waste disposing not seriously damaged
sitcs
JPEPB    8.1nspect        the         "three 8. Guarantee the 'three simultaneousness"
simultaneousness" of EP facilities.
finalize the completion date
9.1nspect whether the environment 9.Certitf the environmental protection facilities
SEPA    protection facilities meet standard
JPEPB    10. Check  underground  cultural 10. To protect the cultural relics
JPCRB   relics
I. Inspect the implementation o I.To ensure the requirements stated in the EAP in
EAP in operation stage          place
JPEPB   2. Verify  the  implementation  o 2. To ensure the contents in the mnonitoring plan
monitoring plan                in place
3. Verify  the  necessity  to  take 3.  Protect the  environment. minimize  the
ftirther measures for unforeseen environmental impact during construction and
environmental problem          operation phase
4.lnspect wvhether the environmental 4. Enforce environment management. safeguard
quality of sensitive location meet people health
relevant standard
Operation     JPEPB    5. Inspect wvhether the sewage in 5.Guarantee  the  sewage  disposal meet the
Local EPB  living  and  servicine  areas meet standard
stage                discharging standard in service areas
6. Inspect w%hether panement runoff 6.to guarantee the drinking wvater source free
discharged into drinking water    from being polluted.
JPEPB               .           . .         7. Eliminatc accidental risks. avoid accidental
.EP .    7.  Intensifv   supervision   over spill of hazardous substances
Public   unexpected accidents to eliminate
Security  risk.  Set forth  in  advance  an
and Fire  emergency handling program  so as
Fighting  to eliminate leakage of dangerous
Dertment substances in case it happens
__________    Departm ent  ____________________3
31



Annex IV:
Table 1 List of Environmental Investment
Project Name                 Investment (10,000 Yuan)    Percentage of total invest (%)     Schedule
Taihe-Ganzhou expressway main line                  1496 082                      0 42                    2001-2004
Ganzhou connecting road                              77.70                        0.75                    2001-2003
Suichuan connecting road                             72 56                        0 74                    2002-2004
Wan' anconnecting road                               85 67                        0 83                    2001-2004
RIPI: Suichuan-Chezi ao                             331.55                        3.32                    2003-2005
RIP2 Yutian-Xinjiang                                373 26                        3 92                    2001-2003
RIP3 Shashibu-Wangmodu                               160.36                        1 67                   2001-2003
RIP4: Tangjiang-Dongshan                             194.02                       2 38                    2001-2003
Total                            2791 202
Table 2 Cost of environmental protection for the main line
No.   Protection measure         Mieasure description         Quantity        lJnit cost   Cost (10.000    Remarks
________________ ____   ___________ _______________Yuan )
I   Planting and vegetation  Plantitig in the earth borrow% ing  46 places    ;0 000        230 0
recox cry      sites and 'saste areas
2        Sound barrier         Acoustic protection for         1480m          1800/m        266 4
Mashuang High School etc.
Removal and resettlement for    56 families     i,              1680
RemoNal and          acoustic cns ironmental
3   resettlemenit               protection           Daping olds hiome  1 00.000 I cintr  100
ZhLhul school      40 0          400
4        Installation of        Protection ofacoustic      2_3 famlics 5        00           126.5
soundproof ssindo%ss          environment                             1 11an7/1ami k
Environ protection and Septic tank. garbage tank %%ill be                 40-000
S     management dUring      set Lip in construction camp  9 bid sections      Itonunbid     36 0
construction stage    Operators working securics                       section
6      Se\\ age treatmc nt    Se\sage treatment in the ser ice  8 places      4O0.060       320.0
faciliytt          areas and parking lots                       t ian/place
7  CLiltural relics protection  Sutrve and exca%aenon                                       120 0
8       En% ironmental     Completion of environmental                                       480      Including Road 105
monitoring              monitoring plan                                                     and temporarr road
9       Training for EP       See the EP training plan                                      42 56
Fire extinguishers in the tunnel  66 groups totaling  150        1 9
10  Equipment procurement                                 132 extinguishers   Y   0ioneach     9
Hand automatic noise monitor                     y yuan/each 
Yellow board for careful dri% ing.                  1000
I I       Sign board        red board for speed limit and        54            Uan/each       5 4
blue board for remindine
12       Conttingencs           5/o of the abou e total                                     71 242
13           Total                                                                         1496.082
Table 3 Cost of environmental protection for the Ganzhou connecting road
No.      Protection measure                    Contents                  Quantit)       Unit price      Cost(10O000vIan)
I    Planting                 Planting on 5 ssaste sites              5 places                               25 0
2    Environ  protection  cost staterspra\. hNing garbage disposal cloth-  4 months    10.000
during constr stage      co ering of hauling vehicles Slag disposal.          zi an/month              240
imud delivers and treatment
Ens ironmental           Noise. TSP in construction              3 sears      25.00D-vtion/vear         60
monitoring               Noise. Nox  in operation                3 years      I 0.00 uan/vear           3 0
4    Sound barrier             Heshanxia (K4+630)                      I Om         1.000  Otanim            15.0
5    EP training               Participate in training ofthe main line  2 persons                             I 0
6    Contingency               5% of the above                                                               3.70
Total                                                                                        77 70
32



Table 4 Cost of environmental protection for the Suichuan connecting road
No.     Protection measure             Contents               Quantity             Unit Cost           (         Cost
1    Planting                 Planting of earth borrow       56.25 mu       4,000 yuan /mu                 22 5
Water spraying, wastes
2    Environ, protection cost  and  sewage  treatment,        3 years        50,000 yuaniyear              15.0
during construction      vehicle cover
during construction:
Environ Monitoring       TSP, noise, water quality      2 years        20,000 yuan/year               60
during operation: Noise,       3 years        20,000 yuan/vear               6 0
ambient air, vater quality       .
4    school place              Make sign board                6 places       1.000 yuan/place               0.6
a    Sound barrier building   Zhangtang school                 150m          1 200vuanim                   18.0
during operation phase
6    Training         Training   tor  environ0
management personnel         2 persons
7    Contingencs (5%)                                                                                      3.46
Total                                                                                           72.56
Table 5 Cost of environmental protection for the Wan' an connecting road
No.             Item                      Content                 Quantity           t'nit price             Cost
(10.000 yuan)
I            Planting             Planting at 3 w\aste areas     4 places       50.000 X ianplace           20 0
and one borro ing site
pray water. li;viia abge
Ens iron,. protection cost   prysae.lvn  garbage
2    duringon protction  cosL     disposal, transportation      36 months       I 0,000 yuan /month         36.0
tnicks tarpaulin etc
3          Sound barrier             Tianbei (K5 300)              150m               I 000/m               I; O
Construction phase:
4   Environmental    noise, TSP,  water quality        3 Near         20.000n Lian/,vear          6 0
Monitoring
Operatioii phasc: noise,         3 X car       I0.u000 san/%Iear           3.0
air, xater qUalirty
5         Warnint board            Remindiniz drivers of         4 pieces           1.000ipiece              0 4
securit%
6      Environment protection     Participating  in  training    2 persons
training          the main line
7          Contingency                5 %, of the above                                                     4.07
Total                                                                                       85.47
Table 6    Cost of environmental protection for For the RRIP1
No                      Items                    Amount            Unit Price            Total      |
1 0000 y uan)         Nt
I    Side slope Greening and Grade Crossing     79 Okm         20.000 yuan/km           158
Beauttlication
2            ConstmrctionMonitoring             3 Years        15000 yuian /year         4.S
Operation Moniitoring             3 Years        10000 yuan year           3
HIeihtening oflEncirclement or                                                             ImplemenraiionDep
4     InstallationofNoiseIsolation Window       4210 m           200 yuan i'm           84.2         ending on the actual
monitoring
Installation of simple noise isolationi
5        barrier, designed and arranged in       3GOm-              200                   6
combination with the encirclement
6              The Environmental                                                          0
Protection Cost in Construction
7     Reclamation of Temporarily-Used Land                                               45
S         Plan of Environmental Training       10 persons
9            Other Unexpected Cost                                                      15.85
10                    Total                                                            331.55
33



Table 7    Cost of environmental protection for For the RRIP2
No.                     Items                    Amount           Unit Price            Total               Note
(10000 yuan)
Side slope Greening and Grade Crossing   45.845km        20,000 yuan/km          91.69
Beautifcation
2                 Construction                  3 Years       10000 yuan 'year           3
Monitoring
3             Operation Monitoring              3 Years        6000 yuan /year           I 8
Implementation
4    Heightening of Encirclement or        101m            20yunm062                             Dpdigoth
Installation of Noise Isolation Window   10310 m         200 yuan /m            206 2             plmendingonithe
Actual Monitoring
Installation of simple noise isolation
5        barrier, designed and arranged in       140m2          200 yuan/rn2            2.8
combination with the encirclement
6       Environ Protection in Construction                                               10
7     Reclamation of Temporarily-Used Land                                               35
8        Plan of Environmental Training        10 persons                                5
9            Other Unexpected Cost                                                     17 77
10                   Total                                                             373.26
Table 8    Cost of environmental protection for For the RRIP3
No                      Items                    Amount           Unit Price             Total              Note
110000 yuan)
I    Side slope Greening and Grade Crossing   26.251 km       25.000 xuan!km           65 63
Beauti rcation
2           Conistruction Monitoring            2 Years        8000 yuan /ear            1 6
3             Operation Monitoring              3 Years        5000 Luan /hear           1 5
Heir htenine of Ercirclement or                                                             Implementabon
4     Installation of Noise Isolation Wlndoss  2200meters       200 Xuan /m              44           Depending on the
actual Monitornin
The Env ironmental
Protection Cost in Construction
Reclamation of Temporarilnk-Used
6                    Lend                        _                            _          30
7            Environmental Training            10 persons                                5
8            Other UnexpectedCost                                                       7 63
9                    Total                                                             160 36
Table 9    Cost of environmental protection for For the RRIP
No                       Items                    Amount          Unit Price             Total              Note
I f'OOOs%uan)
I    Side slopeGreening and Grade Crossing     28717km   i 15000 VLan./km              4308
Beautification
2    Mlonitoring in Constructioti               2 Years      12000 vuan / ear           2 4
3    Monitoring in Operation Stage              3 Years      6000 VUan /vear             1 8
4    tlciihtenine  of  Encirclement!additional   4625 m      200 -uan                   925          Acual g Monitoring
5    Ens ironinemital Protectioti in Construction          I                             5
6    Reclamation ofTemporanls-Used Land                                                  35
7    Plan of Enx ironmental Training            10 persons                               5
8    Other Unexpected Cost                                                              9 24
9    Total                                                                             194.02
34



Annex V:
Summary of the public participation
SLurvey date                 I ocatiOnI ol surve)             NumbeI ot )Cspontdctnis          ltrinoatiotn provided to thc pIb!Lic            ISStICS ol public concern                     Response to the public concem
Yizicunll, Sanjitag, Wuling  lligh  School,                                                                          I hope to biild the proposed expressway as  1. To expeditepreliminary work and to start
Iblagnlh1tCaIIIn    SheShangCU1a.    SleSh1t11ig                          I  tIBrilang iOl the proposed project, sooI1 as possible, and agree wvith the proposed constructioi as early as possible;
Primnary  School, Sliaoxiccin  &   primary 48 persoiis (based tn             inctudinlg  its  necessity, ztligilineit environitieital protectiol measures;            2. Setup detailed RAP;
10/12/1999     schlool, Meipantgsianig, ZbhagtallgCUll &  hlitlilics),                       anid alliglning prilacipIe, coinstruction   2. Follow  the govenimnent policy  for land  3. Auxiliary bridge to be set at the two sides
Zhanlgta'ig primary school,                 I viillages/towntsh ips,        scale, aiid technical i tidicators,  compeonsation and resettleineit,                   of  the  Shangyoujianig  bridge  to  solve
I loigshliatian &  I lotigshiani primary scilool, 51 1tiits               2   Scttiag-up  tit coicctinig  roads.   3  Solittioni to the traveliig of local people people  s crossing over the river;
l15/12/1 999    Lianggttltgcuil, 3aitia, Quanj iiiigzilcig , etc.                            isterciaLtiges, pttssages;           livittg ott the batiks ol Shangyolnjiang  river 4. Irallic safety etc. has been takeln itito
3 Possible positive impacts brought by coticeriied by Sanjiang towniship govemrnment;    account in the design document.
the   priposed   project,  stCIc  as   4 To avoid Wuliig higlt school
improvcd  trantisport cotiditiotis and   5 TrafTic safcty.
NitatgcUlt, llUaltgZhlIalgdIltllcLllt, ZhUhUcUll,                            ecoI)oI11tc developmenit, atid nlegitive   I Wish to build the expressway as soon as  I . To expedite preliminary work and to start
Kattgsitcti.ii   Nankang  derma.      clinic,                                itpacts stici as land acquisition and possible to help people become rich,              construction as early as possible;
YizititancLItI,  WVc1hcctlil,    M3tveicUn1, 3 17 persons (based oi          resettletieait, trillic iloise and etc.;  2  Follow  lte govenmmetnt policy  for latid  2. Set tip detailed RAP;
1 2/A)4/2tl()1)  Baijiacullt    ziatgtltngCutl,    ShtttxicuLII. tIt1il ies),            4. PIroposed  IlsitigtltiOttll tsIcsres  to coinpetisatioi antd resettlement,               3. To make thte alignment further away
Xitottctii,    SlictoCitAtiI,   D)ingkouciun, 18 villtges/towliships,       reduce the negative ilpact, SuICti as   3. Keep  the  original passages, agree  the from Mashuang high school in next design;
Masulitanig    Itigi   schiool,   Beitatlgctti, 7 itliits                  resettlement,  installatioti of soulid proposals Ilorenivironimental protection;          4. Passageways, traltic safety issues have
20/04/200t0     SlShaigxicuLII,  ZlesitancLIFI,  Neichaoxiang,                               barriers,  sound   prool   vitildows,   4  Ithe road shoLild be 20-S50m  firther away been considered in the design documents;
Xiawsanctll, etc.                                                            greeniing, atid compensatioi ol lland west froin Mashuatig high schlool;                 5. Sound  barrier, planting  design  to be
atcqltisititotn, reclaimiritig, etc.,   5 Tratlic safety                                done.
S Outtomcs fromii co01slUtatoll nWitll
Zhiunl(lcLIII, JingshicItItt   XiaWnIcttIn (JieZi),                         local goveritutteiits                    I. lo build the expressway as soon as possible;  I. To expedite preliminiary work and to start
Xini  anilil,     ItilgcLlat,    Xiaoyuan,                                                                          2  Itollowv the goveniineit policy  for land construction as early as possible;
Dapitgxiang,    L.UOtangcL11i,    NUhuctCIl,                                                                      compentsation anid resettlemeit, hope resettled  2. Set up detailed RAP;
QianohualngCLIII,             Q1ilgiiatgcUn,                                                                      locally attd provided with land for housing;        3.    Passageways,   irrigationi   system
18/05/200()(   Zhongpenigctin, GaobeiciLti, Zengkerigctirt, 1 26 peismtis (bascd till                                                3  Protectioti of irrigationi system  to prevent protectiotn and soil conservation, etc. have
_         BIazicUn,    DollgpaicuL11,    Mashuangcun, tibmili ies),                                                          soil erosion;                                      been  taken  into  account in  the  design
05/06/21100     Etfltgcttl,      itliafengctn,   l.otxiacUll, 26 villages/tosvns,                                                    4  More passages or at least retention  of document;
TianxiniCtU,       Yizictlli,       AoliaLInl,                                                                    origital passagew,ay and culverts,                  4. Sound  barrier, planting  design  to be
Zongininxiazi, Dapi tgctiti, Slut iditictut                                                                          5 Employmenit of those who lose farm land;   done.
6  Soundproff lecilities, agree the proposed
tlleaislres.
ZhOlIgNltcunII,  'litttsXittlil,  .litingHiitt,                                                                   I li build the cxprcsssvay as soot as possible;    I . After the alignmnenit optimization, Wulitug
M'cnxiatngciut,   Raoji,lpocuit   I.ibitIcLIFt,                                                                  2. hlope resettled localtly and provided with land    school is lOOm and MashUtang school is
LAontgltigitlt,    NiliucaIII    Nittngcut.,                                                                      tfor houising;                                        20m  further away from  the road center
1 5/11i/20(1(  (iaosshatttctitt,   Xiictitictiin  itaopo  town,                                                                   3 persots (btsed oit tle  3. Se tilp) ofIore passageways aitd culverts  line.
-          .1 igolngdiuaictticn,  Quttajniangg,  Luowenilckl, family), 20 vills tges                                          4. Rebuild the irrigatioil tacilities for the section 3. Set up detailed RAP;
25/11/2()00)    Chlingshiengcun,   liazicuLII,   XiawarctLI, I                                                                        where farmland are acquired                    4. Sound barrier, planting design to be done.
Zhtltucuri-,.Xin  ancun                                                                                           5. Pay great attentiojn to the noise pollution in 6. Enhance the noise monitoring  on the
colistuictiotl phase                              highway 105 and access road .
35t



Summary of the statistics of the public participation survey*
No                Survey content                    Optional answers                Percentage                 Remarks
Yes                        92.08%
Do vou support the construction of the             No                         1.02 0/o
highway3                           No idea                        3.5%
No answer                      2.21%-
State                       96.03%
Who will be benefited from the              Collectives                    58.13%                  more than
2
highway'                        Private person                   55.47%                  one choice
No answer                      0.81%/-
Some of the farmlands are going to be              No                         77.30%
occupied and some households to be                Yes                         8 93%
resettled, do you ha; e any comments            No idea                       10.10%
on the laind occupation'                No answver                     -4.29%
Yes                        12.37%
Do Xyou know% the compensation pol icy for      K         l
.                                ~~~~~~~~~~       ~       ~~Know a litle  31.9%/
4              land acquisition and
Do not knowv                   47 47%/
Resettlement"
No anss er                     1 6%-
Yes                        62.98%0
Do you follo%% the land acquisition and   Yes, but conditionjally             33 41%
resettlement arrangement'                    No                          0 61%-
No answer                     -2 59%
Noise                       60 61%
Vehicle tail gas                 27.2%                   more than
Which is the most serioLs impact on you
6                                                        Dusts                       41 3 I %                one choice
arising from the highssa cornstruction'
Other                        2.940/0
No ansNer                       5 42
Planting                     76.570/%
Sound barrier                   20.80%                  more than
7      Suggestioits tbr mtitigation measuires'    Aw%as from villa2e                 11 82%                  one choice
Other                        -1 9% D
No anstser                    -10 66%o
Note the figures in the table are derised from the statistics data ofthe main huie project. three connecting roads and the four RIP roads.
36



Annex VI:
The People' s Republic of China
Environmental and Resettlement Bulletin
for the Jiangxi No.2 Highway Project
For the environment and resettlement information of the Jiangxi No.2 Highway
Project to be inquired by the public, increasing the openness of the work, the
TGEPCO has placed the following complete reports respectively in the resettlement
offices and libraries of Nanchang city, Ji' an city, Ganzhou City, Taihe county,
Suichuan county, Wan' an county, Nankang city, Zhanggong district in Sep.10, 2000.
(1) Resettlement Action Plan for the Taihe-Ganzhou Expressway of the Jiangxi No. 2
HighwayProjectfinanced by the World Bank, Tanhe-Ganzhou Expressway Project
Construction Office (TGEPCO);
(2) Environmental Action Plan for the Taihe-GanZhou Expressway of the Jiangxi No.
2 HighwayProject financed by the World Bank, Tanhe-Ganzhou Expressway
Project Construction Office (TGEPCO);
(3) Environmental Action Plan for the Ganzhou Connecting Road of the Jiangxi NVo. 2
Highway Project (Taihe-Ganzhou Highway) financed by the WVorld Bank,
TGEPCO:
(4) Environmentacl Action Plan for the Suichuan Connecting Road of the Jiangxi No. 2
Road Project(Taihe-Ganzhou Highway) financed by the World Bank, TGEPCO;
(5) Environmental Action Plan for the Wan ' an Connecting Road of the Jiangxi iVo.
2 Highway Project(Taihe-Ganzhou Highway) financed by the World Bank,
TGEPCO. Dec.2000
The above reports will be modified according to the suggestion of World Bank
delegation and public, and then be placed in the above resettlement office and
libraries.
Tanhe-Ganzhou Expressway Project Construction Office (TGEPCO)
Sep.22, 2000
37



Annex VII:               Environmental Standard Limits
Table 1  GB3095-1996 Ambient Air Quality Standard (Abstract)
Pollutant            Sampling time                     Concentration Limit mg  m3
Class I           Class 11          Class IlI
TSP                Daily average              0.12              0.30               0.50
NOx                 Daily average             0.10              0.10               0.15
One hour average            0.15              0.15               0.30
CO                 Daily average             4.00               4.00              6.00
One hour average           10.00              10.00             20.00
Table 2  GB16297-1996 Air Pollution Comprehensive Discharging Standard   (Abstract)
Pollutant        Production techniology     Maximum allowable limit       Concentration limit for
.          mg/rm                 unorganized discharge
Bitumen smoke      Asphalt melting. mixing             40 75                Conspicuous unorranized
.                                         discharge is not allo%\ed
Table 3  GB12523-90 Standard of Noise Limit for Construction Work Site
Noise limit ( dBj
Construction phase               NMain sources of noise
Dav time       Night time
Earth & stone ccork           BulIdozer. excavator. loader. etc.             75             55
Piling                     Various piling machines                     85       WVork prohibited
Structure        Concrete mixer. vibrating spear. electric saxN. etc.   70              55
Finishing                       Crane. lifter. etc.                     65               5
Table 4    GB3096 Noise Standard for Urban Areas  (Abstract)                    LAeq:dB
Class             DaN timc            Nighttime       Applicable area
Residential quarters. cultural and education
areas
IV                  70                  55                 Sides of the traffic trunk roads
Table 5 GHZB1-1999 Standard Limits for Ground Water Quality (Abstract)
mg/ m3 (except pH
Indicator                                               Class
Class I         Class 11         Class Ill        Class IV          Class V
PH                                    6.5-8.5                                6-9
COD,                Beloa% 15          <_I:5            S20                30              S40
Total lead           -<0 01           sl0. 03         s<0. 05           <0. 05            s10.1
Petrol-oil            -0.05              0. 05         -0. 05            <-. 5             _<l .0
Table 6  GB8978-1996 Standard Limits for Sewage Discharge (Abstract)
mg/m3 (except pH
Indicator                                              Class
Class I                  Class It                  Class III
PH                                                 6|-9
COD,, S                    100            |10                                   .00
Petrol-oil     |                                      10                        20
SS                       70                        150                       400
38



Annex VIII:
List of Relevant Reports
(I) Environmental Impact Assessment Report for the Taihe-Ganzhou Expressway of the Jiangxi
No. 2 Highway Project financed by the World Bank, Research Institute of Highway of MOC,
Dec.2000
(2) Environmental Action Plan for the Taihe-Ganzhou Expressway of the Jiangxi No. 2
HighwayProject financed by the World Bank, Tanhe-Ganzhou Expressway Project
Construction Office (TGEPCO), Dec.2000
(3) Environmental Impact Assessment Report for the Ganzhou Connecting Road of the Jiangxi No.
2 Highway Project(Taihe-Ganzhou Highway) financed by the World Bank, Research Institute
of Highway of MOC, Dec.2000
(4) Environmental Action Plan for the Ganzhou Connecting Road of the Jiangxi No. 2 Highway
Project (Taihe-Ganzhou lHighway) financed by the World Bank, TGEPCO, Dec.2000
(5) Environmental Impact Assessment Report for the Suiichuan Connecting Road of the Jiangxi
No. 2 HIighwvay Project(Taihe-Ganzhou Highwavy) finan7ced by the World Bank, Research
Institute of Highway of MOC , Dec.2000
(6) Environmental Action Plan for the Saiichzian Connecting Road of the Jiangxi No. 2 Road
Project(Taihe-Ganzhoui Highwvy) financed by the Whorld Bank, TGEPCO. Dec.2000
(7) Environmental Impact Assessment Report for the [an e an Connecting Road of the Jiangxi
No. 2 Highway Project(Taihe-Ganzhou Highwayv) financed by the WVorld Bank, Research
institute of Highway of MOC , Dec.2000
(8) Environmental Action Plan for the Win' an Connecting Road of the Jiangxi Vo. 2 Highwayv
Project(Taihe-Gunnzhou Highway) financed by the World Bank, TGEPCO. Dec.2000
(9) Environmental Impact Assessmnent Report for Suichitan-Chezi , ao road, Jiangxi Provincial
Environmental Protection Sciences Institute, Dec.2000
(I O)Environmental linpact Assessment Report for Yittian--Xinjiang road, Jiangxi Provincial
Environmental Protection Sciences Institute, Dec.2000
(I ])Environmental Impact Assessment Report for Shatianhu-TK7ngmu1du road,   Jiangxi
Provincial Environmental Protection Sciences Institute, Dec.2000
(1 2)Environmental Impact Assessment Report for Tangjiang-Dongshanzhen road,  Jiangxi
Provincial Environmental Protection Sciences Institute, Dec.2000
(13)Environmental Action Plan for RRIP. Jiangxi Provincial Environmental Protection Sciences
Institute. Dec.2000
(14)Environnental Assessment Summary for the Taihe-Ganzhout Expresswaay main line, the
Connecting Roads and RRIP project of the Jiangxi No. 2 Highway Project financed by the
World Bank, Research Institute of Highway of MOC , Jan.2001
39



a d1er3 Rit, t                            Itte$£    imk a1m
Figure 1 Geographical position of the proposed road in Jiangxi province
Hubei province                                                              Anhui province
/                                  SI       Dean   }Jiujiang Vt^'Fj/h
i  Y z   s   _ ongxiu       J          {rovinc
Hu'nan  8                                             e            t}   
province                                  Gaoan               Nanchani         \               Hengfeng    Shan
'M A*;                                                    "XinginV                                                       9  
Wanzai                                                                             Qiansh anj  -  Qj h
MA DFIX -    C                                           Yujia              N
Pin                   XEinc           ion ra       ind 
/    11,"  Wan'an\    \_  ~~~                     ~~/ Atc  J          JAiEi
Seat of provincial governtnent
ai  -Ganz            sanzhou connection roauanca
!  I Rtiono.4zj  Ng:3   roal    NingNational road
--- ~~~      X      .       jXinfeng                                                           National trunk built
| r                /~                              ---       3t-    tg
/  I l-            -    t~~~ National trunk to be built
Guangdong            , 'd u 
province               Long                                                                     heproposedWana
1-. (   2  W;_-  s           '.SRoadt mprovemict Provan(RIP)
_ _   | !                                         ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Note: rAP No. I it Soicbuan Jvmgg ng3hoo ro*d.
ection  roa             50km                   RIP No.2 ii YunXinj-g rood
Shan * Gano                                              RIP No.4  i   aadro
*                                        RIP ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Noatii a onasll road.



i ong  crossing                  iafang separated ei   ~        ~        --   Nntaf~meium bridg   Soshngs                               AI845
4150(11  \~~~~~~~~~   V~~~  ~~~             ~~-                           edium bridge ~~~~~~~~~~~~edcr
.... uri ~   ~       ustiagb  g
43-3M  ~ ~ ~ ~    ~ ~ ~ ~ ZuzOIP   eium bridgr 
h ~ ~ ~         ~          ~           ~
-raih . .....~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~atdcosio
g X                       gtan sepa                                    cr   nz~~~~1 sep  nt-L 5
1:1000 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~j~~~~0
4R
#~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~±  k                                                             #0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~K
120~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
2                                                                                                                                                    -r-A~~~~~
2-4)~~~~±     ~          ~                           I                                2  4~~~~± th  Jt{~9
I  O                                                                                                                                              =   3    14 K3  16 K3  18 K3  10 K4  12 K4  14 K 45    K16 K4  14  19 K5



jContinuing FFFoure- 2                The Alignment of the Gan-Yue Expressway (Taihe-,Ganzhou Section)
igure                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          45
kxiaosriam
Dalongkeng separated cr                                                                                                                                           pengy-I
d -rossIng             iterch
ne
sepai
AA                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              41
VOK                                                                                                          W,                                    Q I
ial opt
A11A
<       06 ik-
c crossing
Long,li                                                                                                                                                                                              rA
separated crossi
an                                                                                     ta                                                                               d cro                     rivOun rnedium b
y                                                                               lbolig                                                                     ianxi s parate
gei.                                                                       7         pafatcd er
se
200                                                                                                                                                                                                       w  7 4* .-
V                                                                                                                                        va                                        41E
44               _ti                                 74 off
2:                                                                        *ff                                                                    Of  5                   tz -R
ISO                                                                                                                                                                                                       4w                                      S
ME                       Z!
*4?                                                         IN                                   E-
160
tz                                                                            11,
+I:z
140
'.7   7
X
h                    -A
1:50000
100
1:2000 80
60     Songshubei                  Dalongkeng    Beigaiig                              Xiaosliantang             Zhongyuantaiig                               FanjiaUan                Fanxia                                   Tianxi
StAti                                                                                                                                                                                               JZL                                     EEI
T
-W    A
&            K151    K12    K1513    K15.4   K1515    K16                                    K17    K18                K19    K10    K16J                      K162    K10                 K164    M5    K 16                       U617 K168  I _j



ontinuing Figure 2      The Alignment of the Gan-Yue Expressway (Taihe-Ganzhou Section)   ' W  t        _-,- g
.t     ,                  _T~l? (SA                             ) -    _
rA                                i~~~~~~~~~~~. Jnxi sepiarated crossing  ?l.()(                               -
X      arated crossing       
.              /    Caoxia~~~~~~~~sepa   crosiatrn agebrng'/~
V'~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-'
/                                                                             ii<   ilg g E7v/ 5     6ia                       0A  A
u i X                                                                         ' g3X  t
psramedcK168 K16,9    Kl7p    K17,1    K17r2 K17,3    K17,4    K17,5    K176    K17,7    K17,8    K17,9    K18,0    K18,1    K18,2    K18,3    K18,4araed5
/5                                                                                                                                   V~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
180 
160-
1:50000
1:2000
I    <168 K169    K170    K17,1    K172    K173    K14           K7         16     K 17.7    K17.8    K1719    K18B0    K181      K182    K183    K184    K185



LContinuing Figure 2        The Alignment of the Gan-Yue Expressway (Taihe-Ganzhou Section) |
aSo -                                           C-l
60 - Kulanglang                Nanpuzhouw  Shizaixia                       Daqtlan                           Gui.Dingdi     ZhuhuL b
.                                                                                         ,md m r
__________          g             K28.6    K18,7     K18,8      K1829    K1910      (19,1     K19,2        K,193  K19,4      K19,5     K19,6     K197        (1918     (19t9



{Continuing Figure 2          The Alignment of the Gan-Yue Expressway (Taihe-Ganzhou Section)
;    11  STA203+5405Rg,p Maji mediLan bridge   '                                                       STA2135,
/                   S"  I   p204+ 35. 00   ,,
260~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ , ,j ,Y
240-.                    /j
220-                                                     22
I:eOOOOe      41J
Suichuan county                                                      JJIl;}Saichuang ceunt\ X  gi akn h 
Jt Wi $ §   §  g  0     g        0         a        ;        :         g        |        ;         |       g         a        §         rii 1-      Nakuag cit
| s lt l                               b ~~~KZ05                                         K210                                K215                                        sK220



Conti.ni.g Figure 2    The Alignment of the Gan-Yue Expressway (Taihe-Ganzhon Section)
Sr~~               A                                                      iek 0 ,10
i~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~                                        ~~~~         ~ wO bgln  HlMt5,                                                                                            t ,5 SOhtatn
eSHAt                       0                                         05bd,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ob,,   ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~  -~~20
260-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~2
320-220 1 
Dspg~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
1:50000                                                                                                                                     M.,h-g ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~HOg,M50ag±h-    hisIn
1#~*  22JI~2 2  K293 K? -4 K2, 5  K2 6 K227  K2g8 K2?9 K230  <231  K232 K233  K234  K3 K36_K237 K238   KP39  K24U K? 11. K2.42  K243  K244  K245  K246  K2,47 K2,48                                  K249  <2 0



onfi.uieg Figure22,2 The Alignu,ent ofthe Gan-Yue Exp-essay (Taihe-Gnziou Setiou) 
240                                           AAApp-f
A~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ *e
'Ea - fm:1:50000                                                                                          0 f0 ~                                                                        4 
~~*I  K251  K252 K253  K254  <255 K25L6  <2~57  K258  K259 K260  K2651  K2652  K263  K264  <26S5            K2~66 <267 K268  <269 K270 KE.71  K272  <273  K274  K .275QK26  K2,7  8<7    ri  K2LC "



-    41t*  -ff
Figure 3            Illustrated map of the cultural relics and historical sites along the alignment
Taihe county                                                                                                                                                                       f _  -
/       ~~~~~Ganxian ~~y P                                                                                   LjI-i MGanzhou city
Wan'an county                               0                 bGanxian county           ,
ktAtA  |ongxilingn\
k_-s ~ ~ ~ ~ A                     i                                                                                   /1  /S Jish  N 
(DYaotou                                                                                                   FGh,  ncto li::.1 4t,XIaba
Mash<-'            ~    ~     ~~3 vFit                  Wana                     Taihe-GanzhotuExp:re=ssway |                                                  OPU <33AIAqFenggang
"gs    ~     ~     EELuTtia                  Yunian                                                -
/  -                         /                                                            -,Sh                                              -i,ESnjiaRN
/\          N:l                      Suichun confecong/                                                     line-;tLongling
8t3Mmaymggng               S Shaoko                      .                                     /W/                          itDnga        X 
' B,Mji~~~~~~~~~~~~AD Dnglin .i                                                                  19                            /ijSAngu  Nankang cil Y
G /                                                           _n GLuotang  I//  16 17
,BizhouAAhang
| wan'an conectionlin   //      EOIYane                          ZA lzt\ IItcA    -F'MMhXiahu    t 
Legend    Hirical city wall  Historical tomb                Jinshi
I                         YuDran n r   fslsil
Note:The numberis the serialnumber of thecMuEtu gLutiand Mhitrac site
/  , /   \       /-            ~~                    ~~~~~~~~ Suichuan   f      >g
>                 ~~~~~Shangyou county 
Historical biulding           A3      Cuiltural relics 
Legend       21       Historical city wall           U4     Historical tomb
tl    Dinosaurian fossil
RE)$Rr*4-51Wr-iibt@F:                               IL,     to       20 km
Note:The nurnber is the serial nuniber of the cultural relics and historical sites.



Figure 4 Cultural Relics Distribution Map
of Road Improvement Project (RIP)    (to be continued)
Suichuan    1
Zhutian
(^i .                   _           w    §     U E;-3Xn  Kengkou
-      Z..                1              Nanjiang
'-. --...   jr <   Nankang city
Cheziao <                   Zuoan     /        /
Cheziao Tanghu /DL
,  I    Shangyou county
Gaoping
LmI Legend tyJ
..  iii- Historical building
1- 'YA 0p Tomb
i i X   ALi<tJ11 Cultural relics



Figure 4 Cultural Relics Distribution Map
of Road Improvement Project (RIP)    (to be continued)
Xinjiang
Fuxi
Yaqian                      W Wan' ancountY
,               ~~~~~Quchikeng  R  It, 
Suichuan county      IengXtling
Yutian                _
LE Legend 1fIJ
-r'. R.'  Historical building
-^     l,'Wt-   Tomb
_      l Q fLiUtJ11: Cultural relics



Figure 4 Cultural Relics Distribution Map
of Road Improvement Project (RIP)    (to be continued)
Ganzhou city
* Shashibu
g !         i    c8~~~Mashan       ,
Nankang city                   /
*^-'  Xikeng
RiP3: Shashibu-Wangmudu road
1  /                              ^(3  Wangmudu
1S  Legend VI]
AL.  I-'JA4;  Historical building
Ant    r'r-^     Tomb
A     r1i }C 1LIM11d Cultural relics



Figure 4 Cultural Relics Distribution Map
of Road Improvement Project (RIP)
)        Longhua                   \
Shangyou county      i            
(  Huangbuj 
Dongshan          0               lwQaotouwei
Tangj iang
RIP4: Tangjiang-Dongshanzhen road       Nankang city
/                      )
I | Legend 19J
Ah. -   'KJ-VI  Historical building
-j r- Tomb
f i   Ri.I&I Cultural relics



Figure 5   Alignment schemes of main line in west ganjiang in pre-feasibility study phase      Y      '~
(to be contitnued)  ~
~   ,- '                     _
t~~~~~~~~~~~~~                               Y-Z~  
Chan~~f T Jingt J  KaiiwaS
~~~~~~~~~~~4~v
~~~~  ?SCfJeme jj,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~,
&~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~''
~~~~~~~~~~  r~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Yn



Figure 5:  Alignment schemes of main line in west ganjiang in pre-feasibility study phas        
-           ____                                 :;~~~~~.< v -arig  IalW     I   Shangvoujiang
-~~~~~~~~~~N k s~ 
.44,~
'olUt" ~ ~ ~       ~      ~     ~                                                                -
WL17~~~*-> ~
- ~~~~~~~~~~~ Scbe~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~"~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~                                 ~~~~~~~ ~~~~~~V
'j
-72 1~                                                                                                                 xI . 



