Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 4608 CHA
Loan Agreement
(Second Jiangxi Highway Project)
between
PEOPLE’S REPUBLIC OF CHINA
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated December 18, 2001
LOAN NUMBER 4608 CHA
LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated December 18, 2001, between PEOPLE’S REPUBLIC OF CHINA 
(the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND 
Page  2
DEVELOPMENT (the Bank).
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and priority of 
the project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement (the Project), has requested the Bank to 
assist in the financing of the Project;
(B)
the Project will be carried out by Jiangxi Province (Jiangxi) with the Borrower’s 
assistance and, as part of such assistance, the Borrower will make the proceeds of the loan 
provided for in Article II of this Agreement (the Loan) available to Jiangxi, as set forth in this 
Agreement; and
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, to extend the 
Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement and in the 
agreement of even date herewith between the Bank and Jiangxi (the Project Agreement);
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows: 
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The “General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee Agreements 
for Single Currency Loans” of the Bank, dated May 30, 1995 (as amended through October 6, 
1999) (the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement.
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the 
General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective meanings therein 
set forth and the following additional terms have the following meanings:
(a)
“Affected Persons” means persons who, on account of the execution of the 
Project, had or would have their: (i) standard of living adversely affected; or (ii) right, title, 
interest in any house, land (including premises, agricultural and grazing land) or any other fixed 
or movable asset acquired or possessed, temporarily or permanently; (iii) access to productive 
assets adversely affected, temporarily or permanently; or (iv) business, occupation, work or place 
of residence or habitat adversely affected; and “Affected Person” means any of the Affected 
Persons.
(b)
“Category” means a category of items set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of 
Schedule 1 to this Agreement.
(c)
“EAPs” means, collectively: (i) the environmental action plans dated December 
2000 in respect of the Taihe-Ganzhou Expressway and each of the interconnecting roads under 
Part A of the Project; and (ii) the environmental action plan dated March 2001 in respect of the 
Road Improvement in Poor Counties under Part B of the Project, which set out the environmental 
Page  3
protection measures in respect of said Parts of the Project, as well as administrative and 
monitoring arrangements to ensure the implementation of said plans, as such plans may be 
revised from time to time with the agreement of the Bank.
(d)
“Jiangxi” means the Borrower’s Province of Jiangxi, and any successor thereto.
(e)
“JPCD” means Jiangxi Provincial Communications Department, and any 
successor thereto.
(f)
“JPHAB” means the Jiangxi Provincial Highway Administration Bureau, an 
agency of Jiangxi under the JPCD, and any successor thereto.
(g)
“Nanchang-Jiujiang Expressway” means the expressway between the 
municipalities of Nanchang and Jiujiang in Jiangxi which was constructed under the Jiangxi 
Provincial Highway Project with the assistance of the Bank.
(h)
“Project Agreement” means the agreement between the Bank and Jiangxi of even 
date herewith, as the same may be amended from time to time; and such term includes all 
schedules and agreements supplemental to the Project Agreement.
(i)
“RAPs” means, collectively, the Resettlement Action Plans for Taihe-Ganzhou 
Expressway, dated December 2000, and for the Road Improvement in Poor Counties, dated 
November 2000, which set out the principles and procedures governing land acquisition, 
resettlement, compensation and rehabilitation of Affected Persons, as well as administrative, 
reporting and monitoring arrangements to ensure compliance with said plans, as such plans may 
be revised from time to time with the agreement of the Bank.
(j)
“RIPC” means the program for Road Improvement in Poor Counties of Jiangxi, 
the objective of which is to provide the population of selected poorer counties within Jiangxi 
with improved road access to product markets, social services and other facilities, and thereby to 
increase their income and improve their welfare.
(k)
“Taihe-Ganzhou Expressway” means the expressway between the municipalities 
of Taihe and Ganzhou in Jiangxi to be constructed under Part A.1 of the Project.
(l)
“Special Account” means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of this 
Agreement.
Section 1.03. Each reference in the General Conditions to the Project implementation 
entity shall be deemed as a reference to Jiangxi.
ARTICLE II
Page  4
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and conditions set 
forth or referred to in the Loan Agreement, an amount equal to two hundred million Dollars 
($200,000,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the Loan Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for expenditures made (or, if the 
Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required 
for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan and in respect of the fee 
referred to in Section 2.04 of this Agreement.
(b)
The Borrower may, for the purposes of the Project open and maintain in Dollars 
a
special deposit account in a commercial bank on conditions satisfactory to the Bank, including 
appropriate protection against set-off, seizure and attachment. Deposits into, and payments out 
of, the Special Account shall be made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 4 to this 
Agreement.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 2006 or such later date as the 
Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a fee in an amount equal to one percent 
(1%) of the amount of the Loan. On or promptly after the Effective Date, the Bank shall, on 
behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and pay to itself the amount of said 
fee.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge at the rate of 
three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Loan not 
withdrawn from time to time.
Section 2.06. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of the Loan 
withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, at a rate for each Interest Period equal to LIBOR 
Base Rate plus LIBOR Total Spread.
(b)
For the purposes of this Section:
(i)
“Interest Period” means the initial period from and including the date of 
this Agreement to, but excluding, the first Interest Payment Date 
occurring thereafter, and after the initial period, each period from and 
including an Interest Payment Date to, but excluding the next following 
Interest Payment Date.
(ii)
“Interest Payment Date” means any date specified in Section 2.07 of this 
Page  5
Agreement.
(iii)
“LIBOR Base Rate” means, for each Interest Period, the London 
interbank offered rate for six-month deposits in Dollars for value the 
first day of such Interest Period (or, in the case of the initial Interest 
Period, for value the Interest Payment Date occurring on or next 
preceding the first day of such Interest Period), as reasonably determined 
by the Bank and expressed as a percentage per annum.
(iv)
“LIBOR Total Spread” means, for each Interest Period: (A) three-fourths 
of one percent (3/4 of 1%); (B) minus (or plus) the weighted average 
margin, for such Interest Period, below (or above) the London interbank 
offered rates, or other reference rates, for six-month deposits, in respect 
of the Bank’s outstanding borrowings or portions thereof allocated by 
the Bank to fund single currency loans or portions thereof made by it 
that include the Loan; as reasonably determined by the Bank and 
expressed as a percentage per annum.
(c)
The Bank shall notify the Borrower of LIBOR Base Rate and LIBOR Total 
Spread for each Interest Period, promptly upon the determination thereof.
(d)
Whenever, in light of changes in market practice affecting the determination of 
the interest rates referred to in this Section 2.06, the Bank determines that it is in the interest of 
its borrowers as a whole and of the Bank to apply a basis for determining the interest rates 
applicable to the Loan other than as provided in said Section, the Bank may modify the basis for 
determining the interest rates applicable to the Loan upon not less than six (6) months’ notice to 
the Borrower of the new basis. The new basis shall become effective on the expiry of the notice 
period unless the Borrower notifies the Bank during said period of its objection thereto, in which 
case said modification shall not apply to the Loan.
Section 2.07. Interest and other charges shall be payable semiannually in arrears on 
February 15 and August 15 in each year.
Section 2.08. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Loan in accordance 
with the amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project, 
and, to this end, without any limitation or restriction upon any of its other obligations under the 
Loan Agreement, shall cause Jiangxi to perform in accordance with the provisions of the Project 
Agreement all the obligations of Jiangxi therein set forth, shall take or cause to be taken all 
action, including the provision of funds, facilities, services and other resources, necessary or 
Page  6
appropriate to enable Jiangxi to perform such obligations, and shall not take or permit to be taken 
any action which would prevent or interfere with such performance.
(b)
To this end the Borrower shall make the proceeds of the Loan available to 
Jiangxi under the following principal terms and conditions:
(i)
the principal amount so made available to Jiangxi shall be the equivalent 
in terms of Dollars (determined as of the date of, or respective dates of 
withdrawal from the Loan Account or payment out of the Special 
Account, as the case may be) of the value of the currency or currencies 
so withdrawn or paid out on account of the cost of items required for the 
Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, and shall be 
recovered by the Borrower in Dollars (the Loan Amount);
(ii)
the Borrower shall recover the Loan Amount from Jiangxi in 
semi-annual installments over a period of twenty (20) years, inclusive of 
a grace period of five (5) years;
(iii)
the Borrower shall charge Jiangxi interest on the Loan Amount 
withdrawn and outstanding from time to time at a rate which shall not 
exceed the rate payable by the Borrower from time to time pursuant to 
Section 2.06 of this Agreement; and
(iv)
the Borrower shall charge Jiangxi: (A) a commitment fee on the 
principal amount of the Loan so made available and not withdrawn from 
time to time at a rate which shall not exceed three of fourths of one 
percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum; and (B) an additional fee in an amount 
equal to the amount payable by the Borrower pursuant to Section 2.04 of 
this Agreement.
Section 3.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the goods, works 
and consultants’ services required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the 
Loan shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 1 to the Project Agreement.
Section 3.03. The Bank and the Borrower hereby agree that the obligations set forth in 
Sections 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07, 9.08 and 9.09 of the General Conditions (relating to insurance, 
use of goods and services, plans and schedules, records and reports, maintenance and land 
acquisition, respectively) shall be carried out by Jiangxi pursuant to Section 2.03 of the Project 
Agreement.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Page  7
Section 4.01. (a) For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Loan 
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall:
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with sound accounting 
practices, records and separate accounts reflecting such expenditures;
(ii)
ensure that all records (contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts and 
other documents) evidencing such expenditures are retained until at least 
one year after the Bank has received the audit report for the fiscal year in 
which the last withdrawal from the Loan Account was made; and
(iii)
enable the Bank’s representatives to examine such records.
(b)
The Borrower shall:
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a)(i) of this 
Section and those for the Special Account for each fiscal year audited, in 
accordance with appropriate auditing principles consistently applied, by 
independent auditors acceptable to the Bank;
(ii)
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not later than six 
months after the end of each such year the report of such audit by said 
auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall have 
reasonably requested, including a separate opinion by said auditors as to 
whether the statements of expenditure submitted during such fiscal year, 
together with the procedures and internal controls involved in their 
preparation, can be relied upon to support the related withdrawals; and
(iii)
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning said records and 
accounts and the audit thereof as the Bank shall from time to time 
reasonably request.
ARTICLE V
                         Remedies of the Bank
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02(p) of the General Conditions, the following 
additional events are specified:
(a)
Jiangxi shall have failed to perform any of its obligations under the Project 
Agreement.
(b)
As a result of events which have occurred after the date of the Loan Agreement, 
an extraordinary situation shall have arisen which shall make it improbable that Jiangxi will be 
Page  8
able to perform its obligations under the Project Agreement.
Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01(k) of the General Conditions, the following 
additional event is specified, namely, that the event specified in paragraph (a) of Section 5.01 of 
this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a period of 60 days after notice thereof shall 
have been given by the Bank to the Borrower.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following is specified as an additional matter, within the meaning of 
Section 12.02 (c) of the General Conditions, to be included in the opinion or opinions to be 
furnished to the Bank, namely, that the Project Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified by 
Jiangxi, and is legally binding upon Jiangxi in accordance with its terms.
Section 6.02. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is hereby 
specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is designated as representative of 
the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 11.01 of 
the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Finance
Sanlihe
Beijing 100820
People’s Republic of China
Cable address: 
Telex:
Facsimile:
FINANMIN
22486 MFPRC CN
(86-10) 68 55 11 25
For the Bank:
Page  9
International Bank for
    Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
Facsimile:
INTBAFRAD
248423 (MCI) or
(1- 202) 477-6391
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names  in Beijing, 
People’s Republic of China as of the day and year first above written.   
PEOPLE’S REPUBLIC OF CHINA
By
/s/ Zou Jiayi
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By
/s/ Yukon Huang
Authorized Representative
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the proceeds of 
the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the Loan to each Category and the percentage of 
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Page  10
Category
               Amount of the Loan                       % of Expenditures
                             Allocated (Expressed
to be Financed
           In Dollars)
(1)
Civil Works
      143,700,000
44%
(a) under Part A.1(a)
        of the Project
(b) under Part A.1(b) 
of the Project
             2,300,000
30%
     (
c) under Part A.2 of 
the Project
          12,600,000
44%
     (d) under Part B of the
Project
         10,000,000
30%
     (e)  under Part C of the
Project
 600,000
30%
(2)
Supply and installation
electrical and mechanical
equipment under Part A.1(c)
of the Project
          6,600,000
80%
(3)  
Goods
          4,500,000
100% of foreign
expenditures, 100% of
local expenditures (ex-
factory cost), and 75%
of local expenditures
for other items
procured locally
(4) Consultants’ Services
     and training
       3,700,000
100%
(5)  Fee
       2,000,000
Amount due under 
Section 2.04 of this
Agreement
(6)  Unallocated
      14,000,000
200,000,000
Page  11
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term “foreign expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of any 
country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from the territory of any 
country other than that of the Borrower; provided, however, that expenditures in the currency of 
the Hong Kong Special Administrative Region of the Borrower for goods or services supplied 
from said region and expenditures in the currency of the Macau Special Administrative Region 
of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from said region shall be deemed to be “foreign 
expenditures”; and
(b)
the term “local expenditures” means any expenditures that are not foreign 
expenditures.
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be made in 
respect of: (a) payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement, except that 
withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not exceeding the equivalent of $1,000,000, may be made 
in respect of Categories (3) and (4) set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of this Schedule on 
account of payments made for expenditures before that date but after January 1, 2001.
4.
The Bank may require withdrawals from the Loan Account to be made on the basis of 
statements of expenditure for expenditures for: (a) goods under contracts costing less $250,000 
equivalent each; (b) works under contracts costing less than $2,000,000 equivalent each; (c) 
consultants’ services under contracts awarded to (i) consulting firms costing less than $100,000 
equivalent each, and (ii) individuals costing less than $50,000 equivalent each; and (d) training; 
all under such terms and conditions as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower.
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objectives of the Project are to assist the Borrower’s Province of Jiangxi in 
developing a more efficient and effective and safer transport infrastructure to support its social 
and economic development.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications thereof as the 
Borrower and the Bank may agree upon from time to time to achieve such objectives:
Part A
: Construction of Expressway
1.
Construction of: (a) an expressway of approximately 130 kilometers (km) between the 
municipalities of Taihe and Ganzhou in Jiangxi, including tunnels and interchanges; (b) toll 
stations, service and rest areas, and management, maintenance and monitoring centers for said 
expressway; and (c) supply and installation of electrical and mechanical equipment for toll 
Page  12
collection, lighting, telecommunications and traffic monitoring for said expressway.
2.
Construction of about 49 km of interconnecting roads linking the Taihe-Ganzhou 
Expressway with the towns of Wanan, Suichuan and Ganzhou.
3.
Provision of: (a) equipment for the operation and maintenance of the Taihe-Ganzhou 
Expressway and of national and provincial highways in Jiangxi, and to support laboratories and 
quality control work, and (b) technical assistance for the supervision of construction.
Part B
: Road Improvement in Poor Counties
Reconstruction and rehabilitation of approximately 180 km on eight sections of rural 
roads in selected poorer counties in Jiangxi.
Part C
: Highway Safety
Carrying out of a program to promote safety on the highways in Jiangxi consisting of: (a) 
carrying out a study and development of a manual on road safety at construction and 
maintenance work sites; (b) development of a road safety audit methodology; and (c) carrying 
out a pilot program to identify and remedy hazardous black spots on the Nanchang-Jiujiang 
Expressway in Jiangxi.
Part D
: Institutional Development
Carrying out of a program to strengthen the management capacity in the highway sector in 
Jiangxi consisting of: (a) developing and implementing training programs in respect of, inter alia, 
highway management and planning, maintenance, traffic safety, environmental protection and 
quality control; and (b) building up the capacity to implement road maintenance through the 
development of maintenance centers under the Jiangxi Provincial Highway Administration 
Bureau.
Part E
:
Resettlement
Carrying out of a program of resettlement and rehabilitation for Affected Persons under 
the Project.
* * *
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 2006.
SCHEDULE 3
Page  13
Amortization Schedule
Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due
(Expressed in Dollars)
*
February 15, 2007
4,205,000
August 15, 2007
4,330,000
February 15, 2008
4,460,000
August 15, 2008
4,595,000
February 15, 2009
4,730,000
August 15, 2009
4,875,000
February 15, 2010
5,020,000
August 15, 2010
5,170,000
February 15, 2011
5,325,000
August 15, 2011
5,485,000
February 15, 2012
5,650,000
August 15, 2012
5,820,000
February 15, 2013
5,995,000
August 15, 2013
6,175,000
February 15, 2014
6,360,000
August 15, 2014
6,550,000
February 15, 2015
6,745,000
August 15, 2015
6,950,000
February 15, 2016
7,155,000
August 15, 2016
7,370,000
February 15, 2017
7,595,000
August 15, 2017
7,820,000
February 15, 2018
8,055,000
August 15, 2018
8,295,000
February 15, 2019
8,545,000
August 15, 2019
8,800,000
February 15, 2020
9,065,000
August 15, 2020
9,340,000
February 15, 2021
9,620,000
August 15, 2021
9,900,000
___________________
* 
The figures in this column represent the amount in Dollars to be repaid, except as provided in Section  
4.04 (d) of the General Conditions.
Page  14
SCHEDULE 4
Special Account
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term “eligible Categories” means Categories (1), (2), (3) and (4) set forth in the 
table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; 
(b) the term “eligible expenditures” means expenditures in respect of the reasonable cost 
of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan 
allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in accordance with the provisions of 
Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
(c)
the term “Authorized Allocation” means an amount equivalent to $10,000,000 to be 
withdrawn from the Loan Account and deposited into the Special Account pursuant to paragraph 
3(a) of this Schedule, provided, however, that unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, the 
Authorized Allocation shall be limited to an amount equivalent to $5,000,000 until the aggregate 
amount of withdrawals from the Loan Account plus the total amount of all outstanding special 
commitments entered into by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions shall 
be equal to or exceed the equivalent of $100,000,000.
2.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible expenditures 
in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.
After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special Account has been 
duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish 
the Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish to the Bank a 
request or requests for deposit into the Special Account of an amount or amounts which do not 
exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such request or 
requests, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and 
deposit into the Special Account such amount or amounts as the Borrower shall have requested.
(b) (i)
For replenishment of the  Special Account, the Borrower shall furnish to the 
Bank requests for deposits into the Special Account at such intervals as the Bank 
shall specify.
(ii)
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall furnish to the 
Bank the documents and other evidence required pursuant to paragraph 4 of this 
Schedule for the payment or payments in respect of which replenishment is 
Page  15
requested. On the basis of each such request, the Bank shall, on behalf of the 
Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit into the Special 
Account such amount as the Borrower shall have requested and as shall have 
been shown by said documents and other evidence to have been paid out of the 
Special Account for eligible expenditures. All such deposits shall be withdrawn 
by the Bank from the Loan Account under the respective eligible Categories, and 
in the respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by said 
documents and other evidence.
4.
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the Borrower shall, at 
such time as the Bank shall reasonably request, furnish to the Bank such documents and other 
evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for eligible expenditures.
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Bank shall not be 
required to make further deposits into the Special Account:
(a)
if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all further withdrawals should be 
made by the Borrower directly from the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of 
Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement;
(b) if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Bank, within the period of time 
specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit reports required to be 
furnished to the Bank pursuant to said Section in respect of the audit of the records and accounts 
for the Special Account;
(c)
if, at any time, the Bank shall have notified the Borrower of its intention to suspend in 
whole or in part the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals from the Loan Account pursuant 
to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the General Conditions; or
(d) once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible Categories, 
minus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into by the Bank pursuant 
to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the 
Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of the 
Loan allocated to the eligible Categories shall follow such procedures as the Bank shall specify 
by notice to the Borrower.  Such further withdrawals shall be made only after and to the extent 
that the Bank shall have been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit in the Special 
Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized in making payments for eligible 
expenditures.
6.
(a)
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any payment out of the Special 
Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2 of 
this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished to the Bank, the Borrower shall, 
promptly upon notice from the Bank: (A) provide such additional evidence as the Bank may 
request; or (B) deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Bank shall so request, refund to the 
Page  16
Bank) an amount equal to the amount of such payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or 
justified. Unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Bank into the Special 
Account shall be made until the Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit or 
refund, as the case may be.
(b) If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any amount outstanding in the 
Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for eligible expenditures, the 
Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to the Bank such outstanding 
amount.
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the Bank all or any portion of 
the funds on deposit in the Special Account.
(d) Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) of this Schedule 
shall be credited to the Loan Account for subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation in 
accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, including the General Conditions.
