Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 4608 CHA
Project Agreement
(Second Jiangxi Highway Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
and
JIANGXI PROVINCE
Dated December 18, 2001
LOAN NUMBER 4608 CHA
PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated December 18, 2001, between INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank) and JIANGXI PROVINCE (Jiangxi).
WHEREAS (A) by the Loan Agreement of even date herewith between People’s 
Page  2
Republic of China (the Borrower) and the Bank, the Bank has agreed to make available to the 
Borrower an amount equal to two hundred million Dollars ($200,000,000), on the terms and 
conditions set forth in the Loan Agreement, but only on condition that Jiangxi agree to undertake 
such obligations toward the Bank as are set forth in this Agreement; and
WHEREAS Jiangxi, in consideration of the Bank’s entering into the Loan Agreement 
with the Borrower, has agreed to undertake the obligations set forth in this Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the 
Loan Agreement, the Preamble to this Agreement and the General Conditions (as so defined) 
have the respective meanings therein set forth.
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project
Section 2.01. (a) Jiangxi declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project as set 
forth in Schedule 2 to the Loan Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry out the Project with due 
diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate administrative, financial, 
engineering, road transport safety, social and environmental practices, and shall provide, or cause 
to be provided, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources required for 
the Project.
(b)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section and 
except as the Bank and Jiangxi shall otherwise agree, Jiangxi shall carry out the Project in 
accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
Section 2.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the goods, works 
and consultants’ services required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the 
Loan shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement.
Section 2.03. (a) Jiangxi shall carry out the obligations set forth in Sections 9.04, 9.05, 
9.06, 9.07, 9.08 and 9.09 of the General Conditions (relating to insurance, use of goods and 
services, plans and schedules, records and reports, maintenance and land acquisition, 
respectively) in respect of the Project Agreement and the Project.
(b)
For the purposes of Section 9.07 of the General Conditions and without 
Page  3
limitation thereto, Jiangxi shall:
(i)
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Bank, and furnish to 
the Bank not later than six (6) months after the Closing Date or such 
later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Bank and 
Jiangxi, a plan for the future operation of the Project; and
(ii)
afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with Jiangxi 
on said plan.
Section 2.04. (a) Jiangxi shall, at the request of the Bank, exchange views with the Bank 
with regard to progress of the Project, the performance of its obligations under this Agreement 
and other matters relating to the purposes of the Loan.
(b)
Jiangxi shall promptly inform the Bank of any condition which interferes or 
threatens to interfere with the progress of the Project, the accomplishment of the purposes of 
Loan, or the performance by Jiangxi of its obligations under this Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Financial Covenants
Section 3.01. (a)  Jiangxi shall maintain, or cause to be maintained, records and accounts 
adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices the operations, resources and 
expenditures in respect of the Project of the departments or agencies of Jiangxi responsible for 
carrying out the Project or any part thereof.
(b)
Jiangxi shall:
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of this Section 
for each fiscal year audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing 
principles consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the 
Bank;
(ii)
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not later than six 
months after the end of each such year, the report of such audit by said 
auditors of such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall have 
reasonably requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning said records and 
accounts as well as the audit thereof, as the Bank shall from time to time 
reasonably request.
Page  4
ARTICLE IV
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 4.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect on the date upon which 
the Loan Agreement becomes effective.
Section 4.02. This Agreement and all obligations of the Bank and of Jiangxi thereunder 
shall terminate on the date on which the Loan Agreement shall terminate in accordance with its 
terms, and the Bank shall promptly notify Jiangxi thereof.
Section 4.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall continue in full force and effect 
notwithstanding any cancellation or suspension under the General Conditions.
ARTICLE V
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 5.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to be given or made under this 
Agreement and any agreement between the parties contemplated by this Agreement shall be in 
writing. Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been duly given or made when it shall be 
delivered by hand or by mail, telegram, cable, telex or facsimile to the party to which it is 
required or permitted to be given or made at such party’s address hereinafter specified or at such 
other address as such party shall have designated by notice to the party giving such notice or 
making such request. Deliveries made by facsimile shall also be confirmed by mail. The 
addresses so specified are:
For the Bank:
International Bank for
  Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, NW
Washington, DC 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
Facsimile:
INTBAFRAD
248423 (MCI)
(1-202) 477-6391
Washington, D.C.
or 64145 (MCI)
For Jiangxi:
People’s Government of Jiangxi Province
No. 69 Beijing Road   330046
Page  5
Nanchang, Jiangxi 
People’s Republic of China
Facsimile:
(86–791) 
6281344
Section 5.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken, and any document required or 
permitted to be executed, under this Agreement on behalf of Jiangxi may be taken or executed by 
the Governor or a Vice Governor of Jiangxi or such other person or persons as said Governor or 
Vice Governor shall designate in writing, and Jiangxi shall furnish to the Bank sufficient 
evidence of the authority and the authenticated specimen signature of each such person.
Section 5.03. This Agreement may be executed in several counterparts, each of which 
shall be an original, and all collectively but one instrument.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in Beijing, 
People’s Republic of China as of the day and year first above written.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
  RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Yukon Huang
Authorized Representative
JIANGXI PROVINCE
By /s/ Zou Jiayi
Authorized Representative
SCHEDULE 1
Procurement
Page  6
Section I
.
Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A
: General
Goods and works shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Section I of the 
“Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits” published by the Bank in 
January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996, September 1997 and January 1999 (the 
Guidelines) and the following provisions of Section I of this Schedule.
Part B
: International Competitive Bidding
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods and works shall be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of the 
Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto.
2.
The following provisions shall apply to goods and works to be procured under contracts 
awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Part B.
(a)
Prequalification
Bidders for works under Part A.1(a) of the Project shall be prequalified in accordance 
with the provisions of paragraphs 2.9 and 2.10 of the Guidelines.
(b)
Preference for domestically manufactured goods 
The provisions of paragraphs 2.54 and 2.55 of the Guidelines and Appendix 2 thereto 
shall apply to goods manufactured in the territory of the Borrower (other than goods 
manufactured in the Hong Kong Special Administrative Region or the Macau Special 
Administrative Region of the Borrower).
(c)
Dispute Review Board
Each contract for works estimated to cost $50,000,000 equivalent or more shall include 
the provisions for a dispute review board set forth in the standard bidding documents for works 
referred to in paragraph 2.42 of the Guidelines.
(d)
Notification and Advertising
The invitation to prequalify or bid for each contract estimated to cost $10,000,000 
equivalent or more shall be advertised in accordance with the procedures applicable to large 
contracts under paragraph 2.8 of the Guidelines.
Page  7
Part C
: Other Procurement Procedures
1.
National Competitive Bidding
Works under Parts A.1 (b), A.2, B and C, estimated to cost less than $9,000,000 
equivalent per contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $84,000,000 equivalent, may be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of 
the Guidelines.
2.
International Shopping
Goods estimated to cost less than $250,000 equivalent per contract, up to an aggregate 
amount not to exceed $1,000,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts awarded in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines.
Part D
: Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
1.
Procurement Planning
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to bid for contracts, the proposed procurement 
plan for the Project shall be furnished to the Bank for its review and approval, in accordance with 
the provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines. Procurement of all goods and 
works shall be undertaken in accordance with such procurement plan as shall have been 
approved by the Bank, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
With respect to each contract for (i) works estimated to cost the equivalent of $2,000,000 
or more, and (ii) goods estimated to cost the equivalent of $250,000 or more, the procedures set 
forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the procedures set 
forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
Section II
.
Employment of Consultants
Part A
: General
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of the 
Introduction and Section IV of the “Guidelines:  Selection and Employment of Consultants by 
World Bank Borrowers” published by the Bank in January 1997 and revised in September 1997 
Page  8
and January 1999 (the Consultant Guidelines) and the following provisions of Section II of this 
Schedule.
Part B
: Quality- and Cost-based Selection
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, consultants’ services shall be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of the 
Consultant Guidelines, paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 thereto, and the 
provisions of paragraphs 3.13 through 3.18 thereof applicable to quality- and cost-based selection 
of consultants.
Part C
: Other Procedures for the Selection of Consultants
1.
Least-cost Selection
Services for training and technical studies estimated to cost less than $200,000 
equivalent per contract may be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.6 of the Consultant Guidelines.
2.
Single Source Selection
Services which are estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per contract, may, 
with the Bank's prior agreement, be procured in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.8 
through 3.11 of the Consultant Guidelines.
3.
Individual Consultants
Services for tasks that meet the requirements set forth in paragraph 5.1 of the Consultant 
Guidelines shall be procured under contracts awarded to individual consultants in accordance 
with the provisions of paragraphs 5.1 through 5.3 of the Consultant Guidelines.
Part D
: Review by the Bank of the Selection of Consultants
1.
Selection Planning
Prior to the issuance to consultants of any requests for proposals, the proposed plan for 
the selection of consultants under the Project shall be furnished to the Bank for its review and 
approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant 
Guidelines.  Selection of all consultants’ services shall be undertaken in accordance with such 
selection plan as shall have been approved by the Bank, and with the provisions of said 
paragraph. 
Page  9
2.
Prior Review
(a)
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms estimated 
to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 1, 2 (other than 
the third subparagraph of paragraph 2(a)) and 5 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall 
apply.
(b)
With respect to each contract for the employment of individual consultants 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more, the qualifications, experience, terms of 
reference and terms of employment of the consultants shall be furnished to the Bank for its prior 
review and approval.  The contract shall be awarded only after the said approval shall have been 
given.
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the procedures set 
forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply.
SCHEDULE 2
Implementation Program
A.
Project Management
Jiangxi shall maintain throughout the period of Project implementation, a project office, 
with terms of reference acceptable to the Bank, managed by a qualified and experienced director 
assisted by competent staff in adequate numbers, and provided with adequate resources, to 
manage the implementation of the Project, including procurement and financial management 
activities, implementation of the Resettlement Action Plans and Environmental Action Plans, and 
monitoring.
B.
Environmental Protection.  Land Acquisition and Resettlement
1.
Jiangxi shall carry out the Environmental Action Plans in a manner designed to ensure 
that the Project is implemented in accordance with sound environmental practices and standards.
2.
Jiangxi shall: (a) take all necessary actions to minimize to the extent possible any 
involuntary loss by persons of shelter, productive assets or access to productive assets or of 
income or means of livelihood, temporarily or permanently; and (b) carry out the Resettlement 
Action Plans in a manner designed to at least maintain at pre-Project levels, or improve, the 
living standards, income earning capacity and production levels of the Affected Persons. 
3.
Jiangxi shall: (a) maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and 
evaluate, in accordance with guidelines acceptable to the Bank, the implementation of the 
Page  10
Environmental Action Plans and the Resettlement Action Plans and the achievement of their 
respective objectives, including the engagement of experienced and qualified independent 
monitoring agencies acceptable to the Bank; (b) include the results of such monitoring and 
evaluation activities in each report to be prepared by it and furnished to the Bank pursuant to 
paragraph 4 of this Part B, together with any revisions proposed to be introduced into such plans 
in order to achieve their respective objectives; and (c) introduce such revisions into such plans as 
shall have been agreed with the Bank.
4.
Jiangxi shall under terms of reference acceptable to the Bank:
(a)
prepare and furnish to the Bank: (i) an annual environmental report, by February 
15 of each year starting in 2002 through 2006; and (ii) by May 15 and November 15 of each year, 
commencing on November 15, 2001 through the second year following completion of the 
Project, a monitoring report of the resettlement implementation activities and the results thereof 
during the immediately preceding six-months period; and
(b)
cause to be prepared by an independent entity acceptable to the Bank, and 
furnished to the Bank, by February 15 and August 15 of each year, commencing on February 15, 
2002 through the second year following completion of the Project, an external monitoring report 
on the resettlement implementation activities and the results thereof during the same six-months 
periods as referred to in sub-paragraph (a)(ii) of this paragraph 4.
C.
Project Implementation
1.
In respect of the Taihe-Ganzhou Expressway under Part A of the Project, Jiangxi shall, 
by June 30, 2004, complete under terms of reference acceptable to the Bank and furnish to the 
Bank for its review and comment, an analysis and recommendations on the structure of toll rates 
on said Expressway, taking into consideration the findings of studies on toll rates structures 
under Bank-financed highway projects in China and the results of a survey of user responses to 
tolls.
2.
Throughout the period of construction of the Taihe-Ganzhou Expressway, Jiangxi shall 
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank, and provide to the Bank a monthly 
progress report on the civil works on said Expressway.  
3.
In respect of the program for Road Improvement in Poor Counties under Part B of the 
Project, Jiangxi shall: (a) under terms of reference acceptable to the Bank, prepare and, by May 
15 of each year, starting in 2002 through the second year following completion of said program, 
furnish to the Bank an annual monitoring report of the implementation activities during the 
preceding twelve calendar months; and (b) on the basis of the results recorded, with the 
concurrence of the Bank, establish a program of activities for the following twelve calendar 
months.
4.
In respect of Highway Safety under Part C of the Project, Jiangxi shall, by December 31, 
Page  11
2004:
(a)
(i) complete under terms of reference acceptable to the Bank, and furnish to the 
Bank for its review and comment, a study on safety measures at work sites for road construction 
and maintenance; and (ii) thereafter, taking into consideration the comments of the Bank thereon, 
implement the recommendations of said study;
(b)
(i) prepare a schedule for safety audit under terms of reference acceptable to the 
Bank, and furnish said schedule to the Bank for its review and comments; and (ii) thereafter, 
carry out safety audit in accordance with said schedule, taking into consideration the comments 
of the Bank thereon;
(c)
complete in a manner satisfactory to the Bank the pilot program of identification 
and repair of black spots on the Nanchang-Jiujiang Expressway.
5.
In respect of Institutional Development under Part D of the Project, Jiangxi shall:
(a)
(i) by November 15 of each year, beginning in 2001, furnish to the Bank for its 
prior concurrence, an annual training program; and (ii) thereafter, carry out said annual program 
in a manner satisfactory to the Bank;
(b)
(i) by December 31, 2002, complete under terms of reference acceptable to the 
Bank a study on the establishment of maintenance centers; and (ii) thereafter, implement the 
recommendations of said study taking into consideration the Bank’s comments thereon.
D.
Monitoring and Report
1.
Jiangxi shall maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and 
evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with indicators satisfactory to the Bank, the carrying 
out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof.
2.
Jiangxi shall prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank, and furnish to 
the Bank, quarterly progress reports, not later than February 15, May 15, August 15, and 
November 15 in each calendar year, commencing on February 15, 2002, said reports to:
(a)
summarize the results of such monitoring and evaluation activities on the 
progress achieved in the carrying out of the Project during the preceding calendar quarter (or in 
the case of the first such report furnished in each calendar year, during the preceding calendar 
year);
(b)
set forth the physical and financial progress in the implementation of the Project, 
both cumulatively, and in respect of the period under review; and
(c)
set out any additional measures recommended to ensure the efficient carrying out 
Page  12
of the Project and the achievement of its objectives during the period following such date.
3.
After furnishing each such report, Jiangxi shall review the same with the Bank, and, 
thereafter, promptly take all measures required to ensure the efficient completion of the Project 
and the achievement of the objectives thereof, based on the conclusions and recommendations of 
the said report and the Bank’s views on the matter.
