 IEG
                                                                                               Report Number: ICRR14812

                  ICR Review
                  Independent Evaluation Group




       1. Project Data:                                       Date Posted: 09/10/2015

               Country: Kyrgyz Republic
             Project ID: P108525                                                   Appraisal               Actual
         Project Name: Capacity Building For        Project Costs (US$M):                       3.4                    3.3
                         Economic
                         Management Grant
  L/C Number:                                         Loan/Credit (US$M):                       3.0                    2.8
      Sector Board:      Economic Policy              Cofinancing (US$M):

          Cofinanciers:                                Board Approval Date :                               07/01/2008
                                                               Closing Date:            12/31/2012         06/30/2014
         Sector(s):       Central government administration (100%)
         Theme(s):        Analysis of economic growth (25%); Macroeconomic management (25%); Administrative and
                          civil service reform (24%); Regulation and competition policy (13%); Public expenditure;
                          financial management and procurement (13%)

Prepared by:              Reviewed by:            ICR Review                 Group:
                                                  Coordinator:
Mauricio Carrizosa        Jorge Garcia-Garcia     Lourdes N. Pagaran         IEGPS2

2. Project Objectives and Components:

a. Objectives:

    The Financing Agreement (FA, Schedule 1, p. 4) articulated the project objective as follows: “to assist the
    Recipient in establishing and institutionalizing an efficient and effective framework for formulating and
    implementing sustainable economic policies as well as in enhancing the capacity of public institutions responsible
    for the development and implementation of such policies to formulate and carry out the policies.”

    The PAD (p. 4) articulated the following overarching development objective, similar to the formulation in the FA:
    “to establish and institutionalize a sound framework and capacity for economic policy making and implementation
    in the Kyrgyz Republic.”

    Following IEG practice, this review will use the FA formulation of the project objective as the basis for its
    assessment of efficacy. As it is a separable dual objective, the efficacy assessment will consider its two parts
    separately:

        Establish and institutionalize an efficient and effective framework for formulating and implementing
         sustainable economic policies; and
        Enhance the capacity of public institutions responsible for the development and implementation of such
         policies to formulate and carry out the policies.

b.Were the project objectives/key associated outcome targets revised during implementation?
No

c. Components:

    The project had four components, as follows (PAD pp. 31-56):
   Component 1: Institutional and technical framework for government -wide macroeconomic policy development
   and co-ordination (estimated cost $0.563 million; actual cost $0.382 million). This component financed
   consultants to help establish effective inter-agency co-operation in the development and implementation of
   economic policy

   Component 2: Strengthening the capacity for economic management , analysis and policy development in key
   Government entities responsible for economic policy making and implementation . (Estimated cost $1.969
   million; actual cost $2.035 million). This component financed consultants to help develop capacity within MEDT,
   including assistance to reorganize the Ministry, establish a Policy Development Group, reform its human
   resource management, develop professional training, and strengthen its regulatory impact assessment capacity.
   It would also finance improvements in capacity within MEDT and the Ministry of Finance in the area of
   macroeconomic and fiscal modeling and forecasting.

   Component 3: Development of capacity to carry out a pay and grading reform in the civil service (estimated cost
   $0.381 million actual cost $0.286 million). This component financed a task force to develop civil service pay and
   grading reform.

   Component 4: Project management and coordination (estimated cost $0.328 million; actual cost $0.600 million).
   This component financed senior policy advisors, procurement and financial management assistants, and office
   management and office equipment.

d. Comments on Project Cost, Financing, Borrower Contribution, and Dates:

   Actual project costs ($3.30 million) were marginally higher than estimated at appraisal ($3.24 million), but with
   significant reallocations away from components 1 and 3 and towards component 4 to pay for social contributions
   to local staff recruited under the project, with some additional amount to component 2 in order to support the
   anti-corruption reform program. The Bank implemented these reallocations through two project restructurings
   respectively on 11/10/2011 and 03/04/2013. The grant financed $2.83 million of the project cost and the
   borrower contributed $0.47 million, The closing date was extended first from 12/31/12 to 12/31/13 to
   accommodate a late start of the project due to turbulence in the Kyrgyz Republic (including specifically a change
   in government in 2009 and the abolishment of the government institution in charge of the project in 2010) and
   add support for capacity building on anti-corruption monitoring. The project was again extended to 06/30/14 in
   order to continue supporting monitoring and evaluation of anti-corruption policies.


3. Relevance of Objectives & Design:

a. Relevance of Objectives:

   Substantial. The objective addressed relevant development challenges. The project’s first objective (an efficient
   and effective policy framework) addressed the lack of clarity of objectives, roles, responsibilities at ministerial and
   departmental levels, as well as an ineffective interagency cooperation in the development and implementation of
   economic policy in the Kyrgyz Republic (KR). The second objective (capacity of public institutions) addressed the
   inadequate internal capacity to develop and implement policies, where, for example, IMF programs substituted
   for internal capacity on macroeconomic policies. Both objectives broadly supported KR’s Country Development
   Strategy of 2007-10, which sought the creation of an effective and well-functioning state. Similarly, the WBG’s
   Joint Country Support Strategy for 2007-10 supported both objectives under its pillar of “reducing corruption,
   improving governance and public administration”. The objectives were also broadly aligned with both KR’s
   current National Sustainable Development Strategy (2013-17), which establishes governance and state-building
   as its overarching theme; and under the current Joint IDA-IFC-MIGA Country Assistance Strategy for FY14-17,
   which includes public administration and public service delivery as one of its three areas of engagement.

   However, the project objective was too broad and not sufficiently monitorable.

b. Relevance of Design:


   Modest. The link between the objective and the project interventions was imprecise and weak. The objective of
   an effective and efficient policy framework was linked to outputs/intermediate outcomes (establishment of the
   Coordination Council and its Technical Support Group, and adoption of an economic forecasting system); but it is
   unclear how such outputs or intermediate outcomes would suffice to achieve effectiveness and efficiency in the
     policy framework. The second part of the objective (building the capacity of public institutions) was reasonably
     linked to intermediate outcomes (government ability to make macroeconomic projections, and to improve the
     business environment and the civil service pay and grading system), although it is unclear that such
     achievements would mean broad public sector capacity to develop and implement policies in other areas
     addressing the country’s development challenges. The PAD, in its risk section, identified exogenous factors that
     might adversely affect the project, such as low capacity for decision and implementation and high staff turnover,
     and the project design provided mitigation measures to those risks. These measures, although well-targeted,
     were insufficient in some cases. For example, mitigation of governance risks included dialogue and diagnostics,
     not actual preventive actions.




4. Achievement of Objectives (Efficacy):

     Establish and institutionalize an efficient and effective framework for formulating and implementing sustainable
     economic policies: Modest

     The project financed assistance to a task force of senior officials (the Financial Programming Technical Group)
     that the Government established to support a formal cabinet level coordination mechanism (the Coordination
     Council for Macroeconomic and Investment Policies), which has a formal responsibility at the ministerial level for
     economic policy coordination. The Council is comprised of key cabinet-level members (economy, finance, labor,
     Central Bank, and Social Fund) and is headed by the Prime Minister. Project consultants assisted the Technical
     Group with the preparation of the coordination council meetings.

     Outputs/IntermediateOutcomes

     Under this part of the objective, the project expected enhanced inter-ministerial coordination to ensure coherent
     policy making. The ICR indicates an intermediate outcome target (establishment of an effective coordination
     mechanism) was met through establishment of the Coordination Council and the Technical Group. However, the
     Coordination Council was actually established in 2006, before the project was approved (IMF, June 2006
     Review). Hence, this intermediate result is not clearly attributable to the project. Furthermore, achievement of this
     target does not indicate the objective as articulated was attained. The Council did not work as expected, meeting
     only irregularly (project outcome target of meeting regularly was not met), due to frequent changes in the cabinet,
     an inadequate system of appointing its members (by name, not title), and the heavy agenda of Council members.
     As a result, regular cabinet meetings partially took over the Coordination Council meetings. More specifically, the
     ICR points out that as the consultation mechanism between the Financial Programming Technical Group and the
     Coordination Council did not function effectively, the impact of the newly developed capacity for forecasting was
     also limited. Nevertheless, the ICR notes the Technical Group facilitated coordination among central agencies at
     the technical level. The task team added the coordination efforts involved data exchange for macroeconomic
     forecast purposes. The ICR did not discuss whether or not and how the intermediate outcome target of “clearly
     defining roles and responsibilities in policy design, implementation and evaluation at the central level” was met. In
     sum, the contribution of the project to policy coordination was limited.

     Enhance the capacity of public institutions responsible for the development and implementation of such policies
     to formulate and carry out the policies : Substantial.

     Outputs

    A core group of staff in key central agencies was trained on IMF’s financial programming model.
    MEDT staff were trained on macroeconomic projections.
    A functional review of the Ministry of Economy that identified the roles and responsibilities of its structural
     divisions was conducted.
    Several training activities on human resource management at the MEDT took place with local academics
     involved.
    MEDT was trained on anti-corruption monitoring.
    The Policy Development Group was established and received advice on policy strategy.
    International consultant developed a regulatory impact assessment (RIA) methodology for the MEDT.
    MEDT received limited training on economic assessment of investment projects.
    A Salary Task Force received advice from an international consultant on pay and grading reform.
    Eight studies were conducted covering the shadow economy, the tourism sector, corruption, the impact of the
     accession to the CU on the textile industry, the fiscal and monetary policies and economic institutions.

     Intermediate Outcomes
     The ICR indicates project outcome targets on capacity building (the MEDT reorganized and the Salary Task
     Force delivered civil service reform options) were met. As described in the ICR, capacity building achievements
     were more nuanced:

    The Ministry of Economy developed its capacity to make macroeconomic projections and generate different
     macroeconomic scenarios. A core group of Ministry of Economy staff is able to use (i) the financial programming
     model (ii) the RMSM-x model and (iii) an inflation forecasting model—primarily as an input to macro models. The
     government publishes the Mid-term Socio-economic Development Prognosis, the Mid-term Budget Framework
     and annual budget laws with explanatory notes (intermediate outcome target met). These documents are
     published on the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Economy web-sites.
    The project outcome target to reorganize MEDT was not met under the Bank project. The Bank-supported
     functional review of MEDT led to a short-lived restructuring in 2011. The ICR indicated the development strategy
     of the Ministry was not implemented and the Bank’s project team advised to stop supporting this strategy through
     the project. Accordingly, the project did not achieve the intermediate outcome that “New Structure of MEDT
     corresponds to that proposed in the Strategic Development Plan”. The MEDT restructured again, outside of the
     project, in 2013. As such, the 2013 restructuring of ME resulted from inputs and outputs outside of the project.
     Furthermore, the ICR concludes the intermediate outcome target that “Surveys indicate progress in other areas
     of business environment and increase satisfaction with the performance of IC (Investment Climate) and MEDT”
     was not fully met.
    On human resource management at MEDT, some progress was made in (i) developing a better recruitment
     process based on qualification, (ii) developing training programs based on actual needs and (iii) introduction of
     performance evaluation. The project did not indicate outcome targets in this area.
    Training on anti-corruption monitoring helped the authorities reach out to both central and local agencies to
     support them in designing their own measures and implementing them to reduce the levels of corruption. The
     project did not indicate outcome targets in this area.
    The ICR indicates that while the Policy Development Group produced a number of reports on different issues in
     public administration and new legislation during the lifetime of the project, it is not clear whether sustainable
     capacity has been built to produce analytic or strategic documents, due to capacity constraints and attention to
     other assignments. The project did not indicate outcome targets with respect to this group.
    The regulatory Impact assessment methodology developed under the project was deemed not fully applicable to
     the country's current conditions.
    There were divergent views within government agencies on the degree of usefulness of the activities on
     economic assessment of investment projects, including the view that recommendations of the consultants on
     improving public investment management were quite general and difficult to implement.
    The Salary Task Force was established (intermediate outcome target met) and developed and submitted the civil
     service wage strategy and an action plan to implement the strategy (a project outcome target met). The Wage
     Reform Strategy for civil servants in both central and local government agencies covering 2013-2020 and an
     action plan for its implementation were approved by the Government in June 2013.
    The ICR did not discuss the quality of the eight papers or their impact on policy decisions. Accordingly,
     achievement of the intermediate target of at least three papers being judged to be of high quality and at least one
     forming the basis of policy decisions (an intermediate outcome target) was left undetermined.

     In sum, on this objective, the project primarily achieved capacity building on macroeconomic programming and
     projections and on civil service pay and grade policies, with some possible progress on capacity for policy
     strategy (the Policy Development Group), human resource management and anti-corruption monitoring.


5. Efficiency:

     Modest. The project did not calculate ex-post or ex-ante measures of efficiency. It used 51% of the funds on
     consultant services and 14% on operating costs (mainly staffing of the PIU), but the ICR did not discuss
     procurement or consultant performance. In some areas at least (assessment of investment projects, regulatory
     impact assessments), the ICR discussion suggests consultant outputs may have been weak. Furthermore,
     benefits from project supported advice on MEDT restructuring may also have been low, as the Government did
     not implement the MEDT Strategic Development Plan developed under the project. In some of the other areas
     (advice on projection and forecasting tools, and on civil service reform), the benefits from consultant advice under
     the project appear to have been better.

a. If available, enter the Economic Rate of Return (ERR)/Financial Rate of Return (FRR) at appraisal and the
   re-estimated value at evaluation :

                                Rate Available?                    Point Value                  Coverage/Scope*
   Appraisal                        No
   ICR estimate                     No
                                       * Refers to percent of total project cost for which ERR/FRR was calculated.



6. Outcome:

   Project objectives were relevant to country conditions and to the broad country and IDA programs. The link of
   project interventions to objectives was somewhat loose, due to an objective that was partly too broad and
   imprecise. The project did not significantly improve the policy framework. It achieved capacity building in some
   areas, notably on macroeconomic projections and fiscal documentation, and perhaps on human resource
   management (including wage and grading reform). Efficiency in the use of resources appears to have been low in
   a number of areas.

a. Outcome Rating: Moderately Unsatisfactory


7. Rationale for Risk to Development Outcome Rating:

   A high risk to the project’s capacity building outcomes results from the high likelihood of staff turnover in
   beneficiary institutions. Staff turnover will adversely impact those outcomes in the absence of an established pay
   and grading system that improves hiring and staff retention. The experience of project implementation,
   particularly in its initial stages, suggests a significant risk that adverse political developments happen which could
   undermine the beneficiary institutions that benefited from the project’s capacity building efforts. Additionally,
   inadequate resources allocated to policy coordination and to sustaining built capacity will undermine the project
   achievements. Finally, some of the specific capacity building achievements may be short-lived. This is the case
   of the capacity building delivered to the Salary Task Force. Since the Task Force no longer exists, the capacity
   building on grade and pay policies risks attrition in the absence of further civil service reform efforts requiring the
   use of such capacity.

  a. Risk to Development Outcome Rating : High

8. Assessment of Bank Performance:

a. Quality at entry:

   Although the project was relevant to broad public administration challenges the KR faces, it is unclear
   whether its specifics were underpinned by a solid diagnosis of the pitfalls in KR’s public administration. The
   PAD did not cover specifics with regard to the lack of clarity in the assignment of objectives, roles,
   responsibilities at ministerial and departmental levels, the factors that impeded an effective interagency
   cooperation, or where the gaps in capacity were. Fiduciary aspects were well covered as well as risks and
   mitigating measures. There was coordination with other donors, including with the IMF on macro and fiscal
   issues and with an ADB Business Environment and Investment Climate Support Program. M&E was poorly
   designed (see Section 10).


  Quality-at-Entry Rating:                         Moderately Unsatisfactory

b. Quality of supervision:

    The ten Implementation Supervision Reports (ISR) reflect close supervision. These identified the problems in
   implementation during the first three years of the project, albeit somewhat late in this period, as the first two
   ISRs recorded satisfactory DO and IP ratings. ISRs also monitored indicators carefully, although the
   inadequacies of the M&E design hampered a focus on the project’s PDO. A mid-term review would have been
   useful to take stock of progress towards the PDO and discuss mid-term corrections, for example, on the weak
   interface of the technical group with the Coordination Council. The ICR reports delays in responding to
   no-objection requests in the early phase of the project and better supervision following the transfer of team
   leadership from Bank headquarters to the Bishkek office, which allowed more continuous supervision and
   more interaction with the PIU.
  Quality of Supervision Rating :                Moderately Satisfactory

  Overall Bank Performance Rating :              Moderately Unsatisfactory


9. Assessment of Borrower Performance:

a. Government Performance:

   The ICR provides scant detail on Government performance, except to note the multiple changes in the
   government’s structure that delayed initiation of the project, the irregularity with which the Coordination
   Council met, and the technical group’s facilitation of coordination among agencies.


  Government Performance Rating                               Moderately Unsatisfactory

b. Implementing Agency Performance:

   Similarly, the ICR provides limited coverage of the performance of implementing agencies (MEDT and the
   State Personnel Service), highlighting only the coordination achieved through technical group meetings,
   which helped in negotiations with the IMF; weak early MEDT leadership on human resource management
   issues; an adverse impact of high staff turnover and project staff workload on project performance, including
   a limited ability to focus on policy development and impact assessment.


  Implementing Agency Performance Rating :                    Moderately Unsatisfactory

  Overall Borrower Performance Rating :                       Moderately Unsatisfactory



10. M&E Design, Implementation, & Utilization:

a. M&E Design:

   The M&E framework was poorly defined. The PAD (p. 4) articulated three additional objectives to the project
   objective in the FA and that the results framework (pp. 25 and 27) then identifies, with different wording, as
   project outcome indicators, with baselines and targets that do not allow a robust assessment of progress in those
   three objectives or outcomes. For example, a baseline of “poor coordination” cannot be compared with a target of
   “regular meetings of coordination committee with relevant agenda”: poor coordination may happen with regular
   meetings. Similarly, a baseline of “low analytical capacity in line ministries and the MEDT has old dysfunctional
   structure” cannot be compared with the target of “MEDT reorganized consistent with new structure”: the new
   structure may also have low capacity and be dysfunctional.

   Furthermore, the indicators impede an objective measurement of efficiency and effectiveness of the KR’s policy
   formulation and implementation framework or of the capacity of KR’s institutions to formulate and implement
   policies (the project objectives). For example, “establishment of a mechanism for economic coordination at the
   center of Government …..and … regular meetings of a high level coordination group” or “Authorities regularly
   publish detailed authoritative macro-economic and fiscal forecasts which form the basis of budget planning and
   economic policy formulation” are descriptions of outputs that do not measure the project objectives or even the
   three more specific PAD objectives they were intended to monitor (“government-wide coherent macroeconomic
   policy development and decision making“). It is not possible to tell from those indicators whether the objectives
   were achieved. Similarly, a new MEDT structure says little about how much it enhanced policy formulation
   capacity. Somewhat better was the presentation of pay and grading options, as an indicator of capacity building
   on civil service policies, albeit undermined by the absence of a credible baseline.
b. M&E Implementation:

    The information collected comprises primarily narratives of outputs, as, for example, “The government adopted a
    system for economic forecasting and a procedure for socio-economic development prognosis.” As discussed
    above, these were of little value towards an assessment of achievement of objectives.


c. M&E Utilization:

    ISRs monitored outputs to assess implementation progress in a project that suffered setbacks due to policy and
    institutional changes. This allowed an assessment of disbursements that underpinned two project restructuring
    that reallocated funds.

M&E Quality Rating: Modest




11. Other Issues

a. Safeguards:
    The PAD reported the project did not raise safeguard issues, and the ICR does not report any.

b. Fiduciary Compliance:
    The ICR reports that no fiduciary issues were encountered and financial management practices were
    satisfactory.

c. Unintended Impacts (positive or negative):
    None were reported.

d. Other:



12. Ratings:                            ICR                  IEG Review                  Reason for
                                                                                  Disagreement/Comments
                      Outcome: Moderately             Moderately            Relevance of objectives was rated
                               Satisfactory           Unsatisfactory        substantial while relevance of design
                                                                            was modest due to weak results chains.
                                                                            The project did not achieve its objective
                                                                            to establish an efficient and effective
                                                                            framework for formulating and
                                                                            implementing sustainable economic
                                                                            policies. The ICR provided limited
                                                                            information on efficiency. Efficiency
                                                                            was undermined by some expenditures
                                                                            that achieved poor results.
         Risk to Development Significant              High                  Risks to sustainability of staff turnover,
                    Outcome:                                                institutional disruptions, and of attrition
                                                                            of some capacity building
                                                                            achievements. remain high.
            Bank Performance: Moderately              Moderately             While supervision was rated
                              Satisfactory            Unsatisfactory        Moderately Satisfactory, quality at
                                                                            entry was rated Moderately
                                                                            Unsatisfactory. According to the
                                                                            harmonized evaluation criteria, if one
                                                                            dimension is in the satisfactory range
                                                                            and the other in the unsatisfactory
                                                                            range, the overall rating depends on the
                                                                            outcome rating.
       Borrower Performance : Moderately                    Moderately           Borrower performance suffered from
                              Satisfactory                  Unsatisfactory       changes in the structure government
                                                                                 that delayed implementation, irregular
                                                                                 meetings of the coordination council,
                                                                                 high staff turnover and workload.,
                 Quality of ICR:                            Satisfactory

NOTES:
- When insufficient information is provided by the Bank
  for IEG to arrive at a clear rating, IEG will downgrade
  the relevant ratings as warranted beginning July 1,
  2006.
- The "Reason for Disagreement/Comments" column
  could cross-reference other sections of the ICR
  Review, as appropriate.

13. Lessons:

    The IEG review draws the following lessons:

         Projects aiming to improve the effectiveness of government institutions will benefit from an initial
          assessment of the gaps or pitfalls in targeted institutions. As the ICR points out, capacity constraints could
          have been assessed early to address them in time for project implementation. Similarly, project objectives
          could have been articulated more precisely with good knowledge of capacity constraints.
         Monitoring and Evaluation needs precise objectives that are amenable to measurement. The projects
          imprecise objectives made it difficult to assess progress, all the more so as the objectives targeted
          complex institutional performance issues.
         Sustained capacity building achievements will require that the public sector is enabled to hire and retain
          adequate staff. Otherwise, the Government will not be ready to absorb and maintain capacity building
          efforts. There is a risk that the project’s capacity building achievements will suffer from the public sector’s
          high turnover rates.


14. Assessment Recommended?                  Yes      No




15. Comments on Quality of ICR:



    The ICR provided a concise and often good analysis, taking into account the limitations imposed by the project’s
    poor M&E design. Its sections on implementation and achievement of objectives were informative on the
    outputs/intermediate outcomes of the project. Its discussion of relevance could have expanded on the substance
    of KR’s public administration program and the validity of the project’s results chains. Despite the lack of efficiency
    measures, the ICR could have discussed aspects of the project that contributed to reduce it or raise it. The ICR
    could have provided more information on borrower performance. The ICR’s discussion of M&E was weak. The
    ICR did not discuss procurement and disbursement performance. The lessons section reads more like findings,
    not lessons.
a.Quality of ICR Rating : Satisfactory
