Report No. PIC537
Project Name         Bolivia-Capitalization Program Adjustment Credit
Region                    Latin America and the Caribbean
Sector                    Non-sectoral
Project ID                BOPA6173
Implementing Agency       Government of Bolivia
Alfonso Revollo
Ministry of Capitalization
Palacio de Communicaciones
PISO 17
La Paz, Bolivia
Date Prepared             April 11, 1994
Projected Board Date      August 23, 1994
1.   Background.  Despite the achievements attained since the Bolivian
Government first adopted an adjustment program in 1985, the state
continued to impede investment and economic growth in two fundamental
ways. First, implicit or explicit barriers to entry remain in the
most important sectors-hydrocarbons, mining, telecommunications,
electricity and transport. Second, Bolivia's weak regulatory and
legal institutions have failed to provide the environment needed to
spur investment and develop a competitive, efficient private sector-
particularly in sectors that have been dominated by large,
monopolistic public enterprises.
2.   The new Government assumed office in August 1993 with the pledge
to reduce and rationalize the role of the state and to move the social
agenda forward. The centerpiece of the Government's Plan de Todas is
a bold program of privatization of six major public enterprises
through a unique process called capitalization. This program involves
transferring management control and up to 509 of the ownership of
these state-owned enterprises [the plan includes the capitalization of
YPFB (hydorcarbons); ENTEL (long distance telecommunications); ENDE
(electricity generation and transmission); ENFE (railways); LAB
(airline), and ENAF (smelter)] to strategic investors. Unlike
traditional privatizations, the state will receive no funds from these
transactions. Investors will not buy existing assets, but rather will
make an investment into the company. This investment will be used to
increase the company's capital and provide new liquidity for
expansion. The state's present ownership of the existing assets will
be transferred entirely to the Bolivian people.
3.   The proposed adjustment operation will focus on providing an
appropriate enabling environment so that: (i) private investment is
forthcoming as the Government withdraws from these sectors; (ii) such
investment spurs growth in an efficient manner; and (iii) competition
is promoted wherever possible. The specifics of how each large public
enterprise will be capitalized are being developed on the basis of
sector-specific restructuring plans, the present capital structure of
the enterprise and estimates of investment needs in the short-to
medium-term future.



Mechanisms for transferring the state's present ownership to the
Bolivian people are being explored, with options such as direct share-
transfers, or the use of investment vehicles such as pension funds or
mutual funds being considered. The development of long-term financial
markets, thus, is fundamental to the success of the capitalization
plan.
Project Objectives and Description
4.   While much has been achieved under previous adjustment programs,
during the next two years the Government is committed to accelerating
the process by: (i) establishing an appropriate policy and regulatory
environment to attract international and domestic investors; and (ii)
privatizing key, large public enterprises through the capitalization
process. The proposed credit would provide balance of payments
financial support to help cushion the effect of this reform program.
5.   Specific action is proposed in three areas:
Sectional reform and the capitalization of public enterprises, in
which the Government will: (i) enact general legislation to
enable key public enterprises to be capitalized; (ii) enact
sector-specific legislation and promulgate regulations to promote
investment and a competitive, efficient environment in the
hydrocarbons, telecommunications, electricity, mining, railway
and aviation sectors; (iii) establish independent, capable
regulatory agencies and strengthen its capacity to develop and
implement policies; and (iv) begin the capitalization of six
large public enterprises that dominate the above sectors. In
addition, the Government will complete the divestiture of over
100 small and medium enterprises (maximum individual value about
US$10 million) and the restructuring of the mining sector.
Legal reforms to establish the legal framework and administrative
mechanisms for fair and swift adjudication of regulatory and
commercial disputes. This involves passage of an administrative
procedures law for regulatory disputes between the state and
private parties, ratification of an international convention on
arbitration and passage of an arbitration law. In addition, the
Government plans to further improve the enabling environment
through the implementation of a secured transactions law and the
formation and creation of registries and other bases for
supporting documentation.
Financial sector reforms to deepen long-term financial markets.
The first phase of financial reform has successfully restored
the integrity of the existing banking system. This phrase will
focus on improving the regulation of securities, insurance and
deposit-taking institutions as well as strengthening contractual
savings and pension mechanisms. In addition, the Government
plans to further strengthen the financial system through
restructuring the Central Bank and the passage of the
Organic Central Bank Law, and the Superintendency of Banks and
Financial Entities Law.
-2-



6.   The ambitious program described above essentially represents the
remaining agenda for the overall legal, institutional and structural
reform of Bolivia's public enterprise and financial sectors. This
proposed IDA adjustment operation will focus upon a subset of this
larger program. Forthcoming technical assistance and investment
operations are being prepared to help implement and finance specific
components of the program.
7.   Criteria used to determine what sectoral coverage and
conditionality to include in this operation included: (i) the
importance of the sector to Government revenues, employment and the
country's potential for growth; (ii) the fiscal impact of reform;
(iii) the magnitude of fresh private investment needed to develop the
sector; and (iv) aspects of the enabling environment that are critical
to stimulating efficient private sector investment as the Government
withdraws from areas that it used to dominate. While this operation
will support the Government's overall reform agenda, its focus is the
hydrocarbons, telecommunications, electricity and mining sectors and
the enabling environment required to promote their development.
During the next seven years, several billion US dollars in new
investment will be needed to maintain and develop these four sectors.
The steps proposed under the present program are likely to have a
critical fiscal impact in the short term, both due to a direct loss of
Government revenues and increased unemployment, as enterprises in
these sectors are redirected towards efficient growth under private
sector management. While this together with the balance of payments
impact justifies immediate IDA support, in the longer term, these
costs will be easily off-set by the long-term benefits of increased
private investment and higher growth.
Environmental Aspects
8.   The capitalization of the hydrocarbons, power and mining sector
companies as well as the adoption of new sectoral laws designed to
promote investment and competition in these sectors could have
detrimental environmental effects if expansion activities are not
adequately regulated and monitored. An environmental audit will be
performed on all appropriate public enterprises prior to the date of
their capitalization and the Government intends to assume
responsibility for all such environmental liabilities. However, the
Government's institutional capacity to perform environmental
assessments and audits must improve dramatically to keep pace with the
new private sector pressure to discover, refine, and transport oil and
build new generation facilities. Among the environmental issues are:
(i) creating an awareness of the environmental dimension in
operations; (ii) controlling access by settlers to rights of ways
created by seismic and exploratory drilling programs; and (iii) the
lack of clear institutional authority for implementing regulatory
measures. Some specific issues affecting the hydrocarbon sector are
gas flaring, efficiency in operations, indigenous peoples and
protected areas, above-ground pipelines, availability of materials and
appropriate equipment, oil spills, marine impacts, and lead in
gasoline. Specific environmental issue affecting the power sector are
the design of existing structures and current operating procedures
that may cause environmental discharges (e.g., spills).
- 3-



9.   Existing and forthcoming IDA technical assistance projects for
the hydrocarbons, power and mining sectors will have environmental
components to: (i) perform environmental audits and environmental and
risk assessments; (ii) prepare spill prevention, control, and
countermeasure plans for power plants; and (iii) improve the capacity
of the Secretariat of Energy (SOE) and the Ministry of Sustainable
Development (MSD) in environmental assessment of hydrocarbon and
power-related reforms. The capitalization of the other sectors is not
expected to have major new negative environmental repercussions.
Benefits
10. The economic benefits of the policies supported by this credit
are substantial. Comprehensive reform of the hydrocarbons,
telecommunications, electricity and mining sectors, including the
development of an appropriate regulatory framework, will encourage
private investment and technology transfer and free up to -35w of the
Government's annual investment budget to invest in human capital and
basic infrastructure. These reforms--especially accelerated
development of Bolivia's hydrocarbons resources--should have an
important impact on GDP growth. The legal reforms aimed at
facilitating the enforcement of contracts should have a positive
effect on private sector investment in general.
Contact Point: Public Information Center
The World Bank
1818 H Street N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone No.:   (202) 458-5454
Fax No.:   (202) 522-1500
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain components
may not necessarily be included in the final project.
- 4 -



