Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 19096
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION IREPORT
BOLIVIA
CAPITALIZATION PROGRAM ADJUSTMENT CREDIT
(CREDIT 2761-BO)
March 30, 1999
Finance, Private Sector and Infrastructure Sector Management Unit
Country Managing Unit for Bolivia, Paraguay and Peru
Latin American and the Caribbean Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY AND EXCHANGE RATE
(As of March 1, 1999)
Currency Unit = Boliviano (Bs)
US$1.00- Bs. 5.6
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AFP           Administradora de Fondos de Pensiones (Pension Fund Administrators)
BOLIVIDA      Non-hereditary annuity derived from capitalization shares for elder Bolivians
BONOSOL       Bono .Solidario (Solidarity Bond)
COMIBOL       Corporaci6n Minera Boliviana (National Mining Company)
CPAC          Capitalization Program Adjusmnent Credit
EMV           Empresa Metahirgica de Vinto (National Smelting Company)
ENDE          Empresa Nacional de Electricidad (National Power Company)
ENFE          Empresa Nacional de Ferrocarriles (National Railway Company)
ENTEL         Empresa Nacional de Telecomunicactones (National Telecommunications
Company)
ESAF          Enhanced Structural Adjustment Facility
FONCOM        Fondo Complementario (Complementarv Pension Fund)
FOPEBA        Fondo die Pensiones Basicas (Public Pension Fund)
GDP           Gross Domestic Product
IDA           International Development Association
IDB           Inter-American Development Bank
IMF           International Monetary Fund
LAB           Lloyd Aereo Boliviano (National Airline)
LDP           Letter of Development Policy
PAYGO         Pay-As-You-Go
RRSAC         Regulatory Reform Sector Adjustment Credit
SOE           State-owned Enterprise
SDR           Special Drawing Rights
SIRESE        Sistema de Regulaci6n Sectorial (System for Sectoral Regulation)
YPFB          Yacimientos Petroliferos Fiscales Bolivianos (National Hydrocarbons
Company)
Vice President:            Mr. S. Javed Burki
Country Director:          Mrs. Isabel Guerrero
Sector Director:           Mr. Danny Leipziger
Task Team Leader:          Mr. H. von Gersdorff



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
TABLE OF CONTENTS
PREFACE ..............................................ii
EVALUATION SUMMARY .............................................. ii
PART I. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT ............................................1
A. Background ..........................................1l
B. Project Objectives and Design ...........................................2
C. Achievement of Objectives ...........................................4
D. Major Factors Affecting the Project ..........................................                                   11
E. Project Sustainability ..........................................                                                12
F. Bank Performance ..........................................                                                       13
G. Borrower Performance ..........................................                                                  14
H. Assessment of Outcome ..........................................                                                  14
I. Key Lessons Learned ..........................................                                                   16
PART II: STATISTICAL ANNEXES ............................................ 18
Table 1: Summary of Assessments ............................................                                        18
Table 2: Related IDA  Credits ............................................                                          19
Table 3: Project Timetable ............................................                                             20
Table 4: Credit Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and ActualError! Bookmark not
defined.
Table 5: Key Indicators for Project Implementation ..........................................                         21
Table 6: Key Indicators for Project Operation ..........................................                            21
Table 7: Studies Included in Project ..........................................                                     21
Table 8A: Project Costs ..........................................                                                  21
Table 8B: Project Financing ..........................................                                              21
Table 9: Economic Costs and Benefits ..........................................                                     22
Table 10: Status of Legal Covenants ..........................................                                      22
Table 11: Compliance with Operational Manual Statements ......................................... 22
Table 12: Bank Resources:  Staff Inputs ..........................................                                  23
Table 13: Bank Resources: Missions ..........................................                                       24
APPENDIX
A: Aide Memoire ICR Mission ....................                                                                        25
B: Borrower Evaluation ............................................................................... 27
TEXT TABLES
Table 1: Summary of Loan Conditionality                                                   .3
Table 2: Capitalization Transactions                                                  .5
Table 3: Estimated vs. Actual Timing of Legal Reforms .12
This document has a restiicted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



i
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION RLEPORT
BOLIVIA
CAPITALIZATION PROGRAM ADJUSTMENT CREDIT
CREDIT 2761-BO
PREFACE
This is the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the Capitalization Program
Adjustment Project in Bolivia, for which Credit 2761-BO in the amount of SDR 34.0 million
(US$50 million equivalent) was approved on July 6, 1995 and made effective on
December 1, 1995. The amount of the Credit was increased by amendments incorporating
IDA reflows of an additional SDR 11.2 million (US$15.3 million equivalent).
The Credit was closed on September 30,1998, 15 months; later than planned. The first
tranche, released upon effectiveness, was disbursed in January 15996; subsequent tranches were
released in April 1997, July 1997 and August 1998. The credit was fiully disbursed by
September, 1998 and no waivers of conditionality were given or required. Cofinancing for the
project was provided by the Inter-American Development Bank.
The ICR was prepared by Lisette Price (Consultant) and by Hermann von Gersdorff
(Task Manager) and reviewed by Susan Goldmark (Sector Leader), and Maria Victoria Lister
(LCSFP). Preparation of this ICR was begun during the final supervision/ICR mission which took
place in June-July of 1998. The ICR is based on materials in the project file, interviews with IDA staff
involved in project preparation and implementation, interviews with the Borrower's staff in Bolivia, and
additional information requested to the Borrower to facilitate IDA's review of the project. The
Borrower's own evaluation of the project's execution is included as Appendix B of the ICR.



i
EVALUATION SUMMARY
BOLIVIA
CAPITALIZATION PROGRAM ADJUSTM]ENT CREDIT
(CREDIT 2761-BO)
BACKGROUND AND PROGRAM OBJECTIVES
I.    The primary objective of the reform program supported by this credit, the
Capitalization Program Adjustment Credit (CPAC), was to move Bolivia to a higher growth
path. Although Bolivia embarked on stabilization and adjustment as early as 1985, only
modest growth had been achieved by 1993 (1.9 percent of per capita GDP), and over 70
percent of the population still lived in poverty. One reason for the slow growth was the very
low level of private investment in the economy. Key sectors - hydrocarbons, mining,
telecommunications, electricity and transport - were still dominated by state-owned enterprises
(SOEs). Although the Government wanted private investment to increase, privatization of the
large SOEs had not initially been regarded as feasible. Then in 1993, a form of divestiture
called "capitalization" was devised for the six largest public enterprises by an incoming
administration. A Capitalization Law was passed in March 1994 and a Ministry of
Capitalization established.
II.   IDA assisted the Government in the design of this operation, the CPAC, and
accompanying technical assistance credits, to support the reforms. The aim of the CPAC was
to assist the Government to: (i) establish an appropriate legal and regulatory framework to
attract private investment and spur growth in an efficient manner; and (ii) divest and capitalize
key, large public enterprises. The credit, in the amount of SDR 34.0 million (US$50 million
equivalent) was approved in July 1995 and made effective in December.
ASSESSMENT OF OUTCOME
III.   The overall outcome of the program is satisfactory. Every action contemplated by the
CPAC was implemented, and if not within the original project tirnetable, still in a remarkably
short period given the breadth of the program, which has fundamentally restructured Bolivia's
economy. Between 1995 and 1997, five of the country's six large public enterprises were
transferred to private management through the capitalization program. Winning bids totaled
US$1.7 billion, almost a quarter of the country's GDP. A parallel privatization program
transferred over 50 smaller enterprises to the private sector, generating US$149 million in
revenues. Bolivia's airports became the first to be privatized in Latin America, and the scope
of the reform was expanded to include the water sector. An ambitious program of legal and
regulatory reform was successfully implemented: new laws and regulations were approved for
the electricity, telecommunications, hydrocarbons, mining, pensions, securities and insurance
sectors. Modern regulatory agencies, their independence protected by some of the strongest
legal safeguards available, were established for the infrastructure and financial sectors.
IV.   In general, the new laws aim to promote competition, although in some sectors full
competition will begin only after transitional exclusivity periods end. This is the case in



ii
electricity generation (opening in 2000), local and long-distance telephony (2001) and pension
fund administration (2002). In the hydrocarbons sector, the full deregulation of prices will not
take place until 2001. Nevertheless, the sectoral restructurings in general do provide a sound
basis for competition and so for increased productivity and growth. Although the reforms
were completed quite recently, and transitional exclusivity periods continue in force, an
expansion of coverage in the infrastructure sectors is already evident. In the electricity sector,
high levels of investment - $204 million by mid- 1998 from the generators alone - have
increased installed capacity by some 40 percent. In telecommunications, lines in service had
increased to 385,000 by end-1997, raising the penetration rate to 5.0 percent from 3.6 percent
in 1994. Even more dramatic expansion has taken place in one of the few market segments
open to competition: the number of cellular telephones increased from barely 5,000 in 1994 to
55,000 in mid-1997 and 200,000 in early 1999. In the hydrocarbons sector, construction of
the gas pipeline to Brazil is underway, funded largely on the Bolivian side by capitalization
investments. When gas begins to flow in 1999, its contribution to export growth will be
enormous, expected to generate $1 bn. per year.
V.    In the financial sector, the Pensions Law, approved in November 1996, provided the
legal basis for an ambitious reform of Bolivia's pension and social insurance systems. Bolivia
became the first country in the region to close down its pay-as-you-go (PAYGO) system
immediately. A private defined-contribution system has been put in place, with two private
administrators (AFPs) chosen based on fees; the extremely low bids that resulted have given
Bolivia by far the lowest fee structure in the region, although it remains to be seen whether this
can be sustained after 2002 when the sector is opened to competition. The reform is having
one of the hoped-for effects: by mid-1998, the AFPs had signed up some 383,000 affiliates, a
22% increase over the old system. The new Securities Law provides a sound basis for the
development of capital markets in Bolivia, although regulations are still needed in various areas
and strengthening of the regulator must be given priority. A new Insurance Law was also
approved and marks the first step towards proper development of the sector.
VI.   Overall, the reform program supported by the CPAC has had an immediate and strong
effect on the level of private investment in the economy. In 1997, private investment reached
11.5 percent of GDP, almost double the 5.9 percent attained in 1994, the last full year before
capitalization. The new ESAF program contemplates investment of about 20 percent of GDP
during 1999-2002, up from the 1991-1994 average of 15 percent. About two-thirds is
expected to be private, an almost exact reversal of the 1994 situation. As a result, the pace of
economic growth has been improving; the ESAF estimates stable growth of 6 percent by 2002,
up from the 1994-1997 average of 4.4 percent, already an improvement over previous years
and above the regional average. However, external factors, like slower growth in Brazil, could
negatively impact on growth prospects.
VII.  The fiscal situation has deteriorated somewhat, partly due to the cost of the reforms.
Fiscal revenues from the hydrocarbons sector have fallen slightly, despite attempts to make the
restructuring revenue-neutral. The shortfall should, however, be short-lived; by 2000 the
reform is expected to be revenue-enhancing. The main fiscal impact has come from the
pension reform. Although the cost in 1997 (2.5 percent of GDP) was in line with estimates, in
1998-1999 it is expected to rise to between 3 and 4 percent of GDP. Nevertheless, the



iii
Government expects to return the fiscal deficit to its pre-reform level (2 percent of GDP) by
2002, based on the non-pension balance moving to a small surplus in 1999 and beyond.
VIII. The Bolivian reform program has an interesting distributional aspect. The most
common criticism of the distributional effects of privatization, that foreign and local elite
shareholders gain at the expense of consumers and SOE workers., cannot be leveled in the
Bolivian case. The design of the capitalization program is such that all adult Bolivians are
made shareholders in the capitalized companies and so benefit directly from their profitability.
Unfortunately, after an initial rushed distribution of these benefits in 1997, distribution has now
been suspended and is not likely to resume until after 2000 when a re-designed program can be
implemented.
IMPLEMENTATION EXPERIENCE
IX.   Implementation of major policy and institutional reform waas possible in Bolivia because
there was complete ownership by the Government of the reform program. Capitalization, the
centrepiece of the reform agenda, was entirely of Bolivian design. It is notable that in Bolivia's
case the impetus for reform did not come from crisis, either in the case of the SOEs or of the
pension system, but from a good understanding of the development challenges facing the
country. Commitment to reform existed at both the technical and highest political levels of
government. In contrast to many of its neighbours, Bolivia was able to undertake sweeping
reforms while maintaining respect for democratic institutions and rules.
X.    Delays did arise as implementation proceeded, reflecting ithe limited managerial
capacity available in Bolivia as well as the increasing difficulty of the reforms being tackled.
The first four capitalizations were completed quite quickly, between June and December 1995,
but it was then another year before the capitalization of YPFB could take place. The sector is
an important one for Bolivia, and there was strong resistance to capitalization of the enterprise.
The pension reform, another challenging reform, both technically and politically, was also
underway at the time.
XI.   The delays meant that the reform program ended up being implemented across two
administrations, a noteworthy achievement. That said, some difficulties did arise as a result.
The change of government brought public criticism of the new regulatory systems,
undermining their nascent authority at a time when stability and consolidation were most
needed. The Government has now publicly declared its commitment to the principle of
independent regulation, but the lack of regulatory tradition in Bolivia suggests that relations
between regulators and the Executive will remain complicated for some time. The change of
Government also affected distribution of the capitalization benefits, with distribution suspended
until re-designed programs can be implemented.
PROGRAM SUSTAINABILITY
XII.  Sustainability of the reforms is likely. Certainly the policy reforms are highly
sustainable. The divestitures would be very difficult to reverse, and there is in any case broad
consensus amongst leading political parties on the importance of'private participation in



iv
productive activities. Bolivia is therefore continuing reform efforts, with a comprehensive
program of second- and even third-generation reforms, supported by a new IDA credit, the
Regulatory Reform Structural Adjustment Credit, approved in November 1998.
XIII. The pension reform that was a key element of the program has proved to be quite
robust and has weathered some important challenges. The main elements of the pension
reform remained untouched by the new Government and performance targets are being
achieved. The new Government suspended the Bonosol, introducing a Property and Popular
Credit Law which allocates 70 percent of the capitalization funds to Acciones Populares
(Popular Shares), similar to mutual fund shares, ownership of which will be given to all
Bolivians aged 21 through 49 in 1995. The remaining 30 percent of the capitalization funds
will finance an annuity for those Bolivians aged 50 and over in 1995, a Bonosol-type benefit
now called a Bolivida.
XIV. Sustaining the institutional reforms will present more of a challenge. Weak institutional
capacity has constrained Bolivia's development for a long time, and will not be remedied
overnight. In the case of the regulatory agencies, they are breaking new ground in a country
with no tradition of independent regulation. They are in any case just one element in the
overall framework for private sector activity. Ultimately, the rules of the game must be
enforced by the courts, which in Bolivia have not been reliable or effective arbiters.
Recognizing the importance of the judicial system for private sector development, Bolivia has
embarked on a program ofjudicial reform with the support of IDA and other donors, but
progress has been very slow.
XV.  Overall, IDA performance was very good. At the identification stage, IDA sector work
correctly emphasized the need for in depth structural reform. Appraisal was well handled, with
IDA staff identifying the main risks. One weakness was IDA's appraisal of the complementary
pension funds issue, IDA should have anticipated the eventual bail out of them and identified
financing for it. Supervision of the program was good and provided continuity across
Governments.
XVI. The performance of the borrower was very good overall. It is noteworthy that the
good performance of the borrower was maintained across a change in government. The most
serious lapse in borrower performance came in the rushed introduction of the Bonosol, the
now suspended program of distribution. Another weakness in borrower performance was the
communication effort to explain the benefits of the reform.
XVII. The future of this operation is favorable. As indicated the reforms have proved to be
robust and sustainable. However, further institutional strengthening will be required and to
fully reap the benefits of the reforms already undertaken the pace of complementary and new
reforms has to continue to be quite rapid. IDA is supporting further reforms to improve
institutional capacity; competition, both in the utilities and in markets for goods and services in
general, and the capacity of the financial system to absorb problem situations.



v
KEY LESSONS LEARNED
* As recognized by Bank operations for some time, ownership and commitment are essential
for the success of a reform program. In this case, a major privatization program proceeded
because of full Government commitment, at both the technical and highest political levels,
even when other circumstances were not conducive to reform. Ownership was further
strengthened in Bolivia by a Ministry of Capitalization with the authority to do
transactions.
* A public information campaign that explains the purpose and objective of the program is
important but the feedback from this campaign needs to be included in the design of the
program to increase its legitimacy. This is an important lesson both for privatization and
pension reform.
* The sustainability of the reform is greatly enhanced by putting a large emphasis on the
transparency of the transactions and by putting in place a worker's share program that
provides a strong constituency for the reform.
* Given the importance of ownership and commitment, IDA does well to give its backing to
locally conceived and designed programs, even if reservations exist about some aspects.
Privatization through capitalization has some drawbacks but it provides a good alternative
in scenarios where because of political, constitutional or other restrictions direct
privatization is not feasible or very costly in terms of process or political capital.
* In privatization programs, the focus tends understandably to be on the efficiency effects of
reform. But the programs also have important distributional effects. These are a legitimate
subject of IDA advice and should be explicitly treated in program design.
* Adjustment operations are best designed to end well before elections are due. In this case,
although implementation of reforms continued right up to election day, this inevitably
resulted in the politicization of some issues, making them more difficult to manage.
* Although adjustment operations are normally designed to be fully implemented by a single
administration, the leverage afforded by such an operation can be put to good use during a
change of Government, with IDA explaining and safeguarding reform.
* It is optimal to have not only laws but also regulations and regulators in place before
proceeding with divestiture transactions. IDA should emphasize these aspects to counter-
balance the understandable Government focus on the transactions.
*  In pension reform a more radical approach to reform is not necessarily more costly in
political terms than a gradualist approach. Addressing the concerns of those affected by
the reform and informing the beneficiaries will provide room for a technically sound
reform.



vi
*  Pension reforms will take longer than planned. Providing technical assistance well in
advance of the projected reform date will not only ensure the soundness of the reform but
will help to provide for continuity and keep the momentum of the reform.
*  Providing technical assistance through parallel but separate credits allows maximum
flexibility. As in this case, support can be given to preparatory efforts through TA credits,
while conditionality on the adjustment operation can be front-loaded.



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
BOLIVIA
CAPITALIZATION PROGRAM ADJUSTMENT CREDIT (CREDIT 2761-BO)
PART I. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
A. BACKGROUND
1.    Early Reform. Bolivia was one of the first countries in Latin America to embark on a
program of stabilization and adjustment. In 1985, faced with annualized inflation of 23,500
percent and real GDP ten percent below its 1980 level, the Government introduced fiscal,
monetary and exchange rate policies that stabilized the economy. Structural reforms were also
implemented, including trade liberalization, tax reform and the liifting of price and interest rate
controls. By 1993, inflation was down to 8.5 percent and per capita GDP had finally begun to
grow, that year by 1.9 percent. Much stronger growth was needed, however, if poverty was to
be reduced. Per capita GDP of about US$780, combined with significant inequalities, meant
that over 70 percent of the population still lived in poverty.
2.    More Investment Needed. One reason for the slow growth was investment that
averaged barely 15 percent of GDP from 1986 to 1993. Less than a third of this was private
investment. Key sectors of the economy - hydrocarbons, mining, telecommunications,
electricity and transport - were still dominated by state-owned enterprises (SOEs). Although
the Government wanted private investment to increase, and in 1990 had passed an Investment
Law to that end, it did not initially view privatization of the largest enterprises as feasible, or
even as altogether necessary. Most of the large SOEs made positive transfers to the Treasury
because using their monopoly power in many cases tariffs were set on a cost-plus basis; the
hydrocarbons enterprise alone provided more than a quarter of public revenues. So the
Government initially relied on means other than privatization to encourage investment. In
1990-91, it passed laws to allow for joint ventures between private investors and the public
enterprises dominating two important sectors - hydrocarbons (NPFB) and mining
(COMIBOL). A Privatization Law was approved in 1992, but focused on the hundred or so
small and medium-sized enterprises controlled by regional development corporations. By
1993, this promotional legislation and growing confidence in the economy's stability had led to
private investment of 6.3 percent of GDP, an improvement over the previous five years when it
had averaged 4.6 percent.
3.    Public Enterprise Reform. Still, more was needed. The early reforms had not solved
the problem of the limited public funds available for investment in the large SOEs, or of the
quality of that investment. The Government had tried to improve SOE efficiency through
performance contracts introduced in 1990, but the contracts failed to produce the desired
results and were discontinued in 1992. That year, an attempt was made to privatize the airline
(LAB) but no acceptable bids were received. Then in 1993, a new program called
"capitalization" was devised for the six largest public enterprises by an incoming
administration. "Capitalization" had been an important element of the political platform on



2
which the new Government was elected. A Capitalization Law was passed in March 1994 and
a Ministry of Capitalization formed the following month.
4.    Capitalization Program. Under capitalization, investors would be offered 50 percent
and management control of an enterprise, in return for providing investment capital to the
company. Ownership of the other 50 percent would be transferred to the Bolivian people and
workers of the enterprises to be capitalized. These workers were allowed to acquire 1-2% of
the shares of the enterprises at book value using in part their severance and pension rights.
Unlike privatization, therefore, capitalization would provide no fiscal windfall. The public's
capitalization shares would be managed by private pension funds, to be established, and
proceeds would be distributed to individuals only upon retirement. In this way, the
capitalization program, in addition to requiring reform of sectors where SOEs operated, also
encompassed reform of the pension system and development of capital markets.
5.    IDA Assistance. IDA had long been engaged in dialogue with the Government,
reinforced by ESW, on the need for a second generation of structural reforms. A previous
Structural Adjustment Credit (2298-BO), approved in 1991, supported reforms in the financial
sector, including the liquidation of public sector banks. It also backed attempts to improve
SOE operations and privatize smaller enterprises, although these were recognized as second-
best policies made necessary by the lack of commitment to large-scale privatization. When the
Government made capitalization the cornerstone of a comprehensive reform program aimed at
increasing private investment in Bolivia, IDA assisted the Government in the design of this
operation, the Capitalization Program Adjustment Credit (CPAC), and accompanying technical
assistance credits, to support the reforms. The Inter-American Development Bank (IDB)
provided US$70 million through a parallel fast-disbursing loan with the same conditionality.
The program was also supported by the International Monetary Fund (IMF) through a three-
year Enhanced Structural Adjustment Facility (ESAF) of SDR 101 million approved in
December 1994.
B. PROJECT OBJECTIVES AND DESIGN
6.    Preparation of the CPAC built on sector work reviewed with the previous Government
during 1992-1993. Preparation of the operation relied extensively on IDA funded Technical
Assistance and a PHRD grant to obtain the needed expertise. The operation was appraised in
December 1993 shortly after the new administration took office, and was post-appraised in
October 1994, once the capitalization strategy had been more clearly defined, its fiscal impact
analyzed, and agreement reached between the Government, IDA and the IMF on the timing
and financing of the program. The CPAC was approved on July 6, 1995 and made effective on
December 1, 1995.
7.    Objectives. The aim of the CPAC was to assist the Government to: (i) establish an
appropriate legal and regulatory framework to attract private investment and spur growth in an
efficient manner; and (ii) divest and capitalize key, large public enterprises.
8.    Design. To support these objectives, the CPAC would disburse a first tranche upon
effectiveness, against the approval of framework laws for capitalization and regulatory reform,



3
and the preparation of sectoral laws and divestiture strategies. Three floating tranches would
follow, organized along sectoral lines: (i) general capitalization (electricity, telecommunications
and mining); (ii) hydrocarbons; and (iii) financial sector. In addition to requiring maintenance
of a sound macroeconomic framework, tranche conditions were basically transaction-related,
legislative or regulatory, as summarized in Table 1.
TABLE 1: SUMMARY OF LOAN CONDITIONALITY
TRANSACTIONS           I     LEGAL FRAMEWORK              REGULATORY FRAMEWORK
FIRST TRANCHE ($10 MILLION EQUIVALE T)
Strategy for transfer of part-  Approval of Capitalization Law,    Approval of SIRESE Law, creating
ownership in SOEs to Bolivians  Electricity Law, Taxation Law   general regulatory framework
Strategies for capitalization of the   Presentation to Congress of
following sectors: electricity,  Telecommunications Law.
telecommunications and mining   Drafts of amendment to Mining
Agreement on principles of YPFB   Code and of Hydrocarbons Law
capitalization                  Agreement on principles of
Hiring advisors for electricity and   pension reform
mining capitalizations
GENERAL CAPITALIZATION TRANCHE ($10 NMLLION EQUIVALENT)
Invitation of bids for capitalization   Regulations on competitive bidding  Regulations to SIRESE law
of ENTEL                        for capitalization              Appointment of SIRESE General
Regulations on corporate tax    Superintendent
Regulations to Electricity Law  Establishment and staffing of
Approval of Telecommunications   Telecommunications
Law and regulations             Superintendency
Approval of Mining Code         Establishment and staffing of
Amendment                       Electricity Superintendency
HYDROCARBONS TRANCHE ($20 MILLION EQI: VALENT)
Strategy for capitalization of YPFB  Approval of Hydrocarbons Law  Establishment and staffing of
Invitation of bids for capitalization   and regulations         regulatory and other agencies to
of 30% of YPFB, excluding parts    Regulations on lhydrocarbons  award concessions and monitor
to be privatized                excise taxes                    compliance with regulations
FINANCIAL SECTOR TRANCHE ($10 MILLION EQ IVALENT)
Approval of Pensions Law        Establishment and staffing of
pensions regulatory authority
Approval of Securities Law and  Strengtlhening of Superintendency
regulations                     of Securities
Approval of Insurance Law and   Strengthening of Superintendency
regulations                     of Insurance
9.     Evaluation of Objectives and Design. The objective ol the CPAC, to create a
business environment conducive to private investment, was a central aim also of IDA's
Assistance Strategy for Bolivia, and appropriate in the context oi the country's slow growth.
The Government's plan tackled head-on the problem of low and inefficient investment in
sectors with important growth potential. Representing a second stage of adjustment that IDA
had long been promoting, the program clearly merited support. ]Based on lessons learned from
earlier privatizations, the CPAC placed more emphasis on legal and regulatory reform and less



4
on the capitalization transactions. The conditionality thus featured only two transactions, but
included conditions relating to seven sectoral laws and some seven regulatory agencies. This
design served several objectives. First, clear laws and regulations would encourage more
investor interest and better capitalization bids. A second goal was to avoid replacing public
monopolies with private ones, so sectors had to be restructured to encourage competition. It
was important to have a regulatory framework that would balance the interests of investors
with those of consumers. Experience in other countries had shown how difficult it could be to
impose regulatory arrangements on established operators, so the goal in Bolivia was to have
regulators in place early.
10.   The program of legal and regulatory reform supported by the CPAC was ambitious.
Although the divestiture requirements were modest in comparison to the Government's
program (which encompassed privatization of some 70 enterprises as well as capitalization),
the conditionality on legal and regulatory reform was weighty. That the administration was
already halfway through its four-year term added to the challenge. But the actions required
were necessary for in-depth reform, and enjoyed full Government commitment. In addition,
the CPAC was designed to take account of the reform's complexity. Up-front conditionality
was extensive, and floating tranches were used so that disbursements could proceed against
advances in any major aspect of the program, even if other areas were suffering delays.
C. ACHIEVEMENT OF OBJECTIVES
11.   Capitalization. Though an early adjuster, Bolivia was a late privatizer, and there was
some fear that investor interest in its small markets would be low, especially in contrast to the
opportunities offered earlier by Argentina and Peru. But despite being an untried formula,
capitalization caught the eye of potential investors. Between July 1995 and May 1997, Bolivia
successfully transferred five of its six large public enterprises to private management. (Only the
smelter failed to attract a bid.) The winning bids totaled US$1.7 billion, almost a quarter of
the country's GDP. Of bids accepted, all but one came in above book value, an important
achievement for the Government, that wished to demonstrate that good value had been
obtained for public assets. Altogether, the winning bids came to almost two-and-a-half times
book value. Immediately benefiting from the bid levels were workers of the enterprises, who
were all offered share options at book value. In most enterprises over 90% of workers took
up the offer (LAB and ENFE at 60% being the exceptions). Overall, some 11,500 workers
bought shares in capitalized companies.



5
TABLE 2: CAPITALIZATION TRANSACTIONS
ENTERPRISE                          BID          TRANSFER       BOOK       BID      PRE-
DATE           DATE        VALUE       (Sni)    MIUM
(Sm)   _____   _
Corani (ENDE Generation)                                         33.0      58.8     78%
Guaracachi (ENDE Generation)      June 1995       July 1995      35.3      47.1     33%
Valle Hermoso (ENDE Generation)                                  30.8      33.9     10%
ENTEL (Telecommunications)     September 1995  November 1995    130.0    610.0    369%
LAB (Airline)                   October 1995    December 1995    24.0      47.5     98%
ENFE Red Andina (Railways)      December 1995    March 1996      29.0      13.3     -54%
ENFE Red Oriental (Railways)                                     24.0      25.9      8%
Empresa Petrolera Andina (E & P)                 April 1997     130.0    264.8    104%
Empresa Petrolera Chaco (E & P)    December 1996  April 1997    155.8     306.7     97%
Transportadora de Hidrocarburos                  May 1997        97.2     263.5    171%
TOTAL                                                           689.1    1,671.5   143%
12.   Privatization. Parallel to the higher-profile program of capitalization, the privatization
of small and medium-sized enterprises also proceeded successfully. Of the 72 enterprises
initially targeted for sale by the Government, 53 were sold through public auction or tender;
liquidation of the rest is proceeding. The sales generated just under US$1 10 million, which by
the terms of the Privatization Law will be used for social investment. In addition, the
transmission portion of ENDE was privatized rather than capitalized, attracting a bid of
US$39 million. Other privatizations were accomplished through concessions. A 25-year
master concession covering the country's three main airports was awarded in November 1996.
These airports handle some 85% of Bolivia's air transport, and are the first to be privatized in
Latin America. Privatization was expanded to the water sector also, with a 30-year concession
covering the cities of La Paz and El Alto awarded in mid-1997. About 30% of Bolivia's urban
population lives in these cities, and the concession, which was awarded on the basis of
connection pledges, is designed to increase investment in the sector and so expand the supply
of water and sanitation services in the cities.
13.    Sectoral Reforms. The ambitious program of legal reform supported by the credit was
successfully implemented. During 1994-1998, new laws and regulations were approved for
the electricity, telecommunications, mining, hydrocarbons, pension, securities and insurance
sectors. In general, these laws establish frameworks that promote investment and efficient
growth, where possible through competition, and where competition is less viable, through
regulation that provides incentives to efficient behaviour. In designing these new laws, Bolivia
was able to draw on lessons learned from earlier reforms in the region.
14.   Electricity Sector. In the electricity sector, Bolivia opted for competition in
generation, breaking with the conventional wisdom that its market was too small.' A new law
l Installed capacity at the tine of the reform was 783MW, altlhough constniction was already underway of the
Carrasco I and II thennal stations (135MW).



6
provides for vertical separation, a limit on the market share of any one generator, open access
to transmission, and regulation of distribution prices. The switch to private ownership has
brought immediate benefits in the form of increased investment in the sector, which from the
generators alone2 had reached $204 million by mid-1998. This has brought a much-needed
expansion in capacity, which will allow demand growth of over 7 percent per year to be met.
15.   It is too early to report efficiency gains from the change of ownership or the sector's
restructuring. Wholesale prices have been falling recently, but this is a direct result of falling
gas prices and generators' opting to sell on the spot market rather than under long-term
contracts. There is not yet enough capacity in the system for full-fledged competition to have
arisen in the spot market. Since all plants are needed on a regular basis, even high-cost plants
sell their output, so generators have little incentive at present to increase productivity. The
sector in any case will not assume its final shape until 2000, when the period of exclusivity
enjoyed by existing generators (to allow investment obligations to be met) will have ended.
16.   Telecommunications Reform. In this sector, the challenge was to design a reform
that would allow investment to go where it was most needed, into the local network, which
was not, however, publicly owned. The Government tried to induce local cooperatives to take
part in capitalization, but they proved unwilling. And their political clout was such that the
Government would not risk forcing them. Instead, a compromise was struck whereby the
cooperatives would retain a monopoly over local services for six years, but only as long as they
met new expansion and quality-of-service targets. The capitalized ENTEL was granted
exclusivity for the same period over long-distance services and local markets not served by
cooperatives, also in return for meeting expansion and quality targets. In effect, these
arrangements provide the basis for competition in the sector in the medium term, but they do
not achieve it immediately. The six-year exclusivity period is still shorter than most that have
been granted in the region. During this transitional period, the Superintendency is left with the
difficult task of removing market share from under-performing cooperatives, a challenge that
proved too hard for the Government. Although the new service standards do provide the
regulator with a technical basis for intervention, they are unlikely to have de-politicized the
issue entirely. In early 1998 one of the larger cooperatives was intervened because of lack of
compliance with service standards. The Government is planning to privatize COTEL. How
the Superintendency copes with the political pressure remains to be seen, as the cooperatives
(and ENTEL) have mostly met their targets to date.
17.   With the meeting of these targets, there has been a rapid expansion in the number of
lines in service. By end-1997, lines in service had increased to 385,000, raising the penetration
rate to 5.0 percent from 3.6 percent in 1994. The demand for new telephones was fielled by a
tariff rebalancing that saw connection charges fall from an average of US$1,400 to below
US$200 if the client doesn't join the cooperative - but then its monthly charges are much
higher. The tariff rebalancing has not been without problems, however. The new law provides
for separate price caps for different service baskets (connection, local and long distance) in
order to eliminate cross subsidies. Within each basket, tariffs are freely set by service
providers, but should be based on long-term marginal costs, and must be applied in a non-
2 This includes COBEE, a private company already operating in Bolivia before the reforms. Like the
capitalized companies, it must meet investment obligations since it also benefits from an exclusivity period.



7
discriminatory way. In practice, it appears that the cooperatives are discriminating against
subscribers who choose not to become members, charging theem basic monthly fees of over
US$20 in addition to high usage charges. This inhibits demand, and coincidentally makes it
easier for the cooperatives to meet their concession targets, which are based on response times
to waiting lists. Perhaps as a result, the most dramatic growth in the sector has come in a
different market segment, one of the few open to competition, albeit limited: the number of
cellular telephones increased from barely 5,000 in 1994 to 200,000 by early 1999.
18.   Hydrocarbons Sector. A new Hydrocarbons Law was approved in April 1996 and
significantly improved the conditions for private sector involvement in the sector. Although
the previous law dated back only to 1990 and had aimed to promote private investment,
barriers to entry in the sector remained substantial and the tax regime was very unattractive
compared to other countries in the region. The new law represents a substantial improvement.
Conditions for entry into all activities in the sector have been considerably eased; in activities
such as refining and marketing, there is free entry. The tax regime is now much more
competitive while still meeting Bolivia's fiscal needs. Royalties have been reduced from 50 to
18 percent, a level more in keeping with those of neighbouri:ng countries such as Argentina and
Peru (12 and 15 percent respectively). The new law also introduced other principles important
to fostering competition in the sector, such as the right of free disposition of hydrocarbons
products and open access to pipelines. The full deregulation of prices proved impossible,
however, partly because of fears about the impact on fiscal revenues, and partly because
YPFB's continued dominance of certain activities will continue to make full competition
difficult for some time. The law provides instead for a five-year transition to deregulation.
During this period, prices are set by the Superintendent of H;ydrocarbons based on shadowing
world fuel prices.
19.   The most important effect of the sectoral reform is the surge in investment that has
resulted from the successful capitalization of YPFB's exploration and production activities and
international pipelines, as well as from the general opening tip of the sector. Capitalization
investments alone will amount to US$800 million over the next few years, an investment level
that would never have been possible within the public sector, even though YPFB absorbed
about a quarter of the public investment budget. These investments are essential for Bolivia's
hydrocarbons potential to be realized. Construction of the gas pipeline to Brazil is underway,
and when gas begins to flow in 1999, the contribution to ex]port growth will be enormous.
20.   Regulatory Reform. The framework regulatory law for sectors with natural
monopoly features (SIRESE) was approved in 1994, before Board presentation of the CPAC.
Needed next were regulations for the law, and to have regullatory agencies established before
private companies began operating in the various sectors. EBut in the end, the main SIRESE
regulations were not approved until February 1997, and in no sector was a Superintendent in
place before capitalization bids were received. This meant that regulators were trying to set up
their offices and deal at the same time with substantive issues of regulation. The
implementation timing was therefore not optimal. Nevertheless, the breadth and pace of the
regulatory reforms undertaken by Bolivia remain impressive, and the timing, if not ideal, can
still be regarded as an improvement over past practice in the region.



8
21.   The Bolivian regulators have been provided with some of the strongest legal safeguards
in the world. These include appointment procedures which involve both the executive and
legislature, fixed terms of office, removal for incapacity or misconduct only, independent
funding through levies on regulated companies, and appeals of their decisions to the Supreme
Court alone, without recourse to political authorities. In the long term, however, their
independence will best be safeguarded by actions that build credibility and cultivate public
support for their role. SIRESE appears now to have weathered its first challenge, a change of
government, which brought some public questioning of the system, saw the departure of two
Superintendents, and the weakening of others through interim appointments. After a difficult
few months, the Government has now publicly reaffirmed its commitment to maintaining the
independence of regulators, and is promoting measures to balance this independence with
accountability. Still, the appointment of a Water Superintendent remains outstanding while a
Basic Sanitation Law is discussed and enacted. Differences also remain about salary levels
within the Superintendencies, a decision controlled indirectly by the Government through
congressional approval of the public sector budget. Interference in SIRESE's administrative
affairs undermines the principle of regulatory independence, and also has immediate practical
consequences, if regulatory agencies are unable to attract qualified personnel as a result.
22.   In designing SIRESE, Bolivia combined some features of a multi-sectoral approach
with that of individual sectoral regulators. Superintendents for Telecommunications, Water,
Electricity, Transport and Hydrocarbons are overseen by a General Superintendent, who also
serves as an instance of appeal. This set-up is meant to promote consistency across sectors
and encourage sharing of resources, but still remain true to the Latin American tradition of
unipersonal authorities. How well it works in practice will depend to a great extent on the
General Superintendent's ability to strike the right balance between involvement and
detachment. So far, the system appears to be working, with regulations being promulgated to
govern the General Superintendent's oversight function, so as to reduce possibilities of conflict
with the appeals function. In the financial sector, the Government has now resolved the issue
by establishing a new Appeals Superintendency, which has no oversight function, but hears
appeals from the Banking Superintendency and a single Superintendency of Pensions,
Securities and Insurance.
23.   The regulators' functions are specified in sectoral laws, and new norms were
accordingly passed in the electricity, telecommunications, hydrocarbons, pensions, securities
and insurance sectors. The CPAC did not, however, envisage new sectoral laws for transport
(where it was thought the existing law was adequate) or for water (a sector included in the
reforms later). It has now become apparent that the absence of norms in these sectors is
causing problems to the functioning of the Superintendencies, in particular Transport, where
there is no clear division of responsibility between the Superintendency and the civil aviation
authority. The Government is committed to passage of new laws for these sectors.
24.   Pension Reform. The Pensions Law, approved in November 1996, provided the legal
basis for an ambitious reform of Bolivia's pension and social insurance systems. The initial
design of the reform, when the CPAC was negotiated, was to introduce a privately managed
defined-contribution system to work alongside the publicly managed defined-benefit fund
(FOPEBA) and its complementary funds (FONCOMs), which were to be overhauled. The



9
final reform was much bolder: Bolivia became the first country in the region to close down its
pay-as-you-go (PAYGO) system immediately. By bringing the failing system to an immediate
end, Bolivia has spared itself from what would have been a significant and growing burden on
the Treasury. In the short term, however, there are important fiscal costs arising from the
reform, as contributions to the old system have ceased, but its liabilities remain with the
Government, which has assumed the obligations not only of the FOPEBA but also of the
complementary funds.
25.   Under the terms of the Pensions Law, the Government will pay the pensions of those
already retired under the old system, and will also offer compensation for past contributions.
To limit the fiscal cost, compensation will be paid only upon retirement and will be monthly,
thereby smoothing the outflows and pushing them back in time. An increase in the retirement
age (to 65 from 50 for women and 55 for men) also helps to reduce costs, although the
Government is now permitting anyone who would have qualified for retirement by May 1999
to opt for retirement under the old system, an offer which, not surprisingly, has proved
popular. In 1997, the costs of the reform came to 2.5 perce;nt of GDP, but they rise to
between 3 and 4 percent in 1998-99 as a result of a Supreme Court decision restoring certain
eliminated benefits and also because of the introduction of the grandfathering clause. To help
finance the costs, during 1997-2002, the Government is requiring the new pension funds to
invest up to US$180 million a year in Treasury bonds with 10- to 15-year maturities. In effect
this shifts the burden of financing the PAYGO system from today's workers to all future
taxpayers. It has the disadvantage, however, of concentrating the AFPs' portfolios, although
proper diversification will in fact remain difficult until Bolivian capital markets develop further.
26.   Two private administrators (AFPs) were chosen for the new pension funds through
international competitive bidding. Selection was based on fiees, and produced extremely low
bids, giving Bolivia by far the lowest fee structure in the region. This was possible partly
because the closure of the old system provided the AFPs with an instant client base instead of
involving them in the costs of building up contributions gradually. Mostly it was possible
because the capitalization funds, with an estimated value of US$1.6 billion, were handed over
to the AFPs for management. As a result, in Latin America, relative to GDP, only Chile, which
reformed its pension system some sixteen years earlier, has more funds under management. In
addition, the two AFPs were granted an exclusivity period of five years, which by eliminating
marketing costs also contributes to the modest fee structure. When the sector is opened to
competition in 2002, transfers between AFPs will be limited to one per year, but it obviously
remains to be seen whether this will be enough to sustain the low fees.
27.   A noteworthy feature of the new system is its universality. On a voluntary basis, it
includes the self-employed, who were excluded from the old system. It also encompasses the
military, who in other countries have insisted on remaining under a special regime. This
universality is in sharp contrast to the many inexplicable divergences of the old system, and
promotes equality while making the system easier both to use and to administer. The reform
also aims to increase the system's coverage, since the FOPEBA and FONCOMs reached only
314,000 persons or about 12% of the economically active population. The AFPs have been set
annual affiliation targets, the first of which has been met, with some 383,000 affiliates (a 22%
increase) signed up by mid-1998, including more than 3,300 self-employed workers. The



10
target for 2002 is 800,000 affiliates, based on attracting the half-million workers of registered
companies who were not contributing to the old system. The changes done through the new
Property and Popular Credit Law have left these features unchanged.
28.   Financial Sector Reforms. A Securities Law, approved in March 1998, provides a
sound basis for the development of capital markets in Bolivia. A securities market has in fact
been operating since 1989, and trading volumes have grown steadily, but they remain small
(US$3 billion in 1997), and trading is almost entirely in fixed-income securities (bank term
deposits and government paper). Only one capitalized company has listed its shares so far.
For further development of the sector, regulations to the law are still needed in areas such as
custody, clearing and settlement arrangements. There is also need for a credit-rating service.
Strengthening of the securities regulator is another priority, and although it has begun, this
institution-building will necessarily be a medium- to long-term effort.
29.   With the pension reform, the need for reform of the insurance sector also became
urgent. The pension reform cedes responsibility for important social insurance programs to the
private sector. Premiums for death, disability and workers' compensation insurance are already
being collected by the AFPs, for transfer later to qualified insurance companies. The pension
reform also contemplates the purchase by retirees of annuity products, yet life insurance in
Bolivia is very underdeveloped, representing only 4 percent of total premiums. A new
Insurance Law was approved in June 1998 and marks the first step towards proper
development of the sector. But regulations are still weak and the supervisory framework must
be strengthened before private insurers take over responsibility for social insurance programs.
30.   Distribution of Benefits of Capitalization. Probably the most important way that
capitalization differed from traditional privatizations was that it generated no revenues for the
Treasury. Bolivia chose to give directly to its adult population the benefits of capitalization,
the 50 percent ownership of the capitalized companies, rather than rely on the public sector to
spend on behalf of its citizens. After considering various options for distribution, the
Government decided to hand out the benefits in the form of an annuity paid upon retirement,
the Bonosol. The first annuity of US$248 (28 percent of per capita GDP) was distributed in
1997 to some 364,000 Bolivians aged 65 and older.
31.   The advantages of this method of distribution included the boost it would give to
domestic savings, Bolivia's savings rate being very low (gross domestic savings of 11.2 percent
of GDP in 1996). Also, administrative costs were kept low because the Bonosol did not
require management of individual accounts; the AFPs required fees of only 22 basis points on
funds under management. For the designers of the program, another advantage of the Bonosol
was that it favoured the old, those whose taxes had supported the SOEs longest. The Bonosol
would in effect have acted as a minimum pension until about 2040, but with the advantage of
being universal, and therefore progressive compared to the usual guaranteed minimum pension
schemes which generally fail to cover the poorest.
32.   A disadvantage was that the deferral of distribution until age 65 made the Bonosol
regressive, in so far as the wealthier live longer. But the equal payment is clearly progressive,
and given poverty levels in Bolivia the majority of beneficiaries would have been poor. The
Bonosol was also criticized for limiting benefits to a defined population, those who had turned



I1
21 by 1995, meaning that no one born after 1974 would benefit directly. Nevertheless,
household economics suggests that even this population would have benefited indirectly.
33.   The many merits of the Bonosol were however undermined by the manner of its
implementation. It was rushed, with payments beginning in May 1997, one month before
general elections, when some of the basic elements needed for correct distribution were not yet
in place. Most important of these was the question of the shares' value. Until the shares begin
trading, their exact value remains uncertain, yet there is no time-bound requirement on the
capitalized companies to list them. Government efforts to register citizens were abandoned
when it became clear that the registration would not be completed before the elections. The
result appears to have been widespread fraud, as many more 65-year olds presented themselves
than were expected. Although regular recalculations of the annuity amount were envisaged to
deal with these issues, the extent of the uncertainty about baLsic parameters left the Bonosol
open to challenge, as did its timing, which completely politicized it.
34.   The new Government has suspended the Bonosol, introducing a Property and Popular
Credit Law which allocates 70 percent of the capitalization flunds to Acciones Populares
(Popular Shares), mutual fund shares, ownership of which will be given to all Bolivians aged
21 through 49 in 1995. Share titles will be freely transferable, may be used as collateral for
credit and, in contrast to the Bonosol, will be hereditary. W'hile this gives most Bolivians
earlier access to the benefits of capitalization and expands the pool of potential beneficiaries
relative to the Bonosol, the administration of the Popular Shares will be complicated, in
particular of the hereditary feature, and costs will accordingly absorb a larger portion of the
funds. A public information effort will also be necessary to explain clearly the benefits of
mutual fund participation to a population with no paper assets culture. The remaining 30
percent of the capitalization funds will finance an annuity for those Bolivians aged 50 and over
in 1995, a Bonosol-type benefit now called a Bolivida. The distribution of these two benefits
will not begin until a planned national identification register is completed, not envisaged before
2000.
D. MAJOR FACTORS AFFECTING THE PROJECT
35.   Ownership of the Reform. Implementation of major policy and institutional reform
was possible in Bolivia because there was complete ownership by the Government of the
reform program. Capitalization, the centerpiece of the reform agenda, was entirely of Bolivian
design. The Government had campaigned and won election on a platform that included the
major elements of the reform program. There was therefore full commitment to its
implementation, even politically difficult aspects such as the capitalization of YPFB and the
reform of the pension system.
36.   Limited Managerial Capacity. Management of the reform program was vested in the
Ministry of Capitalization, a capable group but limited in number. Although separate working
groups were established in each sector and could work in parallel, each transaction in its final
stages required the attention of the Ministry's top officials. In effect, reforms had to be
sequenced, so the pace of implementation was slowed. Relative to the timetable put forward
in the Letter of Development Policy therefore, delays grew as implementation proceeded, as



12
indicated in Table 3. The increasing delays also reflect the increasing difficulty of the reforms
being tackled and the need to hire more external expertise. The first four capitalizations were
completed quite quickly, between June and December 1995, but it was then another year
before the capitalization of YPFB could take place. The sector is an important one for Bolivia,
and there was strong resistance to capitalization of the enterprise. That same year, the pension
reform was also in the final stages of preparation, another challenging reform with important
political repercussions.
TABLE 3: ESTIMATED VS. ACTUAL TIMING OF LEGAL REFORMS
Law                             LDP Estimate                 Actual
Telecommunications           Second quarter, 1995          July 1995
Hydrocarbons                     August 1995               April 1996
Mining Code                       June 1995               March, 1997
Pensions                         March 1996              November 1996
Securities                       March 1996               March 1998
Insurance                        March 1996                June 1998
37.   Change of Government. The CPAC-supported program was scheduled to be
completed by mid-1997 when elections were due. Delays meant that disbursement ofthe final
tranche, for the financial sector, was still outstanding at this point. As the new Government
was committed to reform of the securities and insurance sectors, the remaining tranche
conditions, the credit was extended for a year, and the conditions were duly met in 1998. The
transition was not so smooth with respect to the regulatory reforms. The early months of the
new administration brought public questioning of the SIRESE system, undermining the
regulators' nascent authority at a time when stability and consolidation were most needed. The
Government has now publicly declared its commitment to the principle of independent
regulation, but the lack of regulatory tradition in Bolivia suggests that relations between
regulators and the Executive will remain complicated for some time. The change of
Government also had a direct effect on distribution of the capitalization benefits, with
distribution suspended until the Popular Share and Bolivida programs can be implemented.
E. PROGRAM SUSTAINABILITY
38.   Sustainability of the reforms is likely. Certainly the policy reforms are highly
sustainable. The divestitures would be very difficult to reverse, and there is in any case broad
consensus amongst leading political parties on the reorientation of the state and importance of
private participation in productive activities. Bolivia is therefore continuing to deepen
structural reform, including through further privatizations, most importantly of the remaining
portions of YPFB. The privatizations are just one element of a comprehensive program of
second and even third generation reforms, which is being supported by a new IDA credit, the
Regulatory Reform Structural Adjustment Credit, approved in November 1998.
39.   Sustaining the institutional reforms will present more of a challenge. Weak institutional
capacity has constrained Bolivia's development for a long time, and will not be remedied
overnight. In the case of the regulatory agencies, they are breaking new ground in a country



13
with no tradition of independent regulation. They must organize themselves both internally
and externally, building capacity and a strong public image. On the latter, a survey conducted
in June 1998 indicates the difficulty of the challenge, the main finding being that there was a
general lack of understanding of the SIRESE system, with consumers, investors and political
authorities all having different expectations of the system.
40.   Finally, the regulatory authorities, although very important, are just one element in the
overall framework that defines and enforces the rules by which the private sector operates.
Ultimate responsibility for enforcement of these rules rests with the courts, which in Bolivia
have not been reliable or effective arbiters. Recognizing the importance of the judicial system
for private sector development, Bolivia has embarked on a program of judicial reform with the
support of IDA and other donors, but progress has been very slow.
F. BANK PERFORMANCE
41.   Overall, IDA performance was very good. At the identification stage, IDA sector work
correctly emphasized the need for in-depth structural reform to encourage private participation
in key sectors that were still dominated by public enterprises. When the capitalization program
was devised, IDA decided to support the Bolivian-designed program, despite reservations
about some of its aspects, in particular its fiscal impact. This decision proved to be a good
one, as the ownership and commitment that stemmed from the program being home-grown
were crucial to implementation. The project was well prepared, with sound emphasis on
regulatory reform, the lesson having been well learned from other Latin American privatization
programs. The design of the CPAC was also well thought out, the use of up-front
conditionality and floating tranches proving appropriate. The IDB was able to make use of the
same design as the basis for their parallel US$70 million loan.
42.   In general, appraisal was well handled, with IDA staff correctly identifying risks such as
the limited institutional capacity and possibility of legislation being weakened. One weakness
was IDA's appraisal of the complementary pension fund issue. IDA had advised the
Government not to assume the FONCOMs' liabilities, since this would represent significant
and regressive expenditure by the Treasury. Based on the Government's refusal to include any
specific commitment on this issue in its Letter of Development Policy, IDA should have
anticipated the eventual outcome, a full bail-out of the FONCOMs, and should have tackled
instead the issue of how such a bail-out might be financed. Instead, the CPAC remained silent
on an issue with important macroeconomic consequences.
43.   Supervision of the program was good. Progress was closely monitored and IDA had
the patience to absorb delays and release tranches as conditions were met, which they
eventually were. IDA also played a very important role in providing continuity across
Governments. When the regulatory reforms came in for questioning, IDA was able to explain
and safeguard the reforms during a challenging time. IDA was not equally able in its
discussions with the new Government about planned changes to the system for distributing the
capitalization benefits. IDA staff understood how important it was for the distribution to take
place and to be well managed; but had very little impact on the decision to suspend
distribution.



14
G. BORROWER PERFORMANCE
44.   The performance of the borrower was very good overall. It is notable that in Bolivia's
case the impetus for reform did not come from crisis, either in the case of the SOEs or of the
pension system, but from a good understanding of the development challenges facing the
country. Commitment to reform existed at both the technical and highest political levels of
government. In contrast to many of its neighbours, Bolivia was able to undertake sweeping
reforms while maintaining respect for democratic institutions and rules. Although some
reforms met with popular resistance, the program as a whole enjoyed a democratic mandate,
having formed part of the winning party's 1993 manifesto, and its implementation was
accomplished without resort to extra-constitutional measures. It is also noteworthy that the
good performance of the borrower was maintained across a change of government, although
there were some difficulties on specific issues such as SIRESE.
45.   One weakness in borrower performance was the communications effort to explain the
benefits of reform. Although a public information campaign was planned and executed (with
some support from an IDA technical assistance credit), the increasing resistance to reform
provides clear evidence of the campaign's insufficiency. It appears that borrower capacity was
fully absorbed by the reform effort itself, so less attention could be given to communicating the
benefits of reform. The most serious lapse in borrower performance came in the rushed
introduction of the Bonosol, the now suspended program of distribution. Poor implementation
of a basically well designed program has led to its replacement by one that is arguably no better
in design and more challenging to implement.
H. ASSESSMENT OF OUTCOME
46.   Overall Program. The outcome of Bolivia's program of reforms is highly satisfactory.
Every action contemplated by the CPAC was implemented, and if not within the original
project timetable, still in a remarkably short period given the breadth of the program. The
effects of the reforms are just beginning to be seen, and in some areas, the full impact of
sectoral restructuring will only become apparent when exclusivity periods come to an end in
2000-2002. It is also the case that reform is still continuing, with a program to deepen
structural reforms being supported by a new adjustment credit. Nevertheless, the importance
of the reforms supported by this credit cannot be overstated. They involved a fundamental
restructuring of Bolivia's economy. Productive activities representing a large share of GDP
were transferred from public control to private management, providing the basis for Bolivia to
progress to a higher growth path. There has been a dramatic reform of the country's
contractual savings system, bolder than the reform efforts of higher-income countries with
more developed economic infrastructures. A modern regulatory framework, including some of
the strongest legal safeguards of regulatory independence in the region, has been introduced in
the infrastructure and financial sectors.
47.   Impact on Investment and Growth. The program's effect on the level of private
investment in the economy has been immediate and strong; in 1997 private investment reached
an estimated 11.5 percent of GDP, almost double the 5.9 percent attained in 1994, the last full
year before capitalization. The investments required by capitalization account for a large part



15
of the increase during 1995-1999, but private investment in general has risen in response to the
improved environment for business, and the increase should be sustained. Accordingly, the
new ESAF program contemplates gross domestic investment of about 20 percent of GDP
during 1999-2002, up from an average of 15 percent during 1991-1994. About two-thirds of
the investment is expected to be private, almost an exact reversal of the 1994 situation. While
the program's effect on productivity and growth is just beginning, it is not unreasonable to
expect that the increased investment and greater participation of the private sector will put
Bolivia on a higher growth path. The ESAF estimates stable growth of 6 percent by 2002, up
from the 1994-1997 average of 4.4 percent, already somewhat above the regional average.
48.   Fiscal Impact. Capitalization, in contrast to privatization, brought no fiscal windfall,
and involved the usual costs such as advisory fees, workers' benefits, debt obligations of SOEs
and the expenses of institutional strengthening programs that accompany reform. The
Government was committed to passing as many costs as possible on to the capitalized
companies. In the end, it was able to transfer all enterprise debt, as well as an additional
US$470 million of debt obligations (6 percent of GDP in 1997), to the new companies.
Benefit payments to workers were necessary only in the railways enterprise (ENFE). Success
fees were paid by bidders and concessional financing was obtained for other technical
assistance costs. And the Treasury did receive some revenues from privatization
(US$149 million by mid-1998), a not insignificant sum, representing about a quarter of the
public investment budget in 1998.
49.   In agreeing the timing, costs and financing of sectoral reforms, an explicit aim was to
ensure that they were revenue-neutral, most importantly in the hydrocarbons sector. A new
hydrocarbons excise tax (IEHD) was introduced to this end. Together with transfers from the
remaining YPFB and taxes from the newly capitalized companies, this was meant to secure
revenue-neutrality. In fact, in the first year following the reform, revenues from the sector
have fallen. The shortfall should, however, be temporary; by 2000 the reform should prove
revenue-enhancing. In other sectors, the fiscal impact has been slight. Most notable are
telecommunications, where revenues are somewhat down (IJS$24 mn in 1997 down from
transfers of US$34 million in 1994), and railways, where annual subsidies of some
US$20 million have given way to revenues of US$2mn.
50.   The most important fiscal impact has come from the pension reform, a cost not
properly estimated under the CPAC since immediate closure of the existing pension system
was not being considered in 1995. In the long run, the pension reform saves Bolivia from an
increasing fiscal burden, but its immediate effect has been a deterioration of the fiscal situation.
Although the costs in 1997 (2.5 percent of GDP) were in line with final estimates, in 1998-
1999 they are expected to rise to between 3 and 4 percent of GDP3. The costs of the reform
are higher than they might have been partly because of Government decisions - to assume the
FONCOM obligations and to introduce a grandfathering clause - and partly because of a
Supreme Court ruling restoring some eliminated benefits. Nevertheless, the Government
expects to be able to return the fiscal deficit to its level prior to the reform by 2002 (2 percent
of GDP), based on the non-pension balance moving to a small surplus for 1999 and beyond.
3 These are gross costs; they do not take into account FONCOM assets taken over by the Government.
Liquidation of these assets is just beginning, but they are expected to provide some US$80 mn to the Treasury.



16
51.   Distributional Effects. The most common criticism of the distributional effects of
privatization, that foreign and local elite shareholders gain at the expense of consumers and
SOE workers, cannot be leveled in the Bolivian case. The design of the capitalization program
is such that all adult Bolivians, as shareholders in the capitalized companies, benefit directly
from their profitability. Of course, these benefits will only be enjoyed when distribution, now
suspended, gets underway again sometime after 2000. Workers who exercised their option to
buy shares will also gain from companies' efficiency, although a few will have paid a price for
this new efficiency, having lost their jobs. More broadly, the sectoral restructurings will benefit
new users at the expense of existing ones, bringing expanded coverage but at higher prices.
52.   Environmental Impact. Environmental measures were not explicitly included in
CPAC conditionality, but it was recognized that the reform program would yield important
environmental improvements. In particular, the capitalization of the exploration and
production functions of YPFB should result in a substantial reduction in gas flaring.
Hydrocarbons deposits in Bolivia are gas-intensive and, in the absence of gas markets, required
re-injection or flaring, with YPFB resorting to the latter more than was environmentally
advisable. The capitalization of YPFB, by permitting construction of the gas pipeline to Brazil,
should dramatically reduce flaring activity. It is also the case that the participation of
international companies in both the hydrocarbons and mining sectors will contribute to
adherence to stricter international standards.
53.   Future Operation. The future of this operation is favorable. As indicated the reforms
have proved to be robust and sustainable. However, further institutional strengthening will be
required and to fully reap the benefits of the reforms already undertaken the pace of
complementary and new reforms has to continue to be quite rapid. IDA is supporting further
reforms to improve institutional capacity; competition, both in the utilities and in markets for
goods and services in general, and the capacity of the financial system to absorb problem
situations.
I. KEY LESSONS LEARNED
As recognized by Bank operations for some time, ownership and commitment are essential
for the success of a reform program. In this case, a major privatization program proceeded
because of full Government commitment, at both the technical and highest political levels,
even when other circumstances were not conducive to reform. Ownership was further
strengthened in Bolivia by a Ministry of Capitalization with the authority to do
transactions.
*  A public information campaign that explains the purpose and objective of the program is
important but the feedback from this campaign needs to be included in the design of the
program to increase its legitimacy. This is an important lesson both for privatization and
pension reform.
  The sustainability of the reform is greatly enhanced by putting a large emphasis on the
transparency of the transactions and by putting in place a worker's share program that
provides a strong constituency for the reform.



17
* Given the importance of ownership and commitment, IDA does well to give its backing to
locally conceived and designed programs, even if reservations exist about some aspects.
Privatization through capitalization has some drawbacks but it provides a good alternative
in scenarios where because of political, constitutional ot other restrictions direct
privatization is not feasible or very costly in terms of process or political capital.
* In privatization programs, the focus tends understandably to be on the efficiency effects of
reform. But the programs also have important distributional effects. These are a legitimate
subject of IDA advice and should be explicitly treated in program design.
* Adjustment operations are best designed to end well befibre elections are due. In this case,
although implementation of reforms continued right up to election day, this inevitably
resulted in the politicization of some issues, making them more difficult to manage.
* Although adjustment operations are normally designed Ito be fully implemented by a single
administration, the leverage afforded by such an operation can be put to good use during a
change of Government, with IDA explaining and safeguarding reform.
* It is optimal to have not only laws but also regulations and regulators in place before
proceeding with divestiture transactions. IDA should emphasize these aspects to counter-
balance the understandable Government focus on the transactions.
* In pension reform a more radical approach to reform is not necessarily more costly in
political terms than a gradualist approach. Addressing the concerns of those affected by
the reform and informing the beneficiaries will provide room for a technically sound
reform.
3 Pension reforms will take longer than planned. Providing technical assistance well in
advance of the projected reform date will not only ensure the soundness of the reform but
will help to provide for continuity and keep the momentum of the reform.
* Providing technical assistance through parallel but separate credits allows maximum
flexibility. As in this case, support can be given to preparatory efforts through TA credits,
while conditionality on the adjustment operation can be front-loaded.



18
PART IT: STATISTICAL ANNEXES
TABLE 1: SUMMARY OF ASSESSMENTS
A. Achievement of Objectives   Substantial     Partial     Negligible    Not Applicable
Macroeconomic policies                                     II a  aD
Sector policies                              D a           o       
Financial objectives            F2           E             E              2
Institutional development       F1                        F               I
Physical objectives             LI            0            0       
Poverty reduction                                          LI             LI
Gender issues                                III
Other social objectives         D                          E              LI
Environmental objectives        El           LI            LI
Public sector management        Di                         Ei LI
Private sector development      ELi                                       Lii
B. Project Sustainability             Likely            Unlikely         Uncertain
0                 1:L O     
C. Bank Performance              Highly Satisfactory   Satisfactorv      Deficient
Identification                                         LI                L
Preparation assistance                                 L                 LI
Appraisal                            L                                   LI
Supervision                          L                                   LI
D. Borrower Performance          Highly Satisfactory   Satisfactory    Not Applicable
Preparation                                            LI                LI
Implementation                       I                                   LI
Covenant compliance                  L                                   LI
Operation                                                                [ AI
Highly                                    Highly
Satisfactory   Satisfactory  Unsatisfactory  Unsatisfactory
E. Assessment of Outcome
OI           E                            LI



19
TABLE 2: RELATED IDA CR]EDITS
Credit Title                             Purpose                   Approved        Status
Preceding operations
Mining Sector Rehabilitation (2013-BO)  Promote private investment in imining and  FY89         Closed
restructure COMIBOL into holding
company.
Structural Adjustment Credit (2298-BO)  Help to restructure financial sector, public  FY92      Closed
enterprises and public investment.
Regulatory Reform & Capitalization     Support capitalization and help to establish  FY95       Closed
Technical Assistance (2647-BO)         regulatory framework in transport and
telecommunications sectors.
Judicial Reform (2705-BO)              Modemize justice administration focusing on  FY95      Underway
civil and commercial branches in order to
provide efficient and predictable framneworkl
for enforcemenit of private rights.
Following operations
Hydrocarbons Sector Refonn &           Support capitalization of YPFEI and        FY96          Closed
Capitalization Technical Assistance    establishmnenit of regulatory framework.
(2762-BO)
Financial Markets & Pension Refonn     Support implementation of pension refonn   FY96          Closed
Technical Assistance (2789-BO)         and further strengthening of financial sector.
Power Sector Reform Technical Assistance   Support privatization of transmission and  FY96    Underway
(2790-BO)                              establishment of regulatory framework.
Regulatory Reform & Privatization      Support independence of regulatory         FY98        Underway
Technical Assistance (31 08-BO)        framework, stability of financial sector and
improve key infrastructure services.
Regulatory Reform Structural Adjustmtent    Support independence of regulatory    FY98        JIJnderway
Credit (3143-BO)                       framework, stability of financial sector and
improve key infrastructure services.



20
TABLE 3: PROJECT TIMETABLE
Steps in Project Cycle            Date Planned            Actual Date
Identification                                               Based on 1992 ESW
Preparation                             February 1993        February 1993
Preparation                             June 1993            June 1993
Pre-appraisal                           September 1993       September 1993
Appraisal                               December 1993        December 1993
Post-Appraisal                          March 1994           October 1994
Negotiations                            December 1994        February-March 1995
Letter of Development Policy            February 1995        March 31, 1995
Board Presentation                      April 1995           July 6, 1995
Signing                                 May 1995             July 7, 1995
Effectiveness                           July 5, 1995         December 1, 1995
First Tranche Release                   October 1995         December 1995
General Capitalization Tranche Release  December 1995        April 1997
Hydrocarbons Tranche Release            June 1996            July 1997
Financial Sector Tranche Release        December 1996        August 1998
Credit Closing                          July 31, 1997        September 30, 1998
Table 4: Credit Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual
(US$ thousands)
FY96         FY 97      FY98        FY99
Appraisal Estimate              30,000        50,000
Actual                          10,076        26,676     50,616      63,064
Actual as % of Estimate         34            53         101         126
Date of Final Disbursement                                           10/5/98



21
TABLE 5: KEY INDICATORS FOR PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
See conditionality matrix.l
TABLE 6: KEY INDICATORS FOR PROJECT OPERATION
SEE:
-  Regulatory Reform Sector Adjustment Credit (Report No. P-7623-BO), Annex 2,
"Matrix of Policy Objectives and Actions".
- Country Assistance Strategy (Report No. 1 7890-BO), Annex BJ, "CAS Program
Matrix", Area: Opportunity
TABLE 7: STUDIES INCLUDED IN PROJECT
C                          ~~~~~~~~~N.A.|
TABLE 8A: PROJECT COSTS
L                          ~~~~~~~~~N.A.I
TABLE 8B: PROJECT FINANCING
N.A.



22
TABLE 9: ECONOMIC COSTS AND BENEFITS
N.A.
TABLE 10: STATUS OF LEGAL COVENANTS
Section    Covenant Status  Original   Revised                  Description of                     Comments
type           fulfillment fulfillment                covenant
date        date
CREDIT AGREEMENT
3.01         9        C                            The Borrower and the Association shall Intensive dialogue about
from time to time, at the request of  progress achieved.
either party, exchange views oni the
progress achieved in carrying out the
Program and the actions specified in
Schedule 3 of this Agreement.
3.02         3        C                            Except as the Associatioii shall
otherwvise agree, procurement of the
goods to be financed out of the process
of the Credit shall be governed by the
provisions of Schedule 2 of this
Agreement.
3.03         1       CD                            The Borrower shall maintain or cause
to be maintained records and separate
accounts adequate to reflect in
accordance with consistenitly
maintainied sound accounting practices
the expenditures finaniced out of the
proceeds of the Credit.
Covenant types:
1. =  Accounts/audits                                 5. = Management aspects of the project or executing agency
3. =  Flow and utilization of project funds           9. = Monitoring, review, and reporting
4. =  Counterpart funding                            10. = Project implementation not covered by categories 1-9
Present Status:
C  =  covenant complied with                         CP  =   complied with partially
CD =  complied with after delay                      NC =   not complied with
TABLE 11: COMPLIANCE WITH OPERATIONAL MANUAL STATEMENTS
The project complied with all Operational Manual Statements.



23
TABLE 12: BANK RESOURCES: STAFF INPUTS
Planned         Actual
Stage of Project Cycle          P
Weeks   US$   Weeks   US$
Preparation to Appraisal           60      240      138     458
Appraisal-Board                    45       180     102     333
Negotiations through Board Approval  12     36      12      40
Supervision                        53      205      47      187
Completion                         5        15       5       14
TOTAL                             175     676     303      1032



24
TABLE 13: BANK RESOURCES: MISSIONS
Petfornance Rating
Number                     Specialized      Implemen-       Develop-
Stage of         Month/        of        Days in        Staff Skills      tation          ment         Types of
Project Cycle       Year       Persons       Field        Represented       Status        Objectives     Problems
Tbrough Appraisal        7/92         3            8        Privatization          _              _
10/92        3            6        Privatization,
Regulation
Legal,
2/93        13           14        Regulation,
Privatization
Privatization,
6/93         8           14        Regulation.
Hydrocarbon,
Aviation
Legal,
9/93        12            7        Regulation,
Privatization
Appraisal through        12/93        12           16       Legal,                 -              _
Board Approval                                              Regulation,
Privatization
10/94        7            11       Privatization,
Regulation,
Hydrocarbon
3/95         4            4        Privatization,
Regulation,
Hydrocarbon,
Aviation
Supervision              9/95         6            10       Privatization,         S               S
Regulation,
Hydrocarbon
3/96         5            8        Legal,                 S             S
Regulation,
Privatization
12/96          4            6        Aviation,              S              S
Regulation
10/97          1            6        PSD                    S              S           Change in
Government,
Approval of
legi.slation
3/98           1            6        Finance                s              s
Completion           1 7/98   1       2            10t      PSD             I      -        I     -       I      -



25
Appendix A
Ayuda Memoria
Hermann von Gersdorff y Lisette Price del Banco Mundial visitaron Bolivia del 29 de
junio al 4 de julio de 1998 para darle seguimiento a los proyectos "Reforma de Mercados
Financieros y Pensiones" (Cr6dito 2789-BO) y "Programa de Capitalizaci6n" (Credito 2761-
BO). Durante su visita la misi6n cont6 con la excelente y oportuna colaboraci6n del personal y
las autoridades del Ministerio de Hacienda y de las Superinteridencias de Pensiones, Valores y
Seguros y Superintendencia de Recursos Jerarquicos.
Con respecto al proyecto "Reforma de Mercados Financieros y Pensiones" (Credito 2789-
BO) se estableci6 que se estan logrando los objetivos del proyecto, pese a que la ejecuci6n del
proyecto a resultado mas lenta que lo planeado. El proyecto se cerrara de acuerdo al convenio de
credito el 31 de diciembre de 1998. A la fecha aun se disponen de recursos de aproximadamente
US$2.7 millones de los cuales US$1.9 millones estan por desembolsar y US$0.8 millones se
encuentran en la cuenta especial del proyecto de los cuales la mayoria se encuentran auin sin
utilizar.
Para continuar con una ejecuci6n expedita del proyecto se acord6 que en respuesta a los
cambios legales creados por la Ley 1864 del 15 de junio de 1998, el Gobierno enviara una carta al
Banco Mundial indicando que estos cambios no afectan las obligaciones y responsabilidades de las
entidades beneficiarias y de la entidad coordinadora con respecto al proyecto, en particular esta
carta establecera que no hay necesidad de nuevos acuerdos subsidiarios entre el Gobierno y las
entidades beneficiafias del proyecto. De esta manera la ejecucion del proyecto puede continuar.
Sin perjuicio de esto se podria proceder a enmendar el convenio de credito para reflejar los
cambios institucionales y posibles cambios en los mecanismos de ejecuci6n que se puedan decidir.
En esta enmienda tambien se podrAn incluir ajustes a los montos por categoria de desembolso
para facilitar la ejecuci6n del proyecto y lograr un mejor uso de los recursos. Esta enmienda no
afecta los objetivos y actividades del proyecto. La solicitud die enmienda serA enviada por el
Gobierno una vez que se haya definido el detalle de los cambios requeridos.
Se acord6 ademAs que a mas tardar el 30 de Julio de 1998 el informe de avance sobre la
ejecuci6n de las actividades y la auditoria de las cuentas del lproyecto al 30 de Junio de 1998
serian enviados al Banco Mundial.
Con respecto al proyecto "Programa de Capitalizaci&n" (Credito 2761- BO) se estableci6
que el estado de avance con respecto a las condiciones sobre el sector financiero establecidas en la
secci6n 3.C. del convenio de credito es satisfactorio. El curnplimiento de estas condiciones antes
de la fecha de cierre del proyecto al 31 de Julio de 1998 es rnuy probable. El Gobierno enviara en
forma oportuna un informe indicando como se han satisfecho estas condiciones. El cumplimiento
de la condici6n del nombramiento del Superintendente de Electficidad se lograrA a traves de la
designaci6n de la terna de candidatos durante el pr6ximo congreso extraordinario y su
nombramiento antes del cierre del proyecto.



26
Se indic6 ademas que de acuerdo a las nuevas politicas operacionales del Banco Mundial
el desembolso de los recursos estaria sujeto solamente al cumplimiento del programa de ajuste
acordado y no requeriria certificaci6n de importaciones por el monto del desembolso.
Tambien se discuti6 la preparaci6n del informe de ejecuci6n del proyecto (ICR) requerido
al cierre del proyecto. El Ministerio de Hacienda acord6 coordinar la preparaci6n de los
componentes de responsabilidad del Gobierno y proveer la informaci6n requerida. Tambien se
decidi6 que la evaluaci6n del desempeno del proyecto seria acordada una vez que se cumplieran
las uiltimas condiciones de desembolso del proyecto.
2 de julio de 1998
La Paz, Bolivia                                    Hermann von Gersdorff
Banco Mundial



ANNEX B



REPUBLICA DE BOLIVIA
M TSlERIO DE HAC1ENDA
VicaWniderio de Inveri6a Pibca
Y Fkaaai.nto Exrno
LaPaz,  18f1C.t
VIPFE/DGfE/NEG-07 17211998
SeiSora
Deborah Bateman
Representante
BANCO MUNDIAL
Presente
Ref: COMENTARIOS SOBRE LA EJECUCION DE LOS CONVENIOS
DE CREDITO 2134-50, 2767-B0, 2647-80
Senora Representante:
Mediante la -'resente, remito a usted los comentarlos die 4ste Viceministerio
sabre la ejecucidn de los Convenios de Credito de referencia:
. IDA 2134-O PROYECrO DEDESARROLLO DELA ,EMPRESA PRIVADA
Originalmente este convenio tuvo dos componentes quve en principia fueron
administrados por el Banco Central de Bolivia: el Componente de Cr64ito
$US. 14 millones y el de Asistencia T6cnica $US. 2 mi)lones.
Posteriormente se introdujeron al Convenio de Cr6di1to otras enmiendas a
traves de las cuales se establecio que el Servicio de As,stencia T6cnica (s47?
serfa la entidad ejecutora del componente de asistenc/a tdcnica, Nacional
Financiera Boalviana (NAFJBOJ seria la entidad ejecutora del componente de
cr6dito y el SIRESE para la ejecuci6n de. un tercer componente.
El objetivo general del proyecto era el desarrollao de la empresa privada. Los
objetivos especficos eran: (i) Fortalecer al sector privado industrfal; (ii)
Amp/iar la base de clientes y el rango de instrumentos rtnancieros disponibles
en el sector bancario; AiNiJ Mejorar la efectividad de instituciones pOiblicas y
privadas de apoyo a la industria; (Ad Minimizar (os impedimentos burocrdt/cos
para ei desarrollo industrial; (v) Mejorar la capacidad administrativa, contable
y de mercadeo entre manufactureras; y (vi) promo ver el desarrollo de
PYMES.



REPUBICAADE BOL
MdINSTRRIO DE I-TACIENDA
Vicaminigtmio de Inveui6n KWU
Y Fkm_iamicot ExIamo
Con e/ Programa de Privatizacidn en 1.993, se ampliaron los siguientes
objetivos: (i) asistencia a /a privatizacidn ylo capital/zacidn de las empresas
del estado y (iA Fortalecer la capacidad regulatoria del SIRESE
SERVICIO DE A SISENCIA TECNICA (SA 77
La ejecucion presupuestaria por programa del SA T durante siete afios de
operaciones (agosto91/junioS8) fue la siguiente:
1. Programa de Asistencia Tecnica en Planta.
Consiste en brindar asesoramiento en plante tanto a empresas como a
grupos con el obleto de modem/zar y mejorar su competitividad, mediante la
contratac/dn de consultores o firmas consultoras especializadas que
solucionen efectivamente problemas espec/frcos en las dreas de Produccidn,
Administrmcidn y Comerc/allzacidn.
La ejecucion presupuestearia de este programa es de $us. 3.4 millones de
dolares (30,66% del total ejecutado). Este programa contempla la realizacid6n
de 705 proyectos en benef/cio de 71. 768 empresarios.
2. Capacitacidn.
La capacitacidn y entrenamiento es el segundo programa en importancia
dentro de las operaciones del SA T. La Ejecucidn Presupuestarfa del Programa
de Capac/tacidn es de $us. 2.8 millones de d6lares (25.8%  del total
ejecutado). Este programa contemp/a la reallzacidn de 1.528 proyectos en
beneficfo de 36.197 empresarios)
3. Forralec/miento Institucional.
Hl SA T ha apoyado y fortalecido a Instituciones Gestoras para que stas
logren un acceso dptimo de los benef/ciarios a los servicios del SA T.
La ejecucd6n presupuestaria de este programa es de $us 767 mil ddMares
(6.95% del total ejecutadol. Este programa contempla la realizacidn de 151
proyectos.



REUPUBLICA DE BOLIVIA
MINISnhRIO DE HACIENDA
Vicninisiao de Inveni6d PObZica
Y Fi"wni%bo Extmno
4. Comercializaci6n y Exportacion de productos manufacturados del sector.
. Este programa persigue poner en contacto a productores y consumidores, a
trav4s de organizacidn de Ferias Regionales y Nacionales, financiamiento
para asistencia de empresarios bolivianos a ferias y eventos internacionales,
desarrollo de un sistema de informacidn de produccion, comercializacidn y
organizacl6n de consorcios, ademds- de asistencia en la elaboracidn e
impresion de tripticos y catilogos de promocion.
La ejecuci6n presupuestaria de este programa es de Sus. 3.6 millones de
ddlares (32.40%  de la ejecucidn total). Este programa contempla la
realizacidn de 433 proyectos en beneficio de 9.657 empresarios.
5. Apoyo a la Muier Empresaria o Empresas de Mujeres.
Este programa tiene como objetivo promocionar a mujeres empresarias para
elevar su nivel empresarial a travis de Seminarios dfe Liderazgo, Relaciones
Humanas, Oratoria, etc..
El presente programa esta dirig/do al desarrollo del turismo receptivo,
fortaleciendo a traves de la Asistencia Thcnica y la Capacitacidn, a (as
instituciones vinculadas con e/ desarrollo del sector tL/rfstico.
La ejecucidn presupuestaria de este programa es de $us. 293 mil (2.65% de
la ejecuci6n total). Este programa contempla la rea/izacidn de 88 proyectes
en beneficio de 1.570 empresarios.
La distribuci6n pdr rubros industriales y artesanales atendidos por el SA T,
dentro la ejecucidn presupuestaria agosto9 1/junio98 es la siguiente:
Textiles y confecciones con (2,32%), Alimentos (5,41 %), Turisme y
Hotelerfa con (4,23%), Madera y Muebles con (4,181%), Cerdmica (2,92%),
Cuero con (1,80%) Metalmecgnica (1,68%), Orfebrerfa con (0,91%),
Qufmfcos con (0,64%), Artes Grdficas (0,52%) y Arte Popular (0,24%).
Agrupados psra apeoyo a varios rubros se encuentran: Comercializacidn -
Ferfas con (20,24%) y Gestl6n Administraclfn (20,74%) y tambidn se



REPBLICA DE BOLMVrA
W43TEIO DE HACUENDA
Vicgiminiwi de Inwrsi6a P*bH=
Y Fuiaacii.4o Extuo
consigna otros rubros para aquelos no incluidos en ninguno de los anterlores
(8,89%).
Con la experlencia adquirnda en seis gestiones, el SA T se ha fortalecido
institucionalmente, con el desarrollo de sistemas computarizados de Control
de Gestidn y Contabilidad un personal entrenado para planificar, ejecutar y
evaluar e/ impacto de los proyectos a favor del sector industrial.
NACIONAL FINANCIERA BOLIVIANA (NAFIBO)
El 31 de octubre de 1995 la Ley del Banco Central de Bolivia NO 1670
aprueba la creacion de Nacional Financiera Boliviana S.A. M. (NAfSO), a
efectos de continuar con las funciones de la Gerencia de Desarro/lo del Banco
Central de Bolivia.
En razon de ello, el 14 de mayo de 1996, se suscribio una Quinta Enmienda
al Contrato de Prdstamo, entre la Rep0blica de Bolivia y la AIF, mediante Ia
cual se reemplaza al BCB por NAFIBO como Organismo Ejecutor del
Componente de Cr6dito PARTE "A" del Proyecto en la que se disminuye este
componente de DEG3.985.681 a OEG3.301.232 y se permite la utilizacidn
de estos recursos para otorgar creditos a travis de las ventanillas para
capital de inversi6n y para la peque,na y microempresa.
NAFIB0 alcanzd los objetivos de Ia implementacidn del componente de
credito a traves del desembolso total de los recursos por parte de la AIF en
Noviembre de 1997, y Ia colocacidn de los mismos en una cartera de
crdditos por equivalente de US$4.868.967,82 compuesta por 24 pr6stamos
destinados a capital de inversidn y 5 al microcredito, por el 45,13% y
54,87%  del total de la Itnea respectivamente. Estos prestamos fueron
otorgados a travds de 7 ICI (6 bancos y 1 FFP) que colocaron los pr4stamos
para capital de inversi6n en los departamentos de La Paz, Cochabamba,
Santa Cruz y Chuquisaca, y los prLsstamos de micro cr6dito en las areas de
influencia de FIE, PRODEM y Caja Los Andes.
Las recuperaciones de capital estdn siendo utilizadas para colocar crdditos
que cumplan con los criterios de elegibilidad estab/ecidos en el contrato de
prdstamo, luego de atender las obligaciones por concepto de intereses y
prdximemente- por amortizaciones de capital. De esta manera NAFfBO



REPUBLICA DE BOLIVIA
NM4TER10 DE HACENDA
Vtommgegia de lawni6n KbUc
Y FmAaiamiO Exen
asegura que las colocaciones que se efect0en con recursos del prdstamo
lleven a la consecucidn de los obletivos del pro grama.
Por lo anterior, la ejecucidn del componente de crEdito del pro yecto por parte
de NAFIBO esta en su fase final, toda vez que la concesidn de prdstamos a
las ICI como el desembolso de los recursos por parte de AIF, tomaron menos
de sels meses desde que se hizo efectivo el traspaso del programa a NAFIBO
por parte del Banco Central de Bolivia. Asimismo, dada la implementacidn del
punto de vista de NAFIBO respecto a que la AIF flexibilice su procedimiento
pars el otorgamiento de prdstamos de microcr6dito (permitlr el conceder
prdstamos a las ICI contra la presentaci6n ex-post de los subpr6stamos en
lugar de la identificacidn a priori de un numero considerable de 6stosJ, ha
facilitado significativamente la colocaciOn de recursos del prestamo a traves
de la ventanilla de microcr6dito. En base a esta experiencia, el BID aceptd
utllfzar el mismo procedimiento para la ejecucidn del Programa Integral de
Apoyo a Is Pequefa y Microempresa.
Factores que afectaron el proyecto
Durante el perJodo comprendido entre 1991 y 1996, la ejecuci6n de la Parne
A del proyecto se vio obstaculizada por Ia mcirmtua desconfJanza que existla
entre el BCB y las ICI que requerfan los recursos del prdstamo para
intermediarlos.  Esto  fue  producto  de  ic,s pesados  requerfmientos
administrativos del BC8 para colocar los recursos, ocasionados por las
prloridades que establecia el gobierno en el manejo de ls polftics monetaria
del pals, ademis de otros retrasos por el propio mecanismo de colocacidn de
los recursos acordado entre el BC8 y la AIF.
Esta fue la principal cause del mal desempefio en la ejecuci6n del
componente de cr6dito del proyecto, que adenmds llev6 a la reduccidn del
monto asignado a menos de US$5 millones despuds de sucesivas
reaslgnaciones del presupuesto, to cual, en consecuencia, redujo
significativamente eJ impacto que podia haber tenido dicho componente el
mercado financiero formal de Boaivia, principalmente en eJ segmento de
mIcrocr6ddito.
Futuras operaclones
Para el periodo 1999 - 2001, NAFf00 tiene programedo colocer cerca a
US$20 millones a travds de la ventaniila de microcrdito, US$14.85 millones



i
REPUBLICA DE BOLrVIA
U241STERIO DE HACNDA
VWiemniswico de Invmi6 Pfiblic
Y Fimn,cisiatu ExtMo
de ddlares provenientes del Subprograma de Cre6dito del Programa de Apoyo
Integral a la Pequena y Microempresa financiado con recursos del pr6stamo
BID 1020/SF-BO (suscrito entre la RepOb/ica y el Banco el pasado mes de
noviembre), y aproximadamente US$4. 78 millones de dMlares financiados por
Ia KfW para el Programa de Financiamiento a la Pequefia y Microempresa
(cuyo contrato sera suscrito en el transcurso del presente mes de diciembre).
Pare la ejecuci6n de estos programas se han acordado los respectivos
reglamentos pare la intermediacidn de recursos, los cuales, ademas de haber
adoptado el mecanisrno utilizado para la intermediaci6n de los recursos del
IDA-2134, contienen elementos que aseguran en buena medida el dxito de
los programas tanto en la colocaci6n de NAFIBO hacia las ICI y en la de las
IC) a los Subprestatarios, como en el impacto en el acceso al crdito formal
por parte del grupo meta.
Finalmente, existe la posibilidad de que el BC8 transfiera a NAFIfO la
administraci6n de otras lineas de cr6dito las cuales aun est4n en proceso de
negociaci6n.
A pesar de la reduccidn de los recursos asignados al Componente de Cr6dito
del programa y de las dificultades en la primera etapa de su ejecuci6n, sus
efectos positivos han sido muy significativos en relaci6n a su tamafio ya que
se logr6 que e/ sistema bancario nacional mejore su universo de instrumentos
financieros disponibles pare la iniciativa privada, y que ademas amplie su
base de clientes incluyendo en sus operaciones al segmento de ia pequefia y
microempresa.
Por otra parte, para NAFSIB 0 la ejecuci6n del componente de cr6dito ayudd a
poner en operaci6n su ventanilla de microcr6dito, y en consecuencia a
establecer un historial que servird como base de anSlisis para aquellos
financiadores que esten interesados en apoyar al sector de la pequefia y
microemprese en el futuro. A su vez, para las ICI del sistema la ventanilla de
microcr6dito resulto atractiva en el sentido que pudieron ampliar su universo
de clientes ofreciendo servicios de microcredito, por lo que estas han
comenzado a utillzar sus propios recursos en la colocaci6n de este tipo de
cartera.
Finalmente, este programa ha motivado a nuevos actores (ONGs
principalmente) a entrar en el mercado regulado de microcr6dito y buscar
financiamiento a trav6s de los recursos que intermed/a NAFI/B.



Unofficial Translation
REPUBLIC OF BOLIVIA
MINISTRY OF FINANCE
Vice-Ministry of Public Investment and
External Financing
La Paz, December 18, 1998
Mrs. Deborah Bateman
Representative
WORLD BANK
City
Re: COMMENTS TO THE FULFILLMENT OF CREDIT AGREEMENTS
2134-BO, 2761-BO, 2547-BO
Dear Madam Representative:
I should like to make the following comments on behalf of the Vice Ministry, with regard
to the Credit Agreement under reference:
2.  IDA 2761-BO Adjustment Credit for Capitalization Program
The structural adjustment credit was an important suppoIt to the balance of payment of
Bolivia. The credit was instrumental to lead the Govermnent to comply in the fastest and
most efficient way with a number of actions and reforms that were part of the
Government's Program of Structural Reform. In this sense we should point out that these
actions and reforms are linked to the compliance with the following four groups of
conditions in four tranches, one general and three floatin!g.
a) The first for US$10 million, for which conditions were fulfilled before the approval by
the Board of the Bank, amongst them the most important are: i) the law of
Capitalization; ii) capitalization strategy by business; iii) Law of SIRESE; iv) Law 1606;
v) Law of Telecommunications; vi) Law of Electricity; vii) agreement to the draft
amendments to the laws of mining and hydrocarbon; viii) agreement on basic principles
of the reform of the pension systems; ix) maintenance of a sound macroeconomic
framework.
b) Tranche of US$10 million with the compliance with i) approval of regulation decrees
for the execution of the capitalization and the establishment of SIRESE, regulations to the
income tax for businesses; ii) establishment of the legal amd regulatory framework for the
telecommunications, electricity and mining sectors and iii) request for bids for the
capitalization of ENTEL.
c) Hidrocarbon tranche of US$20 million with the compliance with i) approval of a legal
and regulatory frame appropriate for the hidrocarbon sector (law of hydrocarbons and



regulations) and ii) publication of bidding documents for the capitalization of a
significant portion of YPFB.
d) Tranche of US$10 million with the compliance with i) approval of necessary legal
reforns to attract greater private international capital and ii) approval of laws of
development and strengthening of the financial sector, particularly long term financial
markets.



