Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 2761-BO
Development Credit Agreement
(Capitalization Program Adjustment Credit)
between
REPUBLIC OF BOLIVIA
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated July 7, 1995
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
CREDIT NO. 2761-BO
AGREEMENT, dated July 7, 1995, between REPUBLIC OF BOLIVIA (the Borrower) and 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association).
WHEREAS: (A) the Association has received a letter dated March 31, 1995, from 
the Borrower describing a program of actions, objectives and policies designed to 
carry out the capitalization of the Borrower's public enterprises (hereinafter called 
the Program), declaring the Borrower's commitment to the execution of the Program, and 
requesting assistance from the Association in the financing of urgently needed imports 
required during such execution;
(B)
the Borrower intends to contract from the Inter American Development Bank 
(IDB) a loan (the IDB Loan) in an amount of $70,000,000 to assist in financing part of 
the Program on the terms and conditions set forth in an agreement (the IDB Loan 
Agreement) to be entered into between the Borrower and IDB;
(C)
on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, the Association has decided 
in support of the Program to provide such assistance to the Borrower by making the 
Credit in four tranches as hereinafter provided;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit 
Agreements" of the Association, dated January 1, 1985, with the modifications thereof 
Page  2
set forth below (the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this 
Agreement:
(a)
Section 2.01, paragraph 9, shall be modified to read:
 
"Project" means the imports and other activities that may be financed 
out of the proceeds of the Credit pursuant to the provisions of Schedule 1 to 
the Development Credit Agreement.";
(b)
Section 9.06 (c) shall be modified to read:
 
"(c) Not later than six months after the Closing Date or such later date 
as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the Association, 
the Borrower shall prepare and furnish to the Association a report, of such 
scope and in such detail as the Association shall reasonably request, on the 
execution of the Program referred to in the Preamble to the Development Credit 
Agreement, the performance by the Borrower and the Association of their 
respective obligations under the Development Credit Agreement and the 
accomplishment of the purposes of the Credit."; and
(c)
the last sentence of Section 3.02 is deleted.
 
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein
set forth and the following additional terms have the following meanings:
(a)
"Amendment to Tax Law" means the amendment to Law No. 843 of May 20, 1986 
made by Law No. 1606 published in the Official Gazette on December 22, 1994;
(b)
"Amendment to the Mining Code" means the amendment to Law No. 1234 of 
April 11, 1991 substantially in accordance with the draft furnished to the Association 
on December 30, 1994;
(c)
"Capitalization Law" means Law No. 1544 published in the Official Gazette 
on March 22, 1994;
(d)
"Capitalization Procurement Regulation" means the regulation to the 
Capitalization Law, satisfactory to the Association, to be enacted by the Borrower 
covering the competitive bidding procedures to be applied in the capitalization 
program;
(e)
"Congress" means the Borrower's legislative branch;
 
(f)
"Electricity Law" means Law No. 1604 published in the Official Gazette on 
December 21, 1994;
(g)
"Electricity Regulatory Agency" means the superintendency to be 
established by the Borrower within the SIRESE (as defined below), under the General 
Superintendency (as defined below), to regulate the electricity sector, award and 
supervise concessions, and enforce compliance with the sector legislation, including 
the Electricity Law and the Electricity Regulations;
(h)
"Electricity Regulations" means the regulations to the Electricity Law, 
satisfactory to the Association, to be enacted by the Borrower covering the following 
subjects: quality of service norms, tariff setting rules, economic dispatch of the 
power system and the conditions for g granting concessions and licenses, and 
monitoring the performance standards thereof;
(i)
"ENTEL" means Empresa Nacional de Telecomunicaciones, the Borrower's 
telecommunications company;
(j)
"Financial Sector Floating Tranche" means the portion of the Credit not 
exceeding the equivalent of SDR 6,790,000 to be released by the Association upon 
compliance by the Borrower
with the requirements set forth or referred to in paragraph 4 (c) of Schedule 1 to 
this Agreement;
(k)
"First Tranche" means the portion of the Credit not exceeding the 
equivalent of SDR 6,700,000 to be released by the Association on or after the 
Effective Date;
Page  3
(l)
"Fiscal Year" means the Borrower's fiscal year which commences on January 
1 each year; 
(m)
"General Capitalization Floating Tranche" means the portion of the Credit 
not exceeding the equivalent of SDR 6,840,000 to be released by the Association upon 
compliance by
the Borrower with the requirements set forth or referred to in paragraph 4 (b) of 
Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(n)
"General Superintendency" means the superintendency referred to in Title 
II of the SIRESE Law (as defined below);
(o)
"Hydrocarbons Law" means the law to be enacted by the Borrower according 
substantially to the draft and letter submitted by the Borrower to the Association on 
April 11, 1995;
(p)
"Hydrocarbons Regulations" means regulations to the Hydrocarbons Law, 
satisfactory to the Association, to be enacted by the Borrower covering the following 
subjects: the process for awarding exploration areas; pipeline rights of way, access 
and tariffs; environmental, technical and safety standards and norms; definition of 
the institutional arrangements for granting and monitoring existing and future 
contracts for exploration and production; and taxation of upstream production;
(q)
"Hydrocarbons Regulatory Agency" means the Superintendency to be 
established by the Borrower within the SIRESE (as defined below), under the General 
Superintendency, to regulate the hydrocarbons sector, and enforce compliance with the 
sector legislation including the Hydrocarbons Law and the Hydrocarbons Regulations;
(r)
"Hydrocarbons Sector Floating Tranche" means the portion of the Credit 
not exceeding the equivalent of SDR 13,580,000 to be released by the Association upon 
compliance by the Borrower with the requirements set forth or referred to in paragraph 
4 (a) of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(s)
"Hydrocarbons Tax Regulation" means the regulation to the Amendment to 
Tax Law, satisfactory to the Association, to be enacted by the Borrower defining the 
level of excise tax to
be charged for each petroleum derivative product;
(t)
"Insurance Law" means the law to be enacted by the Borrower according 
substantially to the draft submitted by the Borrower to the Association on March 27, 
1995;
(u)
"Insurance Regulations" means regulations to the Insurance Law, 
satisfactory to the Association, to be enacted by the Borrower covering the following 
subjects: entry of local and foreign insurers and reinsurers, supervision procedures, 
and investment parameters;
(v)
"Insurance Regulatory Agency" means the agency established by the 
Borrower to regulate the provision of insurance services;
(w)
"Pension Law" means the law to be enacted by the Borrower following 
substantially the principles agreed between the Borrower and the Association;
(x)
"Pension Regulations" means regulations to the Pension Law, satisfactory 
to the Association, to be enacted by the Borrower covering the following subjects: 
requirements and
procedures for entry and operation in the business, portfolio investment limits, 
ratings and valuations, and definition of benefits and technical standards;
(y)
"Pension Regulatory Agency" means the agency to be established by the 
Borrower to enforce compliance of the sector legislation, including the Pension Law 
and the Pension Regulations;
(z)
"Securities Law" means the law to be enacted by the Borrower according 
substantially to the draft submitted by the Borrower to the Association on October 28, 
1994;
(aa)
"Securities Regulations" means regulations to the Securities Law, 
satisfactory to the Association, to be enacted by the Borrower covering the following 
subjects: the registration and listing requirements, and the issuance and handling of 
securities;
Page  4
(ab)
"Securities Regulatory Agency" means the agency established by the 
Borrower to enforce compliance with the sector legislation, including the Securities 
Law and the Securities Regulations;
(ac)
"SIRESE" means the regulatory system established pursuant to the SIRESE 
Law (as defined below);
(ad)
"SIRESE Law" means Law No. 1600 published in the Official Gazette on 
October 28, 1994;
(ae)
"SIRESE Regulations" means regulations to the SIRESE Law, satisfactory to 
the Association, to be enacted by the Borrower covering the following subjects: the 
administrative
structure and operation of the General Superintendency, procedures for appeals of 
decisions taken by the General Superintendency and the sectoral superintendencies 
referred to in Title III of the SIRESE Law, and anti-trust matters;
(af)
"SITC" means the Standard International Trade Classification, Revision 3 
(SITC, Rev. 3), published by the United Nations in Statistical Papers, Series M, No. 
343 (1986);
(ag)
"Tax Regulations" means regulations to the Amendment to Tax Law No. 843, 
satisfactory to the Association, to be enacted by the Borrower covering the following 
subjects: the deductions authorized pursuant to Article 47, Section 2 of the Amendment 
to Tax law No. 843, and tax  collection procedures;
(ah)
"Telecommunications Law" means the bill of law submitted to the Congress 
on May 29, 1995;
(ai)
"Telecommunications Regulations" means regulations to the 
Telecommunications Law, satisfactory to the Association, to be enacted by the Borrower 
covering the following subjects:
tariff formulae and adjustment procedures, and interconnection rules;
(aj)
"Telecommunications Regulatory Agency" means the superintendency to be 
established by the Borrower within the SIRESE, under the General Superintendency, to 
regulate the telecommunications sector, award and supervise concessions, and enforce 
compliance with the sector legislation, including the Telecommunications Law and the 
Telecommunications Regulations;
and
(ak)
"YPFB" means Yacimientos Petroliferos Fiscales Bolivianos, the Borrower's 
hydrocarbons company.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Development Credit Agreement, an amount in 
various currencies equivalent to thirty four million Special Drawing Rights (SDR 
34,000,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the Credit Account 
in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be July 31, 1997 or such later date as the 
Association shall establish. The Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of 
such later date.
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a commitment charge 
on the principal amount of the Credit not withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be 
set by the Association as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of 
one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum.
(b)
The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date sixty days after 
the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to the respective dates on which amounts 
shall be withdrawn by the Borrower from the Credit Account or cancelled; and (ii) at 
the rate set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date or at such other 
rates as may be set from time to time thereafter pursuant to paragraph (a) above. The 
rate set as of June 30 in each year shall be applied from the next payment date in 
that year specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
Page  5
(c)
The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as the 
Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of any kind imposed 
by, or in the territory of, the Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this 
Agreement for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such other 
eligible currency or currencies as may from time to time be designated or selected 
pursuant to the provisions of that Section.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge at the 
rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of 
the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Commitment and service charges shall be payable semiannually on 
March 1 and September 1 in each year.
Section 2.07. (a) Subject to paragraphs (b) and (c) below, the Borrower shall 
repay the principal amount of the Credit in semi-annual installments payable on each 
March 1 and September 1 commencing September 1, 2005 and ending March 1, 2035.  Each 
installment to and including the installment payable on March 1, 2015 shall be one 
percent (1%) of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter shall be two 
percent (2%) of such principal amount.
(b)
Whenever (i) the Borrower's gross national product per capita, as 
determined by the Association, shall have exceeded $790 in constant 1985 dollars for 
five consecutive years; and (ii) the Bank shall consider the Borrower creditworthy for 
Bank lending, the Association may, subsequent to the review and approval thereof by 
the Executive Directors of the Association and after due consideration by them of the 
development of the Borrower's economy, modify the terms of repayment of installments 
under paragraph (a) above by requiring the Borrower to repay twice the amount of each 
such installment not yet due until the principal amount of the Credit shall have been 
repaid. If so requested by the Borrower, the Association may revise such modification 
to include, in lieu of some or all of the increase in the amounts of such 
installments, the payment of interest at an annual rate agreed with the Association on 
the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, 
provided that, in the judgment of the Association, such revision shall not change the 
grant element obtained under the above-mentioned repayment modification.
(c)
If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant to paragraph (b) 
above, the Association determines that the Borrower's economic condition has 
deteriorated significantly, the Association may, if so requested by the Borrower, 
further modify the terms of repayment to conform to the schedule of installments as 
provided in paragraph (a) above.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is hereby specified 
for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions.
Section 2.09.  The Borrower hereby entrusts the Central Bank with responsibility 
for the preparation of withdrawal applications under the Credit and for the collection 
of the documents and other evidence to be furnished to the Association in support of 
such applications; such withdrawal applications shall to the extent practicable be 
consolidated so as to apply for withdrawal of aggregate amounts of not less than 
$250,000 equivalent.
ARTICLE III
Particular Covenants
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower and the Association shall from time to time, at 
the request of either party, exchange views on the progress achieved in carrying out 
the Program and the actions specified in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
(b)
Prior to each such exchange of views, the Borrower shall furnish to the 
Association for its review and comment a report on the progress achieved in carrying 
out the Program, in such detail as the Association shall reasonably request.
(c)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section, 
the Borrower shall exchange views with the Association on any proposed action to be 
taken after the disbursement of the Credit which would have the effect of materially 
reversing the objectives of the Program, or any action taken under the Program, 
including any action specified in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, procurement of 
Page  6
the goods to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit shall be governed by the 
provisions of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
Section 3.03. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained records 
and separate accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with consistently maintained 
sound accounting practices the expenditures financed out of the proceeds of the 
Credit.
(b)
The Borrower shall:
 
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing 
principles consistently applied, by independent auditors 
acceptable to the Association;
(ii)
furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any case 
not later than ninety days after the last withdrawal from the 
Credit Account has been made respectively under each of the First 
Tranche, the Hydrocarbons Sector Floating Tranche, the General 
Capitalization Floating Tranche and the Financial Sector Floating 
Tranche, a certified copy of the report of each such audit by said 
auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the Association 
shall have reasonably requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Association such other information concerning said 
records and accounts and the audit thereof as the Association 
shall from time to time reasonably request.
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Credit 
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall:
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with paragraph 
(a) of this Section, records and separate accounts reflecting such 
expenditures;
(ii)
retain, until at least one year after the Association has received 
the audit report on the records and accounts for expenditures 
under the last tranche withdrawn from the Credit Account, all 
records (contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts and other 
documents) evidencing such expenditures; 
(iii)
enable the Association's representatives to examine such records; 
and
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the audits 
referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the report 
of such audit contains a separate opinion by said auditors as to 
whether the statements of expenditure submitted during such fiscal 
year, together with the procedures and internal controls involved 
in their preparation, can be relied upon to support the related 
withdrawals.
ARTICLE IV
Additional Event of Suspension
Section 4.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (h) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified:
(a)
that a situation has arisen which shall make it improbable that the 
Program, or a significant part thereof, will be carried out; and
(b)
(i)
Subject to subparagraph (ii) of this paragraph:
 
(A)
the right of the Borrower to withdraw the proceeds of the 
IDB Loan made to the Borrower for the financing of the 
Program shall have been suspended, cancelled or terminated 
in whole or in part, pursuant to the terms of the agreement 
providing therefor; or
(B)
such loan shall have become due and payable prior to the 
agreed maturity thereof.
Page  7
(ii)
Subparagraph (i) of this paragraph shall not apply if the Borrower 
establishes to the satisfaction of the Association that: (A) such 
suspension, cancellation, termination or prematuring is not caused 
by the failure of the Borrower to perform any of its obligations 
under such agreement; and (B) adequate funds for the Program are 
available to the Borrower from other sources on terms and 
conditions consistent with the obligations of the Borrower under 
this Agreement.
Section 4.02.  Pursuant to Section 7.01 (d) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional event is specified, namely, that the event specified in paragraph 
(b) (i) (B) of Section 4.01 of this Agreement shall occur, subject to the proviso of 
paragraph (b) (ii) of that Section.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination
Section 5.01. The following event is specified as an additional condition to the 
effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 
(b) of the General Conditions, namely, that the macroeconomic policy framework of the 
Borrower is consistent with the objectives of the Program.
Section 5.02. The date October 5, 1995 is hereby specified for the purposes of 
Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VI
Representatives of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 6.01.  The Minister of Finance and/or the Secretary of Finance of the 
Borrower are severally designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes 
of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions: 
For the Borrower:
Minister of Finance and/or
  Secretary of Finance
Ministerio de Hacienda
   Secretaria Nacional de Hacienda
Cajon Postal-Ministerio de Finanzas
Calle Bolivar Esq. Indaburo No. 688
La Paz, Bolivia
Cable address: 
Telex:
 
FINANZA
2617 (FINANZA BV)
La Paz, Bolivia
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
 
INDEVAS
248423 (RCA)
Washington, D.C.
 82987 (FTCC)
 64145 (WUI) or
197688 (TRT)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
Page  8
REPUBLIC OF BOLIVIA
By /s/ Andres Petricevic
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ Yoshiaki Abe
Acting Regional Vice President
Latin America and the Caribbean
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the amounts of the Credit to each Category 
and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category.
                             Amount of the
                            Credit Allocated               % of
                              (Expressed in           Expenditures
Category                     SDR Equivalent)         to be Financed
(1) Imported goods to be        6,790,000            100% of foreign
    procured under the                               expenditures
    First Tranche
(2) Imported goods to be       13,580,000            100% of foreign
    financed under the                               expenditures
    Hydrocarbons Sector
    Floating Tranche
(3) Imported goods to be        6,840,000            100% of foreign
    procured under the                               expenditures
    General Capitalization
    Floating Tranche
(4) Imported goods to be        6,790,000            100% of foreign
    financed under the                               expenditures
    Financial Sector
    Floating Tranche
    TOTAL                      34,000,000
2.
For purposes of this Schedule the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures 
in the currency of any country other than that of the Borrower for goods supplied from 
the territory of any country other than that of the Borrower.
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of:
(a)
expenditures for goods included in the following SITC groups or 
subgroups, or any successor groups or subgroups under future revisions to the SITC, as 
designated by the Association by notice to the Borrower: 
       Group            Subgroup       Description of Items
       112                 --          Alcoholic beverages
       121                 --          Tobacco, unmanufactured, tobacco
                                       refuse
Page  9
       122                 --          Tobacco, manufactured (whether
                                       or not containing tobacco
                                       substitutes)
       525                 --          Radioactive and
                                       associated materials
       667                 --          Pearls, precious and
                                       semiprecious stones, unworked
                                       or worked
       718              718.1          Nuclear reactors, and
                                       parts thereof, fuel elements
                                       (cartridges), nonirradiated for
                                       nuclear reactors
       728              728.43         Tobacco processing machinery
       897              897.3          Jewelry of gold, silver or
                                       platinum group metals
                                       (except watches and watch cases)
                                       and goldsmiths' or silversmiths'
                                       wares (including set gems)
       971                 --          Gold, nonmonetary (excluding
                                       gold ores and concentrates)
(b)
expenditures in the currency of the Borrower or for goods supplied from 
the territory of the Borrower;
(c)
payments made prior to the date of this Agreement for expenditures, 
except that withdrawals in an aggregate amount not exceeding the equivalent of SDR 
6,790,000 may be made on account of payments made for such expenditures within four 
months prior to that date;
(d)
expenditures for goods procured under contracts costing less than $10,000 
equivalent;
(e)
expenditures for goods supplied under a contract which any national or 
international financing institution or agency other than the Association shall have 
financed or agreed to finance;
(f)
expenditures for goods intended for a military or paramilitary purpose or 
for luxury consumption; and
(g)
expenditures in excess of an aggregate amount equivalent to SDR 8,490,000 
for petroleum products and foodstuffs.
3.
Withdrawals for expenditures under contracts for the procurement of goods 
estimated to cost less than $5,000,000 may be required by the Association upon the 
basis of statements of expenditure under such terms and conditions as the Association 
shall specify.
4.
No withdrawal shall be made and no commitment shall be entered into to pay 
amounts to or on the order of the Borrower in respect of expenditures to be financed 
out of the proceeds of the Credit:
(a)
under Category (2) of the table in paragraph 1 of this Schedule, unless 
the Association shall be satisfied, after an exchange of views as described in Section 
3.01 of this Agreement based on evidence satisfactory to the Association:
(i)
with the progress achieved by the Borrower in the carrying out of 
the Program;
(ii)
that the macroeconomic policy framework of the Borrower is 
consistent with the objectives of the Program; and
(iii)
that the actions set forth in Part A of Schedule 3 to this 
Agreement have been taken in form and substance satisfactory to 
the Association;
(b)
under Category (3) of the table in paragraph 1 of this Schedule, unless 
Page  10
the Association shall be satisfied, after an exchange of views as described in Section 
3.01 of this
Agreement based on evidence satisfactory to the Association:
(i)
with the progress achieved by the Borrower in the carrying out of 
the Program;
(ii)
that the macroeconomic policy framework of the Borrower is 
consistent with the objectives of the Program; and
(iii)
that the actions set forth in Part B of Schedule 3 to this 
Agreement have been taken in form and substance satisfactory to 
the Association; and
(c)
under Category (4) of the table in paragraph (1) of Schedule 1, unless 
the Association shall be satisfied, after an exchange of views as described in Section 
3.01 of this
Agreement based on evidence satisfactory to the Association:
(i)
with the progress achieved by the Borrower in the carrying out of 
the Program;
(ii)
that the macroeconomic policy framework of the Borrower is 
consistent with the objectives of the Program; and
(iii)
that the actions set forth in Part C of Schedule 3 to this 
Agreement have been taken in form and substance satisfactory to 
the Association.
5.
If, after any of the exchanges of views referred to in paragraph 4 above, the 
Association shall have given notice to the Borrower that the progress achieved in the 
carrying out of the Program or the actions taken pursuant to Schedule 3, Parts A, B, 
or C, as the case may be, are not satisfactory or that the macroeconomic policy 
framework of the Borrower is not consistent with the objectives of the Program and, 
within 90 days after such notice, the Borrower shall not have achieved progress or 
taken actions satisfactory to the Association or the macroeconomic policy framework of 
the Borrower continues to be not consistent with the objectives of the Program, then 
the Association may, by notice to the Borrower, cancel the unwithdrawn amount of the 
Credit or any part thereof.
SCHEDULE 2
Procurement
1.
Contracts for the procurement of goods estimated to cost the equivalent of 
$5,000,000 or more each shall be awarded through international competitive bidding in 
accordance with procedures consistent with those set forth in Sections I and II of the 
"Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Bank in 
May 1992 (the Guidelines), subject to the following modifications:
(a)
Paragraph 2.8 of the Guidelines is deleted and the following is 
substituted therefor:
"2.8 Notification and Advertising
The international community should be notified in a timely manner of the 
opportunity to bid. This will be done by advertising invitations to apply for 
inclusion in a bidder's invitation list, to apply for prequalification, or to 
bid; 
such advertisements should be placed in at least one newspaper of general 
circulation in the Borrower's country and, in addition, in at least one of the 
following forms:
(i)
a notice in the United Nations publication, Development Forum, 
Business Edition; or
(ii)
an advertisement in a newspaper, periodical or technical journal 
of wide international circulation; or
(iii)
a notice to local representatives of countries and territories 
referred to in the Guidelines, that are potential suppliers of the 
goods required."
Page  11
(b)
The following is added at the end of paragraph 2.21 of the Guidelines:
 
"As a further alternative, bidding documents may require the bidder to 
state the bid price in a single currency widely used in international trade 
and specified in the bidding documents."
(c)
Paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the Guidelines are deleted.
 
(d)
When contract award is delayed beyond the original bid validity period, 
such period may be extended once, subject to and in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraph 2.59 of the Guidelines, by the minimum amount of time required to complete 
the evaluation, obtain necessary approvals and clearances and award the contract. The 
bid validity period may be extended a second time only if the bidding documents or the 
request for extension shall provide for appropriate adjustment of the bid price to 
reflect changes in the cost of inputs for the contract over the period of extension. 
Such an increase in the bid price shall not be taken into account in the bid 
evaluation.
(e)
In the procurement of goods in accordance with this paragraph 1, the 
Borrower shall use the relevant standard bidding documents issued by the Bank, with 
such modifications thereto as the Association shall have agreed to be necessary for 
the purposes of the Project. Where no relevant standard bidding documents have been 
issued by the Bank, the Borrower shall use bidding documents based on other 
internationally recognized standard forms agreed with the Association.
2.
Contracts for the procurement of goods estimated to cost the equivalent of less 
than $5,000,000 shall be awarded:
(a)
by purchasers required to follow the Borrower's public procurement 
procedures for the importation of goods, on the basis of such procedures, provided 
that such procedures shall have been found acceptable by the Association; and
(b)
by other purchasers, in accordance with established commercial practice, 
provided that such contracts shall be awarded on the basis of evaluation and 
comparison of quotations obtained from at least two suppliers eligible under the 
guidelines, except that direct contracting procedures acceptable to the Association 
may be used where considered appropriate under paragraph 3.5 of the Guidelines.
3.
Subject to the prior approval of the Association, commonly traded commodities 
may be procured through organized international commodity markets or other channels of 
competitive procurement acceptable to the Association, in accordance with procedures 
acceptable to the Association.
4.
With respect to each contract referred to in paragraph 1 of this Schedule, the 
Borrower shall furnish to the Association, prior to the submission to the Association 
of the first application for withdrawal of funds from the Credit Account in respect of 
such contract, two conformed copies of such contract, together with the analysis of 
the respective bids and recommendations for award, a description of the advertising 
and tendering procedures followed and such other information as the Association shall 
reasonably request.
5.
With respect to each contract referred to in paragraphs 2 and 3 of this 
Schedule, the Borrower shall furnish to the Association, prior to the submission to 
the Association of the first application for withdrawal of funds from the Credit 
Account in respect thereof, such documentation and information as the Association may 
reasonably request to support withdrawal applications in respect of such contract.
6.
The provisions of the preceding paragraph 5 of this Schedule shall not apply to 
contracts on account of which withdrawals from the Credit Account are to be made on 
the basis of statements of expenditure.
SCHEDULE 3
Part A:
1.
The Borrower shall have furnished to the Association a strategy satisfactory to 
the Association, for the capitalization of YPFB.
2.
The Borrower shall have enacted the Hydrocarbons Law and the Hydrocarbons 
Regulations.
3.
The Borrower shall have enacted the Hydrocarbons Tax Regulations.
Page  12
4.
The Borrower shall have established and staffed the Hydrocarbons Regulatory 
Agency and the agency or agencies responsible for the award and supervision of 
concessions.
5.
The Borrower shall have issued bids for the capitalization, under the 
Capitalization Law, of at least 30% of the total book value of YPFB, excluding any 
part or parts of YPFB to be privatized.
Part B:
1.
The Borrower shall have enacted the Capitalization Procurement Regulation.
 
2.
The Borrower shall have enacted the SIRESE Regulations and appointed the 
Superintendent General.
3.
The Borrower shall have enacted the Tax Regulations. 
 
4.
The Borrower shall have enacted the Telecommunications Law and the 
Telecommunications Regulations.
5.
The Borrower shall have issued bids for the capitalization, under the 
Capitalization Law, of ENTEL.
6.
The Borrower shall have established and staffed the Telecommunications 
Regulatory Agency.
7.
The Borrower shall have enacted the Electricity Regulations.
 
8.
The Borrower shall have put into operation and staffed the Electricity 
Regulatory Agency.
9.
The Borrower shall have enacted the Amendment to the Mining Code.
 
Part C:
1.
The Borrower shall have enacted the Securities Law and the
Securities Regulations.
2.
The Borrower shall have provided the Securities Regulatory Agency with the 
resources, staff, equipment and computer systems required by such agency to enforce 
the Securities Law and the Securities Regulations.
3.
The Borrower shall have enacted the Pension Law.
 
4.
The Borrower shall have established and staffed the Pension Regulatory Agency.
 
5.
The Borrower shall have enacted the Insurance Law and the Insurance Regulations.
 
6.
The Borrower shall have provided the Insurance Regulatory Agency with the 
resources, staff, equipment and computer systems required by such agency to enforce 
the Insurance Law and the Insurance Regulations.
