Page  1
CONFORMED COPY 
CREDIT NUMBER 2761-BO
Third Agreement Amending
Development Credit Agreement
(Capitalization Program Adjustment Credit)
between
REPUBLIC OF BOLIVIA
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated February 27 , 1998
CREDIT NUMBER 2761-BO
THIRD AGREEMENT AMENDING
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated February 27, 1998, between REPUBLIC OF BOLIVIA (the Borrower) 
and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Associa\1ftion).
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower and the Association have entered into a Development 
Credit Agreement (Capitalization Program Adjustment Credit) dated July 7, 1995 (the 
Development Credit Agreement), for the purpose of providing assistance in support of 
the program referred to in Recital (A) of the Preamble to the Development Credit 
Agreement (the Program);
(B)
the Borrower and the Association have entered into the First Agreement 
Amending Development Credit Agreement (Capitalization Program Adjustment Credit) dated 
April 15, 1996 whereby additional assistance was made available to the Borrower for 
the purpose of providing support during the execution of the program;
(C)
the Borrower and the Association have entered into the Second Agreement 
Amending Development Credit Agreement (Capitalization Program Adjustment Credit) dated 
December 19, 1996 whereby additional assistance was made available to the Borrower for 
the purpose of providing support during the execution of the program;
(D)
pursuant to an amendment letter from the Association to the Borrower, 
dated March 15, 1996 duly countersigned by the Borrower on April 5, 1996 the 
disbursement procedures set forth in the Development Credit Agreement were simplified;
(E)
the Borrower has requested the Association to provide further assistance 
toward the financing of the Program by increasing the amount made available under the 
Development Credit Agreement by an amount in various currencies equivalent to two 
Page  2
million one hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR2,100,000); and
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, 
to provide such further additional assistance to the Borrower upon the terms and 
conditions set forth in this Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Amendments of the Development
Credit Agreement
Section 1.01.  Section 1.02 of the Development Credit Agreement is amended by:
(a)
substituting the amount "SDR6,790,000" by the amount "SDR8,890,000" in 
paragraph (j) thereof;
(b)
deleting the word "and" after paragraph (al) thereof;
(c)
substituting the period at the end of paragraph (am) thereof by a 
semicolon and adding the word "and" after such semicolon; and
(d)
adding the following new paragraph (an):
"(an)
'Third Amending Agreement' means the Third Agreement Amending the 
Development Credit Agreement (Capitalization Program Adjustment Credit) 
between the Borrower and the Association dated February 27, 1998.".
Section 1.02.  Section 2.01 of the Development Credit Agreement is amended to 
read as follows:
"Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the 
terms and conditions set forth or referred to in the Development Credit 
Agreement, an amount in various currencies equivalent to forty-five million 
two hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR45,200,000) (the Credit), 
which includes an original amount in various currencies equivalent to 
thirty-four million Special Drawing Rights (SDR34,000,000), a first 
supplemental amount in various currencies equivalent to five million three 
hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR5,300,000) (the First Additional 
Financing); a second supplemental amount in various currencies equivalent to 
three million eight hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR3,800,000) 
(the Second Additional Financing); and a third supplemental amount in various 
currencies equivalent to two million one hundred thousand Special Drawing 
Rights (SDR2,100,000) (the Third Additional Financing).".
Section 1.03. A proviso is added at the end of Section 2.04 (b) (i) of the 
Development Credit Agreement to read as follows:
"; and that any commitment charge on the Third Additional Financing 
shall accrue from a date sixty days after the date of the Third Amending 
Agreement". 
Section 1.04. Section 2.02 (a) of the Development Credit Agreement is amended by 
substituting the reference to "paragraphs (b), (c), (d), (e) and (f)" by a reference 
to "paragraphs (b), (c), (d), (e), (f) and (g)".
Section 1.05. The following paragraph is added at the end of Section 2.02 of the 
Development Credit Agreement:
"(g) After a date twelve months (or such later date as the Association 
shall establish and promptly notify to the Borrower) from the date of the 
Third Amending Agreement, no withdrawals shall be made from the Credit Account 
in respect of expenditures to be financed out of the proceeds of the Third 
Additional Financing. At any time after such date, the Association may, by 
notice to the Borrower, cancel the unwithdrawn amount of the Third Additional 
Financing from the Credit Account or any part thereof.".
ARTICLE II
Effective Date; Termination
Page  3
Section 2.01. This Agreement shall not become effective until evidence 
satisfactory to the Association shall have been furnished to the Association that the 
execution and delivery of this Agreement on behalf of the Borrower have been duly 
authorized or ratified by all necessary governmental action.
Section 2.02. As part of the evidence to be furnished pursuant to Section 2.01 
of this Agreement, there shall be furnished to the Association an opinion or opinions 
satisfactory to the Association of counsel acceptable to the Association showing, on 
behalf of the Borrower, that this Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified by, 
and executed and delivered on behalf of, the Borrower and is legally binding upon the 
Borrower in accordance with its terms.
Section 2.03. This Agreement shall come into force and effect on the date upon 
which the Association shall dispatch to the Borrower notice of its acceptance of the 
evidence required by Section 2.01 of this Agreement.
Section 2.04. If this Agreement shall not have come into force and effect by May 
27, 1998, this Agreement and all obligations of the parties hereunder shall terminate, 
unless the Association establishes a later date for the purposes of this Section.  If 
this Agreement shall terminate under the provisions of this Section, the Development 
Credit Agreement shall continue in full force and effect, as if this Agreement had not 
been executed.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
REPUBLIC OF BOLIVIA
By /s/ Edgar Millares
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ Isabel Guerrero
Acting Regional Vice President
Latin America and the Caribbean
