Page  1
March 15, 1996
H.E. Fernando Candia
Minister of Finance
Republic of Bolivia
Palacio de las Comunicaciones
Av. Mariscal Santa-Cruz Esq. Oruro, Piso 19
La Paz, Bolivia
Excellency:
Credit No. 2761-BO (Capitalization Program Adjustment Credit)
- Amendment to the Development Credit Agreement
Please refer to the Development Credit Agreement dated July 7, 1995, between the 
Republic of Bolivia (the Borrower) and the International Development Association (the 
Association) for the above referenced Credit.
We are pleased to advise you that pursuant to your request and our recent 
discussions on the subject the Association agrees to amend said Agreement as follows 
so as to implement the simplified disbursement procedures under structural adjustment 
operations recently approved by the Executive Directors of the Association.
1.
The last sentence of Whereas (A) of the Preamble is amended to read as follows:
 
"and requesting assistance from the Association in support of the 
Program during the execution thereof;"
2.
Paragraph (a) of Section 1.01 is amended to read as follows:
 
"(a)
Section 2.01, paragraph 9, shall be modified to read:
 
"'Project' means the program, referred to in the Preamble to the 
Development Credit Agreement, in support of which the Credit is made.";"
3.
The word "and" at the end of paragraph (b) of Section 1.01 is deleted and the 
following paragraphs are added at the end of such Section:
"(d)
Section 4.01 is modified to read:
 
"Except as the Borrower and the Association shall otherwise agree, 
withdrawals from the Credit Account shall be made in the currency of the 
deposit account specified in Section 2.02 of the Development Credit 
Agreement." ;
(e)
Section 5.01 is modified to read:
 
"The Borrower shall be entitled to withdraw the proceeds of the Credit 
from the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of the Development 
Credit Agreement and of these General Conditions. Except as the Borrower and 
the Association shall otherwise agree, no withdrawals shall be made: (a) on 
account of expenditures in the territories of any country which is not a 
member of the Bank or for goods produced in, or services supplied from, such 
territories; or (b) for the purpose of any payment to persons or entities, or 
for 
any import of goods, if such payment or import, to the knowledge of the 
Association, is prohibited by a decision of the United Nations Security 
Council taken under Chapter VII of the Charter of the United Nations.";
(f)
the last sentence of Section 5.03 is deleted; and
 
(g)
Section 9.04 is deleted and Sections 9.05, 9.06 (as modified 
above), 9.07 and 9.08 are renumbered, respectively, Sections 9.04, 9.05, 9.06 
and 9.07.".
4.
The references to paragraphs 4 (a), 4 (b) and 4 (c) of Schedule 1 to the 
Development Credit Agreement in Sections 1.02 (r), (m) and (j), respectively, are 
replaced by references to Sections 2.02 (d) (i), (d) (ii) and (d) (iii), respectively.
Page  2
5.
The word "and" at the end of paragraph (aj) of Section 1.02 is deleted and the 
following paragraphs are added at the end of such Section:
"(al)
"Deposit Account" means the account referred to in Section 2.02 
(b) of this Agreement; and
(am)
"Tranche" means the Hydrocarbons Sector Floating Tranche, the 
General Capitalization Floating Tranche or the Financial Sector Floating 
Tranche.".
6.
Section 2.02 is amended to read as follows:
 
"Section 2.02. (a) Subject to the provisions of paragraphs (b), (c), (d) 
and (e) of this Section, the Borrower shall be entitled to withdraw the 
proceeds of the Credit from the Credit Account in support of the Program.
(b)  The Borrower shall open, prior to furnishing to the Association the 
first request for withdrawal from the Credit Account, and thereafter maintain 
in the 
Borrower's Central Bank, a deposit account in Dollars on terms and 
conditions satisfactory to the Association.  All withdrawals from the Credit 
Account shall be deposited by the Association  into the Deposit Account.
 
(c)
The Borrower undertakes that the proceeds of the Credit shall not 
be used to finance expenditures excluded pursuant to the provisions of 
Schedule 1 to this Agreement. If the Association shall have determined at any 
time 
that any proceeds of the Credit shall have been used to make a payment 
for an 
expenditure so excluded, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from 
the 
Association: (i) deposit into the Deposit Account an amount equal to the 
amount 
of said payment; or (ii) if the Association shall so request, refund 
such 
amount to the Association.  Amounts refunded to the Association upon such 
request shall be credited to the Credit Account for cancellation.
(d)
No withdrawal shall be made from the Credit Account:
 
(i)
under the Hydrocarbons Sector Floating Tranche unless the 
Association shall be satisfied, after an exchange of views 
as described in Section 3.01 of this Agreement, based on 
evidence satisfactory to the Association:
(A)
with the progress achieved by the Borrower in the 
carrying out of the Program;
(B)
that the actions described in Part A of Schedule 3 to 
this Agreement have been taken, in form and substance 
satisfactory to the Association; and
(C)
that the Borrower's macroeconomic policy framework is 
consistent with the objectives of the Program;
(ii)
under the General Capitalization Floating Tranche unless the 
Association shall be satisfied, after an exchange of views 
as described in Section 3.01 of this Agreement, based on 
evidence satisfactory to the Association:
(A)
with the progress achieved by the Borrower in the 
carrying out of the Program;
(B)
that the actions described in Part B of Schedule 3 to 
this Agreement have been taken, in form and substance 
satisfactory to the Association; and
(C)
that the Borrower's macroeconomic policy framework is 
consistent with the objectives of the Program; and
(iii)
under the Financial Sector Floating Tranche unless the 
Association shall be satisfied, after an exchange of views 
as described in Section 3.01 of this Agreement, based on 
evidence satisfactory to the Association:
(A)
with the progress achieved by the Borrower in the 
carrying out of the Program;
Page  3
(B)
that the actions described in Part C of Schedule 3 to 
this Agreement have been taken, in form and substance 
satisfactory to the Association; and
(C)
that the Borrower's macroeconomic policy framework is 
consistent with the objectives of the Program.
(e)
If, after any of the exchanges of views described in paragraph (d) 
above, the Association shall have given notice to the Borrower that the 
progress achieved in the carrying out of the Program or that the actions taken 
are 
not satisfactory or that the Borrower's macroeconomic policy is not 
consistent with the objectives of the Program and, within 90 days after such 
notice, the Borrower shall not have achieved progress or taken actions 
satisfactory to the Association, or the Borrower's macroeconomic policy 
framework shall have not become consistent with the objectives of the Program, 
then 
the Association may, by notice to the Borrower, cancel the unwithdrawn 
amount 
of the Credit or any part thereof.".
7.
Section 3.02 is amended to read as follows:
 
"Section 3.02.  Upon the Association's request, the Borrower shall:
(a)
have the Deposit Account audited in accordance with appropriate 
auditing principles consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable 
to the Association;
(b)
furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any case 
not later than four months after the date of the Association's request for 
such audit, a certified copy of the report of such audit by said auditors, of 
such scope and in such detail as the Association shall have reasonably 
requested; and
(c)
furnish to the Association such other information concerning the 
Deposit Account and the audit thereof as the Association shall have reasonably 
requested.".
8.
Section 3.03 is deleted.
 
9.
Schedule 1 is amended to read as set forth in Attachment 1 to this letter.
 
10.
Schedule 2 is deleted.
 
Please confirm your agreement to the foregoing amendments by signing and dating 
this letter in the spaces provided below. This amendment letter shall be executed in 
two counterparts, each of which shall be an original. Upon your confirmation, please 
return one fully executed original to us.
The provisions of this amendment letter will become effective as of the date the 
Association receives one fully executed original of this amendment letter.
Sincerely,
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Philippe Nouvel
Country Director
Country Department III
Latin America & The Caribbean
AGREED:
REPUBLIC OF BOLIVIA
Fernando Candia Castillo
Authorized Representative
Date: April 5, 1996
Page  4
Attachment 1
SCHEDULE 1
Excluded Expenditures
For purposes of Section 2.02 (c) of this Agreement, the proceeds of the Credit 
shall not be used to finance any of the following expenditures:
1.
expenditures in the currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied 
from the territory of the Borrower;
2.
expenditures for goods or services supplied under a contract which any national 
or international financing institution or agency other than the Bank or the 
Association shall have financed or agreed to finance, or which the Bank or the 
Association shall have financed or agreed to finance under a loan or another credit;
3.
expenditures for goods included in the following groups or sub-groups of the 
SITC, or any successor groups or sub-groups under future revisions to the SITC, as 
designated by the Association by notice to the Borrower:
Group            Sub-group        Description of Items
      112              -          Alcoholic beverages
      121              -          Tobacco, unmanufactured, tobacco
                                  refuse
      122              -          Tobacco, manufactured (whether
                                  or not containing tobacco sub-
                                  stitutes)
      525              -          Radioactive and associated
                                  materials
      667              -          Pearls, precious and semi-
                                  precious stones, unworked or
                                  worked
      718              718.7      Nuclear reactors, and parts
                                  thereof; fuel elements
                                  (cartridges), non-irradiated,
                                  for nuclear reactors
      728              728.43     Tobacco processing machinery
      897              897.3      Jewelry of gold, silver or
                                  platinum group metals (except
                                  watches and watch cases) and
                                  goldsmiths' or silversmiths'
                                  wares (including set gems)
      971              -          Gold, non-monetary (excluding
                                  gold ores and concentrates)
4.
expenditures for goods intended for a military or para-military purpose or for 
luxury consumption;
5.
expenditures for environmentally hazardous goods. For purposes of this paragraph 
the term "environmentally hazardous goods" means goods, the manufacture, use or import 
of which is prohibited under the laws of the Borrower or international agreements to 
which the Borrower is a party; and
6.
in furtherance of the purposes of Section 5.01 of the General Conditions, 
expenditures: (a) in the territories of any country which is not a member of the Bank 
or for goods procured in, or services supplied from, such territories; or (b) on 
account of any payment to persons or entities, or any import of goods, if such payment 
or import is prohibited by a decision of the United Nations Security Council taken 
under Chapter VII of the Charter of the United Nations.
Page  5
