Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 2761-1-BO
First Agreement Amending
Development Credit Agreement
(Capitalization Program Adjustment Credit)
between
REPUBLIC OF BOLIVIA
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated April 15, 1996
CREDIT NUMBER 2761-1-BO
FIRST AGREEMENT AMENDING
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated April 15, 1996 between REPUBLIC OF BOLIVIA (the Borrower) and 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Associa\1ftion).
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower and the Association have entered into a Development 
Credit Agreement (Capitalization Program Adjustment Credit) dated July 7, 1995 (the 
Development Credit Agreement), for the purpose of assisting in the financing of the 
program referred to in Recital (A) of the Preamble to the Development Credit Agreement 
(the Program);
(B)
the Borrower has requested the Association to provide further assistance 
toward the financing of the Program by increasing the amount made available under the 
Development Credit Agreement by an amount in various currencies equivalent to five 
million three hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR5,300,000); and
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, 
to provide such further additional assistance to the Borrower upon the terms and 
conditions set forth in this Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Amendments of the Development
Credit Agreement
Section 1.01.  Section 1.02 of the Development Credit Agreement is amended by:
(a)
substituting the amount "SDR6,840,000" by the amount "SDR12,140,000" in 
Page  2
paragraph (m) thereof;
(b)
deleting the word "and" after paragraph (aj) thereof;
(c)
substituting the period at the end of paragraph (ak) thereof by a 
semicolon and adding the word "and" after such semicolon; and
(d)
adding the following new paragraph (al):
"(al) `First Amending Agreement' means the First Agreement Amending the 
Development Credit Agreement (Capitalization Program Adjustment Credit) 
between the Borrower and the Association dated July 7, 1995.".
Section 1.02.  Section 2.01 of the Development Credit Agreement is amended to 
read as follows:
"Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on 
the terms and conditions set forth or referred to in the Development Credit 
Agreement, an amount in various currencies equivalent to thirty-nine million 
three hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR39,300,000) (the Credit), 
which includes an original amount in various currencies equivalent to 
thirty-four million Special Drawing Rights (SDR34,000,000), and a first 
supplemental amount in various currencies equivalent to five million three 
hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR5,300,000) (the First Additional 
Financing).".
Section 1.03. A proviso is added at the end of Section 2.04 (b)(i) of the 
Development Credit Agreement to read as follows:
"; provided, however, that any commitment charge on the First Additional 
Financing shall accrue from a date sixty days after the date of the First 
Amending Agreement;". 
Section 1.04. Category (3) and the total amount of the table set forth in 
Schedule 1 to the Development Credit Agreement is amended by substituting the amounts 
"6,840,000" and "34,000,000" by the amounts "12,140,000" and "39,300,000", 
respectively.
Section 1.05. The following paragraph is added at the end of Schedule 1 to the 
Development Credit Agreement:
"6. After a date twelve months from the date of the First Amending 
Agreement, no withdrawals shall be made and no commitment shall be entered 
into to pay amounts to or on the order of the Borrower in respect of 
expenditures to be financed out of the proceeds of the First Additional 
Financing. At any time after such date, the Association may, by notice to the 
Borrower, cancel the unwithdrawn amount of the First Additional Financing from 
the 
Credit Account or any part thereof.".
ARTICLE II
Effective Date; Termination
Section 2.01. This Agreement shall not become effective until: (a) all 
conditions precedent to the effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement shall 
have been fulfilled; and (b) evidence satisfactory to the Association shall have been 
furnished to the Association that the execution and delivery of this Agreement on 
behalf of the Borrower have been duly authorized or ratified by all necessary 
governmental action.
Section 2.02. As part of the evidence to be furnished pursuant to Section 2.01 
of this Agreement, there shall be furnished to the Association an opinion or opinions 
satisfactory to the Association of counsel acceptable to the Association showing, on 
behalf of the Borrower, that this Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified by, 
and executed and delivered on behalf of, the Borrower and is legally binding upon the 
Borrower in accordance with its terms.
Section 2.03. This Agreement shall come into force and effect on the date upon 
which the Association shall dispatch to the Borrower notice of its acceptance of the 
evidence required by Section 12.03 (a) of the General Conditions, with regard to the 
Development Credit Agreement, and by Section 2.01 of this Agreement, with regard to 
this Agreement, whichever occurs later.
Page  3
Section 2.04. If this Agreement shall not have come into force and effect by 
July 15, 1996, this Agreement and all obligations of the parties hereunder shall 
terminate, unless the Association establish\1fes a later date for the purposes of this 
Section. If this Agreement shall terminate under the provisions of this Section, but 
the conditions precedent to the effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement have 
been fulfilled, the Develop\1fment Credit Agreement shall continue in full force and 
effect, as if this Agreement had not been executed.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
REPUBLIC OF BOLIVIA
By /s/ Fernando Cossio
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ Sri-Ram Aiyer
Acting Regional Vice President
Latin America and the Caribbean
