Page  1
                                                     LOAN NUMBER 3792 IND
                              Loan Agreement
                       (Land Administration Project)
                                  between
                           REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA
                                    and
                   INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
                              AND DEVELOPMENT
                         Dated September 30, 1994
                                                     LOAN NUMBER 3792 IND
                              LOAN AGREEMENT
      AGREEMENT, dated September 30, 1994, between REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA
(the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
(the Bank).
      WHEREAS: (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the
feasibility and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement, has requested the Bank to assist in the financing of the Project;
and
      (B)   the Borrower intends to obtain from the Australian International
Development Assistance Bureau (AIDAB) a grant (the AIDAB Grant) in an
aggregate principal amount equivalent to $15,200,000 to assist in financing
part of the Project on the terms and conditions set forth in the AIDAB
Project Arrangement; and
      WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the
foregoing, to extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions
set forth in this Agreement;
      NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
                                 ARTICLE I
                      General Conditions; Definitions
      Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee
Agreements" of the Bank, dated January 1, 1985, with the modifications set
forth below (the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this
Agreement:
Page  2
      (a)   The last sentence of Section 3.02 is deleted.
      (b)   In Section 6.02, sub-paragraph (k) is re-lettered as sub-
paragraph (l) and a new sub-paragraph (k) is added to read:
            "(k)  An extraordinary situation shall have arisen under which
                  any further withdrawals under the Loan would be
                  inconsistent with the provisions of Article III, Section
                  3 of the Bank's Articles of Agreement."
      Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms
defined in the General Conditions have the respective meanings therein set
forth and the following additional terms have the following meanings:
      (a)   "BKTRN" means the Borrower's Coordinating Board for National
Spatial Development, chaired by the State Minister for National Development
Planning/Chairman of the National Development Planning Agency (BAPPENAS);
      (b)   "BPN" means the Borrower's National Land Agency established
pursuant to Presidential Decree No. 26 of 1988;
      (c)   "control points densification" means a major survey of land to
increase the density of control points for base mapping and cadastral
mapping purposes;
      (d)   "Fiscal Year" means the Borrower's fiscal year commencing April
1 and ending March 31;
      (e)   "graphical index map" means a map of existing certified parcels
of land;
      (f)   "Project area" means the following areas: Kotamadya Bandung,
Kabupaten Bandung, Kabupaten Bekasi, Kabupaten Bogor, Kabupaten Karawang,
Kotamadya Tangerang, and Kabupaten Tangerang in West Java Province;
Kotamadya Jakarta Selatan, Kotamadya Jakarta Barat, and Kotamadya Jakarta
Timur in DKI Jakarta Province; Kotamadya Semarang, Kabupaten Klaten, and
Kabupaten Wonogiri in Central Java Province; Kabupaten Sleman in DI
Yogyakarta Province; Kotamadya Malang and Kotamadya Surabaya in East Java
Province; Kotamadya Medan in North Sumatra Province; and Kotamadya Palembang
in South Sumatra Province;
      (g)   "PUSDIKLAT" means BPN's Center for Training and Education;
      (h)   "Special Account" means the account referred to in Section 2.02
(b) of this Agreement;
      (i)   "sporadic registration" means registration of land titles as
landowners apply individually for their respective parcels;
      (j)   "STPN" means BPN's National Land Institute in Yogyakarta; and
      (k)   "systematic registration" means registration, village by
village, of land titles of all eligible parcels in a contiguous area and
carried out simultaneously for such area.
                                ARTICLE II
                                 The Loan
      Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms
and conditions set forth or referred to in this Agreement, various
currencies that shall have an aggregate value equivalent to the amount of
eighty million dollars ($80,000,000), being the sum of withdrawals of the
proceeds of the Loan, with each withdrawal valued by the Bank as of the date
of such withdrawal.
      Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the
Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this
Agreement for expenditures made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made)
in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for the
Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement and to be financed out of
Page  3
the proceeds of the Loan.
      (b)   The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the Project, open and
maintain in Bank Indonesia or in a commercial bank a special deposit account
in United States dollars on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank,
including appropriate protection against set-off, seizure or attachment.
Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Account shall be made in
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 6 to this Agreement.
      Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be September 30, 2000 or such
later date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly notify the
Borrower of such later date.
      Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge
at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the
principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn from time to time.
      Section 2.05. (a)  The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal
amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, at a rate
for each Interest Period equal to the Cost of Qualified Borrowings
determined in respect of the preceding Semester, plus one-half of one
percent (1/2 of 1%).  On each of the dates specified in Section 2.06 of this
Agreement, the Borrower shall pay interest accrued on the principal amount
outstanding during the preceding Interest Period, calculated at the rate
applicable during such Interest Period.
      (b)   As soon as practicable after the end of each Semester, the Bank
shall notify the Borrower of the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in
respect of such Semester.
      (c)   For the purposes of this Section:
            (i)   "Interest Period" means a six-month period ending on the
                  date immediately preceding each date specified in Section
                  2.06 of this Agreement, beginning with the Interest
                  Period in which this Agreement is signed.
            (ii)  "Cost of Qualified Borrowings" means the cost, as
                  reasonably determined by the Bank and expressed as a
                  percentage per annum, of the outstanding borrowings of
                  the Bank drawn down after June 30, 1982, excluding such
                  borrowings or portions thereof as the Bank has allocated
                  to fund: (A) the Bank's investments; and (B) loans which
                  may be made by the Bank after July 1, 1989 bearing
                  interest rates determined otherwise than as provided in
                  paragraph (a) of this Section.
            (iii) "Semester" means the first six months or the second six
                  months of a calendar year.
      (d)   On such date as the Bank may specify by no less than six months'
notice to the Borrower, paragraphs (a), (b) and (c) (iii) of this Section
shall be amended to read as follows:
                  "(a)  The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal
            amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time,
            at a rate for each Quarter equal to the Cost of Qualified
            Borrowings determined in respect of the preceding Quarter, plus
            one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%).  On each of the dates
            specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement, the Borrower shall
            pay interest accrued on the principal amount outstanding during
            the preceding Interest Period, calculated at the rates
            applicable during such Interest Period."
                  "(b)  As soon as practicable after the end of each
            Quarter, the Bank shall notify the Borrower of the Cost of
            Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of such Quarter."
                  "(c) (iii) `Quarter' means a three-month period
            commencing on January 1, April 1, July 1 or October 1 in a
            calendar year."
Page  4
      Section 2.06. Interest and other charges shall be payable semi-
annually on March 15 and September 15 in each year.
      Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the
Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3
to this Agreement.
                                ARTICLE III
                         Execution of the Project
      Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the
objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and,
to this end, shall carry out the Project with due diligence and efficiency
and in conformity with appropriate administrative, financial and land
registration practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds,
facilities, services and other resources required for the Project.
      (b)   Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this
Section, and except as the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise agree, the
Borrower shall carry out the Project in accordance with the Implementation
Program set forth in Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
      Section 3.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement
of the goods, works and consultants' services required for the Project and
to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by the
provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
                                ARTICLE IV
                            Financial Covenants
      Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be
maintained records and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound
accounting practices the operations, resources and expenditures in respect
of the Project of the departments or agencies of the Borrower responsible
for carrying out the Project or any part thereof.
      (b)   The Borrower shall:
            (i)   have the records and accounts referred to in
                  paragraph (a) of this Section including those for the
                  Special Account for each fiscal year audited, in
                  accordance with appropriate auditing principles
                  consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable
                  to the Bank;
            (ii)  furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case
                  not later than nine months after the end of each such
                  year, the report of such audit by said auditors, of such
                  scope and in such detail as the Bank shall have
                  reasonably requested; and
            (iii) furnish to the Bank such other information concerning
                  said records and accounts and the audit thereof as the
                  Bank shall from time to time reasonably request.
      (c)   For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the
Loan Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the
Borrower shall:
            (i)   maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with
                  paragraph (a) of this Section, records and accounts
                  reflecting such expenditures;
            (ii)  retain, until at least one year after the Bank has
                  received the audit report for the fiscal year in which
                  the last withdrawal from the Loan Account or payment out
                  of the Special Account was made, all records (contracts,
                  orders, invoices, bills, receipts and other documents)
Page  5
                  evidencing such expenditures;
            (iii) enable the Bank's representatives to examine such
                  records; and
            (iv)  ensure that such records and accounts are included in the
                  annual audit referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section
                  and that the report of such audit contains a separate
                  opinion by said auditors as to whether the statements of
                  expenditure submitted during such fiscal year, together
                  with the procedures and internal controls involved in
                  their preparation, can be relied upon to support the
                  related withdrawals.
                                 ARTICLE V
                           Remedies of the Bank
      Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (l) of the General Conditions,
the following additional events are specified:
      (a)   (i)   subject to sub-paragraph (ii) of this paragraph, the
                  right of the Borrower to withdraw the proceeds of the
                  AIDAB Grant shall have been suspended, canceled or
                  terminated in whole or in part, pursuant to the terms of
                  the AIDAB Project Agreement;
            (ii)  sub-paragraph (i) of this paragraph shall not apply if
                  the Borrower establishes to the satisfaction of the Bank
                  that: (i) such suspension, cancellation, or termination
                  is not caused by the failure of the Borrower to perform
                  any of its obligations under such agreement; and (ii)
                  adequate funds for the Project are available to the
                  Borrower from other sources on terms and conditions
                  consistent with the obligations of the Borrower under
                  this Agreement; or
      (b)   the AIDAB Project Arrangement shall have failed to become
effective by November 1, 1994, or such later date as the Bank may agree;
provided, however, that the provisions of this paragraph shall not apply if
the Borrower establishes to the satisfaction of the Bank that adequate funds
for the Project are available to the Borrower from other sources on terms
and conditions consistent with the obligations of the Borrower under this
Agreement.
                                ARTICLE VI
                                Termination
      Section 6.01. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this
Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the
General Conditions.
                                ARTICLE VII
                 Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
      Section 7.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is designated
as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the
General Conditions.
      Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes
of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
      For the Borrower:
            Ministry of Finance
            c/o Directorate General of Budget
            Jalan Lapangan Banteng Timur 2-4
Page  6
            P. O. Box 2458
            Jakarta, 10710
            Indonesia
                  Cable address:          Telex:
                        FINMINISTRY             45799 DJMLN-IA
                        Jakarta                 44319 DEPKEU-IA
      For the Bank:
            International Bank for
              Reconstruction and Development
            1818 H Street, N.W.
            Washington, D.C. 20433
            United States of America
                  Cable address:          Telex:
                        INTBAFRAD               248423 (RCA)
Washington, D.C.        82987 (FTCC)
                                                64145 (WUI) or
                                                197688 (TRT)
      IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their
respective names in the District of Columbia, United States of America, as
of the day and year first above written.
                              REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA
                              By /s/ Arifin M. Siregar
                                                Authorized Representative
                              INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
                                RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
                              By /s/ Abdallah El Maaroufi
                                           Acting Regional Vice President
                                                    East Asia and Pacific
                                SCHEDULE 1
                  Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.    The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out
of the proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the Loan to
each Category and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed
in each Category:
                                 Amount of the
                                Loan Allocated          % of
                                 (Expressed in      Expenditures
                                    Dollar              to be
          Category                Equivalent)          Financed
(1)       Civil works               12,700,000      90%
(2)       Services for              30,100,000      90%
          control points
          densification,
          mapping, cadastral
          surveying, and
          media publicity
Page  7
(3)       Equipment                  4,000,000      100% of foreign
          (except                                   expenditures,
          vehicles)                                 100% of local
                                                    expenditures
                                                    (ex-factory cost)
                                                    and 65% of local
                                                    expenditures
                                                    for other items
                                                    procured locally
(4)       Map reproduction             500,000      90%
(5)       Training                   1,600,000      60%
(6)       Land registration         20,600,000      75%
    cost
(7)       Consultants'               6,100,000      100%
    services under
    Parts A.1,
    A.6 (ii) and (vi),
    B.1 (a), B.2 (b),
    and C of the Project
(8)       Unallocated                4,400,000
          TOTAL                     80,000,000
2.  For the purposes of this Schedule:
    (a)   the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in the currency
of any country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services
supplied from the territory of any country other than that of the Borrower;
    (b)   the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the currency
of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the
Borrower; and
    (c)   the term "land registration cost" means expenditures for per diem
and transportation, supplies, rental of temporary offices, lease of
photocopiers, salaries of non-BPN local labor, and services of village head
representatives, during systematic adjudication, control points
densification and graphical index compilation by BPN staff.
3.  Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals
shall be made in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the date
of this Agreement.
4.  The Bank may require withdrawals from the Loan Account to be made on the
basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures under contracts for
goods and services not exceeding $200,000, contracts for works not exceeding
$750,000 equivalent, contracts for the employment of consulting firms not
exceeding $100,000 equivalent, and contracts for the employment of
individual consultants not exceeding $50,000, under such terms and
conditions as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower.
                                SCHEDULE 2
                        Description of the Project
    The objectives of the Project are: (i) to foster efficient and equitable
land markets and alleviate social conflicts over land, through acceleration
of land registration and improvement of the institutional framework for land
administration; and (ii) to support the Borrower's efforts to develop land
management policies.
    The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such
modifications thereof as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon from time
to time to achieve such objectives:
PART A: Acceleration of Land Registration
Page  8
1.  Carrying out of control points densification, aerial photography, base
mapping and graphical index compilation in the Project Area, and provision
of technical assistance for supervision and quality checking of control
points densification, aerial photography and base mapping activities.
2.  Carrying out of systematic registration in: Kotamadya Bandung, Kabupaten
Bekasi, Kabupaten Bogor, Kabupaten Karawang, Kotamadya Tangerang and
Kabupaten Tangerang in West Java Province; Kotamadya Jakarta Selatan in DKI
Jakarta Province; Kotamadya Semarang in Central Java Province; Kabupaten
Sleman in DI Yogyakarta Province; and Kotamadya Malang in East Java
Province.
3.  Provision of facilities, equipment and furniture to BPN's provincial and
land offices responsible for carrying out systematic registration; provision
of technical assistance for systematic registration to BPN's central and
provincial offices; and carrying out of information dissemination activities
to the public and the provincial and local governments, including
consultation with provincial and local governments, on the procedures, fees
and benefits of land registration, during systematic registration
activities.
4.  Carrying out of sporadic registration in: Kabupaten Bandung in West Java
Province; Kotamadya Jakarta Barat and Kotamadya Jakarta Timur in DKI Jakarta
Province; Kabupaten Klaten and Kabupaten Wonogiri in Central Java Province;
Kotamadya Surabaya in East Java Province; Kotamadya Medan in North Sumatra
Province; and Kotamadya Palembang in South Sumatra Province.
5.  Provision of facilities, equipment and furniture to BPN's land offices
carrying out sporadic registration.
6.  Provision of implementation support to BPN for land registration,
including: (i) provision of technical assistance for land registration
activities; (ii) provision of technical assistance for Project monitoring;
(iii) training of BPN staff in accelerated land registration; (iv) provision
of equipment and furniture for technology development; (v) renovation of
BPN's Subdirectorate of Photogrammetry building, and construction of
additional offices for Project staff at BPN's headquarters; and (vi)
carrying out of a socio-economic baseline study for systematically
registered areas.
PART B: Strengthening of the Institutional Framework
      for Land Administration
1.  (a)   Strengthening of the Borrower's legal framework for land
administration, including: development of a computerized database for
existing land laws and regulations; carrying out of a systematic review of
existing laws and regulations relating to land and preparation of drafts of
new land laws and regulations as needed; and provision of related technical
assistance.
    (b)   Refurbishing of the office of BPN's Legal and Public Relations
Bureau.
2.  Long-term development of land administration through:
    (a)   the carrying out of a study of BPN's service fee structure;
    (b)   the carrying out of studies of ways to improve tenure security for
customary land rights; and
    (c)   institutional development of BPN through: (i) provision of
training and local and overseas scholarships to BPN staff; and (ii)
provision of facilities, equipment and furniture to PUSDIKLAT, STPN, and the
geodetic departments of the University of Gadjah Mada in Yogyakarta and the
Institute of Technology in Bandung.
PART C: Development of Land Management Policies
    Provision of technical assistance to BKTRN for the carrying out of a
program of studies, seminars and workshops on selected subjects in land
management to support policy formulation and inter-agency coordination.
Page  9
                                 * * * * *
    The Project is expected to be completed by March 31, 2000.
                                SCHEDULE 3
                           Amortization Schedule
                                   Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due                   (expressed in dollars)*
March 15, 2000                           1,515,000
September 15, 2000                       1,570,000
March 15, 2001                           1,630,000
September 15, 2001                       1,685,000
March 15, 2002                           1,750,000
September 15, 2002                       1,810,000
March 15, 2003                           1,880,000
September 15, 2003                       1,945,000
March 15, 2004                           2,015,000
September 15, 2004                       2,090,000
March 15, 2005                           2,165,000
September 15, 2005                       2,245,000
March 15, 2006                           2,325,000
September 15, 2006                       2,410,000
March 15, 2007                           2,500,000
September 15, 2007                       2,590,000
March 15, 2008                           2,685,000
September 15, 2008                       2,780,000
March 15, 2009                           2,880,000
September 15, 2009                       2,985,000
March 15, 2010                           3,095,000
September 15, 2010                       3,210,000
March 15, 2011                           3,325,000
September 15, 2011                       3,445,000
March 15, 2012                           3,570,000
September 15, 2012                       3,700,000
March 15, 2013                           3,835,000
September 15, 2013                       3,975,000
March 15, 2014                           4,120,000
September 15, 2014                       4,270,000
_____________________________
*   The figures in this column represent dollar equivalents determined as
    of the respective dates of withdrawal.  See General Conditions, Sections
    3.04 and 4.03.
                          Premiums on Prepayment
    Pursuant to Section 3.04 (b) of the General Conditions, the premium
payable on the principal amount of any maturity of the Loan to be prepaid
shall be the percentage specified for the applicable time of prepayment
below:
    Time of Prepayment             Premium
                                   The interest rate
                                   (expressed as a
                                   percentage per annum)
                                   applicable to the Loan
                                   on the day of prepayment
                                   multiplied by:
Not more than three years                0.15
    before maturity
More than three years but                0.30
    not more than six years
    before maturity
Page  10
More than six years but                  0.55
    not more than 11 years
    before maturity
More than 11 years but not               0.80
    more than 16 years
    before maturity
More than 16 years but not               0.90
    more than 18 years
    before maturity
More than 18 years before                1.00
    maturity
                                SCHEDULE 4
                   Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I. Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A: International Competitive Bidding
1.  Except as provided in Part C hereof, goods shall be procured under
contracts awarded in accordance with procedures consistent with those set
forth in Sections I and II of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD
Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Bank in May 1992 (the Guidelines).
    (a)   For fixed-price contracts, the invitation to bid referred to in
paragraph 2.13 of the Guidelines shall provide that, when contract award is
delayed beyond the original bid validity period, the successful bidder's bid
price will be increased for each week of delay by two predisclosed
correction factors acceptable to the Bank, one to be applied to all foreign
currency components and the other to the local currency component of the bid
price.  Such an increase shall not be taken into account in the bid
evaluation.
    (b)   In the procurement of goods in accordance with this Part A, the
Borrower shall use the relevant standard bidding documents issued by the
Bank, with such modifications thereto as the Bank shall have agreed to be
necessary for the purposes of the Project.  Where no relevant standard
bidding documents have been issued by the Bank, the Borrower shall use
bidding documents based on other internationally recognized standard forms
agreed with the Bank.
2.  To the extent practicable, contracts for goods shall be grouped into bid
packages estimated to cost the equivalent of $200,000 or more.
Part B: Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
    In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures described
in Part A.1 hereof, goods manufactured in Indonesia may be granted a margin
of preference in accordance with, and subject to, the provisions of
paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the Guidelines and paragraphs 1 through 4 of
Appendix 2 thereto.
Part C: Other Procurement Procedures
1.  Contracts for civil works shall be procured under contracts awarded on
the basis of competitive bidding, advertised locally, in accordance with
procedures satisfactory to the Bank.
2.  Services for control points densification, mapping, and cadastral
surveying (including establishment of boundary marks) shall be procured
under contracts awarded on the basis of competitive bidding, advertised
locally, in accordance with procedures satisfactory to the Bank.
3.  Subject to paragraph 4 below, equipment, drafting film, and forms
(except certificate forms) estimated to cost less than the equivalent of
$200,000 per contract, up to an aggregate amount equivalent to $3,100,000,
may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of competitive bidding,
Page  11
advertised locally, in accordance with procedures satisfactory to the Bank.
4.  Equipment estimated to cost the equivalent of $20,000 or less per
contract, up to an aggregate amount equivalent to $610,000, may be procured
under contracts awarded on the basis of comparison of price quotations
obtained from at least three suppliers eligible under the Guidelines, in
accordance with procedures acceptable to the Bank.
5.  Services for information dissemination and map reproduction, up to an
aggregate amount equivalent to $470,000, may be procured under contracts
awarded on the basis of comparison of price quotations obtained from at
least three providers of such services eligible under the Guidelines, in
accordance with procedures acceptable to the Bank, provided, however, that,
services for information dissemination may be awarded after direct
negotiations with the provider, in accordance with procedures acceptable to
the Bank, where there is only one provider for the applicable geographical
area.
6.  Contracts for books for BPN's National Land Institute may be awarded
after direct negotiations with suppliers, in accordance with procedures
acceptable to the Bank.
Part D: Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
1.  Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final contracts:
    (a)   With respect to each contract for goods estimated to cost the
equivalent of $200,000 or more, each contract for civil works estimated to
cost the equivalent of $750,000 or more, each contract for services
estimated to cost the equivalent of $750,000 or more, and the first contract
for civil works and the first contract for services under the Project
provided such contracts are estimated to cost less than the equivalent of
$750,000, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 4 of Appendix 1 to
the Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for such contract are to be made
out of the Special Account, such procedures shall be modified to ensure that
the two conformed copies of the contract required to be furnished to the
Bank pursuant to said paragraph 2 (d) shall be furnished to the Bank prior
to the making of the first payment out of the Special Account in respect of
such contract.
    (b)   With respect to each contract not governed by the preceding
paragraph, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and 4 of Appendix 1 to
the Guidelines shall apply.  Where payments for such contract are to be made
out of the Special Account, said procedures shall be modified to ensure that
the two conformed copies of the contract together with the other information
required to be furnished to the Bank pursuant to said paragraph 3 shall be
furnished to the Bank as part of the evidence to be furnished pursuant to
paragraph 4 of Schedule 6 to this Agreement.
    (c)   The provisions of the preceding subparagraph (b) shall not apply
to contracts on account of which withdrawals are to be made on the basis of
statements of expenditure.
2.  The figure of 15% is hereby specified for purposes of paragraph 4 of
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.
Section II. Employment of Consultants
1.  In order to assist the Borrower in carrying out the Project, the
Borrower shall employ consultants whose qualifications, experience and terms
and conditions of employment shall be satisfactory to the Bank. Such
consultants shall be selected in accordance with principles and procedures
satisfactory to the Bank on the basis of the "Guidelines for the Use of
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank as Executing
Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981 (the Consultant Guidelines).
For complex, time-based assignments, the Borrower shall employ such
consultants under contracts using the standard form of contract for
consultants' services issued by the Bank, with such modifications as shall
have been agreed by the Bank. Where no relevant standard contract documents
have been issued by the Bank, the Borrower shall use other standard forms
agreed with the Bank.
Page  12
2.  Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Section, the
provisions of the Consultant Guidelines requiring prior Bank review or
approval of budgets, short lists, selection procedures, letters of
invitation, proposals, evaluation reports and contracts shall not apply to
(a) contracts for the employment of consulting firms estimated to cost less
than $100,000 equivalent each or (b) contracts for the employment of
individual consultants estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent each.
However, said exceptions to prior Bank review shall not apply to (i) the
terms of reference for such contracts, (ii) single source selection of
consulting firms, (iii) assignments of a critical nature, as reasonably
determined by the Bank, (iv) amendments to contracts for the employment of
consulting firms raising the contract value to $100,000 equivalent or above,
or (v) amendments to contracts for the employment of individual consultants
raising the contract value to $50,000 equivalent or above.
                                SCHEDULE 5
                          Implementation Program
1.  The Borrower shall, until completion of the Project, maintain BPN's
Management Support Unit at Pusat and BPN's teams for systematic
adjudication, control points densification and graphical index compilation,
with qualified staff in adequate numbers.
2.  The Borrower shall, not later than November 30, 1994, prepare and
furnish to the Bank for comments, the final BPN draft of the regulation
revising the Borrower's Regulation PP No. 10 of 1961 on land registration;
and, promptly, thereafter, take all measures necessary to enact such
regulation by August 31, 1995.
3.  In carrying out Part A of the Project, the Borrower shall take all
measures required to ensure that BPN's special village by village land
registration program (PP 10 Program) and BPN's special land registration
program for low-income families (PRONA) in the Project Area are carried out
in close coordination with BPN's Management Support Unit at the provincial
level (MSUK) and Management Support Unit at the central level (MSUP),
including the use of the new land registration procedures being established
under the Project.
4.  In carrying out Part A of the Project, the Borrower shall, by December
31 in each year, commencing December 31, 1994, and until completion of the
Project, incorporate into BPN's annual program for aerial photography and
mapping, the annual work program for aerial photography and mapping under
the Project.
5.  In carrying out Part A of the Project, the Borrower shall, not later
than June 30, 1995, commence the carrying out of a national information
dissemination campaign on land registration procedures, fees and benefits.
6.  In carrying out Part A.6 (ii) of the Project, the Borrower shall, not
later than April 1, 1995, employ consultants for Project monitoring, in
accordance with Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
7.  The Borrower shall carry out the socio-economic baseline study under
Part A.6 (vi) not later than March 31, 1996, and furnish the results of the
study to the Bank for comments.
8.  In carrying out Part A.6 (iii), B.1 (a) and B.2 (c)(i) of the Project,
the Borrower shall carry out the training activities in accordance with a
program and schedule acceptable to the Bank.
9.  The Borrower shall:
    (a)   carry out and complete by April 30, 1996, the service fee
structure study included under Part B.2 (a) of the Project, and furnish to
the Bank for its comments the recommendations thereof; and
    (b)   not later than June 30, 1996,  prepare and furnish to the Bank for
comments an action plan for the implementation of the recommendations of the
study which shall have been endorsed by the Borrower and the Bank; and,
promptly thereafter, carry out such action plan.
Page  13
10.       In carrying out the customary land rights studies under Part B.
2 (b) of the Project, the Borrower shall:
    (a)   not later than September 30, 1995, furnish to the Bank for
comments, the detailed work program design for the studies; and
    (b)   not later than March 31, 1997, prepare and furnish to the Bank for
comments, an action plan for the implementation of the recommendations of
the studies which shall have been endorsed by the Borrower and the Bank;
and, promptly thereafter, carry out such action plan, taking into account
the comments of the Bank.
11.       In carrying out Part C of the Project, the Borrower shall select
subjects from the list agreed between the Borrower and the Bank, or select
such other subjects as shall be agreed between the Borrower and the Bank.
12.       In carrying out the Project, the Borrower shall ensure that
information obtained by BPN as a result of its land registration activities
under the Project and included in its land books, is made readily available
to the public.
13.       The Borrower shall carry out an assessment of the impact, on the
implementation of the Project, of any proposed large project to be carried
out by BPN, and shall furnish such assessment to the Bank for comments.
14.       The Borrower shall provide the required vehicles for the Project
in accordance with a schedule and time table agreed with the Bank.
15.       In carrying out the Project, the Borrower shall:
    (a)   not later than September 30 in each year, commencing November 30,
1994, prepare and furnish to the Bank for comments, a work program and cost
estimates of Project activities to be carried out during the following
Fiscal Year; and, thereafter carry out such work program taking into account
the comments on the Bank thereon; and
    (b)   not later than December 31 in each year, commencing December 31,
1994, prepare and furnish to the Bank for comments the budget proposals for
the following Fiscal Year's work program, taking into account the cost
estimates for such work program; and, thereafter, promptly finalize said
budget taking into account the Bank's comments thereon.
16.       The Borrower shall:
    (a)   not later than June 1, 1995, prepare and furnish to the Bank for
comments, the terms of reference and proposed organizational arrangements
for the carrying out of the technical audits of Parts A and B of the
Project;
    (b)   cause technical audits to be carried out annually, in a manner
acceptable to the Bank, during the implementation of the Project, commencing
not later than April 1, 1996; and
    (c)   annually, commencing not later than October 1, 1996, furnish to
the Bank, for comments, a copy of such audits.
                                SCHEDULE 6
                              Special Account
1.  For the purposes of this Schedule:
    (a)   the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1) through (7)
set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
    (b)   the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in respect of
the reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to
be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan allocated from time to time to
the eligible Categories in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to
this Agreement; and
    (c)   the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equivalent to
Page  14
$2,500,000 to be withdrawn from the Loan Account and deposited in the
Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule.
2.  Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for
eligible expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.  After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special
Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and
subsequent withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as
follows:
    (a)   For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall
furnish to the Bank a request or requests for a deposit or deposits which
do not exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation. On the
basis of such request or requests, the Bank shall, on behalf of the
Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit in the Special Account
such amount or amounts as the Borrower shall have requested.
    (b)   (i)  For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall
               furnish to the Bank requests for deposits into the Special
               Account at such intervals as the Bank shall specify.
          (ii) Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower
               shall furnish to the Bank the documents and other evidence
               required pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the
               payment or payments in respect of which replenishment is
               requested.  On the basis of each such request, the Bank
               shall, on behalf of the Borrower,  withdraw from the Loan
               Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount as
               the Borrower shall have requested and as shall have been
               shown by said documents and other evidence to have been paid
               out of the Special Account for eligible
               expenditures.
    All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Bank from the Loan Accountunder the 
respective eligible Categories, and in the respective equivalent
amounts, as shall have been justified by said documents and other evidence.
4.  For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the
Borrower shall, at such time as the Bank shall reasonably request, furnish
to the Bank such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was
made exclusively for eligible expenditures.
5.  Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Bank
shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account:
    (a)   if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all further
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Loan Account
in accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and
paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement; or
    (b)   once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the
eligible Categories, less the amount of any outstanding special commitment
entered into by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions
with respect to the Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount
of the Authorized Allocation.
    Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining
unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible Categories shall
follow such procedures as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower.
Such further withdrawals shall be made only after and to the extent that the
Bank shall have been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit
in the Special Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized in
making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.  (a)   If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any payment out
of the Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not
eligible pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified
by the evidence furnished to the Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly upon
notice from the Bank: (A) provide such additional evidence as the Bank may
request; or (B) deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Bank shall so
request, refund to the Bank) an amount equal to the amount of such payment
Page  15
or the portion thereof not so eligible or justified.  Unless the Bank shall
otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Bank into the Special Account
shall be made until the Borrower has provided such evidence or made such
deposit or refund, as the case may be.
    (b)   If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any amount
outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to cover further
payments for eligible expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice
from the Bank, refund to the Bank such outstanding amount.
    (c)   The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the Bank all
or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.
    (d)   Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c)
of this Schedule shall be credited to the Loan Account for subsequent
withdrawal or for cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions
of this Agreement, including the General Conditions.
