                                                                                                        83180



INTERNATIONAL CONFERENCE ON LAND POLICY REFORM
Jakarta, 25-27 July 2000
LAP-C Project
Support for Long Term Development of Land Management Policies
IRED Loan No 3792-IND


BEST PRACTICES FOR LAND ADMINISTRATION SYSTEMS IN
DEVELOPING COUNTRIES

IAN P. WILLIAMSON

Professor of Surveying and Land Information
Department of Geomatics
The University of Melbourne
Parkville,
Victoria, AUSTRALIA
Em ail: i.w illiam son@eng.unim el b.edu.au

From July-October, 2000
Land Administration Consultant
The World Bank
DECRG,
1818 H Street, NW
Washington, DC 20433, USA
Email: iwilliamson@worldbank.org



Abstract

This paper provides an introduction to best practice in land administration systems. It draws on
a number of key documents such as the Land Administration Guidelines produced for the
United Nations (UN) Economic Commission for Europe (1996), the International Federation of
Surveyors (FIG) Statement on the Cadastre (1995), the UN-FIG Bogor Declaration on
Cadastral Reform (1996), the FIG Cadastre 2014 publication (1998) and the UN-FIG Bathurst
Declaration on Land Administration for Sustainable Development (1999).

It also draws on a wide range of publications concerned with best practice in the development
of cadastral and land administration infrastructures, as well as the author's experience over
many years. While the paper is focussed on world's best practice, it does so in the context of
developing and emerging industrial countries such as Indonesia which have diverse land tenure
relationships ranging from areas in cities with active land markets approaching modem land
markets, to whole provinces which are almost completely under traditional or customary tenure.

While the paper recognises that each country has different requirements for cadastral and land
administration infrastructures due to their specific social, legal, cultural, economic, institutional
and administrative circumstances, the paper highlights some common principles in the design




           Land A dministration Guidelines- Ian Williamson- 2I July, 2000- Page I
and implementation of land administration infrastructures that are usually applicable for
countries such as Indonesia, either now or in the foreseeable future. Importantly not all
principles will be applicable for all countries.

The paper discusses the principles under the following headings:

1.    Land policy principles
2.    Land tenure principles
3.    Land administration and cadastral principles
4.    Institutional principles
5.    Spatial data infrastructure principles
6.    Technical principles
7.    Human resource development principles

The paper concludes by highlighting the importance of developing a vision for a land
administration system within each country.




          Land Administration Guidelines-Ian Williamson- 21 July, 2000-Page 2
Introduction

This paper provides an introduction to best practice in land administration
systems. It draws on a number of key documents such as the Land
Administration Guidelines produced for the United Nations (UN) Economic
Commission for Europe (1996), the International Federation of Surveyors
(FIG) Statement on the Cadastre (1995), the UN-FIG Bogor Declaration on
Cadastral Reform (1996), the FIG Cadastre 2014 publication (1998) and the
UN-FIG Bathurst Declaration on Land Administration for Sustainable
Development (1999). It also draws on a wide range of publications concerned
with best practice in the development of cadastral and land administration
infrastructures, as well as the author's experience over many years. While the
paper is focussed on world's best practice, it does so in the context of
developing and emerging industrial countries such as Indonesia which have
diverse land tenure relationships ranging from areas in cities with active land
markets approaching modern land markets, to whole provinces which are
almost completely under traditional or customary tenure.

In particular the paper adopts the recommendations from both the Bogor
Declaration and Bathurst Declaration.

While the paper recognises that each country has different requirements for
cadastral and land administration infrastructures due to their specific social,
legal, cultural, economic, institutional and administrative circumstances, the
paper highlights some common principles in the design and implementation of
land administration infrastructures that are usually applicable for countries such
as Indonesia, either now or in the foreseeable future. Importantly not all
principles will be applicable for all countries.

A Land Administration Reform Framework

In undertaking land administration reform by drawing on "Best practices in
land administration", it is important to consider the factors that affect the
reform and the choice of the specific strategies adopted. These factors are many
and varied which re-enforces the statement that the land administration system
for each country requires its own individual strategy. On the other hand
strategies can be developed using the "tool box" approach. That is each specific
strategy and resulting system can be made up of many separate, well
understood, proven and widely accepted components (see for example Holstein




        Land Administration Guidelines-Ian Williamson- 21 July, 2000-Page 3
(1996a), Dale and McLaughlin (1988) and (1999), UNECE (1996), UN-FIG
(1996) and (1999)).

In designing a strategy it is important to recognise that almost every country
will require a range of different strategies depending on the relationship of
humankind to land in each specific region in the specific country. In simple
terms these arrangements include:

•   Cities and urban areas, where active land markets operate on titled land,
•   Cities and urban areas, occupied by informal settlements (squatter, illegal or
    low cost systems outside the formal or regulatory structures),
•   High value agricultural lands which are titled and are part of the formal land
    market,
•   Private untitled lands in rural areas and villages,
•   Informal or illegal settlements in rural areas, especially m government
    forests,
•   Lands which are subject to indigenous rights, such as Adat lands in
    Indonesia,
•   Lands in all categories which are the subject of claims from previously
    dispossessed persons, and
•   Government or state lands, reserves and forests

To some degree these categories are common to all developing (and many
developed) countries.

The next consideration is that the relationship of humankind to land is dynamic
with the result that there is an evolution in the each of these categories. None
of these relationships stay the same in the long term. They are affected by the
impact of the global drivers on the relationship of humankind to land such as
sustainable development, urbanisation, globalisation, economic reform and
environmental management, and the stage of development of the specific
country. In simple terms in the Asian- Pacific area for example there are four
general categories of countries:

•   Developed countries, such as Japan, Korea, Australia, New Zealand and
    Singapore,
•   Newly industrialised countries or countries in transition, such as PRC,
    Indonesia, Thailand, Malaysia and the Philippines,
•   Countries at an early stage of development such as Vietnam and Laos, and
•   Island states such as Fiji, Tonga and Vanuatu.




         Land Administration Guidelines-Ian Williamson- 21 July, 2000-Page 4
While each country has different development priorities, those in each group do
share some similar priorities. A complication is that many countries do not fit
easily into these categories with some countries having aspects of all
categories. But in general the stage of development overall of an individual
country does significantly influence the choice of which land administration
strategies are adopted.

The combination of these factors determine or at least strongly influence, the
specific strategy or strategies adopted in reforming or establishing the land
administration system. These strategies draw on the land administration and
cadastral "tool box" for their institutional, legal, technical and administrative
solutions.

For example there is a whole range of surveying and mapping technologies and
approaches depending on what is the stage of development of the country and
what is the major relationship of humankind to land which is being surveyed or
mapped. These options include sporadic and systematic approaches, graphical
and mathematical surveys, different positioning technologies such as satellite
positioning or scaling off photomaps, different mapping technologies such as
photomaps, topographic mapping and simple cadastral maps.

In addition there is a whole range of options for the recording or determination
of land tenure relationships. There are government guaranteed land titles, deeds
registration systems, title insurance systems, qualified titles (both to boundaries
and title), individual ownership and communal ownership.

For all these arrangements there are a range of technologies which are again
strongly influenced by the wealth and development of the country. For example
whether titles or deeds and cadastral maps will be computerised or held as
paper records or whether the Internet can be utilised to access land records.

Institutional arrangements are influenced by the same factors. Whether the
system is decentralised, deconcentrated or centralised. The level of education
and training in a country. For example if Indonesia wished to have a land
administration system supported by a land title and cadastral surveying system
similar to Australia for example, this could possibly require 40,000 professional
land surveyors and 30 or more university programs educating professional
surveyors (based on Steudler et al, 1997). Clearly this is not realistic and as a




        Land Administration Guidelines-Ian Williamson- 21 July, 2000-Page 5
result this re-enforces the need to develop appropriate solutions matched to the
stage of development and specific requirements of Indonesia.

Recognising these constraints, there are a range of "best practices" that are
useful in undertaking the establishment or re-engineering of land administration
systems. These are set out below under the headings of:

a)   Land policy principles
b)   Land tenure principles
c)   Land administration and cadastral principles
d)   Institutional principles
e)   Spatial data infrastructure principles
f)   Technical principles
g)   Human resource development principles

Best Practices in Land Administration

Land Policy Principles

1)   The pivotal tension of sustainable development 1s between the
     environment and the pressures of human activity. It 1s the system of
     recogn1smg, controlling and mediating rights, restnct10ns and
     responsibilities over land and resources that forms the fulcrum. Thus "land
     administration" can and should play an important role in the infrastructure
     for sustainable development (Figure 1). In this context, "Sustainable
     development means development that effectively incorporates economic,
     social, political, conservation and resource management factors in
     decision-making for development. The challenge of balancing these
     competing tensions in sophisticated decision making requires access to
     accurate and relevant information in a readily interactive form. In
     delivering this objective, information technology, spatial data
     infrastructures, multi-purpose cadastral systems and land information
     business systems will play a critically important role. Unfortunately
     modern societies still have some way to go before they will have the
     combination of legal, institutional, information technology and business
     system infrastructures required to support land administration for
     sustainable development" (Ting and Williamson, 1999b ).




         Land Administration Guidelines-Ian Williamson- 21 July, 2000-Page 6
                                                    SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT
                                                                                                 cAbO     lAND
                                                                                                 TENURE   VALUE
                                                 ECONOMIC- SOCIAL -           ENVIRONMENTAL


                           EFFICIE'iC lAND \1Jl.R><ET




               lAND   TE~JURE

               SECUR:: LEGAL
               RIGHTS




                                                        CADASTRE

                                                        IDE'lTIFIC.ATION OF
                                                        lA~C "APCELS

                                                        REGiST::R & M"-F'S




                                         FlGlJRE 1
         The land administration infrastructure supporting sustainable development
                              (Enemark and Sevantal, 1999)


2)   Emerging economies face a daunting task. Perhaps the focus should not be
     so much on "catching up" as on learning from the mistakes of those who
     have gone before. There is also the likelihood of finding more innovative
     methods. The fact that a fully surveyed cadastral layer is too expensive at a
     particular stage in a country's development or in the development of part
     of a country, should not mean that documentation or registration of a
     diversity of rights over land cannot go ahead. The benefits and risks need
     to be \Veighed.
3)   Land administration is not land reform. Land administration reform should
     if possible be non political and should be concerned with putting in place
     an efficient land administration infrastructure to manage the humankind to
     land relationship. Land reform and land tenure reform, have by their very
     nature political objectives, such as re-distributing land between different
     groups, and as such should be kept separate from the development of a
     land administration infrastructure. In general the introduction of a land
     administration system should not change the land tenure relationships
     between people and land. On the other hand land administration systems
     will enable land tenure reforn1s to be introduced. In one sense a land
     administration infrastructure provides an inventory of rights, restrictions
     and responsibilities in a country.
4)   The humankind to land relationship in all countries is dynamic (Figure 2).
     This means the land administration response to manage that relationship




         Land Administration Guidelines- Ian Williamson- 21                                   Ju~v.   2000- Page 7
     will always require change. The cwrent global drivers for change include
     sustainable development objectives, urbanisation, globalisation, economic
     refonn and envirorunental management, with technology impacting across
     all areas.

                      Feudalism
                                             Industr ial
                                             Revolullon
      Agricunural                                                       Information Ravolution




         --
      Revolution
                                                                ----------~>
      ~--




     ~ •1000            1600       1700    1800      1900        1960         1990              1995         2000
     City Sttlte-s                                             SUbaMs!ons ewL-tlon
                                                                          tl~tive   t itle
                                                   Torrens syste-m                  Agm:ta 2l
                                                                                             Mv!)·J)v(JX)se cae1awe

                                                                                                NOTTOSCo\Li:

                                     F1GURE2
            A Western view of the changing humankind to land relationship

5)   Land administration systems of the future will need to manage a growing
     complexity of tights, resbictions and responsibilities over land due to a
     greater awareness of environmental and social imperatives, as distinct
     from a more traditional focus on economic imperauves (Figure 3).




                               Evolution of Applications for Cadastre

                                              FIGURE3


6)   In general, land policy should precede and determine legal reform, which
     in tum should result in institutional reform and finally implementation
     (Figure 4). The reality is that legal and insututional refonn are very
     difficult and require a major political commitment. As a result these




             Land Administration Guidelines- Ian Williamson- 21 July, 2000- Page 8
     functions and reforms should at least        Global Drivers for Chang
     continue in parallel. However it is
     important     that     legal    reform,
     institutional        reform         and
     implementation with regard to
     introducing or reforming a land
     administration system, should usually
     be undertaken by one cohesive
     management        team,      unit    or Figure 4. Hierarchy of Perspectives
     organisation within a country. Policies
     regarding      land      administration
     implementation, which are developed away from the daily operations of an
     organisation, has little ownership and little chance of implementation
     without tension and management inefficiencies. On the other hand, land
     reform policy development is a different matter and obviously will need to
     be developed within a more political environment and as such can, and
     should, be developed separate from the development of the land
     administration system.
7)   A land administration system should provide the infrastructure to manage
     land. Land policy decisions and land reform decisions should be kept
     separate from the management of the land administration system. An
     example is forestry and state lands which should all be included or
     recorded in the land administration system, yet management and policy
     decisions with regard to such lands are usually the responsibility of other
     agencies. On the other hand the land administration infrastructure in a
     country will be critical to the implementation of any sustainable
     development or environmental management policies. The land
     administration infrastructure is the foundation on which such policies are
     implemented. As such all national environmental and sustainable
     development policies should clearly articulate the role of land
     administration in implementing the policies.
8)   A land administration infrastructure requires a legal framework which
     enforces the rule of law. Such a framework requires not only good laws
     but also legal institutions, professionals and government officials who are
     versed in the law, and a justice system which enforces the law. Such a
     legal framework is essential to ensure that land holders are secure in their
     occupation, they are not dispossessed without due process and
     compensation, and the land market can function with confidence and
     security.




        Land Administration Guidelines-Ian Williamson- 21 July, 2000-Page 9
9)   There has been a significant change in the debate about cost recovery in
     land information systems over the last decade, especially in developed
     countries. In simple terms there is increasing recognition in developed
     countries that government is responsible for the majority of the initial costs
     in establishing the spatial data infrastructure in a state or nation, and
     particularly with regard to the cadastre. Transfer or exchange of data is at a
     nominal cost with increasingly partnerships being created to exchange
     different data within the state or national spatial data infrastructure (SDI)
     at no cost. Governments recognise that the benefits being returned to
     government from this policy, especially in the land administration context
     include:
     a)   development of a spatial information marketplace,
     b)   subsequent dealings within the land administration system,
     c)   economic development,
     d)   social stability,
     e)   reduced land disputes, and
     f)   improved environmental management.

     In the cadastral and land administration area this policy is driven by a need
     of central government to establish a common spatial data infrastructure
     (SDI) for a jurisdiction. Land information and the underlying SDI are
     becoming essential to the good governance and the adoption of sustainable
     development objectives. Historically land titles offices have given little
     attention or shown little concern for the needs of establishing a cadastral
     map for a region or creating a land information base outside their own
     needs. These offices have argued that they are in the business of supporting
     land markets and are simply not interested in putting in too much effort
     into cadastral mapping. In a similar way, local government will not use and
     support a national or state spatial data infrastructure unless it is in local
     government interest and reduces their costs. They will certainly not expend
     their own resources for a function which they see is not their business.
     Therefore in order to establish a spatial data infrastructure for a state or
     country, central government has to fund the creation and use of their SDI
     through the establishment of partnerships (and funding mechanisms) to
     make it worth while for all users to use the same SDI. There are some
     important lessons for developing countries in these experiences.

10) Land administration and cadastral systems, and land titling are not just
    rural activities, but are national activities. They are just as relevant to
    urban areas as rural areas. Addressing urban poverty is a major issue, as is




          Land Administration Guidelines-Ian Williamson- 21 July, 2000-Page 10
    rural poverty. Land administration reform in countries like Indonesia is
    just as urgent in informal or squatter settlements in urban areas (and is
    often more urgent) than in rural areas. The importance of this is
    highlighted now there is a recognition that cities are increasingly the
    engines of economic development in developing countries. This is
    especially an issue from the perspective of social stability, environmental
    management and sustainable development. At the same time issues of
    addressing indigenous rights within a land administration infrastructure are
    just as critical as rural and social issues, but require different strategies.
    More importantly it is virtually impossible to undertake substantial land
    administration reform without considering all land, and that includes urban
    as well as rural, state, forest and indigenous land. A national approach is
    essential for land administration reform.

II) Decentralisation (or what is often termed deconcentration) is a key to land
    administration implementation in most countries. All land records are
    usually kept at the local land office level including cadastral maps, land
    registration documentation and land tax records. The local land office
    usually works closely with the elected local authority which is responsible
    for land use, development and environmental management. However a key
    aspect of decentralisation or deconcentration is that there must be a central
    authority to establish policies, ensure quality of services, provide or
    coordinate training, to limit corruption and implement a personnel policy
    (particularly with regard to circulating senior staff). The central authority
    must have a funding base to ensure that the policies adopted at a local level
    will support state or national objectives. In those cases where total
    responsibility is given to a local level (including the financial
    responsibility), there is an inevitable tension with national objectives. Such
    an approach means that the establishment of a national focus for land
    administration, including the creation of a spatial data infrastructure, will
    be very difficult, if not impossible. The local authority inevitably works to
    its own agenda with little regard for national policies. Such an approach
    has particularly negative consequences for the achievement of national
    sustainable development objectives.


Land Tenure Principles

12) Experience suggests that it would be unwise to adopt a pos11lve title
    registration system without adopting adverse possession to part parcels




        Land Administration Guidelines-Ian Williamson- 21 July, 2000-Page 11
    (note this is a different issue to adverse possession of whole parcels). The
    importance of this is that it ensures that boundaries reflect occupation. This
    permits "general" boundaries, and more importantly graphical cadastres, to
    be adopted. Importantly, experience in countries such as Malaysia and
    Australia show that the issue of adverse possession to part parcel can have
    a significant, and even a dramatic negative effect, on the operation of the
    land market in a country. Cadastral systems which do not permit adverse
    possession to part parcel are usually less efficient and significantly more
    expensive.
13) Developing countries should consider the range of alternatives to
    confirming security of tenure and promoting the growth of the land
    market. A good example is the Qualified Title (QT) strategy adopted by
    Malaysia, possibly the NS3 Certificate strategy adopted by Thailand prior
    to the TLTP and the Qualified Title approach adopted in some Australian
    states to bring general law land under title registration. This paper is not
    suggesting that the Malaysian approach is necessarily the best strategy for
    every country. However it does appear to offer another strategy, other than
    the use of systematic titling. It is a particularly useful approach for the
    development of row or link housing in urban areas although it has been
    reasonably successful in rural areas as well. At the same time, Malaysia
    recognises the weaknesses of the QT approach, especially if sustainable
    development objectives are to be met. If the QT system as practised in
    Malaysia was to be considered for application in another country it would
    be important to spend considerable time fully understanding the strengths
    and weaknesses of the system. The reality is that the statutory framework
    gives little insight into how the system really works. An examination of the
    needs of any country across all tenure relationships before a final
    decision is made on the long term cadastral or land titling strategy should
    be undertaken. At the very least it appears Indonesia requires a major
    ongoing commitment to land administration policy reform at the same time
    as it pursues a systematic land titling approach. However within the
    current statutory and administrative structure, this may or may not be
    successful.
14) The experience in developed countries is that land administration and
    cadastral systems can no longer rely on manual processes or traditional
    structures that supported individual economic or taxation imperatives.
    Stand-alone or isolated approaches that supported individual purposes
    where data and processes were maintained separately (in data silos), such
    as land valuation, land titling and management of state lands and forests,
    are not sustainable. They are being replaced by multipurpose cadastral




       Land Administration Guidelines-Ian Williamson- 21 July, 2000-Page 12
    systems where information about natural resources, planning, land use,
    land value and land titles, including private or individual rights and
    indigenous interests, can be integrated for a range of business purposes
    (Figure 5). Within a developing country perspective, the institutional
    arrangements to support such a vision are much more difficult. On the
    other hand there are some excellent examples in developing countries
    where the institutional arrangements are such that surveying, mapping,
    land registration and valuation are within the one government department
    (Thailand). Such arrangements certainly facilitate more integrated
    developments and the inevitable need to better utilise land administration
    data for purposes other than "stove pipe" or stand-alone systems.




      Cadastral
      Component




         Spatial Component
                                  FIGURE 5
                    A parcel based land information system


15) Development is inevitable. Also any land administration reform must
    recognise the vast array of land tenure relationships from an active land
    market as found in an industrialised country to traditional and customary
    tenures. The key to future development is to adopt sustainable
    development objectives. Where development proceeds it must be done
    with transparency, fair compensation and the involvement of all




       Land A dministration Guidelines- Ian Williamson- 21 July, 2000- Page 13
    stakeholders. Fundamental to this objective is the legal recognition and
    documentation of indigenous rights. There is an increasing amount of
    experience internationally on strategies and approaches to document and
    map the spatial dimension of indigenous rights.

16) Indigenous rights are often very different from "western" private or
    individual rights. Typically they cannot be adjudicated and mapped using
    the same approaches and techniques. Indigenous peoples often have
    different spatial concepts from Western society. It is inappropriate to
    assume a contemporary cartographic knowledge by indigenous peoples.
    The key is to develop a land administration infrastructure that
    accommodates both tenure forms. Just as there are many different forms of
    "western" land tenures, there are equally many different forms of
    indigenous tenures.
17) The adjudication and administration of customary, indigenous, traditional
    or tribal lands usually requires the establishment of a specialist
    government organisation such as a Department or Board of Indigenous
    Lands, together with a judicial tribunal to oversee the adjudication of such
    lands and to resolve disputes.

Land Administration and Cadastral Principles

18) While it must be recognised that each
    country has different requirements for
    cadastral     (Figure     6)     and     land
    administration infrastructures due to their
    specific social, legal, cultural, economic,
    institutional      and         administrative
    circumstances,     there     are    common
    principles     in     the     design      and
    implementation of land administration
    infrastructures.

                               FIGURE 6

                         The cadastral Concept



19) Every nation, state or jurisdiction and many of the sub-areas within a
    national, state or provincial jurisdiction are different and require different




        Land Administration Guidelines- Ian Williamson- 21 July, 2000- Page 14
    land administration approaches depending on the circumstances. Due to
    their different stages of development, different countries have different
    capacities for the development of land administration and cadastral
    systems.
20) A sustainable development objective for a country requires all land to be
    included or recorded in the land administration system. This means the
    cadastre must be complete. In other words the land administration
    infrastructure should include all rights, restrictions and responsibilities
    with regard to all lands in a country. This means all state, private,
    traditional or customary, and forest lands, should be identified in the one
    land administration system. Without a complete cadastre, land can be
    "stolen", land tax processes are open to corruption, transparency in land
    administration is lost and good governance is undermined. While the
    reality is that such a vision may not be possible in the short to medium
    term in developing countries, it should be the accepted policy which
    provides a road map for future development. Most land tiling, land
    administration or cadastral projects world-wide do not attempt to establish
    a complete cadastre. The adoption of a policy of a complete cadastre has
    only been adopted in many developed countries in the last 10-20 years.
    However to some degree the strategy of separate projects, say focussed on
    adjudicating private lands, was promoted in an era prior to the recognition
    of the key role that land administration plays in promoting sustainable
    development. While the reality is that sustainable development is still just
    rhetoric in many countries (and I suggest some land administration
    projects), it is a global trend which will increasingly and inevitably impact
    on the design of such projects.
21) In developed countries, the value of land registration systems has
    expanded from being primarily a mechanism to quiet titles, reduce disputes
    and support efficient land markets, to being an important source of land
    information essential for the support of good governance and sustainable
    development. While this recognition and reality will most probably not be
    seen for some time in most developing countries, again there is an
    inevitability in the trend and as such developing countries should be aware
    of the need and the trend.
22) The success of a cadastral or land administration system is not dependent
    on its legal or technical sophistication, but whether it protects land rights
    adequately and permits those rights to be traded, if appropriate (for
    example in many countries it is not appropriate to facilitate a land market
    for indigenous rights. However it is essential to protect indigenous land




        Land Administration Guidelines-Ian Williamson- 21 July, 2000-Page 15
    rights and ensure there are fair and equitable systems for leasing
    indigenous lands where that is government policy) efficiently, simply,
    quickly, securely and at low cost. The system should operate with no
    opportunity for political interference, ad hoc government decision making
    or corruption. All processes should be simple and transparent.
23) The key performance indicators for a successful land administration
    system are whether the LAS is trusted by the general populace, protects
    the majority of land rights, provides security of tenure for the vast majority
    of land holders and is extensively used. If these criteria are not generally
    met then there is a fundamental problem with the system.
24) Land administration, cadastral and land titling projects are by their very
    nature, long term. As a result, it is essential to have two strategies running
    in parallel; the first to undertake the adjudication of individual, customary
    and common property rights in a systematic manner (land titling) and put
    in place a system to register on-going transactions and second is to
    continue policy development, improve the land law and regulations and
    ensure that adjudication and titling can still proceed in a sporadic manner.
    Simply a country cannot stagnate while policy development and statutory
    reform are underway.
25) Land administration reform should focus on processes such as
    adjudication, land transfer and mutation (subdivision and consolidation),
    rather than on institutions, legal and regulatory frameworks or specific
    activities such as land registration or cadastral surveying and mapping.
26) By their very nature, land administration systems are complex often with
    no clear directions for reform. Reforming LAS are similar to research
    projects. Their design is suited to the skills of persons with research
    experience. There is considerable benefit of involving persons who are
    active in land administration research, in the design and operation of land
    administration systems, particularly in the early stages and in pilot
    projects. The extensive involvement of such persons in the early stages of
    the Thailand Land Titling Project is an example of the use of their skills.

   The development of a vision for a future land administration system is an
   integral part of any land administration reform strategy. For example the
   cadastral vision adopted by the UN-FIG Bogor Declaration on Cadastral
   Reform (1996) is to " ... develop modern cadastral infrastructures that
   facilitate efficient land and property markets, protect the land rights of all,
   and support long term sustainable development and land management."




        Land Administration Guidelines-Ian Williamson- 21 July, 2000-Page 16
   Typically a national land administration vision would have a policy vision,
   an institutional vision, a legal vision, a technical vision as well as an
   overall vision. Suffice to say the development of a land administration
   vision for Indonesia is not only possible but is essential as a road map for
   the future development of the nation.
27) In undertaking the difficult task of implementing a land administration,
    cadastral or land titling project, it is often easy to forget why the project is
    being undertaken. A common fault of some LAS projects around the world
    is that they focus on the technical aspects of the project, such as mapping,
    adjudication, surveying and preparation of titles, and sometimes forget the
    main objective for the project. Such projects are never about land titling
    per se, nor should they be. They are about facilitating sustainable
    development, land markets, social justice, institutional reform, poverty
    eradication, environmental management or addressing regional income
    disparities. It is essential that in all projects that there is a regular "reality
    check" against the primary objectives of the project, not just against how
    many parcels have been surveyed or titles issued, although this is an
    obvious essential indicator.
28) In designing a LAS project it is generally regarded that there are no simple
    answers and few systems from other countries which can easily be
    transferred to another. LAS projects are particularly unique in this regard
    due to the individual social, cultural, legal, institutional and administrative
    arrangements in each country. However every country can learn from the
    successes and mistakes of others. Designing a LAS is like designing a
    research project. As a result each LAS project should be extensively
    documented, and an effort should be made to ensure the best project
    documents are published in international journals, books and published
    reports for the benefit of land administrators and researchers.
29) Land administration reform is not simple systematic registration. Land
    administration reform, or cadastral reform, or land titling, are complex
    issues which require complex solutions, as has been shown in Indonesia.
    The simple application of land titling in any country can be a high risk
    approach unless it is done within a broad land administration framework.
    With an appropriate statutory and regulatory environment, systematic
    titling can be one of the best "tools" in the land adminsitration "toolbox".
    But it is just one response in the "toolbox" for land administration reform,
    even though it is a very important option and maybe the most important. In
    country environments where there is not an appropriate social, economic,
    legal and regulatory infrastructure to support land administration reform or




        Land Administration Guidelines-Ian Williamson- 21 July, 2000-Page 17
    need, it may do more harm than good (for example where the rights in land
    to be adjudicated are weak or where there is no infrastructure to support
    the maintenance of the system).
30) There is considerable documented experience in designing land
    administration, cadastral and land titling systems. As a result there are a
    number of key issues and strategies to be considered within the design
    process:
    a) The development of a strategic vision and associated implementation
       strategy
    b) The recognition that land administration (and particularly land titling) is
       not an end in itself
    c) The recognition that all countries are different and it is difficult to
       transfer experiences from one country to another
    d) Land administration reform should concentrate primarily on the three
       cadastral processes of land adjudication, mutation (subdivision and
       consolidation) and land transfer, not the cadastral entities or institutions
       such as land titling, institutional arrangments, legal and statutory
       infrastructures etc. These are secondary considerations.
    e) Institutional reforms are usually more important than statutory and
       regulatory reforms or the introduction of new systems and technologies.
    f) The key institutional reform is to have all cadastral processes
       administered within one government department
31) The design of any land administration project should understand the
    components of a re-engineering process (Figure 7). First, this requires an
    understanding of the impact of global drivers (sustainable development,
    urbanisation, globalisation, economic reform and technology) on the
    changing relationship of humankind to land in the context of the individual
    country. This in turn effects the resulting land administration and cadastral
    environment and vision. Through a strategic planning process, which
    incorporates a full understanding of the existing LAS, a new conceptual
    LAS can be developed. Through an implementation process this results in
    an operational LAS, which through benchmarking, performance
    monitoring and feedback, influences all the previous steps in an ongoing
    reform and re-engineering process. Obviously this is a simplified view of
    business process re-engineering. Re-engineering has a focus on
    improvements in performance, a focus on processes not products and well
    as the adoption of a whole range of management concepts such as adopting
    a "business risk" approach and usually the introduction of information
    technology.




        Land Administration Guidelines-Ian Williamson- 21 July, 2000-Page 18
                                             Urbanisation
                          Globalisation                     _ Technology

          Sustaimh/eJ!e.y_e/op menl   Global Drivevrof


                                                                           Social System
                                          Benclunarking and Feedback



       Vision for
        human-
         kind to
          land                                Conceptual                      Operational
        relation-
                                                  Land                           Land
          ship
                                            Administration                  Administration
                                                 System                         System




        Figure 7_ Framework for Re-engineering Land Administration


32) Outsourcing in a LAS is possible and in many cases is highly desirable. It
    appears that opportunities are greater in developed countries than
    developing countries for outsourcing. The key components for outsourcing
    are a well established legal and regulatory environment, well established
    professions and the availability of trained personnel. For an extensive
    review of outsourcing see Holstein (1996b).

33) A common problem in land administration projects is underestimating the
    magnitude ofthe task. This relates to the number of parcels in the country,
    the requirement for trained personnel and the necessity for institutional and
    statutory reform.

34) The importance of developing and maintaining benchmarking processes
    and performance indicators cannot be over emphasised for the successful
    completion of a LAS project.

35) There is benefit in developing hypothetical frameworks and pilot
    (research) projects for LAS , which may have relevance for specific
    countries. This allows lateral thinking and the testing of alternative options
    and strategies.




        Land A dministration Guidelines- Ian Williamson- 21 July, 2000- Page 19
36) The success of a land administration, land registration or cadastral system
    is not dependent on its legal or technical sophistication, but whether it
    protects land rights adequately and permits those rights to be traded (where
    appropriate) efficiently, simply, quickly, securely and at low cost.
    However if the resources are not available to keep the cadastral system up-
    to-date then there is little justification for its establishment.

37) Systematic adjudication of land rights which are legally insecure or are of
    only marginal value, result in a poor or weak land administration system,
    which may have little impact on the economic development, social
    stability and environmental management of a country.

38) One of the arguments in favour of title registration in a developed country
    context is not only how effectively it supports the operation of the land
    market and protects the rights of land owners or occupiers, but how it
    supports a national land information system. In this context title
    registration is an efficient way of recording primary interests in all land
    parcels in a state, jurisdiction or country. At the same time title insurance,
    due to private sector ownership of data, does not usually support the
    establishment of national LIS and is consequently not encouraged. While
    such a vision is often seen as long term in developing countries, it will
    become increasingly important in support of sustainable development
    objectives and good governance.

39) Irrespective of how good is a land registration system, unless it operates in
    an environment of professionalism, accountability and good governance,
    and in an environment which is accepted by the wider populace, it will not
    be successful. On the other hand if government officials are personally
    liable for errors, then they can become over cautious, with the result that
    the whole system can slow down dramatically. What is required is an
    environment of "risk management". As a result, while government
    officials need to be well trained and an environment of accountability
    developed, they should not be personally responsible. However if private
    licensed surveyors undertake cadastral surveys as an example, then they
    should be legally responsible for their surveys, not the government.
    Importantly if the professionals who operate the system, both within
    government and in the private sector, are not well educated and trained,
    ethical and professional, the system will struggle.

40) In many jurisdictions legal cadastres utilise or evolve from land valuation
    or land tax data and associated maps. It is desirable that land




        Land Administration Guidelines-Ian Williamson- 21 July, 2000-Page 20
    administration systems should have these two data bases integrated. Over
    time the legal cadastre can then provide the integrity for the land tax
    cadastre. Increasingly the valuation responsibilities and legal cadastre are
    being amalgamated into the one organisation.


Institutional Principles
41) Experience shows that successful land administration systems have all the
    land administration functions within one government organisation. There
    should be one government department responsible for the land
    administration infrastructure in a country. This does not mean that such a
    department controls the use of the land across the country but it does
    control the land administration infrastructure or the recording of "what is
    where" and "who owns what". This means that at the very least the
    administration of cadastral surveying and mapping, land registration and
    valuation, are all in the one organisation. However global trends indicate
    that the most successful systems also include all topographic mapping in
    the same organisation. As stated by the UN-FIG Bathurst Declaration:
    "Encourage all those involved in land administration to recognise the
    relationships and inter-dependence between different aspects of land and
    property. In particular there is need for functional cooperation and
    coordination between surveying and mapping, the cadastre, the valuation,
    the physical planning and the land registration institutions."
42) State, government, forestry or reserve lands should be administered or at
    least recorded in the same system as private or freehold lands. Simply
    100% of all lands should be included in the land administration system. In
    a simple sense a land registry should become a national inventory of
    landed interests.
43) Devolution of responsibility of operations and record keeping to the local
    level is essential as long as there is central guidance, policy direction and
    quality control. As stated in the recommentkttion from the UN-FIG
    Bathurst Declaration " ... Whilst access to data, its collection, custody and
    updating should be facilitated at a local level, the overall land information
    infrastructure should be recognised as belonging to a national uniform
    service, to promote sharing within and between nations".
44) One of the key challenges in land administration reform, which has been
    identified in many forums, is the strategy to bring together the national
    mapping agency and the national cadastral agency in a cooperative
    relationship, and ideally within the same organisation.




        Land Administration Guidelines-Ian Williamson- 21 July, 2000-Page 21
45) One of the major weaknesses in e stablishing land administration pr'!i eels is
    that they focus on establishing land administralion instibJJi(JIIS, not land
    administration   l'""    es. The focus should be on the key cadastral
    processes of lend a~cation, landkansfer and mutation( subdivision end
    consolidalion). All institutional and legal errengements mould be focussed
    on these processes.



SpatiDl DaiiJ Injrastrw:htre (SDl) Priltcip/es
46) Spatial data infrastructures are a ai1ical componem of land administration
    infrastrudures Im portantly the c adastral, properl'f or lend tenure layer
    m ust be integrated with all other layers such as the topographic layer.
    These can be hard copy maps in developing counlries while they are

                            : tt11 d•tl•••o oat:   J
                                                          G-~w.sm

                                                          t. t.» w. sm
                                                          NCW.ml




                                Figure8
                Relation!hipsbetweendata detai~ different
                   levelsofSDls, and level ofplarring

    becoming computeri.,d systems in developed oounlries
47) SD!s are dynamic and both inter- and intr ..j urisdic1ional systans which
    are based on pertnersbips between aD levels and in<titutions (Fi~e 8). An
    understanding of the importence of p artnerships in sharing land
    information end spatial data is j ust as important for developed as
    developing counlries.
48) A spatial data infrastructure is .,en as basic i1ifrastrw;ture like    road~
    railways end electricity distribution, which supports sustainable
    developmenl., and in particular economic development, emironmental
    m anegement and social stability. Importantly it must be users or business
    systems which drive the development of SDis
    (Figure 9). In tum the business systems which
    rely on the infrastructure in tum become
    infrastructure for successive business systems.
    As a result a complex arrangement of
    partnerships develops as the SDI develops.
                                                                          -
    Increasingly governments are accepting that
    sustainable development is not possible without
    this basic land information infrastructure.

                                                                     Figure 9.
Technical Principles
49) The introduction of IT and computerisation of land administration records
    is difficult. It requires long term political, financial and institutional
    commitment. Computerisation of alpha-numeric data is easier than
    computerisation of spatial data.

50) In countries which were colonised at some stage in their recent history,
    there is inevitably a residual influence of the colonial land registration and
    cadastral surveying and mapping systems. These systems were usually put
    in place to support the interests of the expatriate colonists, not the local or
    indigenous peoples. These "colonial" systems have been continued,
    usually in urban areas where fledgling land markets are operating and in
    high value rural lands such as for Palm Oil or rubber plantations. Typically
    these systems are not in sympathy or have difficulty being modified for
    national application in a country. Such developing countries cannot afford
    the relatively expensive systems which the colonists introduced, yet for
    vested interests, government officials are often adverse to making these
    systems more flexible and lower cost. What usually results is the
    development of parallel cadastres. This results in a relatively expensive,
    slow and administratively bureaucratic system which is still influenced by
    the colonial heritage and a parallel informal system used by the wider
    community. Merging these two systems is without doubt one of the
    biggest challenges facing many developing countries.

51) Computerisation is one of the most difficult components of land
    administration reform in developing countries. In one sense it is essential
    and inevitable, but care needs to be taken in the introduction of IT. The
    introduction of IT into large government departments in developing
    countries requires a major IT strategic plan and a long term commitment.




        Land Administration Guidelines- Ian Williamson- 21 July, 2000- Page 23
    A decade is not a long time to introduce basic IT in an administrative sense
    for mainstream land administration record keeping. Training is critical.
    However one of the biggest problems are often the vendors of IT, and
    particularly for GIS software, who peddle their wares and show examples
    of what the technology can do. The reality is very different. The
    introduction of GIS in a mainstream land administration sense is very
    difficult. While it is inevitable, it is difficult, requires a long term vision,
    requires extensive education and training, requires a simple IT
    implementation program, requires long term political support, leadership at
    the highest levels in government, and requires a long term commitment to
    human and financial resources. Experience from developed countries
    suggests that the best way to introduce IT is through the use of the private
    sector. But be prepared - the introduction of IT, and especially GIS, is
    expensive and requires significant on-going financial and human
    resources. Simple, manual systems are often much easier to introduce,
    especially where labor costs are low.

52) An important principle in choosing the most appropriate cadastral
    surveying and mapping strategy is to remember that these technologies and
    methodologies are not ends in themselves. The primary role of cadastral
    surveying and mapping is to support the establishment of the spatial
    cadastre and in turn support the manner in which the population relates to
    land. Another principle is that cadastral surveying has the primary role of
    supporting the creation of the cadastral map in a land administration
    system. Unfortunately in many systems the cadastral map is subservient to
    the isolated or sporadic cadastral survey.

53) The choice of which forms and associated accuracies of cadastral
    surveying, cadastral mapping, monumentation and boundary identification
    are used, should be driven by the specific requirements of the area being
    titled. The most controversial aspect of surveying and mapping with regard
    to land administration reform is often the form of cadastral surveying
    adopted. The "toolbox" approach is very applicable to cadastral surveying
    and mapping. There is a vast array of survey techniques and boundary
    marking approaches that can be used, all resulting in an equally efficient
    land market. From a simple perspective systematic adjudication is high
    cost to government initially, but leads to graphical cadastres which can be
    maintained by low cost cadastral surveys. Overall it is a more efficient and
    effective approach delivering many more benefits to a country, especially
    from a national perspective. On the other hand sporadic adjudication is low
    cost to government initially, only really serves the interests of the




        Land Administration Guidelines-Ian Williamson- 21 July, 2000-Page 24
    relatively wealthy land owner, and requires ongoing high cost cadastral
    surveys (which are usually affordable to those who request them, but are
    too expensive to the poor land owner).

54) Cadastral surveying and mapping are not geographic information systems
    (GIS). In fact cadastral systems have little to do with GIS.



Human Resource Development (HRD) Principles
55) The key to sustainability of land administration infrastructures is human
    resource development, and particularly education and training, both in
    country and overseas.

56) One of the weaknesses in the design of land administration projects is
    often the commitment to human resource development (and particularly
    formal education and training, both in-country and overseas, short courses
    and study tours). Without doubt, this is one of the most important factors,
    if not the most important factor in the sustainability of projects. As a "rule
    of thumb" at least I 0% of the overall budget for a project should be
    committed to human resource development (this does not include
    consultant input). For example the Swedish aid agency SIDA tries to adopt
    30%.

57) There is a major world deficiency in higher education and associated
    research in land administration. Experience shows that programs cannot be
    grafted on to existing surveying or geomatic engineering programs with a
    strong "measurement science" focus. For a successful higher education
    program in land administration and cadastral systems, it is essential that
    university departments have a number of active land administration
    academics to coordinate and drive it, and undertake research in the area. A
    major commitment needs to be made by such organisations as the World
    Bank and other international aid organisations, if the higher education
    needs of land administration are to be met globally. Each LAS project
    should invest considerable resources in the establishment of such
    education and research programs. Often governments and consultants have
    a vested interest in minimising a commitment to education and HRD in
    general.




        Land Administration Guidelines-Ian Williamson- 21 July, 2000-Page 25
58) Training at a technical level both in technical institutes and at
    departmental training institutes in-country, are equally important to higher
    education in land administration.

59) Institutional support in land administration projects which require the
    establishment or significant growth of an efficient and ethical private
    sector, and particularly in the professions, is not a "nice to have" but
    should be seen as mainstream and essential in a LAS project. Refer to
    Holstein (1996b) for a comprehensive review of the roles of the public and
    private sectors in land titling and registration projects.

Conclusion

This paper has outlined the factors which affect the development of a land
administration reform strategy in a country and suggest a number of "best
practices" for land administration.

In summary there are two key components in developing the strategy. First the
documentation and wide acceptance of why the reform is being undertaken. For
example is it to promote an active land market or is it to support sustainable
development or is it to promote social stability? It is important to remember
that land administration and cadastral systems:

   "... are not ends in themselves. They support effective land markets,
   increased agricultural productivity, sustainable economic development,
   environmental management, political stability and social justice." (UN-FIG,
   1996)

As a result land administration systems and their technical components must be
driven by the needs ofthe users as shown in Figure 10.

                       1 Changing htunankind-land relationship!

                                         ...
                       I     Land administration policies
                                                              I
                       I                •
                             Land administration systems
                                                              II Technology
                       I                •
                               Spatial business systems
                                                              I
                                         ...
                       I      Spatial data infrastructures
                                                              I
                                      FIGURE 10.
                 Developing spatial information management strategies




       Land Administration Guidelines-Ian Williamson- 21 July, 2000-Page 26
Second is the development of a vision for a future land administration system
for the country. Land administration reform by its very nature is long term and
as such there is a need for a clear road map to ensure that all developments and
changes contribute to the overall vision for the land administration system for
the country. Due to the complexity of land administration systems there is a
strong argument for such projects to comprise "bite size" sub-projects which
have a clear focus, however it is essential that these sub-projects are undertaken
as part of an agreed vision and global land administration strategy for the
country.

Finally, as stated by the UN-FIG Bogor Declaration on Cadastral Reform:

    "The success of a cadastral system is not dependent on its legal or technical
    sophistication, but whether it protects land rights adequately and permits
    those rights to be traded (where appropriate) efficiently, simply, quickly,
    securely and at low cost. However if the resources are not available to keep
    the cadastral system up-to-date then there is little justification for its
    establishment."



Glossary of Terms
FIG              International Federation of Surveyors
GIS              Geographic Information System
HRD              Human Resource Development
IBRD             International Bank for Reconstruction and Development ("The World Bank")
!LAP             Indonesian Land Administration Project funded jointly by the World Bank,
                 AusAID and the Government oflndonesia
IT               Information Technology
LAP              Land Administration Project (see !LAP)
LAS              Land administration system
LIS              Land Information System
MOLA             Meeting of Land Administrators (now the constituted under the UN
                 Economic Commission for Europe (UNECE)
NSDI             National Spatial Data Infrastructure
QT               Qualified Title
SDI              Spatial Data Infrastructure
SIDA             Swedish Aid Agency
UN               United Nations
Acknowledgement
I wish to acknowledge that this paper is based on a report prepared by me for the Indonesian
Land administration Project (LAP-C) under IRED Loan No 3792-IND titled "Land




         Land Administration Guidelines-Ian Williamson- 21 July, 2000-Page 27
Administration Best Practice- Topic Cycle 10" dated 30 .May, 2000 (127p) and that much of
the material included in the paper was originally published in many of the articles listed below
which include me as a joint author.
Bibliography and selected publications involving the author
Brazenor, C., Ogleby, C. and Williamson, I.P. The Spatial Dimension of Aboriginal Land
Tenure. Proceedings of the 6th South East Asian Surveyors Congress, Fremantle, Western
Australia, 1-6November, 160-170 (1999).

Burns, A, Eddington, R., Grant, C. and Lloyd, I. 1996. Land Titling Experience in Asia. BHP
Engineering. http ://sli.unimelb.edu.au/subjects/45 1 1998/418+823/L9Re ference. htm l

Chan, T.O. and Williamson, I.P. Spatial Infrastructure .Management: Lessons from Corporate
GIS Development. Proceedings of AURISA '99, Blue Mountains, New South Wales,
Australia, 22-26 November, CD-ROM (1999).

Dale, P.F. 1976. Cadastral Surveys within the Commonwealth. HMSO

Dale, P.F. and McLaughlin, J.D., 1986. Land Information Management.

Dale, P.F. and McLaughlin, J.D., 1999. Land Administration. Oxford University Press, 169p.

Enemark, S. and H. Sevantal, 1999. Cadastres, land information systems and planning- Is
decentralisation a significant key to sustainable development? Technical Papers of UN-FIG
International Conference on Land Tenure and Cadastral Infrastructures for Sustainable
Development, Melbourne, Australia, 24-27 October, 252-275 (1999).
ht1p://www.sli.unimelb.edu.au/UNConf99/

Ezigbalike, I., Rakai, M.E.T. and Williamson, I.P. Cultural Issues in Land Information
Systems. Position paper commissioned by the UN Food and Agriculture Organisation, Rome
(26p) (1995).

FIG, 1995. Statement on the Cadastre. Report prepared for the International Federation of
Surveyors by Commission 7 (Cadastre and Land Management).
http ://www.sli.unimelb. edu.au/research/publications!IPW publ.html

Formanu, K (1999). "Dispute Resolution in customary tenures in Fiji" . .Masters thesis,
Department of Geomatics, University of Melbourne.

Grant, C. 1996. Indonesia- The other Land Titling Project. Proceedings of the 37th Australian
Surveyors        Congress,        13-19        April,     1996,      Perth,    Western Australia.
http ://sunspot.sli. unime lb.edu. au/... 45 1/418/lecture6/0 therProject.html

Grant, C. 1998. When Titling meets tradition .. Proceedings of the 39th Australian Surveyors
Congress,         8-13      November,             1998,      Launceston,       Tasmania, Australia
ht1p ://sunspot.sli. unimelb.edu. au/ ... ts/45 1/418/lecture6/Tradition.htm 1




         Land Administration Guidelines- Ian Williamson- 21 July, 2000- Page 28
Holstein, L. 1996a. Towards best practice from World Bank Experience in Land Titling and
Registration. International Conference on Land Tenure and Administration, Orlando Florida,
November, 1996, 22p.

Holstein, L. 1996b. What are the roles of the public and private sectors in land titling and
registration systems? International Conference on Land Tenure and Administration, Orlando
Florida, November, 1996, 12p.

Iatau, M.D. and Williamson, I.P. Using the Case Study Methodology to Review Cadastral
Reform in Papua New Guinea. The Australian Surveyor, Vol. 42, No.4, 157-165 (1997).

Jeyanandan D., and Williamson, I.P.    A Cadastral Model for Developing Countries.
Proceedings of National Conference on Cadastral Reform '90, Melbourne, Victoria, 81-93
(1990).

Kaufmann, J. (1998) 'Cadastre 2014'- Report of Commission 7 Working Group 7.1, Modern
Cadastres. Congress Proceedings, Commission 7, FIG XXI FIG Congress, Brighton 1998.
WWW accessed 5th September, 1999 http ://www.fig7.org.uk/Brighton98/proceedings.html

Kaufmann, J. and Steudler, D. (1998) Cadastre 2014: A Vision for a Future Cadastral System
(Rheinfall,    Switzerland:     FIG).   WWW       accessed  5th    September,    1999    <
http :1!www. swisstopo. ch/fig-wg71/Docs/Cad20 14index.htm>

Lacroux, S. 2000. Challenges of rebuilding land and property administration in post-conflict
situations: case of Kosovo. Keynote contribution from the Coordinator of the Land and Tenure
Unit, UNCHS (Habitat). Proceedings of QuoVadis, FIG Working Week, Prague 21-26 May,
2000.

McLaughlin, J. and Palmer, D., 1996. Land registration and development. ITC Journal 1996-
1.

McLaughlin, J.D. and Williamson, I.P. Trends in Land Registration. The Canadian Surveyor,
Vol39, No 2, 95-108 (1985).

NRC, 1980. The Multipurpose Cadastre. National Research Council, USA

Park, M., Ting, L. and Williamson, I.P. Adverse Possession of Torrens Land: Parliamentary
Inquiry Strays Out of Bounds. The Law Institute JournaL Australia, November, 77-81 (1998).

Park, M. and Williamson, I.P. Australian Cadastres: the Role of Adverse Possession of Part
Parcels. The Australian Surveyor, Vol. 4, No.2, 151-158 (1999).

Phillips, A, Williamson, I.P. and Ezigbalike, I. C. Spatial Data Infrastructure Concepts. The
Australian Surveyor, Vol. 44, No. 1, 20-28 (1999).

Rakai, M.E.T ., Ezigbalike, I. C. and Williamson, I.P. Traditional Land Tenure Issues for LIS in
Fiji. Survey Review, Vol. 33, No. 258, 247-262 (1995).




         Land Administration Guidelines- Ian Williamson- 21 July, 2000- Page 29
Rakai, M.E.T. and Williamson, I.P. Implementing LIS/GIS from a Customary Land Tenure
Perspective- The Fiji Experience. The Australian Surveyor, Vol. 40, No.2, 112-121 (1995a).

Rakai, M.E. T. and Williamson, I.P. Implications of incorporating customary land tenure data
into a land information system. Trans Tasman Surveyor, Vol. 1, No. 1, 29-38 (1995b).

Rattanabirabongse,V., Eddington, R.A., Burns,A.F., Nettle, K.G. (1998) The Thailand Land
Tilting Project- thirteen years experience. Land Use Policy, Vol 15, Number 1; January.

Simpson, R.W. 1976. Land Registration Cambridge University Press

Steudler, D., Williamson, I.P., Kaufmann, J. and Grant, D.M.        Benchmarking Cadastral
Systems. The Australian Surveyor, Vol. 42, No.3, 87-106 (1997).

Suwarnarat, K., Karuppannan, S., Haider, W., Yaqub, H.W., Escobar, F.E., Bishop, I., Yates,
P.M. and Williamson, I.P., 2000. Spatial Data Infrastructures For Cities In Developing
Countries: Lessons From The Bangkok Experience, Cities. Vol.17, No.2, 85-96.

Ting, L., Willliamson, I.P., Grant, D. and Parker, JR. Understanding the Evolution of Land
Administration Systems in Some Common Law Countries. Survey Review, Vol. 35, No. 272,
83-1 02 (1999).

Ting, L. and Williamson, I.P. Cadastral Trends: A Synthesis. The Australian Surveyor, Vol. 4,
No. 1, 46-54 (1999a).

Ting, L. and Williamson, I.P. Land Administration and Cadastral Trends: The Impact of the
Changing Humankind-Land Relationship and Major Global Drivers. Technical Papers of UN-
FIG International Conference on Land Tenure and Cadastral Infrastructures for Sustainable
Development,       Melbourne,    Australia,   24-27    October,      252-275    (1999b).
http ://www.sli.unimelb.edu.au!UNConf99/
UNECE (1996) Land Administration Guidelines. Meeting of Officials on Land Administration,
UN Economic Commission for Europe. ECE/HBP/96 Sales No. E.96.II.E.7, ISBN 92-1-
116644-6.           WWW             accessed           5th      September,          1999
<http ://www.sigov.si/mola!Preview/html/projects.html#nas1 >

UN-FIG, 1996. Bogar Declaration on Cadastral Reform. Report from United Nations
Interregional Meeting of Experts on the Cadastre, Bogar, Indonesia, 18-22 March, 1996. A
joint initiative of the International Federation of Surveyors (FIG) and the United Nations.
http :1/www.sli. unimelb.edu.au/research/publications/IPW publ.htm1

UN-FIG, 1999. The Bathurst Declaration on Land Administration for Sustainable
Development. Report from the UN-FIG Workshop on Land Tenure and Cadastral
Infrastructures for Sustainable Development, Bathurst, NSW, Australia, 18-22 October, 1999.
A joint initiative of the United Nations and the International Federation of Surveyors.
http ://www.sli.unimelb.edu.au!UNConf99/ Also see at this WWW address the Findings of the
Workshop and the background papers prepared for the Workshop and presented at the
subsequent International Conference on Land Tenure and Cadastral Infrastructures for
Sustainable Development, 25-27 October, 1999 Melbourne.




         Land Administration Guidelines- Ian Williamson- 21 July, 2000- Page 30
Walijatun, D. and Grant, C. 1996. Land Registration Reform in Indonesia. National Land
Agency, Indonesia. ht1p :1/sunspot. sli.unim elb.edu.au/ ... 8/lecture6/RegistrationReform.html

Williamson, I.P. and Fourie, C. Using the Case Study Methodology for Cadastral Reform.
GEOMATICA, Vol. 52, No. 3, 283-295 (1998).

Williamson,I.P., Ting, L. and Grant, D.M. (2000). The Evolving Role of Land Administration
in Support of Sustainable Development- A review of the United Nations- International
Federation of Surveyors Bathurst Declaration for Sustainable Development. The Australian
Surveyor Vol44, No 2, 126-135.
ht1p://www.sli.unimelb. edu.au/research/publications!IPW publ.html

Williamson, I.P. The Cadastral Survey Requirements of Developing Countries in the Pacific
Region - with Particular Reference to Fiji. The Survey Review, Vol 26, No 206, 355-366
(1982).

Williamson, I.P. Cadastral Survey Techniques in Developing Countries - With Particular
Reference to Thailand. The Australian Surveyor, Vol31, No 8, 567-581 (1983).

Williamson, I.P. Cadastres and Land Information Systems in Common Law Jurisdictions. The
Survey Review, Part 1, Vol28, No 217, 114-129. Part 2, Vol28, No 218, 186-195 (1985).

Williamson, I.P. Considerations in Assessing the Potential Success of a Cadastral Project in a
Developing Country- A Case Study -Thailand Land Titling Project. The Australian Surveyor,
35(4): 313-325 (1990).

Williamson, I.P. Cadastral Surveying and Mapping - New Trends in Technology and Their
Applications. 13th United Nations Regional Cartographic Conference for Asia and the Pacific,
Beijing, 9-18 May, 8p (1994).

Williamson, I.P. 1996. A Land Information Vision for Victoria, Report for Geographic Policy
and Coordination, Victoria, 21p.
ht1p :1/www.sli.unimelb.edu.au/research/publications!IPW publ.htm 1

Williamson, I.P. Strategic Management of Cadastral Reform. 6th United Nations Regional
Cartographic Conference for the Americas, E/CONF.90/INF.6, New York, U.S.A, 2-6 June,
12p (1997).

Williamson, I.P. and Enemark, S. Understanding cadastral maps. The Australian Surveyor .
Vol. 41, No.1 , 38-52 (1996).

Williamson, I.P. and Mathieson, G. The Bangkok Land Information System Project -
Designing An Integrated Land Information System for a Large City in the Developing World.
Canadian Institute of Surveying and Mapping Journal, Vol46, No 2, Summer, 153-164 (1992).

Williamson, I.P. and Mathieson, G. The Bangkok Land Information System Project- Past and
Future. The Australian Surveyor, Vol. 38 No.4, 298-309 (1993).




         Land Administration Guidelines-Ian Williamson- 21 July, 2000-Page 31
Williamson, I.P. and Ting, L. Land Administration and Cadastral Trends- A Framework for
Re-Engineering. Technical Papers of UN-FIG International Conference on Land Tenure and
Cadastral Infrastructures for Sustainable Development, Melbourne, Australia, 24-27 October,
317-338 (1999).

Williamson, I.P. Appropriate Cadastral Systems. The Australian Surveyor, Vol. 41, No. 1, 35-
37 (1996).

Williamson, I.P. The Justification of Cadastral Systems for Developing Countries.
GEOMATICA, Vol. 51, No.1, 21-36 (1997).

Most articles involving the author are available at
http ://www.sli.unimelb.edu.au/research/publications!IPW publ.html




         Land Administration Guidelines- Ian Williamson- 21 July, 2000- Page 32
