Page  1
CREDIT NUMBER 4521-NI 
 
Financing Agreement 
 
(Development Policy Financing) 
 
between 
 
REPUBLIC OF NICARAGUA 
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
Dated                                            , 2008
 
Page  2
CREDIT NUMBER 4521-NI 
 
FINANCING AGREEMENT 
 
Agreement dated _________________, 2008, entered into between REPUBLIC OF 
NICARAGUA (
“Recipient”) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT 
ASSOCIATION (“Association”) for the purpose of providing financing in support of the 
Program (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement).  The Association has decided to 
provide this financing on the basis, 
inter alia
,
of: (a) the actions which the Recipient has 
already taken under the Program and which are described in Section I.A of Schedule 1 to 
this Agreement; and (b) the Recipient’s maintenance of an appropriate macro-economic 
policy framework.  The Recipient and the Association therefore hereby agree as follows: 
 
ARTICLE I 
—
GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS 
 
1.01. 
The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement) 
constitute an integral part of this Agreement. 
 
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this 
Agreement have the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in 
the Appendix to this Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE II 
—
FINANCING 
 
2.01. 
The Association agrees to extend to the Recipient, on the terms and conditions 
set forth or referred to in this Agreement, a credit in an amount equivalent to 
twelve million two hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR12,200,000) 
(variously,
 “Credit” and “Financing”). 
 
2.02. 
The Recipient may withdraw the proceeds of the Financing in support of the 
Program in accordance with Section II of Schedule 1 to this Agreement.
 
2.03. 
The Maximum Commitment Charge Rate payable by the Recipient on the 
Unwithdrawn Financing Balance shall be one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per 
annum. 
 
2.04. 
The Service Charge payable by the Recipient on the Withdrawn Credit Balance 
shall be equal to three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum. 
 
2.05. 
The Payment Dates are March 15 and September 15 in each year. 
 
2.06. 
The principal amount of the Credit shall be repaid in accordance with the 
repayment schedule set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
Page  3
2
2.07. 
The Payment Currency is Dollars. 
ARTICLE III 
—
PROGRAM 
 
3.01. 
The Recipient declares its commitment to the Program and its implementation.  
To this end: 
 
(a) 
the Recipient and the Association shall from time to time, at the request 
of either party, exchange views on the progress achieved in carrying out 
the Program; 
 
(b) 
prior to each such exchange of views, the Recipient shall furnish to the 
Association for its review and comment, a report on the progress 
achieved in carrying out the Program, in such detail as the Association 
shall reasonably request; and 
 
(c) 
without limitation upon the provisions of paragraphs (a) and (b) of this 
Section, the Recipient shall exchange views with the Association on any 
proposed action to be taken after the disbursement of the Financing, 
which would have the effect of materially reversing the objectives of the 
Program, or any action taken under the Program including any action 
specified in Section I of Schedule 1 to this Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE IV 
—
REMEDIES OF THE ASSOCIATION 
 
4.01. 
The Additional Events of Suspension consist of the following: 
 
(a) 
A situation has arisen which shall make it improbable that the Program, 
or a significant part of it, will be carried out. 
 
(b) 
The Recipient’s macroeconomic policy framework has become 
inconsistent with the objectives of the Program. 
 
(c) 
An action has been taken or a policy has been adopted to reverse any 
action or policy under the Program in a manner that would, in the 
opinion of the Association, adversely affect the achievement of the 
objectives of the Program. 
 
(d) 
An action has been taken or a policy has been adopted to reverse any 
action listed in Section I of Schedule 1 to this Agreement. 
 
Page  4
3
4.02. 
The Additional Event of Acceleration consists of the following, namely, that any 
event specified in paragraphs (a) to (d) of Section 4.01 of this Agreement occurs 
and is continuing for a period of ninety (90) days after notice of the event has 
been given by the Association to the Recipient. 
 
ARTICLE V 
—
EFFECTIVENESS
 
5.01. 
Without prejudice to the provisions of the General Conditions, the Effectiveness 
Deadline is the date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement, but in no 
case later than the eighteen (18) months after the Association's approval of the 
Credit which expire on March 25, 2010. 
 
ARTICLE VI — REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES
 
6.01. The 
Recipient
’s Representative is its Minister of Finance and Public Credit. 
 
6.02. 
The Recipient’s Address is: 
 
Ministerio de Hacienda y Crédito Público 
Avenida Bolívar, Frente a la Asamblea Nacional 
Managua, Nicaragua 
 
Facsimile: 
    + 
(505) 
222-3033 
 
6.03. 
The Association’s Address is: 
 
International Development Association 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
United States of America 
 
Cable 
address: 
 Telex: 
  Facsimile: 
 
INDEVAS 
 248423(MCI) 
 1-202-477-6391 
Washington, D.C. 
  
 
Page  5
4
AGREED at _________________________________________________, as of the day 
and year first above written. 
 
REPUBLIC OF NICARAGUA 
 
By 
Authorized Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION  
 
By 
 
Authorized Representative 
Page  6
5
SCHEDULE 1 
 
Program Actions; Availability of Financing Proceeds 
 
Section I. 
Actions under the Program
A. 
Actions Taken Under the Program
.
The actions taken by the Recipient under 
 
the Program include the following:
 
1. 
The Recipient has advanced in the implementation of Civil Service Law through 
the accreditation of approximately 7,517 public civil servants covered by the law 
as of December 2007 (excluding teachers, health workers, policemen and 
soldiers) in line with its Strategic Civil Service Plan. 
 
2. 
The Recipient has made satisfactory progress in modernizing public finances on 
the basis of 
the Recipient’s Laws Nos. 550, 477 and 323 through measures that 
have strengthened the Recipient’s budgeting, treasury and public credit functions, 
as evidenced by: (i) the increase in the number of public entities using a MTEF 
from 18 in 2007, to 25 in the Recipient’s draft national budget for 2008 as 
presented to Congress; (ii) the initiation of payments by way of electronic 
transfer to municipalities; and (iii) the verification that SIGADE-
Integrado
 is 
operating successfully. 
 
3. 
The Recipient has: (i) presented its report on the results of the 2006 student 
learning achievement tests to the national education commissions and on its web 
portal; and (ii) prepared a plan to disseminate these results to all teachers, school 
directors and civil society during 2008. 
 
4. 
The Recipient has begun to implement a plan to reduce maternal mortality, 
focusing on the adoption of new procedures to improve access and quality of 
services, to be implemented in the six Recipient’s Departments with the highest 
maternal mortality incidence (i.e. Matagalpa, Jinotega, RAAN, RAAS, Chontales 
and Managua). 
 
5. 
The Recipient has initiated the process of strengthening its child nutrition and 
development monitoring system by updating standards and developing new 
instruments to monitor nutritional status and development of children in its sixty 
six (66) poorest municipalities, in the context of the PAININ Program, 
emphasizing prevention and promotion of health among pregnant and lactating 
women, and children under the age of two.  
 
6. 
The Recipient has enacted the regulations to begin implementing the National 
Water Law, which modernizes the sector institutional framework. 
 
Page  7
6
Section II. 
Availability of Financing Proceeds
A. General. 
 
The Recipient may withdraw the proceeds of the Financing in 
accordance with the provisions of this Section and such additional instructions as 
the Association may specify by notice to the Recipient. 
 
B. 
Allocation of Financing Amounts.
 
The Financing shall be withdrawn in a 
single tranche.  The allocation of the amounts of the Financing to this end is set 
out in the table below: 
 
Allocations 
Amount of the Financing Allocated 
(expressed in SDR)
 
Single Tranche 
 
12,200,000 
TOTAL AMOUNT 
12,200,000 
C. Deposits 
of 
Financing 
Amounts.
 
Except as the Association may otherwise 
 
agree:   
 
1. 
The Recipient shall open, prior to furnishing to the Association the first request 
for withdrawal from the Financing Account, and thereafter maintain, a deposit 
account in Dollars (“Deposit Account”) on terms and conditions satisfactory to 
the Association. 
 
2. 
All withdrawals from the Financing Account shall be deposited by the 
Association into the Deposit Account. 
 
3. 
The Recipient shall ensure that upon each deposit of an amount of the Financing 
into this account, an equivalent amount shall be deposited in the CUT and 
accounted for, in 
Córdobas
,
in the Recipient’s budget management system, in a 
manner acceptable to the Association. 
 
D. Audit. 
Upon the Association’s request, the Recipient shall: 
 
1. 
Have the Deposit Account audited by independent auditors acceptable to the 
Association, in accordance with consistently applied auditing standards 
acceptable to the Association. 
 
2. 
Furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any case not later than four 
months after the date of the Association’s request for such audit, a certified copy 
of the report of such audit, of such scope and in such detail as the Association 
shall reasonably request.  
 
3. 
Furnish to the Association such other information concerning the Deposit 
Account and their audit as the Association shall reasonably request. 
Page  8
7
E. Excluded 
Expenditures
.
The Recipient undertakes that the proceeds of the 
Financing shall not be used to finance Excluded Expenditures. If the Association 
determines at any time that an amount of the Financing was used to make a 
payment for an Excluded Expenditure, the Recipient shall, promptly upon notice 
from the Association, refund an amount equal to the amount of such payment to 
the Association. Amounts refunded to the Association upon such request shall be 
cancelled.
 
F. 
Closing Date.  
The Closing Date is December 31, 2008. 
Page  9
8
SCHEDULE 2
 
Repayment Schedule 
Date Payment Due 
Principal Amount of the Credit 
repayable 
(expressed as a percentage)* 
On each March 15 and September 15: 
 
commencing March 15, 2019 to and including 
September 15, 2028 
1% 
commencing March 15, 2029 to and including 
September 15, 2048 
2% 
*
The percentages represent the percentage of the principal amount of the Credit to be 
repaid, except as the Association may otherwise specify pursuant to Section 3.03 (b) of 
the General Conditions. 
Page  10
9
APPENDIX 
 
Section I. Definitions 
 
1. 
“Civil Service Law” means 
Ley del Servicio Civil y Carrera Administrativa
,
the 
Recipient’s Law No. 476 as published in the Official Gazette No. 235 of 
December 11, 2003, as amended.
 
2. “
Córdobas
”
means the national currency of the Recipient. 
 
3. 
“CUT” means the Recipient’s single treasury account (
Cuenta 
Única del Tesoro
), 
as defined in artic
le 100, of the Recipient’s Law No. 550 (Financial Management 
and Budget Regime Law). 
 
4. 
“Department” means a political division of the Recipient. “Departments” means 
a
number of such divisions. 
 
5. 
“Deposit Account” means the account referred to in Part C.1 of Section II of 
Schedule 1 to this Agreement. 
 
6. 
“Excluded Expenditure” means any expenditure: 
 
(a)  
for goods or services supplied under a contract which any national or 
international financing institution or agency other than the Association or 
the Bank has financed or agreed to finance, or which the Association or 
the Bank has financed or agreed to finance under another credit, grant or 
loan; 
 
(b) 
for goods included in the following groups or sub-groups of the Standard 
International Trade Classification, Revision 3 (SITC, Rev.3), published 
by the United Nations in Statistical Papers, Series M, No. 34/Rev.3 
(1986) (the SITC), or any successor groups or subgroups under future 
revisions to the SITC, as designated by the Association by notice to the 
Recipient: 
 
Group 
Sub-group 
Description of Item 
112  
Alcoholic 
beverages 
121 
 
Tobacco, un-manufactured, tobacco refuse 
122 
 
Tobacco, manufactured (whether or not 
containing tobacco substitutes) 
525 
 
Radioactive and associated materials 
667 
 
Pearls, precious and semiprecious stones, 
unworked or worked 
Page  11
10
Group 
Sub-group 
Description of Item 
718 718.7 
 
Nuclear reactors, and parts thereof; fuel 
elements (cartridges), non-irradiated, for 
nuclear reactors 
728 
728.43 
Tobacco processing machinery 
897 
897.3 
Jewelry of gold, silver or platinum group 
metals (except watches and watch cases) 
and goldsmiths’ or silversmiths’ wares 
(including set gems) 
971 
 
Gold, non-monetary (excluding gold ores 
and concentrates) 
(c) 
for goods intended for a military or paramilitary purpose or for luxury 
consumption; 
 
(d) 
for environmentally hazardous goods, the manufacture, use or import of 
which is prohibited under the laws of the Recipient or international 
agreements to which the Recipient is a party; 
 
(e) 
on account of any payment prohibited by a decision of the United 
Nations Security Council taken under Chapter VII of the Charter of the 
United Nations; and 
 
(f) 
with respect to which the Association determines that corrupt, fraudulent, 
collusive or coercive practices were engaged in by representatives of the 
Recipient or other recipient of the Financing proceeds, without the 
Recipient (or other such recipient) having taken timely and appropriate 
action satisfactory to the Association to address such practices when they 
occur. 
 
7. 
“General Conditions” means the “International Development Association 
General Conditions for Credits and Grants”, dated July 1, 2005 (as amended 
through October 15, 2006) with the modifications set forth in Section II of this 
Appendix. 
 
8. 
“Law No. 323” means 
Ley de Contrataciones y Adquisiciones del Estado
,
the 
Recipient’s Procurement Law as amended by the Recipient’s Law No. 349 
published in the Official Gazette No. 109 of June 9, 2000 and by the Recipient’s 
Law 427, published in the Official Gazette No. 110 of June 13, 2002, as 
amended. 
 
9. 
“Law No. 477” means 
Ley General de
 Deuda Pública
,
the Recipient’s General 
Law of Public Indebtedness, as published in the Official Gazette No. 236 of 
December 12, 2003, as amended. 
 
Page  12
11
10. 
“Law No. 550” means 
Ley de Administraci
ón
Financiera y del Regimen 
Presupuestario
,
the Recipient
’s Law of Financial Management and Budgetary 
Regime as published in the Official Gazette No. 167 of August 29, 2005, as 
amended. 
 
11. “MTEF” 
means 
Marco Presupuestario de Mediano Plazo
,
the Recipient’s 
Medium Term Expenditure Framework. 
 
12. 
“National Water Law” means 
Ley General de Aguas Nacionales
,
the Recipient’s 
Law No. 620 as published in the Official Gazette No. 169 of September 4, 2007. 
 
13. 
“Official Gazette” means 
La Gaceta, Diario Oficial,
 the Recipient’s official 
gazette. 
 
14. “PAININ 
Program” 
means 
Programa de
 Atención Integral a la Niñez
,
the 
Recipient’s Program for Comprehensive Childhood Support, launched in 
February 1998 and its subsequent phases. 
 
15. 
“Program” means the program of actions, objectives and policies designed to 
promote growth and achieve sustainable reductions in poverty as set forth or 
referred to in the letter dated April 21, 2008 from the Recipient to the 
Association declaring the Recipient’s commitment to the execution of the 
Program, and requesting assistance from the Association in support of the 
Program during its execution. 
 
16. “RAAN” 
means 
Región Autónoma del Atlántico Norte
,
the Recipient’s 
Autonomous Region of the Northern Atlantic. 
 
17. “RAAS” 
means 
Región Autónoma del Atlántico Sur
,
the Recipient’s 
Autonomous Region of the Southern Atlantic. 
 
18. “SIGADE-
Integrado
”
means the Recipient’s database of public external and 
internal debt, as described in the Recipient’s document entitled “
Modelo 
Conceptual Interfaz
 SIGADE-SIGFA” of October 2007. 
 
19. 
“Single Tranche” means the amount of the Financing allocated to the category 
entitled “Single Tranche” in the table set forth in Part B of Section II of Schedule 
1
to this Agreement. 
 
20. 
“Strategic Civil Service Plan” means the Recipient’s plan, dated July 1, 2004, to 
modernize and professionalize its civil service, as set forth in the Recipient’s 
Civil Service Law. 
 
Page  13
12
Section II.  Modifications to the General Conditions 
 
The modifications to the 
“International Development Association General Conditions for 
Credits and Grants”, dated July 1, 2005 (as amended through October 15, 2006) are as 
follows:   
1. 
The last sentence of paragraph (a) of Section 2.03 (relating to Applications for 
Withdrawal) is deleted in its entirety. 
2. 
Sections 2.04 (
Designated Accounts)
 and 2.05 (
Eligible Expenditures
)
are deleted 
in their entirety, and the remaining Sections in Article II are renumbered 
accordingly. 
3. 
Sections 4.01 (
Project Execution Generally
), and 4.09 (
Financial Management; 
Financial Statements; Audits
)
are deleted in their entirety, and the remaining 
Sections in Article IV are renumbered accordingly. 
4. 
Paragraph (a) of Section 4.05 (renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 3 above 
and relating to 
Use of Goods, Works and Services
)
is deleted in its entirety. 
 
5. 
Paragraph (c) of Section 4.06 (renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 3 
above) is modified to read as follows: 
 
“Section 4.06. 
Plans; Documents; Records 
 
…
(c) 
The Recipient shall retain all records (contracts, orders, 
invoices, bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing expenditures 
under the Financing until two years after the Closing Date. The Recipient 
shall enable the Association’s representatives to examine such records.” 
 
6. 
Section 4.07 (renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 3 above) is modified to 
read as follows: 
 
Section 4.07. 
Program Monitoring and Evaluation 
 
…
(c)  
The Recipient shall prepare, or cause to be prepared, and 
furnish to the Association not later than six months after the Closing 
Date, a report of such scope and in such detail as the Association shall 
reasonably request, on the execution of the Program, the performance by 
the Recipient and the Association of their respective obligations under 
the Legal Agreements and the accomplishment of the purposes of the 
Financing. 
 
Page  14
13
7. 
The following terms and definitions set forth in the Appendix are modified or 
deleted as follows, and the following new terms and definitions are added in 
alphabetical order to the Appendix as follows, with the terms being renumbered 
accordingly: 
 
(a) 
The definition of the term 
“Eligible Expenditure” is modified to read as 
follows:   
 
“‘Eligible Expenditure’ means any use to which the Financing is put in 
support of the Program, other than to finance expenditures excluded 
pursuant to the Financing Agreement.” 
 
(b) 
The term “Financial Statements” and its definition as set forth in the 
Appendix are deleted in their entirety. 
 
(c) 
The term “Project” is modified to read “Program” and its definition is 
modified to read as follows:  
 
“‘Program’ means the program referred to in the Financing Agreement in 
support of which the Financing is made.”  All references to “Project” 
throughout these General Conditions are deemed to be references to 
“Program.”
 
