Page  1
PROGRAM INFORMATION DOCUMENT (PID) 
CONCEPT STAGE 
Report No.:  AB3693 
Operation Name 
NI Development Policy Credit 
Region 
LATIN AMERICA AND CARIBBEAN 
Sector 
General public administration sector (50%); Social and human 
capital development (50%) 
Project ID 
P106747 
Borrower(s) 
REPUBLIC OF NICARAGUA 
Implementing Agency 
MINISTRY OF FINANCE 
Date PID Prepared 
February 27, 2008 
Estimated Date of 
Appraisal Authorization 
March 10, 2008 
Estimated Date of Board 
Approval 
May 15, 2008 
1. 
Key development issues and rationale for Bank involvement
.
The process of poverty 
reduction appears to have stagnated since 2001, in spite of positive (albeit modest) growth and 
significant public spending on anti-poverty programs.  To improve PRSP implementation and achieve 
the Millennium Development Goals, the rate of progress needs to be stepped up significantly.  As 
summarized in the 2007 IDA Country Partnership Strategy, this will require overcoming the following 
development challenges:  

Maintaining macroeconomic stability
,
which will require keeping public spending under control, 
resisting growing pressures on public sector wages, pairing the increase in fiscal transfers to the 
municipalities with proportional transfers of spending responsibilities, and correcting the actuarial 
deficits of the pension system. 

Pursuing public sector efficiency
by improving the professionalism of the civil service, expanding 
the use of financial management systems, providing greater freedom of information to allow 
citizens to hold government more accountable and strengthening the quality and targeting of 
public spending. 

Building a competitive investment climate
by overcoming key infrastructure and regulatory 
bottlenecks to allow taking better advantage of global markets. The limitations in electricity 
supply and road network are critical bottlenecks in this regard, together with high levels of 
bureaucratic red tape and insecure property rights. Boosting the productivity of the rural poor to 
help them compete globally presents a special challenge that will require expanding their access 
to productive infrastructure (water, roads, rural telephony and rural electrification), improving the 
system of agricultural extension services, and providing more secure land rights.  

Maximizing human potential
through access to quality education and adequate nutrition and 
health services.  Though primary enrollment has increased significantly in the last decade, high 
drop-out and repetition rates remain problematic, and access to pre-school and secondary 
education are severely limited.  Curriculums need to be revised for greater relevance and 
investment in vocational and secondary education needs to increase.  In health, the big challenge 
is to continue expanding the coverage and quality of primary health services in affordable ways.  
Chronic malnutrition remains alarmingly high and requires immediate attention through multi-
sectoral interventions.  Also, special efforts are required to provide social services to the isolated 
and traditionally marginalized populations on the Atlantic coast. 

Improving governance
is a cross-cutting ingredient that is critical for all aspects of the overall 
development process, and requires the strengthening of the regulatory system for public services, 
Page  2
more secure property registration and titling systems, and greater public accountability, including 
through a strengthened Comptroller General뭩 office and social accounting systems. 
 
Proposed new lending to Nicaragua in the IDA Country Partnership Strategy for FY 08-12 is anchored
 
in a series of annual budgetary support operations to engage the government on key policy reforms, 
while selectively undertaking up to five or six new investment operations in areas where the Bank has 
comparative advantages.  These operations, together with the associated technical assistance credit 
(PSTAC-2) would allow the Bank to engage in the overall reform program of the Government in 
governance and public sector modernization, the investment climate and improvements in social service 
provision, as well as to maintain engagement in the social sectors, for which no new investment 
operations are envisaged.   
 
2. 
Proposed objective(s)
.
The policies and measures supported by this operation are expected to 
have a significant impact on poverty-reduction and social indicators in Nicaragua, provided that the 
government is able to follow through as planned over the medium term.  These policies and measures 
operate mainly by helping to, 

strengthen public sector management through the modernization of public financial management and 
the creation of a stable, professional civil service, and 

improve the quality of social services through (i) greater accountability in the delivery of public 
services as access to public information is broadened, (ii) a better capacity to monitor and evaluate 
social service delivery with the publication of student learning achievement results and development 
of new instruments to monitor child malnutrition, (iii) the adoption of new procedures to reduce 
maternal mortality in poor municipalities, and (iv) the implementation of a strengthened institutional 
framework for water & sanitation sector development. 
 
3. 
Preliminary description.
 
The proposed DPC is a one-tranche, stand-alone credit operation to 
support the implementation of the initial phase of the Nicaraguan government뭩 new development 
program.  It serves as a bridge between the recently ended series of PRSCs and a planned new series of 
PRSCs to be based on the updated PRSP that the government is currently preparing and expects to 
complete by July 2008.  The DPC policy matrix summarizes the key actions supported by this credit. 
 
The general framework for this operation is derived from the common Performance Assessment Matrix 
(PAM) agreed jointly by the Government and the Budget Support Group (BSG).  Specific elements of 
the PAM supported by this operation are (i) the maintenance of an appropriate macroeconomic 
framework, (ii) progress in the implementation of the civil service law No. 476, (iii) progress in 
modernizing public finances through the strengthening of the central governments budgeting, treasury, 
accounting and public credit functions, (iv) measures to promote greater access to public information, 
(v) the dissemination of student learning achievement tests and development of plans to improve 
pedagogical practices, (vi) development of plans to reduce maternal mortality, (vii) development of new 
system to better monitor infant malnutrition, and (viii) the modernization of the institutional framework 
for the water and sanitation sector. 
 
4. Environment 
Aspects.
 
The specific policies and actions supported by this operation are not 
expected to entail significant impacts on the environment, forests and other natural resources.  Most of 
the environmental policies and practices in Nicaragua are based on the Environmental and Natural 
Resource Law of 1996, which is administered by MARENA.  This law establishes the conditions under 
which an environmental assessment of development activities is required and the procedures to be 
followed in preparing such assessments, while mandating public consultations with the affected 
parties/communities to discuss potential impacts and their mitigation.  A Country Environmental 
Page  3
Analysis (CEA) for Nicaragua has been programmed for FY09 to examine pressing environmental 
issues, evaluate institutional capacities and constraints, and develop strategies for promoting 
environmentally sustainable development.
 
5.  
Tentative financing 
Source: ($m.) 
BORROWER/RECIPIENT 0 
International Development Association (IDA) 
20 
 Total 
20 
 
6. Contact point 
Contact: Ulrich Lachler 
Title: Lead Economist 
Tel:  202-528-8886 or 786-276-1273,  
Fax: 786-276-1260 
Email: Ulachler@worldbank.org 
Location: Miami, FL (IBRD)
 
