Page  1
PROGRAM INFORMATION DOCUMENT (PID) 
APPRAISAL STAGE 
Report No.:  AB3747 
Operation Name 
NI Development Policy Credit 
Region 
LATIN AMERICA AND CARIBBEAN 
Sector 
General public administration sector (80%);General information 
and communications sector (20%) 
Project ID 
P106747 
Borrower(s) 
REPUBLIC OF NICARAGUA 
Implementing Agency 
MINISTRY OF FINANCE
 
Date PID Prepared 
March 18, 2008 
Date of Appraisal 
Authorization 
March 24, 2008 
Date of Board Approval 
May 15, 2008 
1. 
Country and Sector Background.  
Nicaragua is one of the poorest countries in Latin 
America, with a per capita gross national income of US$ 980 in 2006 (Atlas method) and a total 
population of 5.2 million. According to the 2001 Living Standards Measurement Survey 
(LSMS), 46 percent of the population lived below the national poverty line, while 15 percent 
lived in extreme poverty.  These figures reflect a significant decline in extreme poverty since 
1993, and a modest decline in terms of overall poverty rates.  Since 2001, however, the process 
of poverty reduction appears to have stagnated, as the data from the 2005 LSMS indicate no 
significant change in either the overall and extreme poverty rates.  This negative outcome is 
likely to be related to Nicaragua’s lackluster growth performance since 2001, particularly in 
agriculture (on which many of the poor rely).  On a more positive note, the 2005 LSMS results 
also show that the average depth of poverty (distance from the poverty line) has continued to 
decline, and that the degree of inequality, as measured by the Gini index on consumption, has 
fallen.  Poverty remains heavily concentrated in rural areas and associated with agricultural 
sector activities, which still account for 17 percent of GDP; a relatively large share by regional 
standards. 
 
The progress made in recent years toward achieving the other PRS goals also has been mixed 
and raises concerns about future poverty reduction prospects. Less than two-thirds of the goals 
were met in 2005-06, and half of the MDG targets are off-track.  Moreover, the pace of 
improvement in the intermediate indicators in education, health, water and sanitation has been 
uneven, as (i) educational efficiency remains low, with high rates of primary school repetition 
and low completion, (ii) the failures to advance on the health MDGs for maternal and infant 
mortality are linked to slow progress in peri-natal care, and (iii) the coverage of basic water and 
sanitation services, which is critical for reducing child malnutrition, remains deficient. The 
authorities have expressed concern about the slow progress in achieving the PRS goals in their 
PRSP-II First Annual Progress Report (PRSP-II APR) presented in July 2007 and have already 
begun to modify public interventions in the education, health, water and sanitation sectors in an 
urgent effort to strengthen PRS implementation. 
 
Page  2
2. Operation 
Objectives
:
The proposed DPC is a one-tranche, stand-alone credit operation 
to support the implementation of the initial phase of the Nicaragua
n
government’s new 
development program.  It serves as a bridge between the recently ended series of PRSCs and a 
planned new series of budget support operations to be based on the updated PRSP that the 
government is currently preparing and expects to complete by July 2008.  The DPC policy 
matrix summarizes the key actions supported by this credit. 
 
The general framework for this operation is derived from the common Performance Assessment 
Matrix (PAM) agreed jointly by the Government and the Budget Support Group (BSG).  Specific 
elements of the PAM supported by this operation are (i) the maintenance of an appropriate 
macroeconomic framework, (ii) progress in the implementation of the civil service law No. 476, 
(iii) progress in modernizing public finances through the strengthening of the central 
governments budgeting, treasury, accounting and public credit functions, (iv) the dissemination 
of student learning achievement tests and development of plans to improve pedagogical 
practices, (v) implementation of actions to reduce maternal mortality, (vi) development of new 
system to better monitor infant malnutrition, and (vii) the modernization of the institutional 
framework for the water and sanitation sector. 
 
The expected outcomes of this operation by, end-2008, are: (i) the accreditation of at least 10,000 
civil servants (approx. 8.6% of total central government employment) under the Civil Service 
Law, (ii) ensuring that at least 20 public agencies and 6 units in MINSA operate with SIGFA, 
suppliers are being paid via electronic transfers (in areas where the financial system is 
sufficiently developed), and the debt management and public investment interfaces with SIGFA 
are operating successfully, (iii) broad dissemination of the results of the student learning 
achievement tests among educators and civil society, and the distribution of 9,000 teaching 
guides on Spanish and Mathematics for the third and sixth grades in primary, to improve the 
pedagogical practices of teachers, (iv) an increase in the proportion of births taking place in a 
health institution from 62% in 2006 to 72% in 2008, at the national level, (v) the development of  
necessary instruments (including a baseline) to implement a system for monitoring the growth 
and nutrition status of children under 2 years old in the 66 poor municipalities, and (vi) an 
increase in the effective coverage of potable water in urban areas to 70%.  
 
3. 
Rationale for Bank Involvement.  
The proposed new lending in the Country Partnership 
Strategy for FY 08-12 is anchored
 
in a series of annual budgetary support operations to engage 
the government on key policy reforms, while selectively undertaking up to five or six new 
investment operations in areas where the Bank has comparative advantages.  New lending 
indicatively amounts to US$240 million for the five years covered by the CPS, of which $80 to 
$100 million will be provided through budget support. These operations, together with the 
associated technical assistance credit (PSTAC-2) would allow the Bank to engage in the overall 
reform program of the Government in governance and public sector modernization, the 
investment climate and improvements in social service provision, as well as to maintain 
engagement in the social sectors, for which no new investment operations are envisaged.  New 
investment operations would be limited to urban and rural water and sanitation, public sector 
management, land administration, and rural roads.  The lines of actions supported under the 
proposed DPC are expected to contribute to specific CPS outcomes in the areas of improved civil 
service management, increased public sector accountability, improved access to education 
Page  3
services and improved education outcomes, improved access to health services and improved 
health outcomes fir women and children, reduction of chronic malnutrition among children, and 
improved access to and quality of water and sanitation services.
 
4. Financing. 
 
The total credit amount proposed for this operation is US$ 20 million 
equivalent, to be made available for disbursement upon effectiveness.  No co-financing is 
envisaged for this operation.
 
5. 
Institutional and Implementation Arrangements.  
The program supported by this 
operation is being implemented by a Government team led by the Ministry of Finance (MHCP), 
supported by the vice-Ministry of External Relations in charge of external cooperation and by the 
Planning Secretariat in the Ministry of the Presidency (SEPRES), and including representatives 
from each government agency involved in the policy areas covered by the DPC (MINED, 
MINSA, MIFAM and INIDE).  The monitoring of the prior actions that trigger this DPC and the 
evaluation of results at the end of 2008 will be carried out by the IDA task team in collaboration 
with this Government team.
 
As the measures supported under the DPC form part of the PAM, the monitoring and evaluation 
process will be closely coordinated with the other members of the Budget Support Group in the 
context of the mid-term review of the Program Assessment Matrix scheduled for May of each 
year, with follow-up actions negotiated at the annual PAM review tentatively scheduled for 
September/October of each year.  
 
The government is planning to prepare annual analyses of public expenditures, especially those 
related to the execution of poverty reduction spending, as well as to design and implement a 
poverty spending monitoring and evaluation system that incorporates quality issues, such as 
incidence, coverage, efficiency and effectiveness indicators. Plans also include identifying a 
methodology to measure the poverty and PRS socio-economic indicators on an annual basis.  As 
these plans materialize, they will also help in monitoring progress in the areas supported by this 
DPC. 
 
6. 
Benefits and Risks.  
The credit serves to engage the new Nicaraguan authorities in a 
policy dialogue early on, while their program is still being developed and the PRSP is updated, 
and to maintain continuity in providing needed budget support with predictable periodicity. 
 
Nicaragua exhibits several vulnerabilities that pose a threat to the development objectives 
expected under this operation, including a tense internal political environment, which could hold 
up economic reactivation by impairing the investment climate, a fragile macroeconomic 
framework and vulnerability to external shocks, including a slowdown in the U.S. economy and 
further hikes in oil and food prices, and a limited institutional capacity, which could paralyze the 
public investment program, overstretch the budget and result in a deterioration of public services. 
 
7. 
Poverty and Social Impacts and Environment Aspects.  
The policies and measures 
supported by this operation are expected to have a significant impact on poverty-reduction and 
social indicators in Nicaragua, provided that the government is able to follow through as planned 
over the medium term.  These policies and measures operate mainly by helping to,
 
Page  4
·
strengthen public sector management through the modernization of public financial 
management and the creation of a stable, professional civil service, and 
·
improve the quality of social services through (i) a better capacity to monitor and evaluate 
social service delivery with the publication of student learning achievement results and 
development of new instruments to monitor child malnutrition, (ii) the adoption of new 
procedures to reduce maternal mortality in poor municipalities, and (iii) the implementation 
of a strengthened institutional framework for water & sanitation sector development. 
 
The specific policies and actions supported by this operation are not expected to entail significant 
impacts on the environment, forests and other natural resources.  As noted in the Program 
Document for PRSC-II, most of the environmental policies and practices in Nicaragua are based 
on the Environmental and Natural Resource Law of 1996, which is administered by MARENA. 
This law establishes the conditions under which an environmental assessment of development 
activities is required and the procedures to be followed in preparing such assessments, while 
mandating public consultations with the affected parties/communities to discuss potential 
impacts and their mitigation.  A Country Environmental Analysis (CEA) for Nicaragua has been 
programmed for FY09 to examine pressing environmental issues, evaluate institutional 
capacities and constraints, and develop strategies for promoting environmentally sustainable 
development 
 
8. Contact 
point 
Contact: Ulrich Lächler 
Title: Lead Economist 
Tel: 202-528-8886 or 786-276-1273 
Fax:  
Email: Ulachler@worldbank.org 
Location: Miami, FL (IBRD) 
 
9. 
For more information contact: 
The InfoShop 
The World Bank 
1818 H Street, NW 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
Telephone:  (202) 458-4500 
Fax:  (202) 522-1500 
Email: pic@worldbank.org 
Web: http://www.worldbank.org/infoshop 
 
