FILE COPY
Report No. 1016-NIR
Appraisal of a Telecommunications Project
of the Office des Postes et Telecommunications
du Niger (OPTN) Niger
April 28, 1976
Regional Projects Department
Western Africa Regional Office
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
M
Document of the World Bank
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients
only in the performance of their official duties. Its contents may not
otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
US$1            =  CFAF 225.0
CFAF 1          =  US$0.004444
CFAF 1 million = US$4,444
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
i km   =  0.62 mile
1 km2 = 0.386 square miles
ABBREVIATIONS, ACRONONYMS AND DEFINITIONS
AfDB               African Development Bank
CAPTEAO            Conférence Administrative des Postes et
Télécommunications de l'Afrique de l'Ouest (West
Africa Post and Telecommunications Organization)
Carrier            A system providing several telephone or telegraph
circuits through one transmission mode
CCCE               Caisse Centrale de Coopération Economique (French
lending agency)
CCITT              International Telegraph and Telephone Consultative
Committee (an ITU committee)
CIDA               Canadian International Development Agency
DEL's              Direct Exchange Lines  (connected)
Exchange fill      Percentage of installed capacity of a telephone
exchange in use
FAC                Fonds d'Aide et de Coopération  (French Cooperation
Services)
FCR                Compagnie France Cable et Radio
HF                 High frequency radio (3,000 - 30,000 khz)
ITU                International Telecommunications Union
Khz                Kiloherz
Mhz                Megaherz
Microwave           Radio system working at frequencies above 1,000 mhz
OPTN               Office des Postes et Télécommunications du Niger
Telex              Teleprinter Exchange Service
UAMPT              Union Africaine et Malgache des Postes et Télé-
communications (African and Madagascan Post and
Telecommunications Union)
UNDP               United Nations Development Program
VHF                Very high frequency radio (30 - 300 mhz)
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31



NIGER
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
OFFICE DES POSTES ET TELECOMMUNICATIONS DU NIGER (OPTN)
APPRAISAL OF A TELECOMMUNICATIONS PROJECT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS ..................................   i-vi
1.    INTRODUCTION   ........................................                       1
2.  THE SECTOR ............... - ...............    1
Economic Setting   ...............................                     1
Sector Organization   ............................                     2
Access to Services   .............................                     2
Standards of Service .                 ...........................     3
Sector Objectives   ..............................                     4
Sector Investment and Constraints   ....                ..........     5
Future Plans   ...................................                     5
3.    THE PROGRAM AND THE PROJECT   ........................                        5
The Program   ...................................                      5
The Project   ...................................                      7
Cost Estimates   ................................                      7
Project Financing   .............................                      8
Items for IDA Financing   .......................                      8
Procurement   ...................................                      9
Execution   .....................................                      9
Disbursement   ..................................                     10
4.    JUSTIFICATION   ......................................                       10
Support of Country's Economic Development and
Integration   .........................                  10
Support of Institutional Improvements in the
Telecommunications  Sector   ....            .......     il
Market Demand and Facilities Required to Meet it                      il
Least Cost Solution   ...........................                     12
Return on Investment   ..........................                     12
5.    THE BENEFICIARY   ....................................                       13
Organization and Management   .....                ..............     13
Training   ......................................                     14
Planning   ......................................                     14
Accounting   ....................................                     14
Billing and Collection of Subscriber Accounts  ..                     15
Audit   .........................................                     15
Telecommunications Tariffs   .....                ...............     15
Consultants and Experts   .......................                     16
Insurance   .....................................                     16
6.    FINANCES   ..........            .................................           16
Introduction   ..................................                     16
Telecommunications - Past Finances   ....                ........     17
Financing Plan   ................................                     17
Telecommunications - Future Finances   ....                ......     19
Postal/Financial  Services   .....................                    21
Fiscal Impact   .................................                     22
7.    RECOMMENDATIONS   ....................................                       22
This report is based on information provided by OPTN and on the findings
of the mission composed of Messrs. G. A. V. Buttex and A. Engvall which
visited Niger in October 1975
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



LIST OF ANNEXES
1.       International Telephone Statistics
2.       Organization Chart
3.       Basic Statistical Data
4.       Description of the Program and Project
5.       Project Construction Schedule
6.       Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
7.       Representative Tariffs
8.       Return on Investment
9.       Telecommunications Department:  Income Statements
10.       Telecommunications Department:  Balance Sheets
11.       Telecommunications Department:  Sources and Applications of
Funds Statements
12.       Notes and Assumptions on the Financial Statements
13.       Telecommunications Department:  Long Term Debt
14.       Postal/Financial Services:  Financial Aspects
Table 1: Income Statements
Table 2: Balance Sheets
Table 3: Sources and Application of Funds
Statements
15.       Telecommunications Department:  Performance Indicators
IBRD Map No. 12025:  Existing Telecommunications Network and
Telecommunications Program 1976-79



NIGER
OFFICE DES POSTES El TELECOMMUNICATIONS DU NIGER (OPTN)
APPRAISAL OF A TELECOMMUNICATIONS PROJECT
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS
Introduction
i.       The Government of the Republie of Niger has asked IDA to help
finance the 1976-79 telecommunications program of the Office des Postes
et Télécommunications du Niger (OPTN), the entity responsible for all
postal and domestic public telecommunications services in Niger.
Existing Telecommunications Facilities
ii.      The telephone density in Niger of about 0.14 per 100 population
is among the lowest in the world. Niger has some 6,200 telephone stations
for about 3,750 direct exchange lines (DEL's) connected to ten automatic
exchanges and twenty small rural manual exchanges. Most of the country's
remoter areas, especially in the north, are without telecommunications
services. Although local telephone service is satisfactory in the main
towns, due to the use of obsolete and worn-out equipment it is poor in
the smaller towns and communities. The design of most of the existing
telephone exchanges and the present long-distance network does not allow
for further extensions or service quality improvement; as regards the long
distance network, transmission routes are inadequate and overloaded, trans-
mission quality is low and the present manual system for connecting long-
distance calls involves long delays.
Institutions
iii.     After independence, the telecommunications service in Niger was
incorporated into the general services of the Government, with operations
and development being the responsibility of the Ministry of Posts and
Telecommunications and finances forming part of the National Budget under
the Ministry of Finance. On August 27, 1970 and following the pattern
adopted in other West African countries, the Government created OPTN,
a new entity managed by a Board of Directors and with a Director General
as its chief executive. Under its charter, OPTN has been given legal
and financial autonomy and is required to be operated on a commercial
basis.
Sector Objectives
iv.      The principal sector objectives for the period 1976-80 are a)
to establish a sound basis for the development of the domestic long-
distance network; b) to keep pace with the expected growth in subscriber
demand; c) to rehabilitate, improve and expand secondary long-distance



- ii -
routes and extend services in rural areas; d) to extend and improve domestic
and intoe-ational telecommunications services including services to other
parts of Africa;and e) to improve OPTN's organization, management and accoun-
ting.
The Program
v.        The main vehicle for achieving objectives (a) through (d) is
OPTN's 1976-79 development program. This comprises: the project pro-
posed for IDA financing and which is described in paragraph vii; the
construction of the Dosso-Zinder link of a Niamey-Zinder microwave
route which is to be financed by the Government, French FAC/CCCE and
suppliers; the construction of microwave links to Benin and Upper Volta
as part of the Sahelian route of the Pan-African telecommunications net-
work and which are to be financed by Canadian aid; and ongoing works
mainly consisting of the completion of the Niamey-Dosso link of the
Niamey-Zinder microwave route. The proposed IDA project which forms
an integral part of the program, includes, in particular, important
measures for achieving objective (e). The total estimated cost of the
program is US$20 million. Assurances, satisfactory to IDA, that the financ-
ing for the construction of the Dosso-Zinder microwave link had been obtained
would be a condition of effectivness.
vi.       The Niamey-Dosso link of the Niamey-Zinder microwave route, which
is about to be commissioned, includes facilities for television (initially for
education) and broadcasting; the Dosso-Zinder link will also be designed to
accommodate similar facilities. The costs of these two links will therefore
be considerably more than if they had been designed exclusively for OPTN's use.
However, the use of one system to take care of both OPTN and broadcasting/
television requirements results in economies for the country as a whole. The
Government has approved a formula satisfactory to IDA for sharing the invest-
ment and future operating costs of the Niamey-Zinder microwave route by the
user agencies.
The Project
vii.      The project proposed for IDA financing includes i) installation of
3,800 lines of automatic switching equipment with cable and subscriber distri-
bution networks; ii) improvement of long-distance services by providing trunk
switching equipment, three VHF links and one HF radio link, overhead line and
carrier equipment; iii) civil works; iv) miscellaneous equipment, vehicles
and tools; and v) financial and engineering consultants' services for about
48 man-months at US$5,500 per man-month. However, it is hoped that OPTN will
be able to obtain the services it requires from international and bilateral
sources without having recourse to private consultants, in which case the
amount in the credit will be reduced to the extent that such assistance
becomes available.
Project Costs
viii.       The project is estimated to cost US$6.5 million, excluding taxes
and duties, with a foreign exchange component of US$5.2 million. Estimated
costs for project equipment are based on prices recently obtained under
international competitive bidding for similar quantities of similar equip-



- iii -
ment în Western Africa. Civil works costs are based on the most recent
contracting experience of OPTN. Project costs include US$1.0 million
contingencies to cover prîce escalation and US$0.3 million for unexpected
changes in design and specifications. The Government has confirmed that
it relieves OPTN from paying all taxes and duties on equipment imported
for the project.
Project Financing
ix.       The proposed IDA credit of US$5.2 million, all for foreign costs,
would cover about 80% of total project costs. The credit would be made
to the Government of Niger, which would relend the proceeds of the credit
to OPTN at 8.5% annual interest rate for 20 years including a 4-year grace
period. The balance of the project costs of US$1.3 million, all local costs,
would be financed from OPTN's own resources.
Procurement
x.        The items financed by IDA would be procured through international
competitive bidding except for US$1.5 million (representing 30% of the
credit) of switching equipment for extensions and signalling conversion
to existing exchanges; and small groups of miscellaneous equipment, tools
and vehicles which would not exceed US$20,000 per group and US$150,000 in
total and would be procured after local competition in accordance with the
Government's tendering procedures which are satisfactory. It is recommended
that the equipment for the extensions to existing exchanges in Niamey and
Maradi and for signalling system conversion be procured from the original
supplier, L.M. Ericsson (France), provided the prices offered are reason-
ably in lîne with international prices for similar equipment. The foreign
costs of this equipment are estimated at US$1.5 million. This course of
action is recommneded for the following reasons (i) the original equipment
was procured under international competitive bidding, and (ii) procurement
from the original suppliers is the correct solution in terms of least cost,
compatibility, standardization, training and deployment of personnel and
organization of maintenance and spare parts.
Execution
xi.       OPTN requires assistance in (i) detailed engineering, (ii) pre-
paration of specifications and bidding documents, (iii) bid evaluation,
(iv) inspection services, and (v) supervision services for the main
installations of the project. OPTN expects to obtain assistance for
some of these services from International Telecommunications Union
(ITU). An amount of US$160,000 (equivalent to about 30 man-months) has,
however, been included in the credit to cover the eventuality that ITU
may not be able to provide this assistance and OPTN may have to employ
engineering consultants. Should ITU eventuàlly be able to help OPTN,
an appropriate sum would be cancelled from the credit. The suppliers
would install the telephone exchnages and the VHF and HF radio links



- iv -
under supervision of OPTN's staff and of the consultants or experts.
The suppliers' contracts, which would also cover one year's mainte-
nance of the equipment, would specifically provide for OPTN's staff to
take part in these activities, so as to give them experience in instal-
lation, testing and maintenance. Construction of open-wire lines and
ducts, cable-laying and subscriber installations would be carried out
by OPTN's staff. The envisaged arrangements for project execution are
satisfactory. The installation and commissioning of all new plant is
expected to be completed by the end of December 1979. The project
construction schedule is given in Annex 5.
Disbursement
xii.      The credit would be disbursed against the foreign cost of
imported equipment and materials, and the foreign exchange cost of
consulting services.
Justification
xiii.     The present lack of reliable, good quality telecommunications
facilities in Niger, especially in the case of the long-distance network
is causing acute communications problems; the inadequacy of the facil-
ities was clearly demonstrated during the relief operations consequent
upon the Sahelian drought. The economic costs of such inadequate tele-
communications between the major centers of a country as large as Niger
cannot be quantified but clearly must be very substantial, and the
improvement of telecommunications is recognized by Government as a key
element in the development process and in the better integration of the
country. OPTN's 1976-79 development program addresses itself to these
issues and aims at bringing about a quick and substantial improvement
in the quality of the country's telecommunications services.
xiv.      The program lays stress on the improvement of the long-distance
services and is designed to improve the quality of service in the econ-
omically more important areas of Niger. These areas include the regions
of Maradi and Zinder (both of which are subject of externally financed
regional development efforts, the former by IDA), the fertile areas of
the Niger valley, and the important departments of Niamey, Dosso and
Tahoua. Modern local and long-distance facilities will improve the
quality of service available to the producers, merchants, exporters,
consumers and carriers, and to the regional and local government services
of these areas. These improvements will enhance the efficiency of commerce
and transport, the latter is particularly important in view of the long
distances covered and the present high costs of transport, add stimulus
to the development of economic activity, and contribute to the integration
and the higher efficiency of the administrative and social services. In
addition to the installation of new equipment in the southern and basic-
ally agricultural belt, new facilities are to be provided for the mining
areas of the midwest of the country, where demand for telecommunications
service is developing fast. These new installations would assist the
development of the areas concerned, meet an urgent need, and provide the
basis for the future extension of service.
xv.       The project as designed represents the least-cost solution for
the proposed development.



xvi.      The project is an integral part of the program and is complementary
to the other three components of the program. Since costs and benefits of
the four components are interrelated, it is appropriate that the return be
calculated on the investment in the program as a whole rather than only on
the investment in the IDA financed project; on this basis the internal finan-
cial rate of return on the program is 14%. This return is the discount rate
which equalizes the stream of OPTN's expected revenues from the program with
the related capital costs, free of taxes and duties, and related operating
costs. The bases of the estimate are given in Annex 8. A senstitivity anal-
ysis shows that, under unfavorable combination of the main parameters, the
return on investment would be not less than 11%.
xvii.     The economic return on the program is undoubtedly higher than the
foregoing suggest, since (a) prices charged do not adequately measure the
full benefits to the subscribers, primarily business, industry and agri-
culture, and (b) the costs include the full costs of extending the network
and providing facilities in new areas even though the full benefits will only
be obtained in the future when additional lines are connected.
Organization
xviii.    OPTN's accounting, billing and collection procedures require
improvement; an efficient medium and long term planning system also needs
to be established; staffiing and tariffs require to be reviewed.  The pro-
posed project provides for assistance from experts or consultants to review,
make recommendations and assist in implementing the required changes (see
para. vii), which would help bring about the institutional and managerial
improvement of OPTN.
Finances
xix.      Overall operating results from OPTN's postal and telecommunications
operations are presently satisfactory; OPTN's financial position is
sound.  Revenue from existing telecommunications tariffs should be suffi-
cient to meet OPTN's telecommunications requirements during the construc-
tion period of the program 1976-79. Although there would be a significant
reduction in telecommunications cash in the last year, 1979; this would
not present a problem. After 1979, however, OPTN would have to meet heavy
debt service charges, higher operating expenses (particularly depreciation),
and the costs of a further phase of development which would start towards
the end of 1979. The forecasts indicate that even with the additional
revenue from the plant installed in 1976-79, OPTN would run into cash
difficulties in 1980 and subsequent years unless a 20% increase in total
tariff revenue could be achieved.  Implementation of a revised tariff
structure capable of generating such increases would be required during
the second half of 1979.



- vi -
xx.       On the basis of present tariffs the rate of return on telecommuni-
cations net fixed assets would be about 12% in 1976 through 1978; however,
it is inevitable for the reasons mentioned above that after 1978 the rate
of return will fall unless additional telecommunications revenue is
obtained. With the 20% increase in revenues described in the previous
paragraph, a rate of return of about 8% should be feasible in 1979 and this
should increase to 12% in 1982. Given the present high tariff levels it
would be important that tariff levels be carefully tailored to meet OPTN's
requirements and not so high as to jeopardize telecommunications develop-
ment which is in its early stages. For these reasons, during negotiations,
OPTN agreed to undertake a tariff study with the assistance of consultants
or experts. OPTN also agreed to adjust its telecommunications tariffs in
such a way as to enable telecommunications operations to earn a rate of
return of not less than 8% in 1980 and 10% thereafter. With the additional
revenue from the tariff adjustment, the present satisfactory financial
position of the telecommunications service should continue.
Conclusion
xxi.      Subject to agreement on the conditons set out in Chapter 7, the
project is suitable for a credit of US$5.2 million.



NIGER
OFFICE DES POSTES ET TELECOMMUNICATIONS DU NIGER (OPTN)
APPRAISAL OF A TELECOMMUNICATIONS PROJECT
1. INTRODUCTION
1.01      The Government of Niger has asked IDA to help finance the
1976-79 telecommunications investment program of Office des Postes et
Télécommunications du Niger (OPTN), the Government owned utility respons-
ible for postal services and for public telecommunications within Niger
and with neighboring countries. The proposed project is part of this
development program; it provides for additional automatic switching capa-
city in Niamey, the country's capital, and in Maradi, a major provincial
town; new automatic exchanges in three other provincial towns; improve-
ment and expansion of associated local networks; and secondary long-
distance links to rural areas. It would be the first Bank group operation
in Niger's telecommunications sector.
1.02      OPTN has based its 1976-79 telecommunications program on a
masterplan prepared in 1970 by consultants, SOFRECOM of France, and on the
International Telecommunications Union (ITU) study of the Panafrican
Telecommunications Network (Panaftel) that was carried out in 1972. In
mid-1974, Messrs. Buttex and Alber-Glanstaetten of the Bank identified and
pre-appraised the project. A mission comprising Messrs. Buttex and
Engvall appraised the project in October 1975. The present report is based
on the findings of this mission.
2. THE SECTOR
Economic Setting
2
2.01      Niger, with a land area of one million km , is one of the largest
landlocked countries in Western Africa. Much of Niger's northern territory
lies within the Sahara, is sparsely populated and has little economic
activity. The most important part of the country is a relatively narrow
belt of territory along the country's southern border which extends for
some 1,000 km from the Upper Volta border in the west, to Lake Chad in the
east. In this area rainfall is sufficient for sustained systems of
agriculture and it supports most of Niger's 4.5 million people and is the
country's main center of economic activity. It contains the important



- 2 -
administrative, trading and business centers of Niamey--the capital--
Dosso, Tahoua, Maradi and Zinder. In common with other regions of
Niger, domestic, and particularly long-distance, telecommunications
are unsatisfactory in the area and needs have outgrown the capacity and
technical capability of existing telecommunications facilities. Efficient
and reliable telecommunications services are particularly important for
sustaining economic and administrative activities in an area where due to
large distances, communications as a whole are difficult. Consequently
the Government, correctly, is giving priority to the improvement of the
telecommunications system in the area. The mid-western region, with its
important cities of Agadez and Arlit, although far less populous, is
gradually assuming greater economic importance because of its uranium,
tin and coal mining potential; there is an urgent need for reliable tele-
communications services to support these developments; the first steps in
this direction are to be taken under the proposed development program.
2.02      Over the past few years, per capita Gross National Product (GPN)
has decreased slightly in real terms to an estimated US$90; this has been
mainly due to the recent drought. Agriculture, including animal husbandry,
contributes some 41% of GNP; however, its growth barely keeps pace with
the estimated population growth of 2.1% per year. The Sahelian drought of
1968-73 brought about a sharp decline in the contribution to GNP of the
rural sector; however, the situation is improving again following the more
normal rainfalls of 1974 and 1975.
Sector Organization
2.03      In 1959, when the French colonies of Western Africa became
independent countries, the West African Posts and Telecommunications Office,
with Headquarters in Dakar, was dissolved, and the postal and
telecommunications services for Niger were transformed into a branch of
the Government, with the Ministry of Posts and Telecommunications respons-
ible for operations and development, and the Ministry of Finance for
finances. In 1970, following the pattern previously adopted in other West
African countries (Mali, Senegal, Upper Volta), the Government created an
autonomous entity, Office des Postes et Télécommunications du Niger (OPTN),
which took over responsibility for domestic and regional international
telecommunications, postal services, a nationwide public checking account
service and a savings bank. France Cable et Radio (FCR), which operates
international HF radio links, provides the main international telephone,
telegraph and telex services under a concession agreement. The military
establishment and civil aviation have their own telecommuncations network.
Access to Service
2.04      Telephone facilities existing in Niger on October 31, 1975, are
given in Annex 3; for comparative purposes relative figures for telephones
in some other countries are given in Annex 1. Although over the last ten
years the number of telephone subscribers increased on average by about
12% per year from a very small base, the telephone density in Niger is
about 0.14 per 100 inhabitants among the lowest in the world. By October
1975, Niger had some 6,200 telephone stations connected to 3,750 direct
exchange lines. Of these, 2,440 connected lines, or 65% of the total,



- 3 -
are in Niamey, the balance of 1,310 connected lines being in eight provin-
cial towns and twenty small communities mainly in the southern part of the
country. Subscribers are principally from the business sector, Government
and administrative services. Outside Niamey, the present number, spread,
and quality of telephone services is very thin and inadequate (see also
paras. 2.08-2.10). Niamey itself is presently underprovided with telephones
and the exchange fill of 85% is near the technical limit to which new lines
can be connected to an exchange. Therefore, OPTN can connect only few new
subscribers in Niger's capital before commissioning an extension to exist-
ing exchanges (included in the proposed project). Total installed capacity
of the provincial exchanges is 1,240 automatic lines with an exchange fill
of 70% and 1,767 manual lines. With an expected 12% annual growth rate in
new subscriber connections, there will be unsatisfied demand in some areas
before project completion.
2.05     OPTN has a long-distance network of about 24,200 circuit-kilome-
ters consisting mainly of open-wire lines; the main transmission line
Niamey-Zinder has some carrier equipment. OPTN serves the most important
centers in the north through HF radio links which operate on a part-time
basis. Most of the remoter areas, especially those in the north, are
without telecommunications facilities. Subscribers connected either to
automatic or manual exchanges have manual long-distance service; however,
long-distance dialling is presently being tested between Niamey and Maradi.
2.06     OPTN provides domestic telegraph service through its network of
open-wire lines and HF links. It also operates a 200-line automatic telex
exchange in Niamev. This is used mainly for international services through
FCR's international HF links. As of October 31, 1975 OPTN had 90 telex
subscribers, 70 in Niamey. The lack of sufficient reliable long-distance
circuits precludes extension of telex facilities in the provinces, and
especially in the mining areas of the north.
2.07     Through the domestic local and long-distance facilities, OPTN's
subscribers have access to international telephone, telegraph and telex
transmission services provided by FCR, which operates HF radio links to
Paris, Abidjan and Dakar, and by OPTN itself, which operates HF radio
links with the capitals of the neighboring countries of Benin (Cotonou)
and Mali (Bamako), and open-wire carrier circuits with Upper Volta
(Ouagadougou).
Standards of Service
2.08     In the three main cities, most equipment is reasonably well
maintained and in good working order. Since OPTN's equipment installa-
tions have kept pace with subscriber growth, the local service provided
by the existing automatic exchanges and local distribution networks in
these cities is satisfactory. In other areas, however, local service
is unsatisfactory; the main reasons for this are the limitations inherent
in the use of manual magneto exchanges, which, apart from being obsolete,
are old and worn out. Moreover, local distribution networks in the
smaller towns and communities are exclusively open-wire lines, which are
fault prone.



-4 -
2.09     Due to inadequate and overloaded transmission  routes, long-
distance service is generally poor; manual connection of long-distance
calls involves long delays and transmission quality is low. Long-
distance dialling between Niamey and Maradi suffers from lack of suffi-
cient reliable circuits. During the frequent interruptions on the main
open-wire line routes, emergency calls have to be transmitted over standby
HF radio links.
2.10     International telecommunications services using FCR facilities
are fair in Niamey. However, due to the deficiencies of the domestic
long-distance network, international telephone service is poor for the
main provincial towns, and virtually impossible from more remote sec-
tions of the national network.
Sector Objectives
2.11     A countrywide development plan for local and long distance tele-
communications services was evolved in 1970; however, between 1972 and
1975, because of limited resources, investment has been mainly concentrated
in the field of local telephone service and particularly the local services
in the Niamey area. During that period OPTN was assisted by a small loan
from Pfrican Development Bank (AFDB); now, with the promise of wider
assistance, the objectives for the period 1967-80 have been set as follows:
a) establish a sound basis for further development of the
domestic long-distance network by improving, as a first
step, the quality and reliability of telecommunications
between the main cities along the backbone route Niamey-
Zinder;
b) as far as possible keep pace with expected growth in
demand for subscriber lines in the main cities as well
as in rural areas;
c) rehabilitate, improve and expand secondary long distance
routes and extend telecommunications services in rural
areas to help integrate remote areas into the economy;
d) extend and improve domestic and international telecom-
munications services including services to other parts
of Africa; and
e) improve OPTN's organization, management and accounting
and provide a base for sound and adequate future deve-
lopment and operation of the telecommunications services.
OPTN's 1976-79 program is consistent with the achievement of these ob-
jectives; it is designed to improve the quality of long-distance services
and meet anticipated demand for new telephone connections in the princi-
pal areas of service through 1981. The proposed program gives emphasis
to the development of the long distance services which are of vital
importance to the country's development process, and particularly to
rural development. However, the program also provides for a 65% expan-
sion in local systems; when this expansion is complete telephone density
should show a modest improvement from the present 0.14 per 100 inhabi-



- 5 -
tants to about 0.20 by the end of 1980. The proposed IDA project, which
forms an integral part of the program, includes measures for expanding
both the local and long-distance facilities and also important proposals
for achieving institutional objective e), which in turn will enable OPTN
to deal with the problem of providing adequate telecommunications facil-
ities throughout Niger in the future years.
Sector Investment and Constraints
2.12      The telecommunications services in Niger have been developing
with a minimum of Government assistance and consequently have been mainly
tied to OPTN's capacity to generate funds from internal resources and to
borrow externally. Over the past four years (1972-75), a little over
US$4 million has been invested in the services; of this amount about
US$2 million or 50% was financed from OPTN's own resources, the balance
coming from local or external loans. However, for the period 1976-79
investment will increase fivefold to US$20 million; of this sum about
US$5 million will be provided by grants, US$13 million from external
borrowings and US$2 million from OPTN's own resources. In terms of
average annual investment as a percentage of GDP the program represents
about 1% of Niger's GDP. The program will have a significant impact on
OPTN's revenues after 1979, since large increases in revenue are to be
expected from the lucrative long-distance services, once the quality of
service is improved; these additional revenues should enable OPTN to
finance a higher proportion of its future development.
Future Plans
2.13      During the 1980s, after completion of the current program, it
is expected that the higher level of internal cash generation will provide
OPTN with a solid financial basis, which will permit further extension
and improvement of the services in provincial and rural areas. As an
indication of the magnitude of future internal cash generation, it is
estimated that net internal cash generation should be about CFAF 500
million in 1982 as compared with about CFAF 84 million in 1979, the
last year of the current program.
2.14      To improve upon the definition of sector objectives and the
quality of investment decisions, OPTN in collaboration with IDA will
undertake, as part of a tariff review, a study of the economics of
telecommunications in Niger. The study will define the nature of tele-
communications usage and incidence of its benefits, and examine
the possibilities for cross-subsidization among user categories, with
particular attention to providing access to new subscribers. Through
a more scientific assessment of the development impact of telecommuni-
cations in the country OPTN will be better able to give a more purpose-
ful direction to its future development activities and investments.
3.  THE PROGRAM AND THE PROJECT
The Program
3.01      OPTN's 1976-79 telecommunications development program comprises
four principal components (for details see Annex 4):



-6-
a)  installation of automatic telephone exchange equipment in
Niamey, Dosso, Tahoua, Maradi and Zinder and associated
local networks, trunk switching equipment, VHF radio systems,
overhead line and carrier equipment for the secondary routes
from the main Niamey-Zinder backbone route;
b) construction of the Dosso-Zinder link of the Niamey-Zinder
microwave route;
c) construction of microwave links to Benin and Upper Volta as
part of the Sahelian route of the Pan-African telecommunica-
tions network; and
d) ongoing works, mainly for the construction of the Niamey-
Dosso link of the Niamey-Zinder microwave route.
The program is estimated to cost CFAF 4,500 (US$20.0) million, CFAF 3,655
(US$16.2) million in foreign exchange. The proposed IDA project (see
paras. 3.03-3.09) would encompass component (a) of the program and would
cost CFAF 1,470 (US$6.5) million including a foreign cost, proposed for
IDA financing, of CFAF 1,170 (US$5.2) million, Component (b) of the
program would cost CFAF 1,830 (US$8.2) million; the French Cooperation
Service, Fonds d'Aide et de Cooperation (FAC), the lending agency Caisse
Centrale de Cooperation Economique (CCCE) and suppliers have agreed to
assist in financing this component; i,e. CFAF 1,550 (US$6.9) million will
be obtained from French sources and the balance, CFAF 280 (US$1.3) million
from the Niger Government as a subvention. The technical and financial
arrangements for component (c) of the program have already been concluded
with Canadian aid; CIDA will finance the cost of the works, engineering
services and training amounting to CFAF 600 (US$2.7) million; OPTN will
finance CFAF 50 million covering small local costs. Component (d) was
completed in early 1976 and the facilities are being commissioned; these
works have been financed from a FAC grant, CCCE/supplier credits and OPTN's
own resources. Since components (a) and (b) are integral parts of the pro-
gram and are complementary to each other,it is recommended that as a con-
dition of effectiveness of the proposed credit,the Government and OPTN
respectively should have obtained assurances satisfactory to IDA for the
financing and construction of the Dosso-Zinder microwave link.
3.02     The new Niamey-Dosso microwave link (component d), which is
shortly to be commissioned, includes full facilities for television trans-
mission (initially for education) and broadcasting. The Dosso-Zinder
microwave link (component (b) of the program) will be designed to
permit future installation of TV facilities including transmitters. In
practical terms this will mean larger towers and the provision of build-
ings and electricity supply that otherwise would not have been needed
were the facilities designed exclusively for OPTN's use; however, the
use of one system to take care of both OPTN and broadcasting/television
requirements results in economies for the country as a whole. Never-
theless investment and future operating costs of the whole microwave



-7 -
route (Niamey-Zinder) should be shared between the various user agencies
(presently the Ministry of Education and OPTN). During negotiations
the Government submitted a cost-sharing agreement between the Ministries
of PTT and Education which is satisfactory to IDA.
The Project
3.03      The proposed IDA project, further details of which are given
in Annex 4, includes (i) the installation of three new automatic
exchanges in Zinder, Tahoua and Dosso, totalling 1,400 lines, and the
expansion of the existing automatic exchanges in Niamey and Maradi by
2,000 lines and 400 lines respectively; these exchanges, which serve
populous areas, will also be equipped with subscriber trunk dialling
facilities; (ii) expansion of the local networks in the abovementioned
cities and other small provincial towns; (iii) installation of three new
provincial VHF links and one additional route to the north from Niamey
to Agadez and Arlit; (iv) construction of a new overhead line between
the western regional town of Tera to the Upper Volta frontier, and the
expansion by carrier equipment of the overhead lines to the rural towns
of Maine, Gouré, Loga and Keita; (v) miscellaneous equipment, vehicles
and tools, and (vi) financial and engineering consultants' services.
Cost Estimates
3.04      Project costs are estimated as follows (for details see Annex 4):
--- CFAF million ----    ---- US$ million ----
Local  Foreign  Total    Local  Foreign  Total
Automatic exchange equip-
ment for local and long-
distance facilities            135      510       645    0.60    2.27        2.87
Local networks--including
civil works                      83     182       265    0.37    0.81        1.18
Long-distance links and
carrier systems                  20     150       170    0.09    0.66       0.75
Tools, vehicles                   -      40        40        -    0.18       0.18
Consultants                       -      58        58        -    0.26      0.26
Base Cost               238      940    1,178    1.06    4.18        5.24
Contingencies
a)   Physical                 12       50        62    0.05    0.22       0.27
b)   Prices                   50      180       230    0.22    0.80       1.02
62     230       292    0.27    1.02       1.29
TOTAL PROJECT COST              300   1,170    1,470    1.33    5.20         6.53



-8 -
3.05      The estimated foreign exchange component of the cost of equip-
ment for the project was determined on the basis of the cost (adjusted to
1976 price levels) of fixed price contracts for similar equipment recently
procured under international competitive bidding in Western Africa for
Jielivc.)y over a similar time span.  The local component of the equipment
cost and the civil works cost was estimated on the basis of the most recent
contracting experience of OPTN as well as those of other similar West
African telecommunications entities.
3.06      The above estimated costs exclude all duties and taxes.  During
negotiations the Government confirmed that it would exempt OPTN from the
import duties related to the proposed IDA project.
3.07      A physical contingency of 5% has been allowed on foreign and
local costs. This would be sufficient to cover unforeseen design or
engineering modifications which might occur when detailed specifications
are drawn up. Estimated price increases amount to about 18% of total base
cost estimates plus physical contingencies and have been computed with a
compound rate of 8% per year in the four years 1976-79. These contingencies
are considered adequate to cover price inflation for the type of materials
and equipment to be procured.
Project Financing
3.08      An IDA credit of US$5,2 million is proposed to finance 100% of
the foreign cost, i.e. almost 80% of the total project cost. The recipient
of the credit would be the Government of Niger, which would relend the
proceeds to OPTN at 8-1/2 percent annual interest rate for 20 years incl-
uding a 4 year grace period. All local costs (US$1.3 million) would be
financed from OPTN's own resources.
Items for IDA Financing
3.09      The proposed IDA credit would be applied to project items as
follows:
US$ million
(a)    Automatic exchange equipment for local and
long-distance facilities                              2.27
(b)    Local networks and subscribers equipment               0.81
(c)    Long-distance VHF and HF links, long-distance
open-wire line and carrier equipment                   0.66
(d)    Miscellaneous equipment, tools and vehicles            0.18
(e)    Consultants' services                                  0.26
(f)    Unallocated                                            1.02
TOTAL                5.20



-9 
Procurement
3.10      Items financed by the credit, with the exceptions mentioned
below, would be procured through international competitive bidding in
accordance with the "Guidelines for Procurement under World Bank Loans
and IDA Credits".  It is recommended that the equipment for the exten-
sions to existing exchanges in Niamey and Maradi and for signalling sys-
tem conversion be procured from the original supplier, L. M. Ericsson
(France), provided the prices offered are reasonably in line with inter-
national prices for similar equipment. The foreign costs of this equip-
ment are estimated at US$1.5 million or 30% of the credit amount. This
course of action is recommended for the following reasons (i) the ori-
ginal equipment was procured under international competitive bidding,
and (ii) procurement from the original suppliers is the correct solution
in terms of least cost, compatibility, standardization, training and
deployment of personnel and organization of maintenance and spare parts.
Small groups of miscellaneous equipment, tools and vehicles which would
not exceed US$20,000 per group and US$150,000 in total would be procured
after local competition in accordance with the Government's tendering
procedures which are satisfactory.
Execution
3.11      OPTN requires assistance in (i) detailed engineering, (ii) pre-
paration of specifications and bidding documents, (iii) bid evaluation,
(iv) inspection services, and (v) supervision services for the main
installations of the project. OPTN expects to obtain assistance for some
of these services from the International Telecommunications Union (ITU).
An amount of US$160,000 (equivalent to about 30 man-months) has, however,
been included in the credit to cover the eventuality that ITU may not
be able to provide this assistance and OPTN may have to employ engineering
consultants. Should ITU eventually be able to help OPTN, an appropriate
sum would be cancelled from the credit. During negotiations OPTN agreed
to appoint qualified experts or consultants in accordance with terms of
reference acceptable to IDA for the detailed engineering, procurement and
supervision of the installations involved under the project.
3.12      The suppliers would install the telephone exchanges and the
VHF and HF radio links under supervision of OPTN's staff and of the con-
sultants or experts. The suppliers' contracts, which would also cover one
year's maintenance of the equipment, would specifically provide for OPTN's
staff to take part in these activities, so as to give them experience in
installation, testing and maintenance. Construction of open-wire lines
and ducts, cable-laying and subscriber installations would be carried out
by CPTN's staff. The envisaged arrangement for project execution is
satisfactory.
3.13      The installation and commissioning of all new plant is expected
to be completed by the end of December 1979. The project construction
schedule is given in Annex 5.



- 10-
Disbursement
3.14      The proposed credit would be disbursed against the CIF cost
of imported equipment and the foreign cost of imported services. No
retroactive financing is involved. The estimated schedule of disburse-
ment is given in Annex 6. To allow sufficient time for the submission
of final invoices, a closing date of June 30, 1980 is proposed. Any
unused balance of the credit should be made available for the purchase
of additional goods and services needed for OPTN's continuing expansion
program. OPTN would determine these goods and services in agreement with
IDA.
4. JUSTIFICATION
Support of Country's Economic Development and Integration
4.01      The present lack of reliable, good quality telecommunications
facilities in Niger, especially in the case of the long-distance network
is causing acute communications problems; the inadequacy of the facilities
was clearly demonstrated during the relief operations consequent upon
the Sahelian drought. The economic costs of such inadequate telecommuni-
cations between the major centers of a country as large as Niger cannot
be quantified but clearly must be very substantial, and the improvement
of telecommunications is recognized by Government as a key element in the
development process and in the better integration of the country, OPTN's
1976-79 development program addresses itself to these issues and aims at
bringing about a quick and substantial improvement in the quality of the
country's telecommunications services.
4.02      The program lays stress on the improvement of the long-distance
services and is designed to improve the quality of service in the econ-
omically more important areas of Niger. These areas include the regions
of Maradi and Zinder,(both of which are subject of externally financed
regional development efforts, the former by IDA),the fertile areas of the
Niger valley, and the important departments of Niamey, Dosso and Tahoua.
Modern local and long-distance facilities will improve the quality of
service available to the producers, merchants, exporters, consumers and
carriers, and to the regional and local government services of these areas.
These improvements will enhance the efficiency of commerce and transport,
the latter is particularly important in view of the long distances covered
and the present high costs of transport, add stimulus to the development
of economic activity, and contribute to the integration and the higher
efficiency of the administrative and social services. In addition to the
installation of new equipment in the southern and basically agricultural
belt, new facilities are to be provided for the mining areas of the mid-
west of the country, where demand for telecommunications service is devel-
oping fast. These new installations would assist the development of the
areas concerned, meet an urgent need, and provide the basis for the future
extension of service.



- il -
Support of Institutional Improvements in the Telecommunications Sector
4.03      Like other telecommunications entities in Western Africa,
OPTN requires long term institutional and policy guidance, especially in
financial and procurement matters.  The proposed project would help
bring about the institutional and managerial improvements which are
critical if OPTN is to meet Niger's future telecommunications needs effi-
ciently.
Market Demand and Facilities Required to Meet it
Local Telephone Service
4.04      Over the past ten years, the overall number of connected tele-
phone subscurbers has grown at about 12% per year on average, reaching
about 3,750 in total in 1975, of which 2,440 (65%) are in Niamey. Despite
the recent increase in tariffs, demand is expected to continue to grow
during the period of the program at about 10% per year in Niamey and
12-15% per year in the main provincial towns. OPTN has, until recently,
been able to meet demand in the capital and principal towns; however the
already high exchange fill of over 80% in the exchanges serving these areas
indicates that there will be unsatisfied demand in certain areas before the
exchange facilities which are to be provided under the project can be
installed. Assuming a maximum exchange fill of 85%, which is reasonable,
it is estimated that the switching equipment and cable material provided
under the project for the local facilities would be sufficient to meet
demand for local services until the facilities to be provided under a
further phase of expansion are commissioned in 1981.
Long-Distance Telephone Service
4.05      Available statistical records show that long-distance traffic
increased by about 15% per year between 1968 and 1973. However, since
1973, because of the limitations of the open-wire lines system, which has
been expanded to maximum capacity, traffic growth fell and finally the
main routes have become saturated. This situation will continue until the
facilities to be installed under the program are commissioned. On the
introduction into service of the new Niamey-Zinder microwave route, the
back-bone of the future domestic network, traffic is expected to increase
steeply, and it would not be surprising if traffic quickly increased two-
fold over this route. The long-distance component of the project is of
extreme importance to the program as a whole, since it provides the trunk
switching equipment for the new nodal exchanges (centres de groupement)
of Dosso, Tahoua and Zinder, and the extensions of Maradi and the national
transit center of Niamey (CTN); these are the basic means for trunk switch-
ing essential for the efficient utilization of the long-distance network.
4.06      In any country, telephone subscribers in the rural areas use
the telephone facilities largely to make calls to nearby towns and other
centers which provide administrative, commercial and other services. The



- 12 -
local telephone network in the rural areas, particularly in the very
small exchanges, serves primarily as an adjunct to the long-distance
telephone network. Therefore, for proper development of the rural areas,
an efficient long-distance service is of prime importance. The present
program and project lays emphasis on the expansion and extension of the
long-distance telephone network in Niger.
Least-Cost Solution
4.07  -   OPTN's program is based on long-term fundamental plans for devel-
opment of domestic telephone services in Niger. These plans are based on
accepted practices in telecommunications and on sound engineering designs
appropriate to particular disciplines in telephony.
4.08      The local exchange equipment and telephone cable network designs
follow accepted practices to minimize costs. Automatic operation of local
and long-distance services provides fast and efficient service at least
cost through economy in operation and high usage of available facilities.
OPTN's decision to provide the Niamey and Maradi local exchanges with the
same make of equipment as the equipment already installed in those exchanges
is also the least-cost solution on grounds of organization of maintenance
and spare parts, and training and deployment of personnel. The choice of
a microwave system for the back-bone route, compared with the alternative
system (coaxial cable), represents the least-cost solution after consider-
ing such factors as future capacity and maintenance difficulties in the
region concerned. For similar reasons, the choice of VHF radio links for
the new rural secondary routes represents the least-cost solution on a
present-value basis when compared with the alternative of open-wire lines
supplemented with carrier equipment. Carrier equipment would be installed
to increase the capacity of existing open-wire secondary routes and is the
most economical solution.
4.09      The dimensioning and timing of works under the program and the
project have been determined by (a) the requirements of improving the
service to existing subscribers, meeting new demands in existing areas
and extending telephone service to new areas, and (b) the constraints of
available resources and the capacity for execution.
Return on Investment
4.10      The project is an integral part of the program and is comple-
mentary to the other three components of the program. Since costs and
benefits of the four components are interrelated, it is appropriate that
the return be calculated on the investment in the program as a whole
rather than only on the investment in the IDA-financed project; on this
basis the internal financial rate of return on the program is 14%. This
return is the discount rate which equalizes the stream of OPTN's expected
revenues from the program with the related capital costs, free of taxes
and duties, and related operating costs. The bases of the estimate are
given in Annex 8. A sensitivity analysis shows that, under an unfavor-
able combination of the main parameters, the return on investment would
be not less than 11%.



- 13 -
4.11       The economic return on the program is undoubtedly higher than
the foregoing suggests, since (a) prices charged do not adequately measure
the full benefits to the subscribers, primarily business, industry and
agriculture, and (b) the costs include the full costs of extending the
network and providing facilities in new areas even though the full bene-
fits will only be obtained in the future when additional lines are connected.
5. THE BENEFICIARY
Organization and Management
5.01       OPTN vas established on August 27, 1970 as a Government industrial
and commercial enterprise endowed with legal and financial autonomy and con-
trolled by a ten-member Board under the Chairmanship of the Minister of
Justice, Posts and Telecommunications. Its organization is similar to
that found in other French-speaking countries in Western Africa, e.g.
Mali and Upper Volta (see Annex 2). Subject to the changes associated
with the implementation of the recommendations in paras. 5.07 and 5.09,
the structure of the organization as far as it relates to telecommunica-
tions operations is satisfactory.
5.02       OPTN's chief executive officer, the Director General, is
appointed by the Governnent. He is assisted by a Chief Accountant and
the Directors of the four Departments: Administration and Personnel,
Postal/Financial Services, Telecommunications, Buildings and Transport.
The Minister of Justice, Posts and Telecommunications and the Minister of
Finance appoint the Chief Accountant. The former alone appoints the four
Directors. The Postal/Financial Services Department operates Niger's
postal services, a country-wide public checking account service, and a
savings bank.
5.03       OPTN's senior management staff appear competent.  The new
Director General, appointed one year ago, was previously Director of the
Telecommunications Department. The Director General, the Director of the
Telecommunications Department and the Chief Engineers of the Switching
and Transmission Divisions graduated from French telecommunications schools,
and the Chief Accountant from French and Canadian business administration
schools.
5.04       OPTN presently employs twelve expatriate technical experts
financed by the French Government and UNDP (ITU Technical Assistance),
eight of whom work exclusively for telecommunications. There are four
engineering advisers in the Telecommunications Department (two in the
Transmission Division and two in the Switching Division); the other four
teach telecommunications skills in OPTN's training school.
5.05       As of October 31, 1975, the staff of OPTN's Telecommunications
Department numbered about 540, or 87 per 1,000 telephones; in addition,
employees in the small rural Post Offices are doing joint postal/telecom-
munications work. This high staff ratio (see Annex 3) is due to the widely



- 14 -
spread, low density network, manual operation and extensive use of open-
wire lines and HF radio. Nevertheless, OPTN could improve productivity
and during negotiations assurances were obtained that OPTN would undertake,
if necessary, with assistance from experts or consultants (see para. 5.13) a
review of its staff structure and requirements, before June 30, 1977 and
would discuss the conclusion of this review with IDA and agree on appropriate
measures including the setting of targets to reduce the current over-
manning.
Training
5.06       OPTN's training arrangements are satisfactory.  The utility sends
its engineers and senior technicians abroad, particularly to France and
Switzerland, for training. For lower and intermediate level technical
staff it has its own training school sponsored by ITU. It also uses the
multinational telecommunications school in Rufisque, Senegal.
Planning
5.07       OPTN's 1976-79 program, including the project, has been planned
with the assistance of ITU experts and consultants. OPTN planning capa-
bility is poor, mostly because no organizational unit is specifically con-
cerned with this important work. In the technical departments (Telecomm-
unications, Buildings and Transport) planning activities are carried out
in various sub-units without effective coordination; in the Financial and
Administrative Departments, financial investment and staff planning is
confined to the establishment of the annual budget. Therefore, during
negotiations, OPTN agreed to undertake, if necessary with the aid of
consultants or experts, and in consultation with IDA, steps to improve
its planning capacity not later than June 30, 1978.
Accounting
5.08       OPTN's accounting system is deficient and does not provide the
information required for good financial management; fixed asset accounting
is inconsistent and depreciation is not charged according to commercial
practice; no asset registers exist and the value of stores has never been
assessed. Furthermore, OPTN's accounts are kept on a global basis and do
not break down the operating results as between telecommunications and
postal/financial services or as between the various regions; such separa-
tion is essential for orderly planning and development of OPTN's services
and good financial management and control. Therefore, OFTN agreed during
negotiations to employ financial consultants or experts in accordance
with terms of reference acceptable to IDA to reorganize its accounts and
to introduce an analytical accounting system that would meet commercial
standards, and show the separate results and financial positions of the
telecommunications and the postal/financial services as from fiscal year
ending December 31, 1978.



- 15 -
Billing and Collection of Subscriber Accounts
5.09       The section dealing with billing and collection of subscriber
accounts, which is under the responsibility of the Director of Telecomm-
unications (see Annex 2), has poor communications with the Accounting
services. Billing and collection procedures and revenue accounting are
unsatisfactory and credit control is virtually nonexistent. Therefore,
during negotiations, OPTN agreed to appoint consultants or obtain the
assistance of experts to review, make recommendations, and assist in
the implementation of improvements to the organizational set-up of the
service, and to the billing, collection, credit control and revenue
accounting procedures, the work to be completed by December 31, 1977.
Audit
5.10       OPTN's financial transactions are subject to verification by a
controller appointed by the Minister of Finance; this is a form of internal
audit. In view of the commercial nature of OPTN's operations, OPTN agreed,
during negotiations, to engage an independent auditor satisfactory to
IDA and to submit certified financial statements and an auditors' report
within six months of the end of each fiscal year; the first accounts to
be submitted to audit would be those for fiscal year 1977.
Telecommunications Tariffs
5.11       OPTN's tariffs, which are summarized in Annex 7, remained
unchanged from 1963 until January 1, 1976, when call charges were increased
from CFAF 30 to CFAF 35 per call. Although OPTN's tariffs are in line with
those of other French-speaking West African countries, they are very high
when compared with similar services in other developing countries; local
calls are USi 16 in Niger and compare with about USJ 4-6 in most developing
countries. The main reasons for OPTN's high tariff level lie in the high
cost of the network (net plant in operation amounts to US$ 1,900 per sub-
scriber, which is high for a developing country), and the necessity to
maintain an extensive long-distance network with relatively few local sub-
scribers.  OPTN's tariffs are approved by the Council of Ministers on
recommendation made by OPTN's Board of Directors. However, Niger generally
follows the tariff policies recommended by the Union Africaine et Malgache
des Postes et Télécommunications (UAMPT) and the Conférence Administrative
des Postes et Télécommunications des Etats de l'Afrique Occidentale
(CAPTEAO).
5.12       OPTN's tariffs are reasonably well structured.  Long-distance
rates are high but justifiably so, considering the already overloaded
facilities. However, the Niamey-Zinder microwave route will relieve the
situation and will provide adequate transmission capacity for telecommunica-
tions between the capital and the other four major cities of Niger. Further-
more, the cost of multiplex equipment to increase further the number of
telephone circuits on the link would be relatively modest. The Niamey-
Zinder system should be fully commissioned in 1979, and it would be advis-
able for OPTN to establish long-distance tarif fs which would encourage



- 16 -
higher usage of the links and optimize the benefits from the investment.
At the same time some adjustments might be made in the charges for rural ser-
vice; a reduction in the high installation charge to rural subscribers would
encourage the use of telephones in rural areas, where there is a very high
proportion of long-distance traffic. These changes would require a tariff
study involving cost factors, traffic distribution and subscriber behavior
analysis. During negotiations, therefore, OPTN agreed to undertake, with
the assistance of consultants or experts and in accordance with terms of
reference acceptable to IDA, a tariff study which should be completed by
no later than December 31, 1978, and based on the results of the study, after
consulting IDA, would introduce new tariffs not later than July 1, 1979
which would aim at optimizing the use of its network (see para. 6.10).
Consultants and Experts
5.13      OPTN agreed to undertake a number of studies and make improve-
ments in its organization and procedures for which it will require the
assistance of consultants or experts; this assistance will be required for
staffing (para. 5.05), planning (para. 5.07), accounting (para. 5.08),
billing and collection (para. 5.09) and tariffs (para. 5.12). In the past
small entities such as OPTN have been able to obtain the required assist-
ance from ITU and from other technical assistance agencies at little or no
cost. It is hoped that OPTN will be able to obtain the assistance it
requires from international and bilateral sources without having recourse
to the employment of consultants;`nevertheless a sum of US$100,000, repre-
senting about 18 man-months of consultancy services at US$5,500 per man-
month has been included in the credit to cover the eventuality that free
technical assistance may not be available; the amount will be reduced to
the extent that such assistance becomes available.
Insurance
5.14      OPTN's assets have a wide geographic distribution and thus there
is no concentration of risk. Moreover, experience elsewhere confirms that
(i) in telecommunications operations, the risk of large damage compared to
the total assets is minimal, and (ii) it is difficult and unduly costly to
obtain insurance in economically weak countries like Niger. Therefore,
OPTN's policy of not carrying insurance should be considered acceptable.
6. FINANCES
Introduction
6.01      In the absence of accurate and separate accounts for telecommun-
ications and postal/financial operations, the financial analysis presented
below was based on a pro-forma separation of OPTN's accounts, adjusted as
far as possible to correct systematic errors and omissions in the present
accounts. The pro-forma income statements, balance sheets and sources and
applications of funds statements for the telecommunications operations are
presented in Annexes 9 - 11 and the related notes and debt statement in
Annexes 12 and 13. The finances of postal/financial operations are dealt
with in Annex 14.



- 17 -
Telecommunications - Past Finances
6.02      As indicated in the table below, the operating results of
OPTN's telecommunications services have been satisfactory:
1972    1973    1975    1975
------- CFAF million --------
Operating Revenues                      360      505     503      543
Operating Expenses                      275      293     347      389
Net Income (before interest)             85      212     156      154
Rate of Return (%)                      8.6    19.7    12.6    10.3
Operatio Ratio                            76      58      69       72
6.03      The capitalization of OPTN's telecommunications service as of
December 31, 1975 has been conservatively estimated as follows:
CFAF       US$
---million----      %
Equity                                         1,770      7.9       79
Long term debt
Postal/financial services loan    98
France Cable et Radio loan         10
FAC I loan                         48
African Development Bank loan    324         480      2.1       21
Total Capitalization                2_250      10.0     100
6.04      Telecommunications billing is bi-monthly.  It is estimated that
receivables from subscribers amount to about five months' billings.  The
Government, which provides about half of OPTN's telecommunications revenues,
pays its bills irregularly and tends to be delinquent particularly at the
end of the fiscal year. So far, however, OPTN has been comfortably liquid
and its operations have not therefore been adversely affected by the Govern-
ment's irregular payments. Nevertheless during negotiations the Government
agreed to settle by December 31, 1976 its arrears for telecommunications
services as of June 30, 1976 and all bills for telecommunications services
rendered to it by OPTN as from July 1, 1976 within 60 days.
Financing Plan
6.05      The table below summarizes the sources and applications of funds
for OPTN's telecommunications operations for the 1976-79 period.



- 18 -
FINANCING PLAN 1976-79
CFAF        US$
--- millions --       %
Requirements
Program Construction (see para. 3.01)
IDA Project - Component (a)            1,470        6.5      28
Dosso-Zinder Microwave Link -
Component (b)                   1,830       8.2       35
PANAFTEL Links - Component (c)           650        2.9      13
Ongoing Works - Component (d)            550        2.4      10
4,500      20.0       86
Interest during Construction                     235       1.0        5
4,735      21.0       91
Future Program                                   400       1.8        8
Working Capital- increase                         51       0.2        1
Total Requirements                     5,186       23.0     100
Sources
Internal Cash Generation                      1,681        7.5       32
Less:  Debt Service                    953
Contribution - Postal Dept.    32        985        4.4       19
Net Internal Cash Generation             696        3.1       13
Grants - FAC                                     796       3.5       15
Government                             280        1.3       6
Total Grants                           1,076        4.8       21
Borrowings
Gov't-onlent IDA Credit                1,170        5.2       22
Gov't loan - interest during
construction               235        1.0        5
CCCE/suppliers credits                   964        4.3       18
CIDA                                     600        2.7       12
Suppliers Credit (ongoing works)         125        0.5        3
Future borrowings                        320        1.4        6
Total Borrowings                3,414      15.1       66
Total Sources           5,186       23.0      100



- 19 -
6.06      The above financing plan is net of any costs involved in
equipping television stations that might be associated with the Niamey-
Zinder microwave route. The plan assumes that the Government would
onlend the IDA credit for a term of 20 years including a four year
grace period, at interest of 8.5% per year. During negotiations the
Government agreed that the payment of interest by OPTN on the onlent
IDA credit during the grace period would be deferred and capitalized and
treated as a supplementary loan from the Government to OPTN repayable
over 16 years at interest of 8.5%. For the Dosso-Zinder link of the
microwave route the plan includes a contribution of CFAF 280 million
which the Government agreed to make; this was confirmed during negotia-
tions; the remainder of the finance for the link will be provided by a
FAC grant of CFAF 650 million and CCCE/suppliers credits (CFAF 900 million)
involving several loans which, on average, have a term of 12 years at 7%
interest. The CIDA credit (CFAF 600 million) for the PANAFTEL microwave
links is for 50 years, including 10 years of grace, at no interest. The
plan also includes CFAF 550 million for ongoing works for which an FAC
grant of CFAF 146 million and CCCE/suppliers credits totalling CFAF 189
million have been arranged. OPTN is expected to start a further phase
of development in 1979; borrowings of CFAF 320 million at Bank terms
have been assumed for these works. A schedule of OPTN's debt services is
given in Annex 13.
6.07      In view of the size of the investment program and as a pro-
tection for the financing plan, OPTN agreed, during negotiations, to
consult with IDA before undertaking, during 1976-79, any additional
capital expenditure for telecommunications which in any one year would
exceed US$250,000 equivalent.
Telecommunications - Future Finances
6.08      The financial forecasts for OPTN's telecommunications opera-
tions for the period 1976 through 1982 are given in Annexes 9 to Il
with notes in Annex 12. Indicators to measure OPTN's performance are
given in Annex 15. Local service revenues have been forecast to incr-
ease in relation to the growth in connections, estimated at 10% per
year; long-distance traffic will only show limited improvement until
1978; however, following the commissioning of the new microwave links
in 1979, this traffic is expected to double by 1981. Annual telex
traffic is expected to increase by 20% per year until 1979 and 40%
thereafter until 1982. Telegraph traffic increases have been forecast
at about 4% per year. The forecasts assume a tariff adjustment which
would result in a 20% overall increase in revenue as from July 1, 1979
(see paras. 6.09 and 6.10). Salaries and wages expenses are projected
to grow by 8% in 1976 and by 10% thereafter. The following table gives
a summary of OPTN's expected financial performance.



- 20 -
1976   1977   1978   1979   1980   1981   1982
Net Income (bef. Int.)
CFAF million             217    234    248    317    429    579    784
Interest charged to
operations
CFAF million              31      45     58      73    223    276    342
Operating Ratio %             67     68      68     70      68     64      59
Rate of Return %           12.5   12.5   12.2    8.1    7.4    9.5   12.1
Net Plant in Service
CFAF million           1,851  1,890  2,166  5,641  5,901  6,301  6,661
Debt/Equity Ratio         31/69  41/59  44/56  47/53  49/51  52/48  53/47
Current Ratio             4.7:1  3.6:1  3.0:1  3.1:1  3.3:1  3.8:1  5.3:1
6.09      On present forecasts, revenue from existing telecommunications
tariffs should be sufficient to meet OPTN's telecommunications requirements
during the construction period of the program (1976-79). Although there
would be a significant reduction in telecommunications service cash in
1979, this would not present a problem. After 1979, however, OPTN would
have to meet heavy debt service charges arising from the 1976-79 program,
higher operating expenses (particularly depreciation), and the costs of
a further phase of development which would start towards the end of 1979.
The forecasts indicate that even with the additional revenue from the
plant installed in 1976-79, OPTN would run into cash difficulties in 1980
and subsequent years unless a 20% increase in total tariff revenue could
be achieved. Implementation of a revised tariff structure (see paras. 5.11
and 5.12) capable of generating such increases would be required during
the second half of 1979.
6.10      On the basis of present tariffs the rate of return on telecommu-
nications net fixed assets would be about 12% in 1976 through 1978; however
it is inevitable for the reasons mentioned above that after 1978 the rate
of return will fall unless a revision in OPTN's telecommunications tariffs
is made; forecasts based on existing tariffs indicate a rate of return of
about 6% in 1979. With the 20% increase in revenues recommended in the
previous paragraph a rate of return of about 8% should be feasible in that
year and this would increase to about 12% in 1982. Given the present high
tariff levels it would be important that tariff levels be carefully tailored
to meet OPTN's requirements and not be so high as to jeopardize telecommu-
nications development in Niger (see paras. 5.11 and 5.12). For these
reasons, during negotiations, OPTN agreed that (i) in consultation with IDA,
it would review and introduce not later than July 1, 1979 a new telecommu-
nications rate structure and tariffs which would enable telecommunications
operations to earn rates of return of not less than 8% in 1980 and 10%
thereafter, and (ii) until the new rate structure and tariffs have been
introduced, it would not change its telecommunications tariffs without prior
consultation with IDA.
6.11      It is estimated that the total of operational losses made by
OPTN's postal/financial service during the period 1976-79 would amount to
some US$140,000 (see para. 6.13); this could be adequately covered by



- 21 -
OPTN's forecast telecommunications surpluses. Nevertheless, during nego-
tiations, the Government and OPTN agreed that surplus telecommunications
funds will be applied for other purposes only after ensuring that suffici-
ent funds are available to meet the operations, debt service and investment
requirements of the telecommunications service.
6.12      With the additional revenue from the tariff adjustment (see
para. 6.10) the present satisfactory financial position of the telecommu-
nications service should continue. Current position and debt service
coverage would be considerably strengthened. Given the large amount of
borrowing to be taken up by OPTN for the proposed program, OPTN's tele-
communications debt/equity ratio would decline from 31/69 in 1976 to
47/53 in 1979; however, the latter would still leave an adequate margin
for further borrowing. During negotiations OPTN agreed that no new long
term debt for telecommunications would be incurred unless the maximum
future debt service for telecommunications is covered 1.5 times by tele-
communications revenue before charging depreciation. Furthermore, OPTN
agreed that short term borrowing (including the use of postal funds)
will be used only for financing the normal working of telecommunications
operations and will not exceed three months' telecommunications cash
operating expenses for the preceding fiscal year or for any later pre-
ceding 12-month period, whichever is the greater.
Postal/Financial Services
6.13      In recent years OPTN's postal/financial services have been oper-
ated at a small annual loss: CFAF million 19 in 1973, 5 in 1974 and 36
in 1975. Postal/financial operations should, as far as possible, be self-
supporting and must be accounted for separately; furthermore, deficits in
these operations should not automatically be charged against telecommuni-
cations surpluses. As a step towards implementing this principle, OPTN
increased its postal tariffs as from January 1, 1976. However, despite
the increase, postal/financial operations are expected to continue to show
small losses of US$50,000 in 1978 and US$90,000 in 1979. OPTN should
experience little difficulty in financing these small sums from telecommun-
ications surpluses. The loan condition set out in para. 6.11 would pro-
vide a safeguard against the improper use of telecommunications funds to
cover postal deficits.
6.14      OPTN operates a countrywide checking account and money order ser-
vice; sizeable funds (about US$9 million) related to these services are depo-
sited at interest with the national development bank (BORN); smaller invest-
ments have also been made in BDRN's shares and in OPTN's own telecommunica-
tions services. OPTN proposes to utilize about US$1.8 million of the funds
to finance a postal headquarters. OPTN considers this utilization a sound
investment and that such a reduction in its liquidity is supportable.
During negotiations Government confirmed that it supports this investment
and that financing of the postal headquarters would in no way jeopardize
the financing arrangements for the 1976-79 telecommunications program.
Furthermore, as the size of the postal deficit is related to the interest
earned on postal checking account deposits, the Government and OPTN agreed
not to make any change in the banking arrangements for OPTN's postal/
financial funds which might adversely affect the return on its liquid funds.



- 22 -
Fiscal Impact
6.15      During the construction of the program, OPTN, being in the
early stage of its development, would not be able to contribute to
Government revenues by way of taxes, customs duty and dividends on
Government equity; OPTN would, however, finance US$2.5 million of the
local costs of the large program which will bring substantial economic
benefits to the country.
7. RECOMMENDATIONS
7.01      During negotiations, assurances were obtained that:
(a)    qualified experts or consultants will be appointed for the
detailed engineering, procurement and supervision of the
installations involved under the project (para. 3.11);
(b)    OPTN's telecommunications staff structure and requirements
will be reviewed and appropriate measures taken to reduce
over-manning (para. 5.05);
(c)    planning activities will be reviewed and an efficient planning
system implemented (para. 5.07);
(d)    consultants or experts will be appointed to:
(i)   reorganize OPTN's accounting and introduce an
analytical accounting system (para. 5.08);
(ii)   review the organization of the billing section,
revise billing and collection procedures, and
introduce adequate systems of revenue accounting
and credit control (para. 5.09);
(e)    independent auditors, satisfactory to IDA, will be appointed
(para. 5.10);
(f)    a tariff study will be made and new tariffs implemented
(para. 5.12);
(g)    Government will settle its telecommunications arrears by
December 31, 1976 and pay current bills within 60 days
(para. 6.04);
(h)    payment of interest on the onlent IDA credit during the grace
period would be deferred, capitalized and treated as a supple-
mentary loan from the Government to OPTN, repayable over
16 years at interest of 8.5% (para. 6.06);



- 23 -
(i) during execution of the program no additional capital expendi-
ture for telecommunications above US$250,000 equivalent per
year will be incurred without a financing plan agreed with IDA
(para. 6.07);
(j) rates of return of 8% will be achieved in 1980 and 10% there-
after (para. 6.10);
(k)  until the rate structure and tariffs have been introduced, no
changes will be made in tariffs without prior consultation
with IDA (para. 6.10);
(1) surplus telecommunications funds will only be used for other
purposes after telecommunications operating, debt service and
investment requirements have been met (para. 6.11);
(m) limitations on long and short term borrowing will be observed
(para 6.12);
(n) no change will be made in OPTN's banking arrangements that
could adversely affect the return on the liquid funds of the
postal/financial services (para. 6.14).
7.02      As a condition of effectiveness, the Government and OPTN, respec-
tively, should obtain from FAC and CCCE assurances satisfactory to IDA for
the financing of the construction of the Dosso-Zinder microwave link (para.
3.01).
7.03      On the basis of the above arrangements, the project is suitable
for an IDA credit of US$5.2 million.






9~~   ~        ~        r0i9 ie   r4t *8 *n                        E-   W §ar
t  e    -- 0~                                        t c
E- n     c               nF                            -          n   9g°<r!~         
qE           t                        3h    >l      g3FW3sWI ;i
g ".                                       40  H>    noao  ;-Ù
n .4  a.4  <\  O&c t-H  cw o 0.  .4. rr-to-c D    D4_0      <000  0  oc-rnt-.It
t n  5'00tAH< -O'.c~ r    F  rC S                            p                      W
~  E 1>8;  F  Pcg Ho   H   woOra-a  14co F .o-F r-*MO           -  o °  ° °-L  .°?  r S
U~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~e Ht VK 
' 49  *  BM  *      *  ~    FX o < 1 * ' s N N  P  wc  <  éIr
n bO Ng g< %> 0X  NN  F tO4t   r.4oo. 4O.400N0HN   H4IO.H .4.4 NS    ; 0O EA  -2.FHU  g|X 
4          <   H     <   g   é  ;:  N   F     r   m  r:  F  s~~~~~~~~~~~ N  v   N  11  vt r   N   r   S°  w   r   F   N   °      °   O   N   W   W  N  ..4  .   ,    w   r H   Q 00'O HO'   .  >O   O    <  'J   t
9 9 ° e C; ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~W W     O          AwSWV          9X8iF8,i9C
O      F>      0O    V  &  £F  R8  N>0*  *S  NO  ON  WQ  E8  .e   t F   H    
n  g            co  r HSO O I             O o4             -  -b3N 1EN S          æH9     StV     l       V      A ~ 8    >Z   ;;  
o~~~~~~n eO       ,S!
O Vl. N 1) N O S ~~~~taN°tFIN.            Q w       °w[3eÔr           
<  _0& flcr..    »~t g' o~H Lro.4  8   nNsOV                 g E.4§Eæ H    H



NIGER
OFFICE DES POSTES ET TELECOMMUNICATIONS DU NIGER
ORGANIZATION CHART
Minister of Justice
Posts and Telecommunications
OPTN' Board
Technical Adviser               Director General                  nterna Audit
& Inspection
Director of                       Director of                    Deeo         a io                                                Financias
Personnel and                     Postal and                     Director of                        Buildings and                Officer
General Administration             Financial Se                  Telecommunications                 Transports                   (Agent Comptable>
General Administration          Postal Operations                Telecommunications                  Buildings                  General Accounting
Personnel                       International Services            Operations                         Transports                   Budget
Social Affairs                  Saving Bank                      Switching &                         Workshops
Training                        Checking Account                  Outside Plants                     Garage
PTT School                      Stamps & Philately               Transmission and
Postal Branch                     Wireless
Offices                         Telecommunications
Branch Offices
World Bank-15508



ANNEX 3
Page 1 of 2 pages
NIGER
OFFICE DES POSTES ET TELECOMMUNICATIONS DU NIGER (OPTN)
Basic Statistical Data
October 31, 1975
A. ECONOMIC
1.  Population                  4.5 million
2.  GNP per capita in US$:      90
B. DOMESTIC FACILITIES
1. Local Networks
Total lines connected (DELes)       3,745
Telephones                          6,245
Telephone density                   0.14 per 100 population
1.1 Niamey                              Automatie
Exchanges                                2
Lines installed                     2,800
Lines connected (DEL's)             2,437
Exchange fill                           87%
1.2 Regional Networks                   Automatic   Manual
Exchanges                                8         20
Lines installed                      1,240      1,767
Lines connected (DEL's)                911        397
Exchange fill                           70%        23%
2. Long Distance Network
Number of microwave links                1
Number of long distance circuits        51
Circuits kilometers                24,220
3. Telegraph and Telex
Telex exchanges                          1
Lines installed                        200
Lines connected:  Niamey                70
Province             20
Total                90
Exchange fill                           45%
No. of Post Offices with telegraph service:        36



ANNEX 3
Page 2 of 2 pages
C. INTERNATIONAL FACILITIES
OPT                     FCR
Neighboring countries       Abidjan/Paris
Telephone circuits                    5                        6
Telegraph circuits                    1                        2
Telex circuits                        2                       il
Leased circuits                       -                        3
D. STAFF
Total staff OPT                                         1,094
Telecommunications staff                                   542
Telecomm. staff per 1,000 subscriber connections           145
Telecomm. staff per 1,000 telephones                        87
February 27, 1976



ANNEX 4
Page 1 of 5 pages
NIGER
OFFICE DES POSTES ET TELECOMMUNICATIONS DU NIGER (OPTN)
Description of the Program and Project
OPTN's telecommunications development program for the period
1976-79 comprises:
A.   the project for IDA financing;
B.   the Dosso-Zinder link of the Niamey-Zinder microwave
route;
C.   the Niger portion of the PANAFTEL system;
D.   ongoing works.
A table of costs is given on Page 5 of this Annex.
PART A: The IDA Financed Project
Part A mainly includes local telephone facilities in five cities
along the back-bone transmission route described under Part B, three VHF
links, one HF link, miscellaneous equipment, civil works and consultant
services.
(a)       Local Telephone Exchanges
(i)    Three new automatic exchanges in the provinces
Zinder    800 lines
Tahoua    400 lines
Dosso     200 lines
1,400 lines
These will have the status of nodal exchanges (centres de groupe-
ment) in the organization of the national telephone network.
Provisions for integrated trunk switching equipment are described
under para. (c): Long-Distance Service.
(ii)    Expansion of existing automatic exchanges
Niamey  (Exchange B, Ericsson CP 400 Cupidon)    2,000 lines
Maradi  (Ericsson CP 400)                             400 lines
(b)       Local Distribution Network
Expansion of the outside plant, including ducts and civil works,
cables, distribution boxes and subscribers installations in
Niamey, Agadez, Dosso, Maradi, Tahoua, Zinder and other small
provincial towns.



ANNEX 4
Page 2 of 5 pages
(c)       Long Distance Service
(i) New trunk switching equipment
Trunk switching equipment for the new nodal telephone exchanges
including transit facilities for the following number of auto-
matic long distance automatic telephone circuits with R2 signall-
ing system:
Zinder     38 outgoing          38 incoming
Tahoua     26 outgoing          26 incoming
Dosso      22 outgoing          22 incoming
(ii)  Expansion of existing trunk switching equipment
The existing national transit center in Niamey (CTN) which forms
part of Exchange B (CP 400 Cupidon) and the existing nodal
exchange of Maradi wili be expanded wi.h the following long
distance automatic telephone circuits:
Niamey (CTN)      60 outgoing    60 incoming
Maradi (CG)       60 outgoing    60 incoming
These two exchanges will be adapted for the R2 signalling system
standardized by CCITT instead of the French SOCOTEL system presently
in use in Niger. This provision, which eollows the decision made
by most of the African countries, will allow interconnection
with the new exchanges to be procured through international com-
petitive bidding.
(iii)  Installation of three VHF radio systems:
Maradi-Dakoro        115 km    one channel
Zinder-Tanout        125 km    one channel
Ouallam-Banibangou  110 km    one channel
(iv) Addition of a HF link between Niamey, Agadez and Arlit including
one telephone channel and six telex channels.
(v) Construction of an overhead line between Tera and the Upper Volta
border to link the town to Dori. This international line meets
the telecommunications requirements of the Liptako-Gourma
Authority.
(vi) Overhead line carrier equipment to extend services to Maine, Gouré,
Loga and Keita.
(d)      Miscellaneous
Tools and vehicles for the construcLion of the local distribution
networks and rural overhead lines by OPTN's staff.



ANNEX 4
Page 3 of 5 pages
(e)       Consultants' Services
(i)   Consultant's services to (i) review staffing, (ii) reorganize
OPTN's accounts, (iii) introduce an analytical accounting
system, (iv) improve billing, ccllection and revenue accounting,
(v) improve planning, and (vi) review tariffs.
(ii)   Engineering consultant's services for detailed engineering,
preparation of specifications and bidding documents, bid
evaluation, inspection services, and supervision services for
the main installation of the prcject.
PART B: The Dosso-Zinder Link of the Niamey-Zinder Microwave Route
This part of the program includes the Dosso-Zinder microwave link,
which would connect the main provincial cities of Zinder, Maradi, Tahoua
and Dosso to Niamey, the capital, with good quality, reliable telephone and
telex circuits. The 689.2 km link comprises 11 hops of a wide band micro-
wave system 1 + 1 type, including multiplex equipment. Since the Govern-
ment has dec'ded, as an experiment, to confine the educational TV to the
Niamey and Dosso areas, the link would not include full TV facilities as
previously planned. However, the infrastructure, power supply, multiplex
and the number of demodulation stations (5 instead of only 3 required for
OPTN's immediate use) would already be prepared for future TV use.
The system has been engineered by the consultants, SOFRECOM,
and French expatriates.
PART C: The Niger Portion of the PANAFTEL System
This part of the program covers Niger's portion of the PANAFTEL telecommuni-
cations system planned by the ITU for Western Africa. It involves installa-
tion of an international transit center (CT 3) in Niamey and wide band
microwave systems in the sections (i> Upper Volta border to Niamey to link
with Upper Volta, Ivory Coast, Mali and Senegal, and (ii) Dosso to the
Benin border to link with that country.
Niamey's international transit center (CT 3) includes the necessary
buildings and automatic switching equipment with R2 signalling system for
both national and international circuits.
The microwave links are 1 + 1 type with the possibility of adding
a TV channel. They include necessary buildings, access roads, power supply
and cable links to terminals.
Niger's part of the PANAFTEL system has been engineered by Acrea
Intertel consultants under contract with the International Telecommunications
Union. The design of the system is presently being revised by the CIDA'-
employed consultants INTEL.



ANNEX 4
Page 4 of 5 pages
PART D: Ongoing Works
The first construction phase of the main backbone transmission
route Niamey-Zinder, namely the Niamey-Dosso link to be commissioned
early in 1976. This section of 125 km comprises two hops of a wide band
microwave system 2 + 1 type, including multiplex equipment and a TV
transmitter at Dosso; these facilities also form part of the PANAFTEL
route Niamey-Cotonou described under Part C.
Miscellaneous works and minor exchange and network extensions.
April 27, 1976



R I O E R
OFFICE DES POStlS ET Tcac0I0&TIoS DU RnlFil (OPTli)
TEIC1UEmICEATrOEIS DEPARTIw
Tb. Prora. and the Pooj.ot (1976-1979) in Uil,a.a of CFAF1/
----------1976--------      ---_--1977 _-____ __ 1978 -                             --------1979               --------------------------IOTAL-----------------------
Local  Fordimu   Total    Local  For.-in   Total    Locol  pmral          Total    Local  For i-   Total    Lc.l           IDA     r 0/OTc os WL         cm        Seul
*,LOC L SFIDIO
3,800 lia., -to_tlc exchaegen                 -    52.0        52.0    22.0    101.O    126.0    38.0    78.0         116.0    15.0    26.0    àl.0        75.0       260.0              --                    350
Local r.tvorks .d vbscrib.r' pla=t   1       2,0    àLo        87.0    29.0      53.0      82.0    12.0    53          65.0     1 O20.   21.0    31.0      U          1_2                     _.
S.btotal                    32.0   107.0      139.0    51. O    !70    2P03.0    50 0   131.0          I        25I.O  0          Ul,      ¶5. l  0                      -               -     iça9
B.  Ioe DISTAICE SERVICE
?mak .aitcbia  .quip_rt                       -    5S.0        50.0    18.0    100.0    118.0    30.0    75.0         io5.o    12.0    25.0    37.0        60.0       250.0              _              _      310.0
vu 11DW                                     5.0    12.0        17.0      5.o     24..o     29.O      5.0    2b0   ' 29.0           -        -       -      15.O        60.0              -              -        5.0
Ovwrbad lm  ad cat rr .ript                0.5      5.0        5.5     1.D      10.0      11.0      0.5    100         0.5      o.S      5.0     5.5        2.5       30.0              _              _       32.5
t link  1i -Ada-frlit                        _      15. O      15.0      2.5     30.0      32.5      _       150       1S          - _                 _5              60.0              -              - 
8±btol             ~        55      82 .0      87 5    26.5    164 o    190.5    35.5   124.0         159 5    12.5    30.0    42.5         8- 0-O_                                            bP.00
S.  NUELLAPW1I
Tooa,  iddl. and  acellaeaou.
.q*ip                                         -     P. 20.0    20.0               20.0     200         -        -         -        -        -        -        -         0.0              -               -        O0
11.  OSWLTA"SS sugoIeS                             _    13.0        13.0              15.0      15.0              15.0 t5.0 o                    0    15.0                  58                                         .0
Ptw icel                                    2.0    12.0        14.o      4.O      18.0     22.0      4.0    16.0       20.0      2.0      b.0      6.0      12.0       50.0              -               -      62.0
Frice.                                      2.0    18.0        20.0    1.O       60.0      73.0    22.0    70.0        92.0    13.0    32.0    45.0         500      180.0              -               -     230.0
Sebtotal                     4.0    30.0       34.0    17.0       78.0     95.0    26.0    86.0        112.0    150      36.0    51.0       62.0       230.0             _               -      292.0
TOTL PR0J4C                 41.    252.0                4 95    4        5        111.5   356 0       467 5    52.    128.0   180.5    300 0    1,170.0                 -               _    1.470.0
y.  MICPE(i  LIRE mM  ZD0R                      50.0   300         350.0   100.0    625.E    725.0   10. 0   460.0          560 0    30.0   165.0   1950     280.0              -       1.550.0               -   1.830.0
a.  PiELu                                        10.0   120.0      130.0    10.0    240.0    250.0    20.0   180.0          200.0    10 0    60.0    70.0        50.0           -             -           600.0      650.0
BE.  O R INV2ST6oS
Nai.y Talaphoco czcbegae                       -   100.0      100.0        -      25.0     25.0        -        -          -       -        -        -         -           -         125.0               -      125.0
N1croe&ve mia  Doflso                          -   210.0      210.0        _         _        _        _        _         _        _        _        _         _           _         210.0               _      210.0
Og.ing vorks                               50.0       -       50.0    50 S                50.0    55.0                 55.0    60.0        _    60.0    215.0             -           _                 _      215.0
S*btDt1,                    50.0   310.0      360.0    50,0       25.0      75.0    55.0        -       1550     60.0        -    60.0    215.0            -          335.0              -      550.0
TOTAL PBDK0                1,51    982.0  1133.5   254.5  1,324.0  1.578.5   286.5   996.0  1282.5   152.5   353.0   505.5    845.0    1,170.0                    1.885.0          600.0   4.500.0           g
1/  00c00.Ovc cf i.t.ra.t darige cc.tnfctto  (CFAF 235 millton) on the IDA fi.aoced proj -t



NIGER
OFFICE DES POSTES ET TELECOMMUNICATIONS DU NIGER
PROJECT CONSTRUCTION SCHEDULE
1976                      1977                       1978                      1979
EXCHANGES                                          8
Design                                                        8
Bidding and Contract                                                                                   14
Installation and Commissioning
OUTSIDE PLANT                               6
Design                                              6
Bidding and Contract                                                                              24
Installation and Commissionning
LONG DISTANCE                                         6 
Design                                                          6
Bidding                                                                                               12
Installation and Commissionning _
Figures on bars reflect length of periôd in months.                                                                                                        N
Worid Bank-15509              '



ANNEX 6
NIGER
OFFICE DES POSTES ET TELECOMMUNICATIONS (OPTN)
Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
IDA Fiscal Year                              Cumulative Disbursement at end
and Quarter                                  of Quarter--US$ thousands
1976/1977
September 30, 1976                                          120
December 31, 1976                                            200
March 31, 1977                                               520
June 30, 1977                                             1,120
1977/1978
September 30, 1977                                        1,120
December 31, 1977                                         1,600
March 31, 1978                                            1,600
June 30, 1978                                             3,050
1978/1979
September 30, 1978                                        3,200
December 31, 1978                                         3,800
March 31, 1979                                             4,000
June 30, 1979                                             4,630
1979/1980
September 30, 1979                                        4,800
December 31, 1979                                         5,000
March 31, 1980                                             5,100
June 30, 1980                                             5,200
Disbursements are expected to end June 30, 1980
February 27, 1976



ANNEX 7
Page 1 of 3 pages
NIGER
OFFICE DES POSTES ET TELECOMMUNICATIONS DU NIGER (OPTN)
Repres2ntative Tariffs (from January 1, 1976)
1. Telephone Local
(a)   Automatic Service                           CFAF
Installation Fee                           35,000
Rental
main line                               10,500 per annum
extension                                5,250 per annum
Local Calls                                    35 per call
(b)   Manual Service                              CFAF
Installation Fee                           35,000
Rental
exchange system 0-50 main lines         10,500 p.a. incl. local calls
exchange system 51-100 main lines    13,125 p.a. inci. local calls
exchange system over 100 main lines   7,815 p.a. plus local calls at
under mentioned rates
Local Calls                                 CFAF
for a monthly traffic of:
0-50 calls                     1,050 per month
51-100  "                       2,100  "    "
101-200  "                       4,200  "    "
201-400  "                       8,400  "    "
401-600  "                      15,750  "    "
601-800  '                      22,150  "    "
801-1000 "                      29,750  "    "
over 1000 "                      38,500  "    "



ANNEX 7
Page 2 of 3 pages
2.  Telephone:  Long Distance (Rates for three-minute calls)
(a)   From subscribers' lines
Dîstance          Multiple of Base Rate        CFAF
0-50  km                   2                   70
51-75  km                   3                  105
76-100 km                   5                  175
100-150 km                   7                  245
150-200 km                   9                  315
Over 200 km there is an additional CFAF 105 for each 100 km or
portion of 100 km with a maximum of CFAF 910 per unit call
(b)   From public call boxes
Unit charges are the same as those for subscribers' lines, but,
in addition, there is a surcharge on each call
Surcharge:
CFAF
(i)    when rate for three-minute call is
CFAF 150 or less                          35
(ii)    when rate for three-minute call is
over CFAF 150                             18
3. Telephone: International
The following are sample rates for three-minute station-to-station
calls:
Niger to:
CFAF
Dahomey, Ivory Coast, Mali, Senegal,
Upper Volta                                    910
Algeria                                      1,365
France                                       1,820
Germany                                      2,620
Canada                                       4,095
USA                                          4,177



ANNEX 7
Page 3 of 3 pages
4.  Telex                                               CFAF
(a)   Installation                                35,000
(b)   Rental                                      61,250 per month
(c)   Communications
(i) Domestic service                         11.50 per minute
(ii) International service:
Dahomey, Ivory Coast, Mali
Senegal, Upper Volta              237
Algeria                            455
France                             455
Germany                            836
USA                             1,114
5. Telegraph
Tax per word (any destination in Niger)                20
Minimum charge 10 words                               200
February 27, 1976



ANNEX 8
NIGER
OFFICE DES POSTES ET TELECOMMUNICATIONS DU NIGER (OPTN)
Return on Investment
1.        The IDA financed project is an integral part of OPTN's 1976-79
program and is complementary to the other components of the program. Since
costs and benefits of the four components are interrelated, it is appropri-
ate that the return be calculated on the investment in the program as a
whole rather than only on the investment in the IDA financed project.
2.        A conservative estimate of the return on the investment in the
program is 14%; this rate is the discount rate which equalises the stream
of OPTN's expected revenues attributable to the program with the capital and
operating costs. The cost and benefits streams for the program, expressed
in constant 1976 prices, are shown in the table below. The analysis was
made for a 24 year period, which corresponds to the assumed economic life of
the program, including a 4-year construction period. Construction costs are
the estimated program cost, excluding price contingencies, import duties and
taxes, and interest on construction. The operating costs have been appor-
tioned from the income statements (Annex 9) by relating the size of the pro-
gram to total facilities. Depreciation has been excluded. Operating revenues
have been assessed by relating the demand forecasts to the capacities of the
additional facilities provided in the program.
--------- CFAF million in Constant 1976 Prices ---------
Construction      Operating       Operating         Net
Year         Costs             Costs         Revenues        Benefits
1976         1,084                               -            (1,084)
1977         1,394                               -            (1,394)
1978         1,053               18              -            (1,053)
1979           399              117             161             (355)
1980           -                188             360              172
1981           -                244             619              375
1982           -                305             926              621
1983-99        -                305           1,305            1,000
3.        A sensitivity analysis shows that should revenues decrease and
costs increase by 15%, the return on investment would be not less than 11%.
February 27, 1976



ANNEX 9
NIGER
OFFICE DES POSTES ET TELECOMMICATIONS DU NIGER (OPT)
Telecommunications Department
Income Statements
Eatluated                                              Forecast
1972      1973     1974       î975     A976       1971      197A      1979      1980      1981      198?
3210 tELFPHnNE Sh,ssCRIr         2i13      2891      3201      3745      <123      4538      499A      990o7     6069      6690       7181
3260 -ADDED                       24l       338       350       544       378       415       460       so9        962       621       691
32Ao -INCREASE X                    il        13        12        17        Io        10        Io        Io        10        10        1 
330n TELFPHONES                  4196      4767      S345      6245      7010      7715      8497      9362    103t7    11373    12SSn
3405 CFAF MILLION
3410 OPERATING REVENLUE
3420 -
31130 tFLFPHIlNE
34160 -RENTAL                              Ç                      46       48        53         58        6a        70        7A        R9
35n -CAL I  C.4APRCFS            213       340       324       198       279       303       334       36R        40 r      447       492
3sRn -LONG DISTANCE              _                  L           103       13?       j39       146       248        322       419      944
3590 -INSTALiATInNS                 16        13        16       24         17        19        21        23        25        28        31
360O  -OTtER                        49        24       44        S0        54        St8        63        68        73        79        A6
36?4t     TllTAL                  274       377       384      4a1        926       572       h2t       770        f96     1OSO      1?3s
36sn  TFLFX                          7        t8       23        28         38       45         s4        76       1 07      j49       709
3660 tFLEGRAPH                     61        76        78        80        83        87         90        94        97       loI       los
3690 OTHER                          18       34        1A         14        ta       1t         2t        23        24        26        29
3710 TARIFF TNrRFASE                t)         0         o         o         o         o         n        96       ?2S       269      3S1
4930)      TnTAt                  361        0 sos              r43       669       723       7R6      105A      tsso      1992       1898
_  ---  -  -----  _ -   -- - -   -- - -   ----  --   ------ --      ---  --------  --  - ___-_- _-_-_-_ _-----   --  - _- __ - _ -   -_--_----  _ _-- ---_--
4601 O)PERATING EXPFNSfS
460? - ----------------
40640 SALARIES                    139       144       162       185       200       ?16       2S7       261        287       316       34R
'(680 MATFRIAL-S                    241      27         30        34        38        43        4R        72        86        95       104
J471t  r)THER                       57       65        89         8t        87        94       102       193       184       209       ?2R
409<) DFPRECIAIIOPJ                sR        57         70        89      123        16       11      295        364       400       440
'<9Qq    TOTAL                    ?.S       293       347       389       448       489       938       741       921       1013      1114
bo0S  NET INCOnF REF INT           89       212       15h       1S4       217       274 248             317       429        s79       784
0Li  INT CHARGF0 OP                 2         2        18        26        31        49        sP        73       223       276        342
1060) NFT INCOMF                   8S       20<)      138       12R       186       189       190       244       206       10        L a4?
'===5 =ZZZSZ- =====S5= ==-===5  ====  3=fZ l  =3z =   ======= =======
119  RATF nF RFT!IRN            8R6       19,7      12.6      10.3      I?.'i    12.9    02.2         8.1        7.4       9.,      12.1
1l61) OPERATING RPTIO %            76        58        69        7?        67        68        68        70        68        64        59
i08<>) RFV/GROSS PIANT          0.26      0.33      0.28       0.26      0.27      o.27     0.26      0.21      0.19      0.20      0,22
;190 nEPREC/GROSS PLANT         3.Q2       1.68     3.93      4.22      s.01 t      .00 s4.q9         s.0oo ou0on           .01     5.01
;20n TFLFPH RFV/StJRS             115       141       127       121       134       132      130       147        159       16       176
i221 TARIFF TNrRFASE S              n         o)        o         o                   O         0        t(        20        20        20
February 27, 1976



ANNEX 10
NIGER
OFFICE DES POSTES ET TELECOiMMNICATIONS DU NIGER (OPTN)
Telecorirunications Department
Balance Sheets
Emtimated                                          Forecaat
1972     1973    lî7m       1475     1976      1977     1978     1979      1980     1q81      1982
7515 CFAF MILLTnN
7620 ------------------
7540 ASSFTS
75s0 ------
7S60 PLANT IN OPFRATTON        148P      1614     1946     2276      2639    2810       3237     6967     7S91      8391     9191
7570 LESS: nFPRFrIATION         445       r02      57?      661       784      920      In71     1326      1690     2090     2s30
_____ -------   -------   -------   -------  -------   -------  -----__ _-_--__-     -------   -------
7580 NFT PLANT                 tn43      1112     1374     1615      1951     1890      2166     5641     S901      6301    6661
7600 WORK IN PROiGRESS          1s5i      3i5      290       150      936     2382      3319      604      f%46     1319     1799
7625 CURRENT AiSFTS
7627 -CASH AND 84NIS
7630   OPFRATInNAL REOtl        119       279      339      3265      ?76      334       322      333       36       4134     466
7631   TEMPORARY SURP              i        t)        0        0       32         0        n         I1       0        o       163
7632 -ACCOlONTS REC             1sn       21o      210      226       ?77      271       262      309       338      398      474
7L35 -INVENTORTER                S5        55       Ci        SS       74       82        91      153       218      240      264
_._____ -------   -------   -------   -------   -------  -------    -------    -------  ----_-- ___
7670     TOTAL                  324       544      604      606       659      687       67S      79S      92t      11)72    1166
_______ -------   -------   -------   -------  -------   ------__ --_ ---_ -------   -------  -------
7690     TfnTAI                t167      2006     2228     2371      3446     4959      6160     7040     7668      8692     9i26
%=Cxz=Z =-=====Z :===s=  ===:s== ==:=s== mg==zzm  *===zzz ===-=== ===zz:= ==z===z =======
7710 LIABILITIFS
7720 ---------
773n FOIITTY
777n -CAPITAL                   457       4S7      4S7      457       507      607       707      737       737      737      737
7820 -RETAINFn EARNINGS         s38      t089     1222     1314      1%00     1689      18e67    2091     2268      2S29     2Q17
7870 -rRANTS                       O        Il       0         0      276      536       726      796      796       796       796
799S      TnTAL               1t9s       1546     1679      1771     2281     2832      3300     3624     3801      4062     44S0
A0I0 LnNr. TERM DFBT           1in        34(1     438      480      1023     1937      2635     31S8     3S89      4348     5116
8030 CUIRNT iTARTLITTES
80s0 -SUNDRY rREniTORs          12?       12<)     Itl       120      140       160      18t      200       220      240      p6n
8070 -OVERDRAFTS                   tl       0         0                 0        10       45       S8        S8       42         0
_______ -------   -------   -------   -------   _--____   -_--_ --   --_--__-   ----__-   -------  -------
A8n90    TOTAI                  12?       12(1     Il1       120      Ion       190      ?25      2S8       278      282       260
910O     TnTAl                 16(7      2006     2228     2371      3446     495q      6160     7040     7668      8692     9826
:====== =_==:=: =Z====== ==_===: :=:===== s::==:  :===:===  ======= ======= =::===== =:=_===
9220 DERT/DEPT t EQUITY            7       l8       21        21       31        41       44        47       49       52        53
9221 DEBT/FQIUTTY               0,1       n,2      0.3       0.3      0.4      0.7       n,8      0.9       0,9      1,1       1.1
9230 CURRENT RATTn              ?.7       '.9      S.o      S.o       4.7      3.6       3.n      3.1       3.3      3.8        . 3
9240 RECEIVAPLFS/REV X            42       42       42        42       42        37       33        29       PS       25        2S
9245 RECFIVAPLFS-DAYS           15n       15')     150       150 IO1S            163     12(0      106       90       9n        90
9290 NET/GROSS PiANT Y            7"       69       71        71       7(        67       67       81        78       7S        72
9270 PLANT INCREASE X             t3        8       21        17       16         7       IS       115        9        l        1o
February 27, 1976



ANNEX 11
NIGER
OFFICE DES POSTES ET TELECO!IaNICATIONS DU NIGER (OPTN)
Telecommunications Department
Sources and Applications of Funds Statements
Est1mted                                                     ForecaSt
t972      1973      1974      1975      1976      1977      1978       1979      1979      1980      1981       1982
6005 CFAF MILLION
6007 ---------------
6010 INTERNAL SflJRCES
60O20 -NFT INCOMF BEF IN            89      212        156       154       217       234       248        317     1016        429       57Q        7814
6030 -DFPRECTATInN                  S5        S7        70        89       123       136       191       25S        665       364       400        4o0
6041 -OTHFR                          n        60         ô         0         °          ")                  ô °       °         °         °     
______ -------      ____       ------  _         -------     __    -_ -------    -------    -  ----    --   ----     -------
6060     TnTAL                     140      329       226       243        340       37n       399       S72      1681        793       979      12?4
608O  OFERATInNAI. RE-
6081  QUIREMFNTS
604o -WORKIN, CAPITAL              -53      222         69         1         1        40       -32       100        109       106       3li        111
61no -fERT SFRVICE                   R        13        61        94       216       279       325       368      1188        43?       477       530
611) -CONTRIti<TInN POST            Il        19         5        36         0          ()       12       20         3?        29        42
_______ ---    --    ------     -- - -    -------   --- --    ------    --_ - - . -..._._ _  --- __ -------     -------   -------___ ____
61aO      TOTAL                    -45      294        13$       123       217       319       30S       488      1329        S67       650       699
_______ -------   -------   --     .    -------.. -___----    ------__ _--__ ----__ ----___  --_--___  ----___  -------
6160 NET AVATLA8IE
6170   FRnM f)PFQATfnNS            185        7S        91       120       123        51        94         84       352       ?26       329       52S
6190 CnNSTRtrCTTON
619i   REQOIIRFMFNTS
6200 -nPTN PROnRAM                71h       326       232       230        150        75        S5         60      340         66        73        Rn
621t  -PROPOSFO PROJECT                        i l       O         0       294       5?8       168       180      14170         0         0
6220 -FAC PRnGPAM                    n         v         O         o       S60       725       960       199      21 40         0         o 
6230 -PANAFTFL                       O         O         0         0       130       25n       200        70       650          n         0         n
62401 -FlITLIRE PRnAECT              n         il        0         o         O         n          O      40n       400       AO0      1200       1?no
______     -------    -------   __--___   ----     ---.-     ----- -__ ----- -__ -------    -----__ _ -------    -------____
6295      TOTAL                   ;lI        326      232       230       1134      1578      1283       905      4900        866     1273       1281)
-------     -- -- -__ --   ----     -------     --- --   --- --   - - --     --_ --   -- ----. -------     ------- -------___..... .. ___..... ________ ___
6310 PALANCF Tn FINANCE             33       291       141       110      lOtl      1927      1189       821      4548       6h4l       944       755
6330 FINANCED RYs
6360 -PROPOSFD LnAN                   1           o                o       263       47S       434       233      1405          o         O         0
638) -CCCF/S(UPPLTERS                o         O            O              234       3hS       270        9S       964          0         n
6381 -CIDA                           1         Il        O         O       120       24<1      180        60       600          o         O
6382 -FUTt)RE LnAN                    I        O         0         O         O         o         n       320       320       640       960        960
6395  OTHFQR IOANS                  33      ?51        141       110       100        2S          O         O      125          n         0
6410 -GRANT GOVERNMENT               11        o         O         0        50      1in        100)       30       280          o         O
6420 -GRANT FAC Tl                   <I        O         O         0       146         n          Il        O      146          0         0         n
6430 -GRANT FAC Tll                           il                   ô 0     130       26n       19<1       70       650          n         o
_______ -___ ___ ---_--_ - ----- ----- ---_-   --_-- --__ ___ ---_-  ---_--__ ------- ---___-_ -------
6460     TnTAL                      33      251        141       110      1843      1465      1174       808      4490       6401       9b0      96i
6575 SURPLUS(DFFTCIT)
6580   OF FNlNnS                     "         "         °         °        32       -62       -I5       -13       -98          0        16      2n5
6600   ACCUMULATEn                   <         O v                 O        32       -3n       _a        -SS       -98       -SA        -42       1h3
6710 NET AVAILABLE
6720 FROM OPFRATIONS/
6730 -CONSTRUCTION RFEO             8S        23        39        52        Il         3         7         9          7        2h        26        41
6740 -PLANT IN OPFR-X            1?.4        4.6       4.7       5 3       4.7       1.8       2.9       1.2       2.2       3.n       3.9       9.7
6750 OFBT SERVTCF COVER          17.5      2S.3        3.7       2.6       1.6       1.3       1.2       1.6       1.4       1.8       2.1       2.3
February 27, 1976



ANNEX 12
Page 1 of 3 pages
NIGER
OFFICE DES POSTES ET TELECOMMUNICATIONS DU NIGER (OPTN)
Telecommunications Services
Notes and Assumptions on the Financial Statements
General
1.        OPTN's accounting system needs improvement.  Its main defi-
ciency is that it does not show the separate financial results and the
financial position of the telecommunications and postal/financial ser-
vices. Furthermore, capital investments are inconsistently recorded in
the final accounts and the value of stores has never been assessed or
properly accounted for. Revenues are recorded on a cash basis only, and
OPTN has no reliable records on accounts receivable. The pro-forma
accounts presented in Annexes 9, 10, 11 and 14 are, therefore, subject
to inaccuracies and are indicative only of the past finances of the tele-
communications and postal/financial services; the accounts have been
based on existing financial data and supplementary information and esti-
mates supplied by OPTN's senior staff.
Income Statements
2.        OPTN increased its call charges for telephone and telex traffic
by changing the cost per pulse unit from CFAF 30 to 35 effective January 1,
1976. This tariff change has been taken into account in forecasting local
and long-distance telephone revenues and telex revenues. The forecasts
also assume a tariff adjustment that, on average, would increase revenues
by 20% per year as from July 1, 1979.
3.        Telephone Revenues have been forecast to increase in relation
to the average number of telephone subscribers, which is expected to
grow by 10% per year.
(i)    Rentals are based on average annual rental of CFAF 12,000 per
subscriber.
(ii)    Call Charges are expected to increase in line with the net-
work expansion.



ANNEX 12
Page 2 of 3 pages
(iii)   Long-Distance Revenues (including international revenues) will
increase only slightly before the commissioning of the IDA,
FAC and PANAFTEL projects by 1979, because existing long-distance
facilities are almost saturated. Once these projects are in
operation, however, long-distance revenues are expected to about
double over a two-year period; this has been the experience in
neighboring countries when STD dialling has been introduced.
(iv)    Installation Charges are expected to remain at an average of
about CFAF 45,000 per new subscriber, which includes also
revenues from subscriber terminations.
4.         Telex traffic is expected to increase by 20% per annum until
the commissioning of new facilities in 1979 and by 40% thereafter. The
telex traffic increase, however, will reduce the relative importance of the
telegraph service and telegraph revenues are projected to increase by only
4% per year.
5.         Salary Expenses are forecast to increase by 8% over the next
two years and by 10% thereafter, when OPTN will have to recruit and train
new staff for maintaining the new long-distance facilities. Materials and
other expenses are forecast to increase in relation to the fixed assets in
operation.
6.         Depreciation has been forecast at 5% per annum (20 years) on
average gross fixed assets in service, which is more realistic than OPTN's
past depreciation practices resulting in an average depreciation rate of
3.9% (25 years).
Balance Sheets
7.         The formula for sharing investment and operating costs of the
domestic microwave systems between various user ministries has been
worked out. The first link, from Niamey to Dosso, includes full TV
transmission and broadcasting facilities. Based upon OPTN's calculations,
only CFAF 210 million of the total cost of CFAF 667 million will be borne
by OPTN and  this amount has been included in the forecasts.  The
second link,  from Dosso to Zinder, will not include TV facilities, but
would include provisions for future TV use. No analysis has yet been made
regarding the extra cost of the provisions for future TV use; in the fore-
casts, the total cost of the second link has been included, but it is
understood that the Government will compensate OPTN for the provisions for
TV by financing all local costs on a grant basis.
8.         Plant in operation for past years has been assessed by examin-
ing past capital investments and allocating investment expenditures between
telecommunications and postal/financial services. Work in progress is
not shown separately in the accounts and has therefore been assessed, for
past years as well as for future years, from project construction schedules.



ANNEX 12
Page 3 of 3 pages
9.        Cash requirement has been related both to cash operating
expenses and the needs of the capital investment program.
10.       Past accounts receivable have been assumed to amount to five
months' billings, which correspond to the experience in other countries
under similar conditions. New billing and collection procedures with
proper credit control should gradually improve the accounts receivable
position.
11.       The  value of past inventories was estimated by OPTN's engin-
eering staff.  Projected inventories have been assumed to increase in
relation to fixed assets in service.
12.       Long-term debt for the telecommunications service consists of:
Amount
Lender                       CFAF million   Interest  Repayment Years
Postal/Financial Department              123          0%           1975-79
African Development Bank                 324           7%          1976-85
French Cable and Radio                    25        n.a.           1973-77
FAC-I                                     73           3%          1972-83
Ericsson France                           63           8%          1977-81
CCCE-I                                    63          5.5%         1976-80
CIDA, Canada                             593           0%          1985-2025
It has been agreed that the Government would onlend the proceeds of IDA's
credit to OPTN at Bank interest rate of 8.5% over a 20-year period includ-
ing 4 years grace. It has also been agreed that interest payment during
the grace period would be deferred and capitalized and treated as a sup-
plementary loan from the Government to OPTN repayable over 16 years at
interest of 8.5% per year; this would increase the OPTN's borrowings by
about CFAF 235 million. The financing arrangements for the FAC program
is as follows:
Total Cost   FAC Grant   Gov't.Grant    CCCE         Suppliers
-----------------------CFAF million-----------------------
Niamey-Dosso        210       146 (70%)      -            32 (15%)  32 (15%)
Dosso-Zinder      1,830       650 (36%)    280 (15%)   250 (13%) 650 (36%)
The suppliers credits would be for a period of 7 years at 8% interest rate.
The CCCE terms are assumed at 12 years at 6% interest rate and amortization
to commence after the suppliers have been paid, i.e., 7 years grace. The
terms of future borrowings for financing a further investment program com-
mencing in 1979 have been assumed at Bank terms.
April 27, 1976



ANNEX 13
NIGER
OFFICE DES POSTES ET TELECOMMUNICATIONS DU NIGER (OPTN)
Telecommunications OePartment
Long Term Debt
Forecait
1976     1977     1978      1979      1960     1981     1982
1000 POSTAL DEPT/FCR
1040 -AMORTIZAT10N                30       30        24       24         0         0        n
108a -8ALANCE                     78       48        24         ô        0         0        o
1t00 A88
1540 -AMORTIZATIlnN               32       32        33       3?        32       33        32
1580 -MALANCF                    292      260       227      195       163      130        4R
1610 -lNTERFST                    22       19        17       IS        13        10        9
2000 FAC-I
2040 -AMORTIZATIflN                6        6         6        6         h        6         6
?080 -R&LANCF                     a2       36        3n       24        18       12         6
!110 -INTEREST                     I        1         1        I         t        O         t
!S00 CCCE/SUPPIIFRS-1
!53o _PnlnwyNrs                 ton00      2S         o        O         O        O        n
!540 -AmnRflATIlnN                13       25       2S        2S       25        12
!580 -MALANCF                    87        87       62        37        12        o        o
!610 -INTFREST                     3        6         S        3         2        0        n
WO00 PROPOSEn LOAN
io30 -eLORPWINr,S               263       47S      434       233         0        n         n
3040 -AmnfTIZAyInN                 n        n         °        °        4R       52       s7
30o80 -RALANCF                   263      738     1172      1405      1357     1309    t248
5110 -INTEREST                    il       43        81      110       117      113      109
31Ao -Inc-X                      ion      1no       ton      ton         n         o        o
3190 -IDC                         il       43        81      110         0         0        n
3500 CCCE/SUPPI FRS-Il
3s30 -RtPROWINrS                  h4         o        O         O        O         O        n
3S40 -AMORT17àTInnN                          S        S         S        s         S        s
3580 -BALANCF                     64       S9        S4       49        44        39       34
36to -INTEREST                     2         4        4         4        3                  3
4000 SUPPLIERS-ITI
4030 -SORROWTNrS                 120      269       199        70        a         o        o
040 -AMORTIYATIMN                 93       93        93       93        93        93       92
40o0 -RALANCE                     27      199       301      278       18e        92        n
4110 -INTEREST                     I         9       20       23        19        Il        4
4900 CCCE-TIT
4530 -RnRROWINns                  5n      100        79        25        o         o        n
4580 -RALANCE                     90      190       225      250       250       250      290
4610 -INTEREST                     I         6       il        14       Ir        1S       IS
5000 CIDA
5030 -MORROMWlNrS                12n      240       180        6n        o         o        o
o0s0 -AALANCF                    120      360       940      600       600)      600      6no
s500 FUIURF LOAN
9930 -BORROWINnS                   n         o        0      320       640       960     960
5980 -BALANCE                      n         o        0      320       96O     1920    288n
5610 -INTEREST                     n         °        °        14       94       122     204
9500 DEeT SUMMARv
9510 -80RROWINrS                 717     1105       684       708      640       960      960
9520 -REPAYMENTS                 174      191       186       189      209    ,201        192
9530 -BALANCE                   1n23     1937      263S     3158      389   Y4348    l16
9960 -INTFREST                    42        88      139       183      223  `   276      342
9570 -INTFREST L CF               42        88      139       t83      >22       276     342
9590 -DEST SERVICE               216      279       329      368       432       477     S34
9S90 -IDC                         il        43       si       110         o        O        O
9959 TOTAL OPENING               48n         o        O         0         O        O        n
9650 AVE MAT YRS                15.9     18,8      19S3    19.2       im.9      18.3    17.6
9660 AVE INT S                  S.59     s.99      6.08     6.32      6.61      6.95    7.23
February 27, 1976



ANNEX 14
Page 1 of 2 pages
NIGER
OFFICE DES POSTES ET TELECOMMUNICATIONS DU NIGER (OPTN)
Postal/Financial Services
Financial Aspects
1.        Following the pattern adopted in France and in other countries
in French-speaking West Africa, OPTN operates telecommunications services
jointly with postal/financial services. OPTN's Postal/Financial Depart-
ment handles, in addition to usual postal services, a quasi-banking
service of domestic and international money orders and a public checking
account service.
2.        Although separate accounts are not kept for the Postal/Financial
Department, it is estimated that the department is operating at a loss.
The operating results over the last four years are estimated at:
1972  1973  1974  1975
----CFAF million------
Operating Revenues              276   273   307   313
Operating Expenses              276   292   312   349
Net Operating Income (deficit)  -    (19)   (5)  (36)
Since OPTN's accounting system does not show these deficits separately,
they have been automatically met by the surpluses of the Telecommunica-
tions Department. Sufficient data is not available to make a detailed
analysis of the reasons for the department's deficits, but lack of finan-
cial control and planning together with heavy overstaffing are important
contributing factors. Furthermore, the low population density of Niger
and its vast geographical area make the department's operating conditions
very unfavorable.
3.        The relatively large depostis of the public checking account
service have enabled the department to lend CFAF 123 million over the
last four years for the new telephone exchange in Niamey; it is further
planned to utilize these funds for financing a new postal headquarters
estimated to cost CFAF 400 million. OPTN considers this utilization a
sound investment and that such a reduction in its liquidity is support-
able. During negotiations Government confirmed that it supports this
investment and that financing of the postal headquarters would in no way
jeopardize the financing arrangements for the 1976-79 telecommunications
program. OPTN deposits its postal funds with the national development
bank on which it presently earns interest at 5% per year. Since the size
of OPTN's annual postal deficit is related to the interest earned on postal
checking account deposits, the Government and OPTN agreed not to make any
change in the banking arrangements for OPTN's postal/financial funds which
might adversely affect the return on its liquid funds.



ANNEX 14
Page 2 of 2 pages
4.        OPTN, as a member of the Conférence des Administrations des
Postes et Télécommunications des Etats de l'Afrique de l'Ouest (CAPTEAO),
has decided to follow CAPTEAO's recommendations of increasing the postal/
financial tariffs effective January 1, 1976.  The tariff increases, which
averaged about 20% will improve the department's operating results, but
the department's operations are expected to continue to remain unprofitable:
1976   1977   1978   1979   1980
--------- CFAF million ---------
Operating Revenues               378    415    436    459    481
Operating Expenses               378    414    448    479    510
Net Operating Income               -      1    (12)   (20)   (29)
(deficit)
These deficits are very small and no difficulty should be experienced in
financing them from telecommunications surpluses. Nevertheless, sound
financial management requires that the accounting for the postal/financial
and telecommunications services should be separate, and postal service
deficits should not automatically be charged to the telecommunications
surpluses. During negotiations, the Government and OPTN agreed that,
before applying telecommunications surpluses for other purposes, suffi-
cient funds should be available to meet the operational, debt service
and investment requirements of OPTN's telecommunications services.
6.        Pro-forma income statements, balance sheets and sources and
application of funds statements for the 1972-75 period and forecasts for
the 1976-82 period are found in Tables 1-3 of this annex.
April 27, 1976



NIGER
OFFICE DES POSTES ET TELECOMMUNICATIONS (OPTN)
Postal and Financial Services
Income Statements
(CFAF million)
Estimates                                           Forecasts
Year Ending December 31:          1972    1973    1974    1975           1976    1977    1978    1979    1980    1981    1982
OPERATING REVENUES
Postal Services                 127      126      158      158         198      217      228      240      251    264       277
Financial Services               78       94       99      118         136      149      157      165      173    181      191
Philately and Other              71       53       50       37          44       49       51       54       57      59       62
TOTAL OPERATING REVENUES  276        273      307      313          378     415      436      459      481    504       530
OPERATING EXPENSES
Salaries and Wages              170      176      197      226         244      263      285      308      332    359       388
Materials                        32       42       34       41          43       45       47       50       52      55       58
Other Expenses                   64       64       71       70          76       86       90       95       99    104       109
Depreciation                     10       10       10       12          15       20       26       26       27      28       29
TOTAL OPERATING EXPENSES  276        292      312      349          378     414      448      479       510    546      584
NET INCOME (LOSS)                   _       (19)    (5)    (36)             -         1      (12)     (20)     (29)   (42)    (54)
_   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-



NIGER
OFFICE DES POSTES ET TELECOMMUNICATIONS (OPTN)
Postal and Financial Services
Balance Sheets
(CFAF million)
Estimates                                    Forecasts
As of December 31:                      1972    1973    1974    1975    1976    1977    1978    1979    1980    1981    1982
ASSETS
Fixed Assets
Gross Plant in Operation           545     562      574     589      604   1,014   1,034   1,064   1,094   1,134   1,174
Less:  Depreciation                138     148      158     170      185      205     231      257     284      312      341
Net Plant in Operation           407     414      416     419      419      809     803      807     810      822      833
Work in Progress                     5       5        8       16     265       15      20       20       25      25       30
Total Fixed Assets             412     419      424     435      684     824      823     827      835      847     863
Loan to Telecommunications Dept.        9       86     111       98      73       48       24      -        -       -        -
Government Bonds                       50       50      50       50      50       50       50      50       50      50       50
Current Assets
Sundry Receivables                  42      39       76       90     100      110     120      130     140      150      160
Cash and  Bank                   1,267   1,363   1,932   2,259   2,098   2,050   2,142   2,231   2,294   2,355   2,414
Total Current Assets        1,309   1,402   2,008   2,349   2,198   2,160   2,262   2,361   2,434   2,505   2,574
TOTAL ASSETS           1,780   1,957   2,593   2,932   3,005   3,082   3,159   3,238   3,319   3,402   3,487
LIABILITIES
Equity
Capital                            182     182      182      182     182      182     182      182      182     182      182
Contributions from Telecom.Dept.  -          19      24       60      60       60      72       92      121     163      217
Surplus and Reserves               285     266      261      225     225      226     214      194      165     123       69
Total Equity                   467     467      467     467      467      468     468      468      468     468      468
Current Liabilities
Public Checking Account          1,047   1,125   1,735   2,045   2,106   2,170   2,235   2,302   2,371   2,442   2,515
Money Orders                       265      307     354      380      3qn     4n0      41n     420      43A      44A     45n
Sundry Creditors                     1       58      37       40      42       44       46      48       50       52      54
Total Current Liabilities 1,313   1,490   2,126   2,465   2,538   2,614   2,691   2,770   2,851   2,934   3,019
TOTAL LIABILITIES      1,780   1,957   2,593   2,932   3.005   3-Q82   3,159   3,238   3,319   3,402   3,487                <n 
TOTAL LIABILITIES                                                                            a >4~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~t~ -



NIGER
OFFICE DES POSTES ET TELECOMMUNICATIONS (OPTN)
Postal and Financial Services
Sources and Application of Funds Statements
(CFAF million)
Estimates                                   Forecasts
1972   1973   1974   1975         1976  1977  1978  1979 Total  1980  1981  1982
1976-79
SOURCES OF FUNDS
Internal Cash Generation
Net  Income                              -      (19)    (5)   (36)         -       1   (12)  (20)  (31)  (29)  (42)  (54)
Depreciation                             10     10      10      12         15    20    26    26    87    27    28    29
Contribution from Telecom.Dept.         -       19       5      36         -      -     12    20    32    29    42    54
Total Internal Cash Generation    10         10      10      12         15    21    26    26    88    27    28    29
Loan Repayments Telecom. Dept.           -      -       -       25         25    25    24    24    98    -         -      -
TOTAL SOURCES OF FUNDS            10      10      10     37          40    46    50    50   186    27    28    29
APPLICATIONS OF FUNDS
Construction
Miscellaneious Works                     12      17     12      15          15    20    25    30    90    35    40    45
Central Post Office                      -      -        3       8        249   140    -       -    389    -       -      -
Total Construction                    12     17      15      23        264   160    25    30   479    35    40    45
Loan to Telecom. Dept.                      8      77      25     12          -     -      -      -      -     -      -      -
Increase (Decrease) in Working Capital
Cash                                     45      96    569    327        (161)  (48)   92    89   (28)   63    61    59
Public Checking Account                (128)   (78)  (610)  (310)          (61)  (64)  (65)  (67) (257)  (69)  (71)  (73)
Other Non-Cash Working Capital           73   (102)    il    (15)           (2)   (2)  _(2    (2)   (8)   (2)   (2)
Total Increase in Working Capital(10)   (84Z  73T                     (224) TTTZY   2       20  (293)   (8)   (2)  (16)
TOTAL APPLICATIONS OF FUNDS    10         10      10      37         40    46    50    50   186    27    28    29
CD x



ANNEX 15
NIGER
OFFICE DES POSTES ET TELECOMMUNICATIONS DU NIGER (OPTN)
Telecommunications Department
Performance Indicators
Fiscal Year               1975    1976    1977    1978    1979    1980    1981
Number of Direct
Exchange Lines (DEL's)  3,745   4,123   4,538   4,998   5,507   6,069   6,690
Number of Stations        6,245   7,010   7,715   8,497   9,362  10,317  11,373
Telephone Revenue
per Subscriber (CFAF)       121      134     132      130      147      155     165
Rate of Return   %        10.3    12.5    12.5    12.2        8.1       8.0    10.0
Operating Ratio  %           72       67      68       68       70       68       64
Staff                       540      540     540      540      540      540     540
February 27, 1976



R~P>ft  -O F NIGER                                                                         &Y
TEC C -UNtC4TKRDNS MPROZAM                                             \.   -
S2/1             NIGER>    S              ' '   197      F-      -"9
-2v~~~~~~~~~~x
EiXISTr«  t89t979   
Pampwn    (                                                                                    Æ. Bilma                 i
Mwa  LUir&wfth                                     Iférouane
AVtowmTuIp -                                    i                                             -                  .
Tne - j ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Arlitç  
Ma.~  T*pone                                                                      I j   -` / ' 
'   Ex     '       '                              I/                                  "1 
_~w~bu~of jII~                         /               ,,AGADE'Z
,,, ,,B w| diies                                  ,             Z/                          
Ayerou          Banibangou       A4UATanout 
C.      â>Tillabery                                  BoGuzmi 'a Dakoro                                                          C  H  A  D
\ i_________ _      I , 'Oualam  /    /   .-  lilela
T              Ke'ra \      BIRNI N'KONNI       Madaoua      Mayahi                -  Goureé
NfAMf Y~~---_ ogonoth                                    Tssaoua  \_iZINU.ER
UoP PrE Ro                 a     BrRADI   M                                                e                             iff         L  -
V O  L T A     \     S~~ay      *                                                      agaria fMh    4                                     é
V O ITAD
N        G    E   R   i  A
e _ b  S                                                       on s 0p do Aot O
, E N  i N                                                 r



