1l Pt l;ur 1Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-1856-NIR
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT
TO
THE REPUBLIC OF NIGER
FOR
A TELECOMMUNICATIONS PROJECT
May 20, 1976
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only In the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Currency Equivalents
Currency Unit         =      CFA franc   (CFAF)
US$1.00               =       CFAF   225
CFAF 1 million        =      US$4,444.
Fiscal year:   October 1 - September 30
System of Weights and Measures:   Metric
1 meter (m)                  3.28 feet   (ft)
1 kilometer (km)      =      0.62 mile   (mi)
1 square kilometer(km2)=     0.386 square mile (sq mi)
1 metric ton (m ton)  =      2,204    (lb)
Abbreviations, Acrononyms and Definitions
AfDB             African Development Bank
CAPTEAO          Conference Administrative des Postes et
Telecommunications de l'Afrique de l'Ouest   (Wlest
Africa Post and Telecommunications Organization)
Carrier          A system providing several telephone or telegraph
circuits through one transmission mode
CCCE             Caisse Centrale de Cooperation Economique (French
lending agency)
CCITT            International Telegraph and Telephone Consultative
Committee (an ITU committee)
CIDA             Canadian International Development Agency
DEL's            Direct Exchange Lines   (connected)
Exchange fill    Percentage of installed capacity of a telephone
exchange in use
FAC              Fonds d'Aide et de Cooperation   (French Cooperation
Services)
FCR              Compagnie France Cable et Radio
HF               High frequency radio (3,000 - 30,000 khz)
ITU              International Telecommunications Union
Khz              Kiloherz
Mhz              Megaherz
Microwave        Radio system working at frequencies above 1,000 mhz
OPTN             Office des Postes et Telecommunications du Niger
Telex            Teleprinter Exchange Service
UAINIPT          Union Africaine et Malgache des Postes et Tele-
communications (African and Madagascan Post and
Telecommunications Union)
UNDP             United Nations Development Program
VHF              Very high frequency radio   (30 - 300 mhz)



FOR OFFICIAL USE ON
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPKENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED CREDIT
TO THE REPUBLIC OF NIGER
FOR A TELECOMMUNICATIONS PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
development credit to the Republic of Niger for the equivalent of US$5.2
million on standard IDA terms to help finance a telecommunications project.
The proceeas of the Credit would be relent to OPTN at 8.5% annual interest
rate for 20 years including a 4-year grace period.
PART I: THE ECONOMY
2.        The problems of economic development in Niger were set out in a
report entitled "Economic Position and Prospects of Niger" dated May 1972
(AW-36a). An economic mission visited Niger in October/November 1973, but
its report was overtaken by the change of government that occurred in April
1974. An economic updating mission visited the country in November 1975. A
Country Economic Memorandum is being circulated. Annex I contains country
data.
Background
3.        Niger has been classified by the United Nations as one of the 25
"least developed". Like its Sahelian neighbors, it suffers from a number
of serious growth constraints: high transport costs; a small domestic
market and limited marketing facilities; poor soils and unfavorable climatic
conditions; lack of water; extremely high energy costs; and a low level of
education, particularly in rural areas.
4.        The economy is particularly vulnerable to the vagaries of the
weather. Agriculture and livestock together account for nearly half of GDP
and provide the bulk of export earnings. The rapid development of uranium
mining in the desert is contributing to economic diversification, increased
net foreign exchange earnings and a most welcome broadening of the tax base.
The contribution of uranium mining to GNP is expected to increased from
around 3 percent at present to 7 percent by 1985. Manufacturing accounts
for a little over 10 percent of GNP. Consumption as a percentage of GNP has
traditionally been high (around 95 percent) and domestic savings are very
modest. During the past 5 years an estimated 85 percent of investment in
the monetized economy has been financed by external capital inflows.
r This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



-2-
Recent Economic Development
5.        GNP increased moderately up to 1971.   As a result of the drought
in the Sahel, national income and capital assets (livestock) suffered a
sharp decline in 1973 and the first part of 1974. Recovery thereafter has
been slow. The drought in the 1973/74 crop year severely affected agricul-
ture and livestock: Production of basic food grains declined to about 750,000
tons, or 60 percent of what is considered a normal crop. Export crops (ground-
nuts, cotton) also suffered because of reduced yields, and as a result of a
shift of land and labor to food crops. The production of groundnuts for
example, traditionally the largest export crop, declined by 70 percent.
Livestock surveys conducted in early 1974 confirm that the size of the pre-
drought cattle herd was probably almost halved. Accordingly, the income of
many pastoralists has been sharply reduced, and the southward migration of
the population accelerated, adding new dimensions to an already difficult
economic situation.
6.        In 1974/75, rainfall was more favorable and crop production re-
covered, benefitting also from the Government's timely decision to raise
producer prices for several agricultural commodities. Groundnut production,
however, suffered another severe set back, this time due to insect attacks
and disease problems. Recovery in livestock was understandably very slow.
Altogether, value added in the agricultural sector is still estimated to be
substantially below its 1972 level.
7.        The overall balance of payments has been in surplus since 1969 --
except in 1974 when falling agricultural exports and skyrocketing import
prices resulted in a more than 100 percent increase in the trade deficit, and
an overall deficit of US$16.8 million. The overall surpluses have been made
possible by the increasing inflow of foreign aid (largely grants). Net foreign
assets, which had doubled between 1969 and 1973, dropped to about US$45 million
in late 1975, equivalent to three months of imports. Most uranium mining
development has been financed by private foreign capital inflows. The Govern-
ment has a one-third interest in the equity of the first mine which started
production in 1971. A second mine is expected to commence production in 1978.
At current uranium prices this new industry in Niger is highly profitable
both from a private and a social point of view.
8.        In contrast with a rather depressed real economy, the Government's
financial situation has been relatively healthy in the last five to six years.
Control of current spending and rising revenue, mainly from taxes on the
"modern" sector, enabled the Government to generate increasing budgetary
savings. Sharply increased revenues from uranium (CFAF3-4 billion in 1975/76)
are expected following an agreement on higher uranium export prices with the
French Atomatic Energy Commission. Whilst some of the major public sector
enterprises are currently experiencing serious financial problems, the liqui-
dity position of the public sector as a whole remains strong. Treasury
deposits with the banking system reached CFAF 8.5 billion in September 1975,
equivalent to about one third of current revenues expected in FY1975/1976.



-3-
Foreign Aid
9.        During 1968-1973, Niger obtained commitments of an average US$40
million a year from its major traditional sources of aid: France, FED,
Canada, the U.S.A., Germany, I.D.A. and the U.N.    About 90 percent of total
aid in the last few years has been made available in the form of grants; most
of the remainder consisted of loans on concessionary terms. Aid in the
drought years 1972/73 and 1973/74, including emergency food shipments, was
about double the annual average level of 1968/73.
10.       At the end of 1973, the total amount of external debt outstanding
was US$116.7 million, of which US$71.3 million was disbursed. IDA's share of
total debt outstanding was 16.1 percent. The ratio of debt service to
exports of goods and non-factor services was 3.5 percent in 1973 and about
5 percent in 1974 (estimate), mainly due to the decline in exports. No exter-
nal debt servicing problems are foreseen.
Government Policies and Development Prospects
11.       At the time of the military take-over (April 1974), the previous
government was preparing a ten-year "perspective" program. This has been
abandoned, and the new regime has prepared a three-year interim development
program. It calls for annual public sector investments of over CFAF 25
billion (US$120 million) which is more than double the highest level ever
achieved (1973/74). The investment target may be regarded as overly ambi-
tious in terms of both resources and absorbtive capacity. Highest priority
is attached to the development of agriculture and animal husbandry. Industry
will continue to be import-substitution oriented. Mining development is to
gain momentum thanks to uranium. An earlier announced discovery of oil in the
desert north of Lake Chad turned out to be of no economic significance.
Further exploratory drilling is continuing. As far as telecommlnications are
concerned the plan gives priority to improving the quality and capacity of the
existing system in the southern belt of the country and to linking remote
agricultural production areas to the main urban centers.
12.       Shortcomings in project identification, preparation and implemen-
tation have been felt to be major obstacles to timely achievement of plan
targets. Now that the Government faces the problem of how best to use sub-
stantially greater resources than in the past from uranium exploitation,
appropriate project selection must receive increased attention. To meet
this urgent need, the Government recently created a National Development
Council in which all ministries concerned are represented.
13.       Barring major new mineral discoveries, Niger's long-run develop-
ment potential lies mainly in agriculture and livestock. Self-sufficiency
in food, development of export crops and modernization of the livestock
sector is unlikely to be achieved without major increases in irrigation and
the application of improved technologies. Arable land is becoming increas-
ingly scarce and thus growth through extension of the area cultivated
increasingly difficult. In the livestock sector, the Government's intention
of reconstituting the herd to 65 percent of its pre-drought size seems to be



appropriate in view of the limited pasture capacity. The Government also
intends to, and should, take full advantage of the present situation to
change the life pattern of nomadic livestock raisers, i.e. to induce them to
settle by introducing suitable credit and pasture management policies.
14.       The Government will continue to promote mineral prospecting and
exploitation. Besides uranium, interesting indications of large phosphate
deposits have been identified. It is impossible at this stage, however,
to say to what extent phosphate exploitation can contribute to development,
especially in view of the high transport costs involved. Even under favor-
able assumptions regarding the mineral sector, the long-run prospects of the
economy cannot be depicted as bright considering the constraints described
in para. 3. Foreign aid (including technical assistance) will be needed for
years to come and should continue to flow, for some time at least, on highly
concessionary terms.
15.       The Government's contribution to the financing of public invest-
ment projects can be expected to increase somewhat in the future, thanks
to the revenues contributed by uranium and assuming that policies of strict
budgetary control will be continued. Nevertheless, in view of Niger's
desperate poverty it will be appropriate for external lending agencies to
finance an exceptionally high proportion of project costs, including a
substantial amount of local costs.
PART II: BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN NIGER
16.       The proposed Credit would be IDA's ninth operation in Niger, bring-
ing the total of funds committed to US$53.7 million. Of the presently out-
standing amount (US$48.5 million), US$17.5 million had been disbursed as at
March 31, 1976. Annex II contains a summary statement of these Credits as
at March 31, 1976, as well as notes on the execution of on-going projects.
17.       Recognizing the magnitude of the constraint of inadequate transport
and communications on the development of Niger the Bank Group's strategy in
the country has been so far concentrated mainly on the development of the
internal transportation infrastructure, primarily roads. Bank Group opera-
tions to date for highway development have been directed to up-grading trunk
roads, reviewing and reorganizing routine maintenance procedures and to
training of staff of the Directorate of Public Works and Urban Affairs (DPW).
The projects have all been satisfactorily executed, and the second highway
project is virtually completed.
18.       The Third Highway Project approved by the Executive Directors on
February 17, 1976, together with the proposed telecommunications project
will continue the Bank Group's assistance in the development of the tran-
sportation and communications sectors. The proposed project would improve the
reliability and the quality of telecommunications services and, provide for
additional facilities to meet demand in the regions where the Government has
important development schemes. The project would also enhance the efficiency
of industry, commerce and transport and improve coordination and integration
of administrative, health and social services.



- 5 -
19.       Future IDA lending, will be increasingly channelled directly to the
two main productive sectors, agriculture and livestock, with a view to raising
the income of the rural population. An integrated rural development project
was approved by the Executive Directors on December 11, 1975. This project
covers the whole department of Maradi and is designed to provide benefits to
about 70,000 families, involving some 500,000 people. Its primary aim is to
raise productivity in agriculture and animal husbandry through improved ex-
tension services, agriculture credit, road development, soil conservation,
health care and functional literacy. Operations currently under preparation
for future IDA lending to Niger include two further projects in the agricul-
ture and livestock sectors and a project for the development of future roads.
At least one of these projects should be submitted to the Executive Directors
in FY 1977.
20.       The Bank Group, which ranks sixth in terms of volume of aid com-
mitted, behind France, the Fonds Europeen de Developpement (FED), Canada, USA
and Germany, and roughly on a par with the UNDP, has been a relatively small
lender to date, providing only about 7 percent of total foreign aid committed
to Niger during the six years ending 1973.
PART III: THE TELECOMMUNICATIONS SECTOR
Sector History and Organization
21.       Under the former Federation of French West Africa, Niger's telecom-
munications were operated as a government service under the authority of the
High Commissioner of French West Africa and the Governors of the various
territories. In 1959, when the French colonies of Western Africa became in-
dependent, the West African Posts and Telecommunications Office, with Head-
quarters in Dakar, was dissolved, and the postal and telecommunications
services for Niger were transformed into a branch of the Government, with the
Ministry of Posts and Telecommunications responsible for operations and de-
velopment, and the Ministry of Finance for finances. In 1970, following the
pattern previously adopted in other West African countries (Mali, Senegal,
Upper Volta), the Government created as autonomous entity, Office des Postes
et Tllecommunications du Niger (OPTN), which took over responsibility for
domestic and regional telecommunications, postal services, a nationwide
public checking account service and a savings bank. France Cable et Radio
(FCR), which operates international HF radio links, provides the main inter-
national telephone, telegraph and telex services under a concession agreement.
As usual in most countries, the military establishment and civil aviation have
their own telecommunication networks.
22.       As one of the largest landlocked countries in Africa satisfactory
internal and external communications are essential for the effective adminis-
tration of the country and development. Existing telecommunications facilities,
however, are inadequate in terms of coverage and quality of service; this was
dramatically demonstrated during the recent emergency drought relief opera-
tions. Even in the southern part of the country, where 90 percent of the popu-
lation live and economic activities are concentrated, administration, trade,



and production are hampered by deficiencies in the internal telecommunica-
tions network. Elsewhere the situation is worse and successful development
of the mid-western region of the country (north of Agadez) which is
currently gaining some momentum as a result of increased uranium mining,
is dependent upon the installation of a more reliable telecommunications
system linking Agadez with administrative and business centers in the South.
Access to Service
23.       The telephone density in Niger is about 1.4 per 1000 inhabitants,
among the lowest in the world, although over the last ten years the number
of telephone subscribers increased on average about 12% per year. By October
1975, Niger had some 6,200 telephone stations connected to 3,750 direct
exchange lines. Of these, 2,440 connected lines, or 65 percent of the total,
are in Niamey, the balance of 1,310 connected lines being in eight provin-
cial towns and twenty small communities mainly in the southern part of the
country.  Subscribers are principally from the business sector, Government
and administrative services. Outside Niamey, the present number, spread,
and quality of telephone services is very thin and inadequate (see also
paras. 27-29). Niamey itself is presently underprovided with telephones and
the exchange fill 1/ of 85 percent is near the technical limit to which
new lines can be connected to an exchange. Therefore, OPTN can connect
only few new subscribers in Niger's capital before commissioning an extension
to existing exchanges (included in the proposed project). Total installed
capacity of the provincial exchanges is 1,240 automatic lines with an ex-
change fill 1/ of 70 percent and 1,767 manual lines. With an expected 12
percent annual growth rate in new subscriber connections, there will be
unsatisfied demand in some areas before project completion.
24.       OPTN has a long-distance network of about 24,200 circuit-kilometers
consisting mainly of open-wire lines; the main transmission line Niamey-Zinder
has some carrier equipment. OPTN serves the most important centers in the
north through HF radio links which operate only on a part-time basis. Most
of the remoter areas, especially those in the north, have no telecommunica-
tions facilities. Subscribers connected either to automatic or manual ex-
changes have manual long-distance service; however, long-distance dialling is
presently being tested between Niamey and Maradi.
25.       OPTN provides domestic telegraph service through its network of
open-wire lines and HF links. It also operates a 200-line automatic telex
exchange in Niamey. This is used mainly for international services through
FCR's international HF links. As of October 31, 1975, OPTN had 90 telex sub-
scribers of whom 70 were in Niamey. The lack of sufficient reliable long-
distance circuits precludes extension of telex facilites in the provinces,
and especially in the mining areas of the north.
26.       Through the domestic local and long-distance facilities, OPTN's
subscribers have access to international telephone, telegraph and telex
transmission services provided by FCR, which operates HF radio links to
1/   Percentage of installed capacity of a telephone exchange in use.



Paris, Abidjan and Dakar, and by OPTN itself, which operates HF radio
links with the capitals of the neighboring countries of Benin (Cotonou)
and Mali (Bamako), and open-wire carrier circuits with Upper Volta
(Ouagadougou).
Standard of Service
27.       In the three main cities, most equipment is reasonably well
maintained and in good working order. Since OPTN's equipment installa-
tions have kept pace with subscriber growth, the local service provided
by the existing automatic exchanges and local distribution networks in
these cities is satisfactory. In other areas, however, local service
is unsatisfactory; the main reasons for this are the limitations inherent
in the use of manual magneto exchanges, which, apart from being obsolete,
are old and worn out. Moreover, local distribution networks in the
smaller towns and communities are exclusively open-wire lines, which are
fault prone.
28.       Due to inadequate and overloaded transmission routes, long-
distance service is generally poor; manual connection of long-distance
calls involves long delays, and transmission quality is low. Long-distance
dialling between Niamey and Maradi suffers from lack of sufficient reliable
circuits. During the frequent interruptions on the main open-wire line
routes, emergency calls have to be transmitted over standby HF radio links.
29.       International telecommunications services using FCR facilities are
fair in Niamey. However, due to the deficiencies of the domestic long-
distance network, international telephone service is poor for the main pro-
vincial towns, and virtually impossible from more remote sections of the
national network.
Sector Objectives
30.       A countrywide development plan for local and long distance tele-
communications services was evolved in 1970; however, between 1972 and
1975, because of limited resources, investment has been mainly concentrated
in the field of local telephone service and particularly the local services
in the Niamey area. During that period OPTN was assisted by a small loan
from African Development Bank (AfDB); now, with the promise of wider
assistance, the objectives for the period 1976-80 have been set as follows:
(a) establish a sound basis for further development of the
domestic long-distance network by improving, as a first
step, the quality and reliability of telecommunications
between the main cities along the backbone route Niamey-
Zinder;
(b) as far as possible, keep pace with expected growth in
demand for subscriber lines in the main cities as well
as in rural areas;



- 8 -
(c) rehabilitate, improve and expand secondary long distance
routes and extend telecommunications services in rural
areas to help integrate remote areas into the economy;
(d) extend and improve domestic and international telecom-
munications services including services to other parts
of Africa; and
(e) improve OPTN's organization, management and accounting
and provide a base for sound and adequate future devel-
opment and operation of the telecommunications services.
OPTN's 1976-79 program is consistent with the achievement of these objec-
tives; it is designed to improve the quality of long-distance services and
meet anticipated demand for new telephone connections in the principal
areas of service through 1981. The proposed program gives emphasis to the
development of the long distance services which are of vital importance
to the country's development process, and particularly to rural development.
However, the program also provides for a 65 percent expansion in local sys-
tems; when this expansion is complete telephone d-ensity should show a modest
improvement from the present 1.4 per 1000 inhabitants to about 2.0 by the
end of 1980. The proposed IDA project, which forms an integral part of the
program, includes measures for expanding both the local and long-distance
facilities and also important proposals for achieving institutional objec-
tive (e), which in turn will enable OPTN to deal with the problem of pro-
viding adequate telecommunications facilities throughout Niger in the future
years.
Sector Investment and Constraints
31.       The telecommunications services in Niger have been developing
with a minimum of Government assistance and consequently have been mainly
tied to OPTN's capacity to generate funds from internal resources and to
borrow externally. Over the past four years (1972-75), a little over
US$4 million has been invested in the services; of this amount about US$2
million or 50 percent was financed from OPTN's own resources, the balance
coming from local or external loans. However, for the period 1976-79 in-
vestment will increase fivefold to US$20 million; of this sum about US$5
million will be provided by grants, US$13 million from external borrowings
and US$2 million from OPTN's own resources. In terms of average annual
investment as a percentage of GDP the program represents about 1 percent
of Niger's GDP. The program will have a significant impact on OPTN's
revenues after 1979, since large increases in revenue are to be expected
from the lucrative long distance services, once the quality of service
is improved; these additional revenues should enable OPTN to finance a
higher proportion of its future development.
Future Plans
32.       During the 1980s, after completion of the current program, it
is expected that the higher level of internal cash generation will provide



- 9 -
OPTN with a solid financial basis, which will permit further extension
and improvement of the services in provincial and rural areas. As an in-
dication of the magnitude of future internal cash generation, it is esti-
mated that net internal cash generation should be about CFAF 500 million
in 1982 as compared with about CFAF 84 million in 1979, the last year of
the current program.
33.       To improve upon the definition of sector objectives and the
quality of investment decisions, OPTN with guidance from IDA will
undertake, as part of a tariff review, a study of the economics of tele-
communications in Niger. The study will define the nature of telecom-
munications usage and the incidence of its benefits, and examine the
possibilities for cross-subsidization among user categories, with parti-
cular attention to providing access to new subscribers. Through a more
scientific assessment of the development impact of telecommunications in
the country, OPTN will be better able to give a more purposeful direction
to its future development activities and investments.
PART IV: THE PROJECT
34.       A report entitled "Appraisal of a Telecommunications Project"
(NO. 1016 NIR) is being circulated separately. A Credit and project summary,
is contained in Annex III. In mid-1974, an IDA mission identified the present
project, and field appraisal took place in October 1975. Negotiations were
held in Washington on April 12, 1976. The delegation from Niger was led by
the Ambassador of Niger in Washington.
The Program
35.       OPTN's 1976-79 development program comprises:   the proposed project;
the construction of the Dosso-Zinder link of a Niamey-Zinder microwave route
which is expected to be financed by the Government, French FAC/CCCE and
suppliers; the construction of microwave links to Benin and Upper Volta as
part of the Sahelian route of the Pan-African telecommunications network,
which are to be financed by Canadian aid; and ongoing works mainly for the
construction of the Niamey-Dosso link of the Niamey-Zinder microwave route.
The total estimated cost of the program is US$20 million. Assurances, satis-
factory to IDA, of the availability of financing for the construction of the
Dosso-Zinder microwave link, would be a condition of effectiveness (See
Section 6.01 (c) of draft Development Credit Agreement).
36.       The Niamey-Dosso link of the Niamey-Zinder microwave route, which
is being commissioned, includes facilities for television (initially for
education) and broadcasting; the Dosso-Zinder link will also be designed
to accommodate similar facilities. The costs of these two links will there-
fore be considerably more than if they had been designed exclusively for
OPTN's use. However the use of one system to take care of both OPTN and
broadcasting/television requirements results in economies for the country
as a whole. The Government has already approved a formula satisfactory to



- 10 -
IDA for sharing the investment and future operating costs of the Niamey-Zinder
microwave route by the user agencies and will ensure the implementation of
these arrangements. (see Section 4.02 of draft Development Credit Agreement).
Project Description
37.       The project proposed for IDA financing includes (i) installation of
3,800 lines of automatic switching equipment with cable and subscriber dis-
tribution networks; (ii) improvement of long-distance services through pro-
vision of trunk switching equipment, three VHF links and one HF radio link,
overhead line and carrier equipment; (iii) civil works; (iv) miscellaneous
equipment, vehicles and tools; and (v) 30 man-months of engineering consult-
ants services; 18 man-months of financial consultants services; both at about
US$5,400-US$5,500 per man-month and a total cost of US$260,000 (see paras 39
and 40).
Project Entity and Organization
38.       OPTN is managed by a Board of Directors, with a Director General as
its chief executive. Under its charter, OPTN has been given legal and finan-
cial autonomy and operates on a commercial basis. It employs 1,200 persons.
39.       OPTN's accounting, billing and collection procedures require im-
provement; an efficient medium and long-term planning system also needs
to be established, and staffing and tariffs require review. OPTN requires
assistance from experts or consultants to review, make recommendations and
assist in implementing the required institutional and managerial improvements
of OPTN. (see Section 3.03 of draft Project Agreement). OPTN expects to
obtain assistance for some of these services from the International Telecom-
munications Union (ITU) and bilateral sources. An amount of US$100,000 has,
however, been included in the Credit to cover the eventuality that such
assistance may not be forthcoming, the amount of the Credit will be reduced to the
extent that IDA financing becomes unnecessary.
Project Execution
40.       OPTN requires assistance in (i) detailed engineering, (ii) prepara-
tion of specifications and bidding documents, (iii) bid evaluation, (iv)
inspection services, and (v) supervision services for the main installations
of the project. OPTN expects to obtain assistance for these services from the
ITU. An amount of US$160,000 has, however, been included in the credit to
cover the eventuality that ITU may not be able to provide this assistance and
OPTN may have to employ engineering consultants. Should ITU eventually be
able to help OPTN, this amount would be cancelled from the credit. The
suppliers would install the telephone exchanges and the VHF and HF radio links
under supervision of OPTN's staff and of the consultants or experts. The
suppliers' contracts, which would also cover one year's maintenance of the
equipment, would specifically provide for OPTN's staff to take part in these



- 11 -
activities, so as to give them experience in installation, testing and mainte-
nance. Construction of open-wire lines and ducts, cable-laying and subscriber
installation would be carried out by OPTN's staff. The envisaged arrangements
for project execution are satisfactory . The installation and commissioning
of all new plants is expected to be completed by the end of December 1979.
During negotations, OPTN agreed to appoint qualified experts or consultants in
accordance with terms of reference acceptable to IDA for the detailed engineer-
ing, procurement and supervision of the installations involved under the
project (see Section 2.02 of draft Project Agreement).
Project Costs and Financing
41.       The project is estimated to cost US$6.5 million, excluding taxes
and duties, with a foreign exchange component of US$5.2 million. Estimated
costs for project equipment are based on prices recently obtained under
international competitive bidding for similar quantities of similar equipment
in Upper Volta, Senegal and Mali. Civil works costs are based on the most
recent contracting experience of OPTN. Project costs include US$1.0 million
contingencies to cover price escalation and US$0.3 million for unexpected
changes in design and specifications. The Government has confirmed that it
relieves OPTN from paying all taxes and duties on equipment imported for the
project.
42.       The proposed IDA credit of US$5.2 million, all for foreign costs,
would cover about 80 percent of total project costs. The credit would be made
to the Government of Niger, which would relend the proceeds of the credit
to OPTN at 8-1/2 percent annual interest rate for 20 years, including a
4-year grace period (see Section 3.01 (b) draft Development Credit Agreement).
The balance of the project costs of US$1.3 million, all local costs, would be
financed from OPTN's own resources.
Procurement and Disbursement
43.       The items financed by IDA would be procured through international
competitive bidding except for US$1.5 million (representing 30% of the credit)
of switching equipment for extensions and signalling conversion to existing
exchanges which would be purchased from existing suppliers; and small groups
of miscellaneous equipment, tools and vehicles not exceeding US$20,000 per
group and US$150,000 in total which would be procured after local competition
in accordance with the Government's tendering procedures; the latter are
satisfactory. It is recommended that the equipment for the extensions to
existing exchanges in Niamey and Maradi and for signalling system conversion
be procured from the original supplier, L. M. Ericsson (France), provided the
prices offered are reasonably in line with international prices for similar
equipment. The original equipment was procured under international competi-
tive bidding, and procurement from the original suppliers would facilitate
standardization, training and deployment of personnel and organization of
maintenance and spare parts.



- 12 -
44.       The credit would be disbursed against 100 percent of the foreign
cost of imported equipment and materials, and the foreign exchange cost of
consulting services.
Finances
45.       Overall operating results from OPTN's postal and telecommunica-
tions operations are presently satisfactory; OPTN's financial position is
sound. Revenue from existing telecommunications tariffs should be sufficient
to enable OPTN to generate a sufficient cash flow to support its investment
program during the construction period of 1976-79. Although there would be a
significant reduction in telecommunications cash balance in the last year,
1979, this would not present a problem. After 1979, however, OPTN would have
to meet heavy debt service charges, higher operating expenses (particularly
depreciation), and the costs of a further phase of development which would
start towards the end of 1979. The forecasts indicate that, even with the
additional revenue from the plant installed in 1976-79, OPTN would run into
cash difficulties in 1980 and subsequent years unles a 20 percent increase in
total tariff revenue could be achieved.
46.       On the basis of present tariffs the rate of return on telecommuni-
cations net fixed assets would be about 12% in 1976 through 1978; however, it
is inevitable for the reasons mentioned above that after 1978 the rate of
return will fall unless additional telecommunications revenue is obtained.
With a 20% increase in revenues, a rate of return of about 8% should be
feasible in 1979 and this should increase to 12% in 1982. Given the present
high tariff levels it would be important that tariff levels be carefully
tailored to meet OPTN's requirements and not so high as to jeopardize tele-
communications development which is in its early stages. For these reasons,
during negotiations, OPTN agreed to undertake a tariff study with the assis-
tance of consultants or experts. OPTN also agreed to adjust its telecommuni-
cations tariffs in such a way as to enable telecommunications operations to
earn a rate of return of not less than 8% in 1980 and 10% thereafter (see
Section 4.04 (a) and (c) of draft Project Agreement). With the additional
revenue from the tariff adjustment, the present satisfactory financial posi-
tion of the telecommunications service should continue.
Justification
47.       The present lack of reliable, good quality telecommunications facil-
ities in Niger, especially in the case of the long-distance network is causing
acute communications problems; the inadequacy of the facilities was clearly
demonstrated during the relief operations consequent upon the Sahelian
drought. The economic costs of such inadequate telecommunications between the
major centers of a landlocked country as large as Niger cannot be quantified
but clearly must be very substantial, and the improvement of telecommunica-
tions is recognized by Government as a key element in the development process
and in the better integration of the country. OPTN's 1976-79 development
program addresses itself to these issues and aims at bringing about a quick
and substantial improvement in the quality of the country's telecommunications
services.



- 13 -
48.       The program lays stress on the improvement of the long-distance
services and is designed to improve the quality of service in the economic-
ally more important areas of Niger. These areas include the regions of Maradi
and Zinder, (both of which are subjects of externally financed regional
development efforts, the former by IDA), the fertile areas of the Niger
Valley, and the important departments of Niamey, Dosso and Tahoua. The demand
in remote areas of Niger is expected to grow in direct relation to the availa-
bility of long-distance facilities. This is based on past experience in large
countries with low population and telephone density like Niger, where outside
the capital and a few provincial towns, the demand is almost exclusively for
long-distance services. Modern local and long-distance facilities will
improve the quality of service available to the producers, merchants, ex-
porters, consumers and carriers, and to the regional and local government
services of these areas. In addition to the installation of new equipment
in the southern and basically agricultural belt, new facilities are to be
provided for the mining areas of the midwest of the country, where demand for
telecommunications service is developing fast. These new installations
would assist the development of the areas concerned, meet an urgent need and
provide the basis for the future extension of service.
49.       The project as designed represents the least-cost solution for
the proposed development. It is an integral part of the program and
is complementary to the other three components of the program. Since costs
and benefits of the four components are interrelated, it is appropriate that
the return be calculated on the investment in the program as a whole rather
than only on the investment in the IDA-financed project; on this basis the
internal financial rate of return on the program is 14 percent. This return
is the discount rate which equalizes the stream of OPTN's expected revenues
from the program with the related capital costs, free of taxes and duties, and
related operating costs. A sensitivity analysis shows that, under unfavorable
combination of the main parameters, the return on investment would be not less
than 11 percent.
50.       The economic return on the program is undoubtedly higher than the
foregoing suggest, since (a) the benefits to the subscribers, particularly
those obtaining access to service for the first time, are higher than the
benefits measured by prices charged, and (b) the costs include the full costs
of extending the network and providing facilities in new areas, even though
the full benefits will only be obtained in the future when additional lines
are connected.
PART V: LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
51.       The draft Development Credit Agreement between the Republic of Niger
and the Association, the Project Agreement between the Association and the
Office des Postes et Tllecommunications (OPTN), the recommendation of the
Committee provided for in Article V, Section 1 (d) of the Articles of Agree-
ment of the Associatlon and the text of Resolution approving the proposed
Development Credit, are being distributed to the Executive Directors
separately.



- 14 -
52.       The draft Development Credit and Project Agreements conform to the
normal pattern for credits for telecommunications projects. Features of
special interest are referred to In paragraphs 35, 36, 39, 40, 42 and46 of
this report. The securing of assurances satisfactory to IDA from FAC and CCCE
for the financing of the construction of the microwave link Dosso-Zinder is
a special condition of credit effectiveness (see Section 6.01 of draft Develop-
ment Credit Agreement).
53.       I am satisfied that the proposed development credit would comply with
the Articles of Agreement of the Association.
PART VI: RECOMMENDATION
54.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
Credit.
Robert S. McNamara
President
by J. Burke Knapp
Attachment
May 20, 1976



AIIXT( I
XgTof is pages
T ABLE 3A
NIGER               - SOClAL 11DICATUIS OATA SmuET
LAND AREA (THOU EM?)                ---------------------
--- ; -4-L ------- ;,                          NIGER                              REfERENCE COUNTRIES (1970I
TOTAL      3267.0                                     MOST RECENT
ARABLE        .-                      1960      1970    ESTIMATE         NALAWI         SUDAN         SENEGAL
S'EP PER CAPITA (USE)                    90.0       120.0      100.0              60.0       110.0      290.0
POPULATION ANO VITAL STATISTICS
POPULATION (MID-YR. MILLION)            3.1         4.0        4.4               4.5        15.r        4.4
POPULATION KENSITY
PER SQUARE RN.                        2.0         3.0         .-              38.0         6.0       22.0
PEN sQUARE NM. ARAsLE LANO             ..                                                 to.e  ..  102.0  te.9
VITAL STAISTICS
CRUDE BIRTH RATE PER THOUSAND        52.0       52.0        50.0              49.0        49.0       32.3
CRUOE DEATH RATE PER tHOUSAND        27.0       23.0        21.0              25.0        18.0       18.3
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (JTHOU)       200.0         ..          ..                ..          ..      156.0
LIFE EXPECTANtCY AT BIRTH tERS)     I3.0         41.0       440                319.0      48.0       41.0
GROSS REPRODUCt2DN RATE               3.1        3.5         3.5                1.2        3.4        3.0
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (X)
TOTAL                                 2.5         2.8        2.T               2.6         2.9        2.7
URNAN                                 6.0         7.0         ..                T.0        5.0        4.0
URBAN POPULATION (I OF TOTALI           6.0        8.0          ..                5.0 A     12.0       29.0
AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0 TO 14 YEARS                       43.6       44.5          ..              43.9 A!    4*5.0       41.2
15 TO 64 YEARS                       53.0       52.6          ..              52.1 41     52.0       54.9
6S TEARS AND OVER                     5.2        2.9          ..               4&0 ..      3.0        3.9
AGE OEPENDENCY RATIO                    0.9         0.9         ..                0.9  a     0.9        0.8
ECONOMIC oEPENoENCY RATIO               1.9 L       1.0  i      ..               0.9         1.5 i      1.2
FAMILY PLANNING-
ACCEPTORS (CtAMULATIVE. THOU)          ..          ..         ..
USERS CZ 0V MARRIED VOMEN)             ..         ..          ..
EMPLOYMENT
rTOAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSAND)            0.o0    2S900.0         ..            2100.0      5100.0     1600.0
LABOR FORCE IN AGRICULTURE (x)         9T.0        91.0         ..              8s.0        60.0       73.0
UNEMPLOYED (s OF LABOR FORCE)            ..          ..         ..                 ..         ..        7.0
INCOME ODSTRIBUTION
I OF PRIVATE INCONE REC*D BY-
HIGHEST  51 OF POPULATION            23.0         ..          ..               29.5 La
HIGHEST 201 Of POPULATION            42.0         ..          ..              52.9 (        . 
LOWEST  201 OF POPULATION             6.0         ..          ..               5.7          .
LOWEST  40o OF POPULATION            18.0          ..         ..               15.0 (       . 
OITTR91BtOQN OF LAND OANERSHIP
Is OsNET sY TOP 10S OF OWNERS            ..          ..         ..                 .           ..
2 OWNEO BT SMAtLEST 101 OWNERS           ..          ..         ..
HEALTM AND NUTRITION
0; .  ......._ o   .....
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN            71000.0 ( 58260.0      59800.0            75250.0 4d 15940.0    14940.0
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON        t500.0 tc. 7    0o.0   553 0.0           16090.0 4   1950.0     2410.0
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED          1880.0 Z4   2230.0     1790.0              640.0     1040.0Lb    730.0 /b
PER CAPITA SUPP..Y OFI
CALORIES (I OF REQUIREMENTS)         93.0        93.0       89.0               93.0       91.0       97.0
PROTrtN (GRAMS PER DAY)              74.0        72.0       74.0               54.0       63.0       64.0
-or NHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE           ..        24.0o        ..                9.0 /a    24.041     26.0 /fr
OEATH RATE (/THOU) AGES 1-4              ..          ..         ..
£OUCAr ION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIO
PRIMAoRY SCHOOL                       6.0        14.0         ..               37.O       25.0        38.0 (
SECONDARY SCHOOL                      0.3 La     1.           ..                3.0        9.0       15.0
TEARS oF SCHOOLING PROVIDED
(FIRST ANO SECOND LEVEL)             13.0        13.0       11.0               14.0       12.0        13.0
VOCAF IONAL ENROLLMENT
(S OF SECONOARY)                      4.0 Li      3.0        2.0                3.0        1.0         7.0
ADULT LITERACT RATE (I)                  ..          ..         ..                 ..       19.0        10.0
HOUSING
PERSONS PER ROOM (AVERAGE)               ..          ..         ..                1.9/t      2.5/c
OCCUPIED DWELL INGS ItTHOUT
PIPED WATER (X                         ..         ..          ..               r.0&a      36.D0/c,d
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY
t1 OF ALL DWEL IN65)                   ..         ..          ..               16_0S.R    d6.0/ca       .
RURAL DWELL INGS CONNECTED
TO ELECTRICITY tX)                     ..          ..         ..
CONSUMPTION
RADIO RECEIVERS tPER THOU POP)          1.0        36.0          .               20.0         ..        69.0
PASSENGER CARS (PER THOU POP)           0.6 /d      1.0        2.0                2.0        2.0         9.0
ELECTRICITY t(RH/TR PER CAP)            3.0        10.0       11.0               32.0       25.0        73.0
NEWSPRINT (KG'YR PER CAP)               0.1   1      ..         ..                0.0o       0.2         0.1
S;I        N     TLS AM  ITfINITIONS ON REVERSE



ANNE C
Pae s- pages
Unless  th.-eru    noted, o..Ls fot 1960 refer to any year between 1959 .ed 1961, for 1970 betwee  1968 end 1970. and for Moat Recent E.HStlea   bet.een
1971 6 1973.
-s Senegal hoe been selected as an objective    oustry  ince it. 1970 GNP ia ahout tore. time. chat of Niger. both countre    are in the sane geographical
aC,rea, have olsiier p-nd-cio-. pattern  (with the e.-  domnlant co5~p - grounldfutc?(. share the sane meonetary system and nave shout the see, population.
NIR         1960    /.  Ratin of popolation -nd.r 15 end 65 and over to total labor force;    /b  Excludes labor force ofNi seey City, nomaed population
and forsig-nor., Ic 1962; /d 1963; /a Exctluding private vocatioaal schools; If 1964.
1970    Ra Ond    of p.p.l.fien under 15 and 65 acd ovr      to t 1a labor ferns.  /b  1964-66
MALAWI      1970    .o1966.     !a  RLi~.o of populotien under 15 and 65 and over to total  abor force;   /c  Houaehold.,    /d  Coverage of data unsknow,n
-   -7e  1964-hf._ If   1967,   /&  Urban only.
SfUDAN     1970     Ia  latio of popolation under 15 end 65 and over cv cot.1 Labor cor-.,    ,b  Government hoopital set.blivbhae.t.;   Ic  1964-66,
Td Ldrb.e only.
SENECAL     1970    /a  fotio of poPu1stion under 15 and 65 and over to total labor force,    /b  Governmentr hospital establishmsents;  Ic  1964-66;
7Th  Uoadjuosed,   /. Lower secondary leve.
R13, March 12, 1976
DEFMM'CONS OF SOCIAL INDICATORS
Iaod tArso (thou lv)P~pMlaon pr nuraing person - Population divided by number of practicing
Tot.1   T otal surface arcs comprising land os*eg and islaond waters.                 maeen     eml gracutsat nurses, "trained"- or "certified"I nwrnes, end
Arabia   Most rec ent astimate of land o-ea ,t-ed temporarily or permanently           auxiliary personnel with training or exps.rience.
for -1ltivstion, ptstures. markest and kitchen gardens or to lie fallow.                  io prjihosital bed -. populati.on divided by number of hosfpital beds
lia1.npublin andpr-i vate general and specialized hospital and
G91' per capita (US$) - 011' par ospia estimates at market prices, calcu-              rehabilitation, centers; excludas nursing homan and establiahzmant. for
lated by sane conversion method as World Bach Atlas (1972-74s basis),               custodial and preventive care.
Par cUpitasupl    off caories     of r gramonts) - Computed free energy
Pop!t:iniOdi.-         ozotn                                                            qiaen     ontfodspleavailable in country per capita per day;
PAolaionni-vr   C1 io   ' - Ano  Juy first; if not available, average           available supplies comprise donnentlc production, imports lens eapoto,
cf two end-your vtul,.and changes in stmkb; net supplion exclude animal feed, seeds, quantities
used in food processing and losses in distribution; requirements were
PMploo        dni,-cl- ,,;a-     On,  d- N y-.   population per square kilo-           estimated by FAO based on physiological needs fis' normal actiiviy
ie R, (lOF " hetii en) of tot"lors                                                and health considering environmental temperature, body weights, age and
Popula I oidF si'y - Per olare in-of o..able aied - Computed an above for              sex: dis tributions of population, and sllowing 10% for waste at household
level.
Per caiasLl fpoen(rm                  ar a) - Protei.i content of per
vito'l viatinntics                                                                     capit  ne   upy~fo         e   a;ntsupply of food is defined as
fr-de 7Mrti  at  per tn-sand - Accoal live births per thousand of mid-                 above; requiremensts for all countries established by USDA Semanmic
year PopuleAtio.; uvonlly five-year averages ending in 1960, 1970 and                Rasearch Services provide for a minimum allowance of 60 grams of total
1975 for developing countrie,.                                                       protein per day, andl 20 graww of animal and pulse protein, of whsinh 10
Crude death rate per thousand - Annual deaths par thousand of mid-year                 grams should be animal, protein, those esowiards are lower than those of
poultin   usIlly flve-yazr averages ending in 1960, 1970 end 1975               75 gramns of total protein and 23 grams of animna protein as an average
f or developing co.untris,                                                           fur the world, proposed by PAD in the Third World Pond Survey.
Infant mortality rate (/hUI Ana destha of infants under mne year                     Pe   aiapoenspl            rmaniml and puls      -Protein supply of food
of age per thoussad  ltve births,                                                     eie t% fun F anials aX1ndpule   ngasnprdy
Li-f sf2tanc   atb   rs)- Average number of years of life recoin-            D~hrats       h      so  -4 - Annual deaths per thousand in age group 1-4c
ingiTMlb      uval      ive-year averages rending in 1960, 1970 and                        to c            tisage group; suggested as an indicator of mal-
1975 for developing countries,                                                       nutrition.
Gros   r~rodctinl ate- Average oumber of live daughters a woman will
'bear in her normal reproductive period if she experiences present age-            Education
specific fertility raefs; usually five-year averages ending in 1960,                                   ratio -n_     ryschool - Enrollmeont of all ages as
1970 and 1975 for developing countries.                                                                         . _ej F'BslDoaeB pousion; includes eMldren aged
Population growth rate (&) -.total - Compound annual growth rates of mid-              6-Il, years hot adjusted for different lengths of primaa-y education;
year pouatin f-or ±5750-60, 1960-70, and 1960 to most recent year.                   for countries with universal education, enrollment may anteed 100%
Population growrth rote (9  - urfboann - Computed like grmeth rate of total            since anon pupils  are below or, above the, official school age.
~popultion, different defint      sn of urban, areas sup affect ceompara-           AdjIustid enrollment ratio - secondary school - Cormpted as shove; second-
bility or data scne countries.                                                       ary eduaton requires at leaat four yeas of approved primary instruc-
Urban ppltione (9 of total) - Ratio of urban to total population; dif-                 tion; provides general. vocational or teacher training instructions for
feetdefinitions of urban areas may affect comparability of data                  Pupils of 12 to 17 yeaurs of age; correspondence courses are genierally
anong countires.                                                                     excluded.
A,Ie  tr,uctur- Children (I-li years), working-age (15-61u yearn),             Yearn of shooin    Vrovded(ist and Second levels) - Total years of
an  retire  V5years snd -eve) as pernentages of mid-year population,                scoln;e        eonaylvl          oatoa      ntutonmyb           atal
Aedred~ riatio  - Ratio of population under 15 and 65 and over to              or completely excluded.
thos  of     hroagn 6t.                                                       Vocational enrollment (of seconday      - VocationalI institutions Include
Economc  ~   rom  - Rtin cfpopulaion uder 15 and 65 and over               tehia      idsral or otr prgrams which operate indepandently or
to the labor force in age   group of 15-6Is years.                                   as departments tof (secondar institutions
Family plannin  - _ecceptors (ccnu lstive. thoo) - Cumulative number of              Adult literacy raeM9     - Lierate adulta ?able to read and write) am par-
acceoptors of birth-control devices under auspices of national family                centage of total adult population aged 15 years and ovear.
planning programi since inception.
Famiy plnnin  -  sero (% of married women) - Prcentagem  of mar~riedi
woman oR5,f cid:_ea&rig age (15-le4 Years) who use birth-control de-                            rg      aeias   - Average muter of parsons per room in occupied
vici, to all married women in name age group.                                        covtoa               5 in urban areas; dwellings exclude non-permsanent
structiwes and unoccupied parts.
~~i~2910~~                                                    Occupied deellinos edthout~~~ed  pie  atr() - Occupied conventional dwell-
M M   force   thusan1d) - Economically active persons, I-ncluding               Ingv in urban and rural areas wiiot inside or outside piped water
amed forcesund m     loyed but excluding housevives, students, etc.;                facilities as percentage of all occupied dwellings.
definitions in various countries are not comparable.                               Access to electrioit  (9 o  alld:elling) - Conventional dwellings with
iabor e aRrc      tire M - Agricultural. labor force (in farming,              electricity in lining qatranpercent of total dwellings in urban
foety              a     sig    as percentage of total labor farce.                  and rural wreas.
of labor            a)    Unemployed are usually defined as persons           Rrldeinscncted to electricity' (9) - Computed as above for rural
arelae an  wilrg to take a job, out of a job on a given day,                   deIg       ny
remine d out of ajob, and seeking work for a specified mdninimu
period not exceeding one weak; may not be comparable between coun-                  om    tn
tries due to different definitions of unemployed end source of data,               Radio receivers      thou po) - All types of receivers for radio bread-
e.g., employment office statistics, sample surreys, compulsory mnama-                CK    togrea-u             par thoiusan of pepoaation; exludea s  mannmaed
ploysmet insurance.                                                                  receivers in countries end in years whien registration of radio setse was
in affect; data for recent ye"ar may not be oumparab3a sinCe MDet coun-
Income distribution - Percentage of private income (both in cash and                   tries abolished licensing.
kind) rcived by richest 59, richest 20%, poorest 20%, and poorestPas                         cr         thu     )-asegrasonpie                os'assaig
lio% of population.                                                                    as.   ., ightpero   ns;xcludes ambulancese, heaream   end military
vehicles.
Distribution of land ownership - Percentages of land owned by wealthiest             lgwrct         kw/rvrEB       - Annual conaumptiun of industrial, cceer-
10% and poorest 10% of land o wne rs.                                                cia,pulic and private elsctriciW in kilowatithours per capita; gen-
arally based on production data, without allowance for loases in grids
-feal'th and Nutrition                                                                 but allowing for imports aind eVorta of electricity.
.4Urer,             fc2  - Population  divided by numer of practicing               Etarn        !gy    eS      - Per capita annual consumption in kilograma
qua     rM. a medical school at university level.                     esimated rhsmdaolnetIc production plus not imptot of newsprint.



ANNEX I
Page 3 of 4 papes
ECONOMIC TN,ICCATORJt
GRO_S NATIONAL PRODUCT IN )974*                                 ANNUAL, RATE OF GBOWThI (% 1968 corstant prices)
FCFA Bln                             %965-73
GNF alR Mrlrket Prices         120.0       100.0                                                 0.8
Gross Domestic irnvestmecnt     14.5        12.1                                                 3.6
Gro's 'National Saving
Current Account Balance        -23.8       -19.8
Exports Or Goods, NFS           25.8        21.5                                                -1.9
lisports of Goods, NFS          47.0        39.2                                                 0.8
O'TU'T  L..  FOR,RCE AnI) PRODUCTIVITY I, 19714*
Value Added         Labor Force        V.A. Rer Worker
FCFA Bln       %       Mln     _          FCFA
Agricu2ti-r^, Livestock, Fishing             60.0        50.0
Manufacturing                                16.0        13.3
Construction                                  3.2         2.7
Services                                     40.8        34.0
General Adzsinistration                (8.5)         7.1)
Total/Average                          120.0       100.0
GOVERN:'ENT FINAN'CE                         Central Government
FCFA Bln       % of GDP                   FCFA Bln        % of GDP*
1973/74 a/     1973/74                    1975/76 b/      i95C/76 1T /
Current Receipts                            .12.99          12.0                       24.21           17.9
Current Expenditure                          12.79          11.8                       20.51           15.2
Currcnt Surplus                               0.20           0.2                        3.80            2.8
Capital ExpenditureS                          2.20           2.0                        3.80            2.8
Externlll ½-siEtance                          2.00           1.8
MOkKY, cBLrsr AND PRICE!; (IFS)
1965       1970       1911        1972       1973       197),     1975 (Nay-mfer)
(Million FCFA outstanding end period)
Money wis'. Quasi-Monuy                   6,722      9,596      12,135     12,896     i5,50h     20,315          23,184
Ban.k Credit to P>utlic Sector (net)     -1,046     -1,652     -2,324      -3,458     -3,402     -7,152          -8,781
Bank (Cr'dit to Brivatr Sector            8,644     10,047      9,738      10,677     12,464     20,793          27,938
-Ioney cid Q.ansi-MIoncy L- z  of GDP       ..        9.4        11.1       11.9       22.0       16.9
GCierrl Friec lndex (39611 - 100) c/      104.0     125.9       131.2      144.0      160.9      166.3           190.7
AnnuiPj percentape changes ir:
Oeneral Price Index                                              0.7         4.2        9.8       11.7            14.7
Bank Crcdlt tc Phublic Sector                                  -40.7       -48.7       t1.6     -110.2          -22.8
Berik Credit to Private Sector                                   -0.2       -3.1        9.6       16.7            33.2
a/ Fiscnl] year ending September 30; actuals.
b/  i dx.t                    -
c/ C.s,usrwr price index, NZiamey.
* Based on the findings by the latest Bank economic mission
.  ot available
not applicable
April 27, 1976



AMIEX I
Page 4 of 4 pages
TRADE PAY?4ENTS AND CAPITAL FLOWS
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS                                              MERCHANDTSE EXPORTS
1972      1973     1974                                         Average 1972/74        1975*
(Billion FCFA)                                        FCFA Mln     %      FCFA    -T-
Exports of Goods, NFS           19.80     23.70     25.84        Groundnut Products           4,102     23.5    3,000     14.5
Imports of Goods, a/ NFS        26.51     33.15    47.00         Livestock                    3,550     20.3    2,200     10.7
Resource of Gap                 -6.71     -9.35   -21.16         Uranium Concentrates         6,160     35.2   12,600     61.1
Factor Payment (net)            -0.35     -0.27     -0.44        Cotton                         135      o.8
Private Transfers (net)         -1.20     -2.19     -2.16        Hides and Skins                160      0.9    2,810     13.7
Current Balance                 _o.2     -11      -23.76         Onions
Official Transfers (net)a/      10.90     16.30    19.53         Beans                        3,371     19.3
Capital Inflow (net)             3.92      3.17      3.70        Other
Private Investment         (0.46)     (0.50)   (1.00)       Total Recorded Exports      17,478T   TO-77   2T   U    100.0
Public Loans                (3.46)    (2.67)   (2.70)       Unrecorded Exports (est.)    2,072              1,100
Other Items (net)-/             -4.16     -6.56     -o.67        Total Merchandise Exports   19,550             21,710
Change in Reserves
(+ = increases)                2.40      1.10    -1.20         EXTERNAL DEBT, DECEMBER 31, 1973
US$ Mln
Foreign. Assets (net)            9.60     10.7       9.50        Public Debt, incl. Guaranteed
Petroleum Products                                               DEBT SERVICE RATIO FOR 1973
Import - FCFA million      1,602     1,461     3,1614                                                %
- US$ million        6.3       6.6     15.0          Public Debt, incl. Guaranteed           3.5
Exports
IDA LENDING, MARCH   31, 1976
RATE OF EXCHANIGE                                                                                      US$ Ml1n
1971    US$1.00 = FCFA277.03                                Outstanding and Disbursed               19.3
1972    US$1.00 = FCFA252.21                                Undisbursed                             30.8
1973    US$1.00 = FCFA222.70                                Outstanding, incl. Undisbursed          50.1 F/
1974    US$1.00 = FCFA24o.50
1975    US$1.00 = FCFA214.32
a/ Including emergency food aid
b/ Including errors and omissions
c/ Indlucing two projects not yet effective and after exchange adjustments.
* Based on the findings by the latestBank economic mission
not available
. not applicable
April 27, 1976



ANNEX II
Page 1
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN NIGER
A.   STATEMENT IDA CREDITS (as at March 31, 1976)
Credit                                                               US$ million
Number   Year     Borrower            Purpose                Amount (less cancellation)
IDA    Undisbursed
Two credits fully disbursed                                      8.0
207      1970    Republic of Niger    Agricultural Credit        0.6        0.3
231      1971    Republic of Niger    Highway Development        6.6 /3     0.2
441      1973     Republic of Niger   Drought Relief             2.0        0.7
473      1974     Republic of Niger   Niamey Airport             5.0        3.5
608 /2   1975     Republic of Niger   Maradi Rural Development 10.7        10.7
612 /2   1976    Republic of Niger    Niger Third Highway       15.6       15.6
Total                                                  48.5       31.0
of which has been repaid*
Total now outstanding and held by IDA /1               48.5
Total undisbursed                                      31.0
*$26,206.47 repaid
/L   Prior to exchange adjustment.
/2   Signed, but not yet effective.
/3   Including a supplementary credit of $0.85 million made in 1973.
B.   STATEMENT OR IFC INVESTMENTS (as at March 31, 1976)
Nil
C.   PROJECTS IN EXECUTION
Credit 207  -    Agricultural Credit Project; US$584,000 Credit of June 9, 1970;
Closing Date - December 31, 1975
Disbursements have been much lower than expected due to: lack of
demand until recently due to the drought; the existence of large inventories
of fertilizers and other inputs at the beginning of the project; Niger's poorly
developed credit, input and extension delivery systems. The processing for pay-
ment of the last application for reimbursement is presently under consideration.
We have proposed and Government has agreed, to cancel thereafter tht- remaining
amount of this credit. Appropriate procedures will be initiated to this end in
the near future.



ANNEX II
Page 2
Credit 231  -    Second Highway Construction Project:   US$6.55 million
Credit of January 29, 1971 (as amended on November 26,
1973); Closing Date - December 31, 1975
Work on the Niamey-Tillabery road (115 km) and on the Magaria-
Tinkim-Dan Tyao (28 km) has been completed. Detailed engineering for the
Niamey-Baleyara road was dropped at Government's request since its construc-
tion was found to be pre-mature. Detailed engineering on the Maradi-Nigerian
border road (49 km) was substituted in its place. The Zinder-Bande road
study was extended to the Nigerian border as assurances were received by
Nigeria that the connecting road Babura-Kunyia would be constructed. Con-
struction of the roads are included in the Third Highway Project.
Credit 441  -    Drought Relief Project; US$2.0 million Credit of
December 7, 1973; Closing Date - June 30, 1976
The credit, approved on November 13, 1973, is one of six credits
made to the six sahelian countries to help people in drought-affected areas
to reestablish their self-sufficiency through redevelopment and improvement of
their farms and herds. The Banque de Developpement de la Republique du Niger
(BDRN) is serving as the intermediary for channeling funds to the different
Government agencies who have responsibility for the execution of various sub-
projects.
Credit 473  -    Niamey Airport Project:   US$5.0 million Credit of
May 24, 1974; Closing Date December 31, 1976
This credit provides for improvements to existing facilities so as
to enable modern, large body aircraft to operate safely and economically to
and from Niamey Airport. The project provides for strengthening and lengthen-
ing the runway, strengthening of the taxiway, enlarging and strengthening the
aircraft parking apron as well as the upgrading and relocation of the Instru-
ment Landing System. Work began on the civil works portion of the project in
May, 1975 and is expected to be completed by September 1976. Due to cost
increases and currency realignments, supplementary financing of up to
US$1.0 million may be needed at a later date.
Credit 608 .-    Maradi Rural Development Project; US$10.7 million Credit
of February 6, 1976; Closing Date June 30, 1979
This project provides production packages for the improvement of
the productivity of major crops, including groundnuts and millet, in areas
covered by 15 selected Associations Locales de Cooperatives; it aims to
strengthen these cooperative institutions, to expand educational and train-
ing programs; to develop irrigation potential in the Goulbi de Maradi; to
construct roads; to improve livestock services; to increase productivity of
fuel wood plantations; and to establish a project education unit.



ANNEX II
Page 3
Credit 612  -    Third Highway Project:   US$15.6 million Credit of
March 5, 1976 - Closing Date: June 30, 1980.
This project is to assist Government with the implementation of a
four year program of periodic maintenance, including procurement of equipment
and training of specialized public works staff, and with construction and
improvement of the Zinder-Nigerian border road (113 km) and of the Maradi-
Nigerian border road (Djibtya).



ANNEX III
Page 1
NIGER
TELECOMMUNICATIONS PROJECT
Credit and Project Summary
Borrower:             Republic of Niger
Beneficiary:           Office des Postes et Telecommunictions du Niger (OPTN)
Amount:               US$5.2 million equivalent
Terms:                 Standard
Relending Terms:      8-1/2 percent annual interest rate for a term of 20
years including a 4 year grace period. Interest will
be capitalized during the grace period.
Project Description:   Installation of 3,800 lines of automatic switching
equipment with cable and subscriber distribution net-
works; improvement of long-distance services by provid-
ing trunk switching equipment, three VHF links and
one HF radio link, overhead line and carrier equipment;
civil works; miscellaneous equipment, vehicles and
tools; and 30 man-months of engineering consultants
services; 18 man-months of financial consultants ser-
vices; both at about US$5,400-US$5,500 per man-month and
a total cost of US$260,000. It is hoped that OPTN will
be able to obtain the technical assistance it requires
from other sources in which case the amount in the
credit will be reduced to the extent that such assistance
become available.
Estimated Cost:        The estimated cost of the project is US$6.5 million
equivalent, including a foreign exchange component of
US$5.2 million. Details are given below:



ANNEX III
Page 2
------ US$ million --
Local    Foreign    Total
Automatic exchange equipment for local
and long-distance facilities                      0.60      2.27       2.87
Local networks - including civil works            0.37      0.81       1.18
Long-distance links & carrier systems             0.09      0.66       0.75
Tools, vehicles                                      -      0.18       0.18
Consultants                                          -      0.26       0.26
Base Cost                                    1.06      4.18      5.24
Contingencies
(a)  Physical                                0.05      0.22      0.27
(b)  Prices                                  0.22      0.80      1.02
0.27      1.02       1.29
Total                                        1.33      5.20       6.53
Financing Plan
Local         Foreign         Total     % of total costs
-------- in US$ million ----------       (net of taxes)
Association                           5.20          5.20            80%
OPTN                   1.33                         1.33            20%
1.33           5.20           6.53
Estimated Disbursements:
IDA Fiscal Year               Cumulative Disbursements
1977                             1,12
1978                             3,05
1979                             4,63
1980                             5,20



ANNEX III
Page 3
Procurement
Arrangement:           The items financed by IDA would be procured through
international competitive bidding except for US$1.5
million (representing 30% of the credit) of switch-
ing equipment for extensions and signalling conver-
sion to existing exchanges which would be purchased
from existing suppliers; and small groups of mis-
cellaneous equipment, tools and vehicles not exceeding
US$20,000 per group and US$150,000 in total which would
be procured after local competition in accordance with
the Government's tendering procedures; the latter are
satisfactory. It is recommended that the equipment for
the extensions to existing exchanges in Niamey and
Maradi and for signalling system conversion be procured
from the original supplier, L. M. Ericsson (France),
provided the prices offered are reasonably in line with
international prices for similar equipment. This course
of action is recommended for the following reasons (i)
the original equipment was procured under international
competitive bidding, and (ii) procurement from the
original suppliers is the correct solution in terms of
least cost, compatibility, standardization, training and
deployment of personnel and organization of maintenance
and spare parts.
Consultants:           18 man-months of consultancy services for staffing,
planning, accounting, billing collection and tariffs
assistance and 30 man-months of consultancy services
for engineering assistance. It is hoped that OPTN
will be able to obtain the assistance it requires
from international and bilateral sources without having
recourse to consultants, in which case the amount in
the credit will be reduced to the extent that such
assistance becomes available.
Return on              The financial return on investment in the program is
Investment             estimated to be at least 14%.
Appraisal Report:      No. 1016 NIR of, April 28, 1976.
Map:                   IBRD 12025.



~~~~~~K~~~~~~~~~~~'-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~  -  I ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ 0 
REPUBLIC OF NIGER                                               L I B Y A
.ALGERIA  \ LIBYAo  TELECOMMUNICATIONS PROGRAM                                          -.-f
(_f I5t+=t\ \ \  / >1976-1979
~~ MAu)NIGER ~HAD0       100   200   300               >
]      0     KILOMETERS   200
0     ~~~10020
MILES               /
-200
)
EXISTING  1976-1979                                                                           /20
Program  (.                                                           Bilmaj
Microwave Links with  _r o     -  . I                          Ifdrouane                 -
Relay Stations  0f
VHF Links                          )/
Overhead Lines  _                  i_/__                                 ' 
Automatic TelephoneAri                                    
Exchanges     __        _ 
Manual Telephone   *               j               /   \   /
Number of Lines       (2000)                  / /,GADEIZ
International Boundaries  _. -              /                  I                                         /
-160                                  !     ,     <v<s'        '  \                                      .      1
M    A   L  I            .,
?yerou      Banibangou  *  TA16IA                \
8    I gualam / / <  - Dlela  ~  41         N'Guimi t  C H A D
yTorodi  Say  *  Birni        O~~~~lelaM ayahi.  Mas                     Guirni A\eC AO
, Tera \ | <, +) ~~~~~~~BIRNI N'KO N N zaau \Saa;\:Gor't\
Mad                   /         Maine - \Gu re/
120~~,                    J; Gaya       N  I  G   E  R  I   A)                                       X>      q
_ANATE  Dgondou i  rT              hc bou ndes  on on thx mop do nrt 
J             1                                  imp/y endowsment or occepIooce oy the    V )_
U    P   P   E            I                                                              Diffa B  E  N  N  n   ',  8°  Word Sook ond ksaffittres  12°  , ,
Mata I  *  I           I           f      i   _   cn



