I-7
CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 634 NIR
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
(Telecommunications Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF NIGER
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated June 11, 1976


﻿DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated June 11, 1976, between REPUBLIC OF NIGER
(hereinafter called the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT
ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the Association).
WHEREAS (A) The Borrower has requested the Association to
assist in the financing of the foreign exchange cost of the Project
described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement by extending the Credit
as hereinafter provided;
(B) The Borrower intends to enter into agreements with the
Fonds d'Aide et de Cooperation (FAC) (hereinafter called the FAC
Agreements) for the purpose of obtaining annual grants (herein-
after called the FAC Grants) to assist in the financing of the
construction of the microwave link Dosso-Zinder;
(C) The Office des Postes et Telecommunications du Ni er
(hereinafter called OPTN) intends to enter into an agreement
(hereinafter called the CCCE Agreement) with the Caisse Centrale
de Cooperation Economigue (hereinafter called CCCE) for the purpose
of obtaining a loan (hereinafter called the CCCE Loan) to assist
in the financing of the construction of the microwave link Dosso-
Zinder;
(D) The Project will be carried out by OPTN with the Borrower's
assistance and, as part of such assistance, the Borrower will make
available to OPTN the proceeds of the Credit as hereinafter pro-
vided; and


﻿-2-
(E) The Association is willing to make the Credit available
upon the terms and conditions set forth hereinafter and in a proj-
ect agreement of even date herewith between the Association and
OPTN;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:


﻿w                           -3-
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreer-nt accept all the
provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Development
Credit Agreements of the Association, dated March 15, 1974, with
the same force and effect as if they were fully set forth herein
(said General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit Agree-
ments of the Association being hereinaftei called the General
Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the Gen-
eral Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the
respective meanings therein set forth and the following additional
terms have the following meanings:
(a) "OPTN" means the Office des Postes et T9lcommunications
du Niger, established by Law No. 70-18 of August 27, 1970, of the
Borrower, and operating under Decree No. 71-195/PRN/MPT of Decem-
ber 30, 1971, of the Borrower, as such Law and Decree may be
amended from time to time;
(b) "Project Agreement" means the agreement between the
Association and OPTN of even date herewith, as the same may be
amended from time to time, and such term includes all schedules
to the Project Agreement and all agreements supplemental to the
Project Agreement;


﻿-4-
(c) "Subsidiary Loan Agreement" means the agreement to be
entered into between the Borrower and OPTN pursuant to Section
3.01 (b) of this Agreement, as the same may be amended from time
to time, and such term includes all schedules to the Subsidiary
Loan Agreement; and
(d) "OPTN Investment Program" means OPTN's telecommunications
investment program for the period 1976-1979, consisting of the
Project, the construction of microwave links on the routes Dosso-
Zinder, Niamey-Upper Volta and Dosso-Benin, and on-going works to
be commissioned during 1976 (including particularly the construction
of the microwave link Niamey-Dosso).


﻿-5-
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower,
on the terms and conditions in the Development Credit Agreement
set forth or referred to, an amount in various currencies equiva-
lent to five million two hundred thousand dollars ($5,200,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from
the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1
to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended from time to
time by agreement between the Borrower and the Association, for
expenditures made (or, if the Association shall so agree, to be
made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services re-
quired for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of
the Credit.
Section 2.03. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree,
the goods and works for the Project to be financed out of the pro-
ceeds of the Credit, shall be 'procured in accordance with the
provisions set forth or referred to in Section 2.04 of the Project
Agreement.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1980 or such
later date as the AssociU:tion shall establish. The Association
shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.


﻿-6-
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4
of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn
and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Service charges shall be payable semi-annually
on January 15 and July 15 in each year.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Credit in semi-annual installments payable on each Janu-
ary 15 and July 15 commencing July 15, 1986 and ending January 15,
2026, each installment to and including the installment payable
on January 15, 1996 to be one-half of one per cent (1/2 of 1%) of
such principal amount, and each installment thereafter to be one
and one-half per cent (1-1/2%) of such principal amount.
Section 2.08. The currency of the French Republic is hereby
specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Condi-
tions.
Section 2.09. The Director General of OPTN and his alternate
are designated as representatives of the Borrower for the purposes
of taking any action required or permitted to be taken under the
provisions of Section 2.02 of this Agreement and Article V of the
General Conditions.


﻿-7-
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) Without any limitation or restriction upon
any of its other obligations under the Development Credit Agree-
ment, the Borrower shall cause OPTN to perform in accordance with
the provisions of the Project Agreement and the Subsidiary Loan
Agreement all the obligations therein set forth, shall take and
cause to be taken all action, including the provision of funds,
facilities, services and other resources, necessary or appropriate
to enable OPTN to perform such obligations, and shall not take or
permit to be taken any action which would prevent or interfere
with such performance.
(b) The Borrower shall relend the proceeds of the Credit
to OPTN under a subsidiary loan agreement to be entered into be-
tween the Borrower and OPTN under terms and conditions which shall
have been approved by the Association. Except as the Association
shall otherwise agree, such subsidiary loan agreement shall provide,
inter alia, Ci) that the proceeds of the Credit be so relent to
OPTN for a term of twenty years (including four years of grace) at
an interest rate of eight and one-half per cent (8-1/2%) per annum;
and (ii) that interest on the subsidiary loan during the grace
period shall be capitalized and be repaid, thereafter, over sixteen
years.


﻿(c) The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the Subsid-
iary Loan Agreement in such manner as to protect the interests of
the Borrower and the Association and to accomplish the purposes of
the Credit, and except as the Association shall otherwise agree,
the Borrower shall not assign, nor amend, abrogate or waive the
Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any provision thereof.


﻿*9
ARTICLE IV
Other Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall pay and shall cause its
ministries, departments and agencies to pay to OPTN, not later than
December 31, 1976, all outstanding dues, charges, and unpaid bal-
ances of debts owed to OPTN, as of June 30, 1976, by the Borrower
and its ministries, departments and agencies for telecommunications
services rendered by OPTN.
(b) The Borrower shall pay, and shall cause its ministries,
departments and agencies to pay, within two months after the bill-
ing date all dues and charges owed to OPTN for telecommunications
services rendered by OPTN after June 30, 1976.
Section 4.02. The Borrower shall at all times maintain, and
ensure the implementation of, arrangements satisfactory to the
Association providing for the sharing of the cost of investment
(including amortization thereof) and operation of the common fa-
cilities of the Niamey-Zinder microwave route between OPTN and
other users of said facilities.
Section 4.03. Without any limitation upon any of its obliga-
tions under Section 3.01 (a) of this Agreement, the Borrower shall
not take or permit to be taken any action which would prevent
OPTN from performing the obligations set forth in Section 4.08 of
the Project Agreement.


﻿- 10 -
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Association
Section 5.01. For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the General
Conditions the following additional events are specified pursuant
to paragraph (h) thereof:
(a) OPTN shall have failed to perform any covenants, agree-
ment or obligation of OPTN under the Project Agreement.
(b) Law No. 70-18 of August 27, 1970, or Decree No. 71-195/
PRN/MPT of December 30, 1971, of the Borrower shall have been
amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed or waived in such a way
as to materially and adversely affect the ability of OPTN to carry     -
out the covenants, agreements and obligations set forth in the
Project Agreement.
(c) The structure, organization, powers, responsibilities, or
financial resources of OPTN shall have been changed so as to ma-
terially and adversely affect the ability of OPTN to carry out the
covenants, agreements and obligations set forth in the Project
Agreement.
(d) The Borrower or any other authority having jurisdiction
shall have taken any action for the dissolution or disestablish-
ment of OPTN or for the suspension of its operations.
(e) (i) Subject to subparagraph (ii) of this paragraph:


﻿- 11 -
(A) the right of the Borrower or OPTN, as the
case may be, to withdraw the proceeds of the
FAC Grants or the CCCE Loan made to the Borrower
for the financing of the construction of the
microwave link Dosso-Zinder shall have been
suspended, cancelled or terminated in whole
or in part, pursuant to the terms of the FAC
Agreements or the CCCE Agreement, as the case
may be; or
(B) the CCCE Loan shall have become due and payable
prior to the agreed maturity thereof.
(ii) Subparagraph (i) of this paragraph shall not apply
if the Borrower or OPTN establishes to the satis-
faction of the Association that:
(A) such suspension, cancellation, termination
or prematuring is not caused by the fail-
ure of the Borrower or OPTN, as the case may
be, to perform any of their obligations under
the FAC Agreements or the CCCE Agreement, res-
pectively; and
(B) adequate funds for the construction of the
microwave link Dosso-Zinder are available to
the Borrower or OPTN from other sources on
terms and conditions consistent with the ob-
ligations of the Borrower under this Agreement
and of OPTN under the Project Agreement.


﻿- 12 -
Section 5.02. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the General
Conditions, the following events are specified pursuant to para-
graph (d) thereof:
(a) any event specified in paragraph (a) of Section 5.01 of
this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a period of 60
days after notice thereof shall have been given by the Association
to the Borrower; and
(b) any event specified in (i) paragraphs (b), (c) and (d),
or (ii) paragraph (e) (i) (B) of Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall
occur.


﻿- 13 -
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional
conditions to the effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement
within the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of the General Conditions:
(a) the execution of the Project Agreement on behalf of OPTN
has been duly authorized or ratified by all necessary corporate
and governmental action;
(b) the execution of the Subsidiary Loan Agreement on behalf
O       of the Borrover and OPTN, respectively, has been duly authorized
or ratified by all necessary corporate and governmental action;
and
(c) the Borrover and OPTN, respectively, have obtained from
FAC and CCCE assurances satisfactory to the Association for the
financing of the construction of the microwave link Dosso-Zinder.
Section 6.02. The following are specified as additional mat-
ters, within the meaning of Section 12.02 (b) of the General Con-
ditions, to be included in the opinion or opinions to be furnished
to the Association:
(a) That the Project Agreement has been duly authorized or
ratified by, and executed on behalf of, OPTN, and is legally bind-
ing upon OPTN in accordance with its terms; and


﻿14 -                                  Is
(b) That the Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been duly author-
ized or ratified by, and executed on behalf of, the Borrower and
OPTN, and is legally binding upon the Borrower and OPTN in accor-
dance with its terms.
Section 6.03. The date September 9, 1976 is hereby specified
for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
Section 6.04. The obligations of the Borrower under Sections
4.01 and 4.02 of this Agreement and the provisions of paragraph
(b) (i) of Section 5.02 of this Agreement shall cease and determine
on the date on which the Development Credit Agreement shall ter-
minate or on a date twenty years after the date of this Agree-
ment, whichever shall be the earlier.


﻿- 15 -
ARTICLE VII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Minister of Planning of the Borrower is des-
ignated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Sec-
tion 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Minist re du Plan
Niamey
Republique du Niger
Cable address:
MINISTERE DU PLAN
Niamey
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
INDEVAS
Washington, D.C.


﻿- 16 -
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this Agree-
ment to be signed in their respective names in the District of
Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first
above written.
REPUBLIC OF NIGER
By /s/ Illa Salifou
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By Is/ Roger Chaufournier
Regional Vice President
Western Africa


﻿-17-
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be fi-
nanced out of the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the
amounts of the Credit to each Category and the percentage of ex-
penditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated           % of
(Expressed in        Expenditures
Category              Dollar Equivalent)     to be Financed
(1) Automatic tele-            2,270,000          100% of foreign
phone exchange                               expenditures
equipment and
trunk switching
equipment (in-
cluding instal-
lation thereof)
for Part A of the
Project
(2) Cables, ducts, sub-          810,000          100% of foreign
scriber apparatus                            expenditures
and other equip-
ment for Part B
of the Project
(3) VHF/HF radio equip-          660,000          100% of foreign
ment (including in-                          expenditures
stallation thereof)
for Part C, and ma-
terial for overhead
lines and carrier
equipment for Part
D, of the Project


﻿- 18 -
Amount of the
Credit Allocated           % of
(Expressed in         Expenditures
Category              Dollar Equivalent)     to be Financed
(4) Equipment, ve-               180,000          100% of foreign
hicles and tools                             expenditures or
for Part E of                                60%
the Project
(5) consultants' ser-            260,000          100% of foreign
vices                                        expenditures
(6) Unallocated                1,020,000
TOTAL      5,200,000


﻿- 19 -
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule, the term "foreign expendi-
tures" means expenditures in the currency of any country other than
the Borrower and for goods or services supplied from the territory
of any country other than the Borrower; provided, however, that if
the currency of the Borrower is also that of another country f:7om
the territory of which goods or services are supplied, expenditures
in such currency for such goods or services shall be deemed to be
"foreign expenditures".
3.   The disbursement percentages have been calculated in compliance
with the policy of the Association that no proceeds of the Credit
shall be disbursed on account of payments for taxes levied by, or in
the territory of, the Borrower on goods or services, or on the im-
portation, manufacture, procurement or supply thereof; to that end,
if the amount of any such taxes levied on or in respect of any item
to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit decreases or in-
creases, the Association may, by notice to the Borrower, increase or
decrease the disbursement percentage then applicable to such item as
required to be consistent with the aforementioned policy of the Asso-
ciation.
4.   Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Credit or
the disbursement percentages set forth in the table in paragraph 1
above, if the Association has reasonably estimated that the amount
of the Credit then allocated to any Category will be insufficient
to finance the agreed percentage of all expenditures in that Cate-
gory, the Association may, by notice to the Borrower: (i) real-
locate to such Category, to the extent required to meet the es-
timated shortfall, proceeds of the Credit which are then allocated
to another Category and which in the opinion of the Association


﻿- 20 -
are not needed to meet other expenditures, and (ii) if such real-
location cannot fully meet the estimated shortfall, reduce the
disbursement percentage then applicable to such expenditures in
order that further withdrawals under such Category may continue
until all expenditures thereunder shall have been made.
5.   If the Association shall have reasonably determined that the
procurement of any item in any Category is inconsistent with the
procedures set forth or referred to in this Agreement, no expendi-
tures for such item shall be financed out of the proceeds of the
Credit and the Association may, without in any way restricting or
limiting any other right, power or remedy of the Association under
the Development Credit Agreement, by notice to the Borrower, cancel
such amount of the Credit as, in the Association's reasonable
opinion, represents the amount of such expenditures which would
otherwise have been eligible for financing out of the proceeds of
the Credit.
6.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no with-
drawals shall be made in respect of payments made for expenditures
prior to the date of this Agreement.


﻿- 21 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project is part of OPTN's 1976-1979 telecommunications
expansion program and consists of the following Parts:
Part A:
(i) Installation of about 1,400 lines of local automatic
switching equipment together with associated long-
distance switching equipment in Dosso, Tahoua and
Zinder.
(ii) Expansion of existing telephone exchanges in Niamey
and Maradi by about 2,400 lines of local switching
equipment together with associated long-distance
switching equipment, and signalling system conversion
of said existing exchanges.
Part B:
Expansion of local telephone distribution networks,
particularly in Niamey, Agadez, Dosso, Maradi, Tahoua
and Zinder.
Part C:
Installation of VHF radio links on the routes Maradi-
Dakoro, Ouallam-Banibangou and Zinder-Tanout, and in-


﻿- 22 -
stallation of an HF radio link on the route Niamey-
Agadez-Arlit.
Part D:
(i) Construction of an overhead telephone line between
Tgra and the Upper Volta border to establish a
telephone link with Dori, Upper Volta.
(ii) Expansion of capacity of overhead telephone lines
through installation of carrier equipment on the
routes Zinder-Maine, Niamey-Loga, and Tahoua-Keita.
Part E:
Provision of equipment, vehicles and tools for OPTN's
operations.
Part F:
Review and reorganization of OPTN's accounting system,
billing procedures, planning activities, tariff system
and staffing.
*         * e
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 1979.


