Page  1
PROGRAM INFORMATION DOCUMENT (PID) 
CONCEPT STAGE 
Report No.:  AB3192 
Operation Name 
Fourth Development Policy Loan 
Region 
EAST ASIA AND PACIFIC 
Sector 
Central government administration (50%);Banking (25%);General 
industry and trade sector (25%) 
Project ID 
P105637 
Borrower(s) 
REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA 
Implementing Agency 
INISTRY OF FINANCE 
Date PID Prepared 
June 19, 2007 
Estimated Date of 
Appraisal Authorization 
October 17, 2007 
Estimated Date of Board 
Approval 
December 4, 2007 
1. 
Key development issues and rationale for Bank involvement 
In recent years, Indonesia has provided compelling reasons for a positive outlook.  The country has 
restored macroeconomic and financial stability through prudent fiscal and monetary policies, continued 
decline in debt to GDP ratio, and fuel subsidy reductions.  Along with a stable macroeconomic 
framework, the Government has placed greater focus on pro-poor expenditures 
–
particularly in 
education, has strengthened the financial sector, and intensified efforts to improve the investment 
climate, the physical infrastructure, the legal framework, public sector governance, and the fight against 
corruption.  After adjusting to the effects of fuel subsidy reductions in 2005,growth is on the rebound, 
with 2006 posting a growth rate of 5.6 percent – the highest rate in nine years – and projected growth for 
all of 2007 is projected to fall within the 6.0-6.5 percent range in 2007.   
Strong growth has been accompanied by strong exports, falling interest rates, higher public and 
consumer spending, and lower inflation.  These economic indicators, along with continued political 
stability and broad progress on the reform agenda, market and investor confidence have risen as evident 
in the strong Rupiah and new highs in the stock market prices.  Moody’s International and S&P raised 
Indonesian bond ratings (foreign and domestic) last year and the recovery in public investment to pre-
crisis levels has occurred in tandem with a notable increase in fiscal space – driven largely by increased 
revenues and decreased fuel subsidies.  The reform momentum has accelerated and been bolstered in the 
past two years from the issuance of various reform packages in key policy areas, including the financial 
sector, infrastructure, and investment climate.   
Despite the positive outlook, the Government faces tremendous challenges to achieving its development 
objectives.  Efforts to reduce poverty remain susceptible to setbacks as evidenced in the increase in 
reported poverty incidence last year from 16.0 in February 2005 to 17.7 percent in September 2006.  The 
statistic translates to an additional 4 million people having fallen into poverty during the period.  On 
September 1, 2006, the Central Bureau of Statistics (BPS) announced that the poverty rate in Indonesia 
had risen to 17.75 percent in March 2006, up from 16.0 percent in February 2005 (translating to an 
addition 4 million people falling into poverty), in what was the first recorded increase in poverty since 
the regional financial crisis.  Rice prices are largely to blame, with rice prices having increased 
dramatically in 2006 due to a moderate El Nino and by the rice import ban which contributed to low 
domestic stocks.   
Beyond rice policy, challenges remain in several other key areas.  Although the trajectory of Public 
Financial Management (PFM) reforms points to the right direction, the pace of reform implementation is 
slower than it should be.  Procurement, in particular, is an area that has had limited breakthroughs in 
Page  2
achieving the Government’s objective of greater transparency, open and fair competition, and efficiency.  
Public investment remains below-budgeted targets with disbursements heavily concentrated toward the 
end of the fiscal year.  The investment climate, while more welcoming, would greatly benefit from 
improved infrastructure investment and further simplification of business licensing and procedures.  And 
while not part of the DPL reform program, total labor costs (including hiring and severance) remain one 
of the highest in the region and a critical obstacle to reducing unemployment and stimulating income 
generation. 
The Fourth Development Policy Loan (DPL) is continuing to provide the Bank and development 
partners with a vehicle for addressing many of these policy issues through a harmonized policy dialogue.  
Over the past four years, the DPL program has supported the Government’s reform agenda in the key 
areas of (i) macroeconomic stability, (ii) investment climate, (iii) public financial management, and (iv) 
service delivery.  It has provided an impetus for decision makers to operationalize the Government’s 
medium-term development strategy (RPJM) by translating broad objectives into priority actions.  It has 
also supported “champions” within the Government by locking in and accelerating key reform measures.  
Lastly, the DPL program has significantly improved the predictability of development financing while 
reducing its average cost.  An evaluation of the DPL program’s contribution to the achievement of 
medium-term outcomes in the four main areas will be undertaken after DPL 4 which should inform the 
design of the next series of DPL operations.    
2. Proposed objective(s) 
The overall goal of the DPL program is to help the Government achieve its medium-term growth and 
poverty reduction objectives.  The proposed DPL 4 is the fourth annual, single tranche operation in a 
programmatic series.  It supports a subset of the Government’s medium-term strategy (RPJM) and 
annual work plans (RKP) and builds on Government-issued policy packages to achieve four mutually 
reinforcing and cross-cutting objectives: (i) macroeconomic stability and creditworthiness; (ii) improved 
investment climate; (iii) enhanced public financial management, governance, and anti-corruption; and 
(iv) improved public service delivery.  The policy dialogue underpinning DPL 4 covers a broad array of 
issues and reform measures – the most critical of which are highlighted as triggers or prior actions.  As 
an indicator of the progress the Government has made in consolidating macroeconomic stability, DPL 4 
will not include specific policy actions under this first pillar, but rather shift the emphasis toward service 
delivery to the poor.  The results framework of the DPL program focuses on a prioritized set of expected 
outcomes which has driven the design and selection of reform measures supported by the operation.  
Policy actions proposed under DPL 4 are expected to continue to reduce business start up time; improve 
tax and customs administration; strengthen budgeting, controls, and transparency in public financial 
management; support fledgling civil service reform; and strengthen service delivery in education, water, 
local government, and community-based development.   
3. Preliminary 
description 
The proposed operation entails several key benefits.  The first is to help lock in and accelerate progress 
on a set of priority reforms in the key policy areas mentioned above from the Government’s own 
development program.  The DPL program is seen by many reformers within Government as a vehicle 
for highlighting key measures, raising them to high levels of the administration, fostering discussion and 
debate, and focusing attention to ensure they are undertaken.  The second expected benefit is to sustain 
Bank engagement in the policy dialogue with Government on the direction and content of, and strategies 
for, its economic, structural, and institutional reform program.  The third benefit is donor harmonization 
and parallel financing by key donors (World Bank, Government of Japan, Asian Development Bank) 
around a common policy framework and dialogue.  For 2007, the Government faces an unanticipated 
increase in financing needs and has requested more in program loans from the three budget support 
donors.  In addition to the expected US$600 million proposed for DPL 4 by the World Bank, parallel 
financing is expected from the Government of Japan (about US$100 million) and the Asian 
Page  3
Development Bank (US$200 million).  All three donors have sought to closely harmonize policy 
dialogue and to ensure complementarity with ea
ch others’ programs, with the ultimate goal of reducing 
duplication and transaction costs to the government.  Lastly, the DPL has provided a critical signaling 
effect and key endorsement by donors of the Government’s sound policy implementation and economic 
management. 
4. Environment Aspects 
Bank operational policy mandates the Bank to determine whether policies supported by the operation are 
likely to cause significant effects on the country’s environment, forests and other natural resources, and 
poverty and social effects.  DPL 4 supports key areas of the Government’s medium-term reform agenda, 
including the investment climate, public financial management and governance, and service delivery to 
the poor.  A review of the proposed policy triggers for DPL 4 is on-going with a view to include a full 
assessment in the program document for Bankwide management review.   
 
5. Tentative financing 
Source: ($m.) 
Borrower 0 
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development 
600 
 Total 
600 
 
6. Contact point 
Contact: Wolfgang Fengler 
Title: Economist 
Tel: (202) 458-0538 
Fax:  
Email: wfengler@worldbank.org
 
