Page  1
PROGRAM INFORMATION DOCUMENT (PID) 
APPRAISAL STAGE 
Report No.:  AB3342 
Operation Name 
Fourth Development Policy Loan (DPL 4) 
Region 
EAST ASIA AND PACIFIC 
Sector 
General finance sector (50%); General public administration 
sector (50%) 
Project ID 
P105637 
Borrower(s) 
MINISTRY OF FINANCE 
Implementing Agency 
COORDINATING MINISTRY FOR THE ECONOMY 
Date PID Prepared 
October 23, 2007 
Date of Appraisal 
Authorization 
October 04, 2007 
Date of Board Approval 
December 04, 2007 
1. 
Country and Sector Background 
Ten years after the East Asian financial crisis, Indonesia has emerged as a very different country.  
It has embraced political pluralism and participation, and is in a strong position to resume high 
growth and accelerate poverty reduction.  Prudent fiscal and macroeconomic policies, 
particularly low budget deficits, have been instrumental in Indonesia’s recovery, with the most 
dramatic improvement in the form of reduced debt levels — from 80 percent of GDP in 2000 to 
some 37 percent of GDP by mid-2007.
1
Despite several shocks during the past three years (e.g., 
natural disasters, terrorist strikes in Jakarta and Bali, and global fuel price increases), the 
economy has performed well and has now overcome the impact of the slowdown experienced 
towards the end of 2005 that resulted in dramatic fuel price increases (and consequently higher 
inflation and interest rates).  The World Bank projects growth to surpass 6 percent in 2007, 
adding a boost to the Government’s poverty reduction efforts.     
Indonesia’s current challenge is no longer fiscal consolidation but instead how to spend the 
available resources most effectively.  As a result of the sharp reduction in fuel subsidies in 2005, 
as well as declining debt service payments and increasing revenues, Indonesia has created 
additional "fiscal space" of US$15 billion annually (out of a total national budget of some US$80 
billion in 2007).  Equivalent to around 4 percent of GDP, this is the largest increase in additional 
fiscal resources since the oil revenue windfall in the 1970s.  
 
However, Indonesia still faces many challenges and is performing below its potential, 
particularly with respect to the investment climate, public financial management and public 
service delivery. The government is committed to tackling these difficult microeconomic and 
institutional reforms, which are at the core of the DPL program.  
 
1
Given debt-to-GDP figures are based on a year 2000 GDP base.  Previous estimates based on a 1993 GDP base were 
substantially higher, at close to 100 percent of GDP.
 
Page  2
2. Operation 
Objectives 
 
The overall goal of the DPL program is to help the Government achieve its medium-term growth 
and poverty reduction objectives.  The proposed DPL 4 is the fourth in a programmatic series of 
single-tranche operations.  The program has evolved in step with the Government reform agenda, 
shifting from an initial focus on macro-reforms to institutional reforms designed to create the 
regulatory frameworks and policies required to sustain medium-term growth and social 
development.  Specifically, it supports a core set of policy actions in 
the Government’s medium-
term strategy (RPJM) and annual work plans (RKP), and builds on Government-issued policy 
packages, to achieve three critical and mutually reinforcing objectives: (i) an improved 
investment climate; (ii) enhanced public financial management, governance, and anti-corruption; 
and (iii) improved public service delivery.   
 
The policy dialogue was anchored by a core set of specific policy actions.  Among others, policy 
actions proposed under DPL 4 are designed to continue to strengthen measures to enhance 
institutional reforms aimed at improving small and medium enterprises (SME) access to finance 
and increasing the investment-to-GDP ratio.  Other policy actions aim to reduce the burden on 
the business community, making it easier and less costly to register and license new businesses.  
On governance, the DPL program is expected to accelerate reform measures that improve budget 
management and render financial systems more transparent and effective. New areas include 
civil service reform and public service delivery, including enhanced quality of education services 
through improved teacher qualification.  
 
3. 
Rationale for Bank Involvement 
 
The Bank continues to play a key role in supporting Indonesia’s reform process through the DPL 
program. The DPL operation provides the Government with a reliable source of financing to 
meet its gross financing needs and reduces the average cost of borrowing while also extending 
the Government’s debt maturity.  Simultaneously, the DPL has created a platform for an 
effective policy dialogue and engagement between the government and development partners, 
namely, the World Bank, the Asian Development Bank (ADB), and the Government of Japan. 
This engagement provides an impetus for decision-makers to debate, coordinate, and prioritize 
policy and institutional reforms reinforcing the Government’s reform agenda. More broadly 
speaking, the DPL has helped the Government to implement key elements of its 2004-09 RPJM, 
or medium-term strategy, by translating broad objectives into a set of high-priority policy 
actions.  Overall progress has been made commensurate with expectations, both in terms of 
achieving the DPL program’s original outcomes and fulfillment of critical reform measures that 
underpin each operation.  
 
4. Financing 
 
The DPL 4 is a single-tranche IBRD loan of US$600 million that will be made available upon 
loan effectiveness, as policy actions supported by the loan/credit will have been completed prior 
to Board presentation. For the IBRD loan, the Government has confirmed that Indonesia will 
borrow this amount as a Fixed Spread Loan (FSL) in US Dollar currency.   
 
Page  3
The operation has benefited from a harmonized policy dialogue and parallel financing by two of 
Indonesia’s largest development partners.  The Government of Japan was closely involved in the 
policy dialogue and preparation of DPL 1-3 and provided parallel financing for US$100 million 
for each operation.  For DPL 4, it has expressed an interest in parallel financing (the amount is 
yet to be determined).  At the request of the Government of Indonesia, the Asian Development 
Bank (ADB) also extended parallel financing for DPL 2-3 for US$200 million and a similar 
amount of parallel financing is expected for DPL 4.   
 
5. 
Institutional and Implementation Arrangements 
 
The loan disbursement will follow the standard Bank procedures for Development Policy 
Lending.  The loan amount will be disbursed into a foreign currency account of the Borrower at 
Bank Indonesia that forms part of Indonesia’s official foreign exchange reserves.  The equivalent 
Rupiah amount will immediately be transferred to the General Operational Treasury (SBUN) 
account of the Borrower that is used to finance budget expenditures, as the loan is intended to be 
used to support the general Government budget.  The Borrower will provide to the Bank a 
written confirmation that this transfer has been completed, and provide to the Bank any other 
relevant information relating to these matters that the Bank may reasonably request.  
Disbursements of the loan will not be linked to any specific purchases and no procurement 
requirements have to be satisfied, except that the Borrower is required to comply with the 
standard negative list of excluded items that may not be financed with Bank loan proceeds. 
Ongoing discussions with the Government on the overall reform program being supported by the 
series of DPLs will form the basis for reporting on substantive policy issues.  
 
6. 
Benefits and Risks 
 
The key benefits expected from the program are: 
ƒ
Progress towards the Government’s medium-term objectives through improved (i) 
investment climate; (ii) public financial management/governance; and (iii) service delivery to 
the poor. 
ƒ
Sustained Bank engagement in policy dialogue with the Government on the direction and 
content of, and strategies for, its economic, structural, and institutional reform agenda. 
ƒ
Coordination of development partners and parallel financing by key development partners 
(World Bank, Asian Development Bank, Government of Japan) around a common policy 
framework and dialogue. 
 
The operation and the Government’s reform program are subject to several risks: 
ƒ
The Government has continuing problems in implementing its budget effectively. Delays 
in procurement are particularly problematic and affect the Government’s ability to deliver 
on its investment program. More broadly, there remain problems in the pace of 
Government spending with more than half of the Government’s capital and operational 
budget still spent in the last quarter of each fiscal year. 
·
Corruption remains a widely recognized problem in Indonesia and concerns remain over 
the use of foreign loan funds to support the Government budget.  This has generated 
opposition to foreign loans, in particular from, but not limited to, civil society groups.  
Anti-debt sentiment is also found in the legislature, where several key political parties 
Page  4
have placed pressure on the Government to limit foreign debt exposure.  Such sentiment 
raises potential risks for budget support operations such as the DPL, as the legislature 
seeks to play a stronger role in overseeing foreign borrowing.     
ƒ
Although the DPL has supported significant progress in strengthening the fiduciary 
framework, there remains a substantial unfinished agenda that will continue to need to be 
addressed in DPL operations.  Problem areas include budget execution, off-budget 
accounts, procurement and auditing, all of which have the potential to adversely impact 
the DPL program.  
 
7. 
Poverty, Social Impacts and Environment Aspects 
 
A
social impact and poverty assessment found that the proposed DPL 4 triggers are unlikely to 
harm the poor, while several triggers have the potential to reduce poverty in the medium to long 
term.  The links between poverty reduction and areas such as tax and customs administration, 
investment procedures, financial sector improvements, and increased transparency are indirect, 
through increased economic growth. Bureaucratic barriers to establishing new businesses, 
increasing access to finance, and strengthening transparency are all areas that are constraints on 
growth in the medium term.  An environment impact review of the DPL 4 Policy Matrix 
concluded that of the 18 triggers most have negligible or unlikely environmental impacts.   
 
8. Contact point 
 
Contact: Wolfgang Fengler 
Title: Senior Economist 
Tel: +622152993061 
Fax: +622152993000 
Email: wfengler@worldbank.org 
 
9.  For more information contact: 
The InfoShop 
The World Bank 
1818 H Street, NW 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
Telephone:  (202) 458-4500 
Fax:  (202) 522-1500 
Email: pic@worldbank.org 
Web: http://www.worldbank.org/infoshop 
 
