Page  1
CONFORMED COPY 
 
LOAN NUMBER 7495-IND
 
Loan Agreement 
 
(Fourth Development Policy Loan) 
 
between 
 
REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA 
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
Dated December 12, 2007 
 
Page  2
LOAN NUMBER 7495-IND 
 
LOAN AGREEMENT 
 
Agreement dated December 12, 2007 entered into between REPUBLIC OF 
INDONESIA (
“Borrower”) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT (“Bank”) for the purpose of providing financing in support of 
the Program (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement).  The Bank has decided to 
provide this financing on the basis, inter alia, of: (a) the actions which the Borrower has 
already taken under the Program and which are described in Section I of Schedule 1 to 
this Agreement; and (b) the Borrower’s maintenance of an appropriate macro-economic 
policy framework.  The Borrower and the Bank therefore hereby agree as follows: 
 
ARTICLE I 
–
GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS 
 
1.01. 
The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement) 
constitute an integral part of this Agreement. 
 
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in the Loan 
Agreement have the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in 
this Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE II 
–
LOAN 
 
2.01. 
The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or 
referred to in this Agreement, the amount of six hundred million Dollars 
($600,000,000), as such amount may be converted from time to time through a 
Currency Conversion in accordance with the provisions of Section 2.07 of this 
Agreement
 (“Loan”). 
 
2.02. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in support of the Program 
in accordance with Section II of Schedule 1 to this Agreement.
 
2.03. 
The Front-end Fee payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one quarter of one 
percent (0.25%) of the Loan amount.   
 
2.04. 
The interest payable by the Borrower for each Interest Period shall be at a rate 
equal to LIBOR for the Loan Currency plus the Fixed Spread; provided that, 
upon a Conversion of all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan, the 
interest payable by the Borrower during the Conversion Period on such amount 
shall be determined in accordance with the relevant provisions of Article IV of 
the General Conditions. Notwithstanding the foregoing, if any amount of the 
Withdrawn Loan Balance remains unpaid when due and such non-payment 
Page  3
2
continues for a period of thirty (30) days, then the interest payable by the 
Borrower shall instead be calculated as provided in Section 3.02(d) of the 
General Conditions. 
 
2.05. 
The Payment Dates are April 1 and October 1
 
in each year. 
 
2.06. 
The principal amount of the Loan shall be repaid in accordance with the 
provisions of Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
 
2.07. 
(a) 
The Borrower may at any time request any of the following Conversions 
of the terms of the Loan in order to facilitate prudent debt management: 
(i) a change of the Loan Currency of all or any portion of the principal 
amount of the Loan, withdrawn or unwithdrawn, to an Approved 
Currency; and (ii) a change of the interest rate basis applicable to all or 
any portion of the principal amount of the Loan from a Variable Rate to a 
Fixed Rate, or vice versa. 
 
(b) 
Any conversion requested pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section that 
is accepted by the Bank shall be considere
d
a
“Conversion”, as defined 
in the General Conditions, and shall be effected in accordance with the 
provisions of Article IV of the General Conditions and of the Conversion 
Guidelines.  
 
2.08. 
Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 5.10 of the General 
Conditions, the Borrower shall promptly furnish to the Bank such information 
relating to the provisions of this Article II as the Bank may, from time to time, 
reasonably request. 
 
ARTICLE III 
–
PROGRAM 
 
3.01. 
The Borrower declares its commitment to the Program and its implementation.  
To this end: 
 
(a) 
the Borrower and the Bank shall from time to time, at the request of 
either party, exchange views on the progress achieved in carrying out the 
Program, and the actions specified in Section I of Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement; 
 
(b) 
prior to each such exchange of views, the Borrower shall furnish to the 
Bank for its review and comment a report on the progress achieved in 
carrying out the Program, in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably 
request; and 
 
Page  4
3
(c) 
without limitation upon the provisions of paragraphs (a) and (b) of this 
Section, the Borrower shall exchange views with the Bank on any 
proposed action to be taken after the disbursement of the Loan which 
would have the effect of materially reversing the objectives of the 
Program, or any action taken under the Program, including any action 
specified in Section I of Schedule 1 to this Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE IV 
–
REMEDIES OF THE BANK 
 
4.01. 
The Additional Event of Suspension consists of the following, namely, that a 
situation has arisen which shall make it improbable that the Program, or a 
significant part of it, will be carried out. 
 
ARTICLE V 
–
EFFECTIVENESS
 
5.01. 
The Effectiveness Deadline is the date sixty (60) days after the date of this 
Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE VI –
 
REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES
 
6.01. 
The Borrower’s Representative is the Minister of Finance. 
 
6.02. 
The Borrower’s Address is: 
 
Ministry of Finance 
c/o Directorate General of Debt Management 
Jalan Lapangan Banteng Timur 2-4 
P.O. Box 1139 
Jakarta 10710 
Indonesia 
 
Cable 
address: 
 Telex: 
  Facsimile: 
 
 
FINMINISTRY  
45799 DJMLN-IA 
(21) 381 2859 
 
 Jakarta 
  44319 
DEPKEU-IA 
 
6.03. 
The Bank’s Address is: 
 
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
United States of America 
Page  5
4
Cable 
address: 
 Telex: 
  Facsimile: 
 
INTBAFRAD  
248423(MCI) 
or 
1-202-477-6391 
Washington, D.C. 
64145(MCI) 
 
AGREED at Jakarta, Indonesia, as of the day and year first above written. 
 
REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA 
 
By: /s/ Rahmat Waluyanto 
 
Authorized Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
 RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
By: /s/ 
Joachim von Amsberg, 
 
Authorized Representative 
Page  6
5
SCHEDULE 1 
 
Program Actions; Availability of Loan Proceeds 
 
Section I.  
Actions Taken Under the Program
The actions taken by the Borrower under the Program include the following: 
 
1. 
The Borrower has taken steps to improve the implementation of its Value-Added 
Tax (“VAT”) provisions through settlement of the bulk of the backlog of 
outstanding VAT claims and reduction in the processing time for VAT refunds in 
accordance with the Decree No. 122/PJ/2006 issued by the Director-General of 
Tax, prescribing maximum time limits for the processing of the refunds.  
 
2.  
The Borrower has through MOF enacted a law which provides for tax audit 
procedures enabling taxpayers to seek and obtain details of audit findings along 
with the legal basis for audit decisions, as well as a review of the findings in the 
case of disputes after the closing conference but before completion of the audits. 
 
3.  
The Borrower has taken appropriate steps to roll out a National Single Window, 
including a mechanism for on-line clearance of merchandise.  
 
4.  
The Borrower has enhanced its procedure for tariff setting through the 
introduction of the requisite methodology, improved research capability and 
appropriate information technology. 
 
5. 
The Borrower has taken steps to implement its recently-enacted Investment Law 
and supporting regulations, including provision for new operating procedures 
along with the necessary legal and institutional framework to facilitate 
implementation of both the law and associated regulations. 
 
6. 
The Borrower has taken steps to reduce the time required for the establishment of 
a
business enterprise and facilitate start-up time through the removal of 
unnecessary or redundant registration procedures, simplification of required 
formalities and elimination of multiple requirements. 
 
7. 
The Borrower has issued a policy reform package for the empowerment of 
MSMEs, with emphasis on the need to facilitate the access of MSMEs to 
financial services, and taken steps to implement its recently-enacted Warehouse 
Receipts Law. 
 
8. 
The Borrower has taken steps to implement appropriate good corporate 
governance and risk management standards in relation to both private and state-
owned banks, and continued the implementation of the financial sector safety net. 
Page  7
6
9.  
The Borrower has taken steps to implement a Medium-Term Expenditure 
Framework for the 2008 budget through submission of a budget which includes 
aggregate revenue and expenditure forward estimates based on macro-economic 
forecasts. 
 
10.  
The Borrower has taken steps to consolidate core government bank accounts 
through continued implementation of a single treasure account regime, expansion 
of zero-balance banking arrangements to cover all KPPNs and adoption of a 
government regulation on principles of cash management and transparent 
accountability, giving the Minister of Finance power to close unauthorized bank 
accounts. 
 
11. 
 
The Borrower has taken steps to implement transparent accountability 
arrangements in the management of central government investment funds 
(“RDI”) and regional development accounts (“RDA”), including adoption and 
implementation of regulations on the principles governing the improved 
management and transparent accountability of RDIs, along with the 
corresponding decrees prescribing the operating procedures governing RDIs.  
 
12.  
The Borrower has taken steps to have a new Presidential Decree issued for the 
establishment of a fully independent LPKPP.   
 
13.  
The Borrower has taken necessary steps to establish a Remuneration Commission 
or interdepartmental team to make recommendations on remuneration policy and 
pay levels for high-ranking state officials, and developed a comprehensive 
reform of the structure and remuneration framework for such officials to be 
adopted and considered for inclusion in the FY 2008 budget.  
 
14.  
The Borrower has taken steps to develop and implement a comprehensive civil 
service reform plan for MOF to be used as a pilot for civil service reforms by 
other reform-minded ministries and agencies. 
 
15. 
The Borrower has developed an enhanced assessment framework for the 
monitoring and evaluation of CDD and micro-finance programs, and other 
selected service delivery programs. 
 
16. 
The Borrower has established competency standards for teacher certification, 
along with the tools and instruments for measuring actual compliance with such 
standards. 
 
17. 
The Borrower has taken steps to facilitate sub-national borrowing by sub-national 
governments through the completion of the regulatory framework for the 
issuance of sub-national bonds. 
 
Page  8
7
18. 
The Borrower has taken steps to remove critical constraints on national budget-
funded CDD programs, through a) introduction of a mechanism to facilitate 
community funding of multiyear programs, and b) clarification of the rules 
governing the applicability of government procurement procedures to such 
programs.  
 
Section II.  
Availability of Loan Proceeds
A.
 General. 
 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance 
with the provisions of this Section and such additional instructions as the Bank 
may specify by notice to the Borrower. 
 
B.
 
Allocation of Loan Amounts.
 
The Loan shall (except for amounts required to 
pay the Front-end Fee) be withdrawn in a single tranche. The allocation of the 
amounts of the Loan to this end is set out in the table below: 
 
Allocations
Amount of the Loan 
Allocated 
(expressed in Dollars)
Single Tranche 
598,500,000 
Front-end Fee 
1,500,000 
TOTAL AMOUNT 
600,000,000
C.
 
Deposits of Loan Amounts.
 
Except as the Bank may otherwise agree:   
 
1. 
all withdrawals from the Loan Account shall be deposited by the Bank 
into an account designated by the Borrower and acceptable to the Bank; 
and 
 
2.  
the Borrower shall ensure that upon each deposit of an amount of the 
Loan into this account, an equivalent amount is accounted for in the 
Borrower’s budget management system, in a manner acceptable to the 
Bank. 
 
D.
 Excluded 
Expenditures
.
The Borrower undertakes that the proceeds of the 
Loan shall not be used to finance Excluded Expenditures.  If the Bank determines 
at any time that an amount of the Loan was used to make a payment for an 
Excluded Expenditure, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, 
refund an amount equal to the amount of such payment to the Bank.  Amounts 
refunded to the Bank upon such request shall be cancelled. 
 
E.
 
Closing Date.  
The Closing Date is March 31, 2008. 
Page  9
8
SCHEDULE 2 
 
Amortization Schedule  
 
1. 
The following table sets forth the Principal Payment Dates of the Loan and the 
percentage of the total principal amount of the Loan payable on each Principal 
Payment Date (
“Installment Share”).  If the proceeds of the Loan have been fully 
withdrawn as of the first Principal Payment Date, the principal amount of the 
Loan repayable by the Borrower on each Principal Payment Date shall be 
determined by the Bank by multiplying: (a) Withdrawn Loan Balance as of the 
first Principal Payment Date; by (b) the Installment Share for each Principal 
Payment Date, such repayable amount to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any 
amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency 
Conversion applies. 
 
Principal Repayment Date
Installment Share 
(Expressed as a Percentage)
April 1, 2013 
1.93 
October 1, 2013 
2.00 
April 1, 2014 
2.07 
October 1, 2014 
2.14 
April 1, 2015 
2.21 
October 1, 2015 
2.29 
April 1, 2016 
2.37 
October 1, 2016 
2.46 
April 1, 2017 
2.54 
October 1, 2017 
2.63 
April 1, 2018 
2.72 
October 1, 2018 
2.82 
April 1, 2019 
2.92 
October 1, 2019 
3.02 
April 1, 2020 
3.12 
October 1, 2020 
3.23 
April 1, 2021 
3.35 
October 1, 2021 
3.46 
April 1, 2022 
3.58 
October 1, 2022 
3.71 
Page  10
9
April 1, 2023 
3.84 
October 1, 2023 
3.97 
April 1, 2024 
4.11 
October 1, 2024 
4.26 
April 1, 2025 
4.41 
October 1, 2025 
4.56 
April 1, 2026 
4.72 
October 1, 2026 
4.89 
April 1, 2027 
5.06 
October 1, 2027 
5.61 
2.  
If the proceeds of the Loan have not been fully withdrawn as of the first Principal 
Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the Borrower on 
each Principal Payment Date shall be determined as follows: 
 
(a) 
To the extent that any proceeds of the Loan have been withdrawn as of 
the first Principal Payment Date, the Borrower shall repay the 
Withdrawn Loan Balance as of such date in accordance with paragraph 1 
of this Schedule. 
 
(b) 
Any amount withdrawn after the first Principal Payment Date shall be 
repaid on each Principal Payment Date falling after the date of such 
withdrawal in amounts determined by the Bank by multiplying the 
amount of each such withdrawal by a fraction, the numerator of which is 
the original Installment Share specified in the table in paragraph 1 of this 
Schedule for said Principal Payment Date (
“Original Installment Share”) 
and the denominator of which is the sum of all remaining Original 
Installment Shares for Principal Payment Dates falling on or after such 
date, such amounts repayable to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any 
amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency 
Conversion applies.
 
3. 
(a) 
Amounts of the Loan withdrawn within two (2) calendar months prior to 
any Principal Payment Date shall, for the purposes solely of calculating 
the principal amounts payable on any Principal Payment Date, be treated 
as withdrawn and outstanding on the second Principal Payment Date 
following the date of withdrawal and shall be repayable on each 
Principal Payment Date commencing with the second Principal Payment 
Date following the date of withdrawal. 
 
Page  11
10 
 
(b) 
Notwithstanding the provisions of sub-paragraph (a) of this paragraph, if 
at any time the Bank adopts a due date billing system under which 
invoices are issued on or after the respective Principal Payment Date, the 
provisions of such sub-paragraph shall no longer apply to any 
withdrawals made after the adoption of such billing system.  
 
4. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs 1 and 2 of this Schedule, upon a 
Currency Conversion of all or any portion of the Withdrawn Loan Balance to an 
Approved Currency, the amount so converted in the Approved Currency that is 
repayable on any Principal Payment Date occurring during the Conversion 
Period, shall be determined by the Bank by multiplying such amount in its 
currency of denomination immediately prior to the Conversion by either: (i) the 
exchange rate that reflects the amounts of principal in the Approved Currency 
payable by the Bank under the Currency Hedge Transaction relating to the 
Conversion; or (ii) if the Bank so determines in accordance with the Conversion 
Guidelines, the exchange rate component of the Screen Rate.  
 
5. 
If the Withdrawn Loan Balance is denominated in more than one Loan Currency, 
the provisions of this Schedule shall apply separately to the amount denominated 
in each Loan Currency, so as to produce a separate amortization schedule for 
each such amount. 
Page  12
11 
 
APPENDIX 
 
Section I.  Definitions 
 
1. 
“CDD” means community-driven development.  
 
2. 
“Excluded Expenditure” means any expenditure: 
 
(a)  
for goods or services supplied under a contract which any national or 
international financing institution or agency other than the Bank or the 
Association has financed or agreed to finance, or which the Bank or the 
Association has financed or agreed to finance under another loan, credit, 
or grant; 
 
(b) 
for goods included in the following groups or sub-groups of the Standard 
International Trade Classification, Revision 3 (SITC, Rev.3), published 
by the United Nations in Statistical Papers, Series M, No. 34/Rev.3 
(1986) (the SITC), or any successor groups or subgroups under future 
revisions to the SITC, as designated by the Bank by notice to the 
Borrower: 
 
Group 
Sub-group 
Description of Item 
 
112  
Alcoholic 
beverages 
121 
 
Tobacco, un-manufactured, tobacco 
refuse 
122 
 
Tobacco, manufactured (whether or not 
containing tobacco substitutes) 
525 
 
Radioactive and associated materials 
667 
 
Pearls, precious and semiprecious stones, 
unworked or worked 
718  
718.7 
 
Nuclear reactors, and parts thereof; fuel 
elements (cartridges), non-irradiated, for 
nuclear reactors 
728 
 
728.43  
Tobacco processing machinery 
897 
 
897.3 
Jewelry of gold, silver or platinum group 
metals (except watches and watch cases) 
and goldsmiths’ or silversmiths’ wares 
(including set gems) 
971 
 
Gold, non-monetary (excluding gold ores 
and concentrates) 
Page  13
12 
 
(c) 
for goods intended for a military or paramilitary purpose or for luxury 
consumption; 
 
(d) 
for environmentally hazardous goods, the manufacture, use or import of 
which is prohibited under the laws of the Borrower or international 
agreements to which the Borrower is a party; 
 
(e) 
on account of any payment prohibited by a decision of the United 
Nations Security Council taken under Chapter VII of the Charter of the 
United Nations; and 
 
(f) 
with respect to which the Bank determines that corrupt, fraudulent, 
collusive or coercive practices were engaged in by representatives of the 
Borrower or other recipient of the Loan proceeds, without the Borrower 
(or other such recipient) having taken timely and appropriate action 
satisfactory to the Bank to address such practices when they occur. 
 
3. 
“Fiscal Year” or “FY” mean the Borrower’s fiscal year commencing January 1 
and ending December 31. 
 
4. 
“General Conditions” means the “International Bank for Reconstruction and 
Development General Conditions for Loans”, dated July 1, 2005 (as amended 
through October 17, 2007) with the modifications set forth in Section II of this 
Appendix. 
 
5. “KPPN” 
means 
Kantor Pelayanan Perbendaharaan Negara
,
a
local payment 
office operating under DG-Treasury, and responsible for the disbursement of 
central budget funds. 
 
6. “LPKPP” 
means 
Lembaga Pengembangan Kebijakan Pengadaan Pemerintah
,
a
Goods and Services Procurement Policy Development Institution. 
 
7. 
“MOF” means the Borrower’s Ministry of Finance or any successor thereto. 
 
8. 
“MSME” means micro, small and medium enterprises. 
 
9. 
“National Single Window” means a trade facilitation mechanism which enables 
exporters and importers to apply simultaneously and in a single transaction to 
multiple government agencies for approvals for the import or export of goods. 
 
10. 
“Program” means the program of actions, objectives and policies designed to 
promote growth and achieve sustainable reductions in poverty and set forth or 
referred to in the letter dated October 31, 2007 from the Borrower to the Bank 
declaring the Borrower’s commitment to the execution of the Program, and 
Page  14
13 
 
requesting assistance from the Bank in support of the Program during its 
execution. 
 
11. 
“Rupiah” or “Rp” means the Borrower’s currency.  
 
12. 
“Single Tranche” means the amount of the Loan allocated to the category entitled 
“Single Tranche” in the table set forth in Part B of Section II of Schedule 1 to 
this Agreement. 
 
Section II.  Modifications to the General Conditions 
 
The modifications to the “International Bank for Reconstruction and Development 
General Conditions for Loans”, dated July 1, 2005 (as amended through October 17, 
2007)  are as follows:  
 
1. 
The last sentence of paragraph (a) of Section 2.03 (relating to 
Applications for 
Withdrawal
)
is deleted in its entirety. 
 
2. 
Sections 2.04 (
Designated Accounts)
 and 2.05 (
Eligible Expenditures
)
are deleted 
in their entirety, and the remaining Sections in Article II are renumbered 
accordingly. 
 
3. 
Sections 5.01 (
Project Execution Generally
), and 5.09 (
Financial Management; 
Financial Statements; Audits
)
are deleted in their entirety, and the remaining 
Sections in Article V are renumbered accordingly. 
 
4. 
Paragraph (a) of Section 5.05 (renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 3 above 
and relating to 
Use of Goods, Works and Services
)
is deleted in its entirety. 
 
5. 
Paragraph (c) of Section 5.06 (renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 3 
above) is modified to read as follows: 
 
“Section 5.06. 
Plans; Documents; Records 
 
…
(c) 
The Borrower shall retain all records (contracts, orders, 
invoices, bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing expenditures 
under the Loan until two (2) years after the Closing Date. The Borrower 
shall enable the Bank’s representatives to examine such records.” 
 
6. 
Section 5.07 (renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 3 above) is modified to 
read as follows: 
 
Page  15
14 
 
“Section 5.07. 
Program Monitoring and Evaluation 
 
…
(c)  
The Borrower shall prepare, or cause to be prepared, and 
furnish to the Bank not later than six (6) months after the Closing Date, a 
report of such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably 
request, on the execution of the Program, the performance by the Loan 
Parties and the Bank of their respective obligations under the Legal 
Agreements and the accomplishment of the purposes of the Loan.” 
 
7. 
The following terms and definitions set forth in the Appendix are modified or 
deleted as follows, and the following new terms and definitions are added in 
alphabetical order to the Appendix as follows, with the terms being renumbered 
accordingly: 
 
(a) 
The definition of the term “Eligible Expenditure” is modified to read as 
follows:   
 
“‘Eligible Expenditure’ means any use to which the Loan is put in 
support of the Program, other than to finance expenditures excluded 
pursuant to the Loan Agreement.” 
 
(b) 
The term “Financial Statements” and its definition as set forth in the 
Appendix are deleted in their entirety. 
 
(c) 
The term “Project” is modified to read “Program” and its definition is 
modified to read as follows:  
 
“‘Program’ means the program referred to in the Loan Agreement in 
support of which the Loan is made.”  All references to “Project” 
throughout these General Conditions are deemed to be references to 
“Program”.
 
