                              Document of
                           The World Bank




                                                              Report No: 36560-TD

               IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
(SCL-45580 TF-29572 TF-29243 PPFI-P9310 PPFI-P9311 PPFI-P9312 PPFI-P9350)

                         ON TWO IBRD LOANS

               IN THE AMOUNT OF US$39.5 MILLION AND

         IN THE AMOUNT OF US$53.4 MILLION RESPECTIVELY

                   TO THE REPUBLIC OF CHAD AND

                    THE REPUBLIC OF CAMEROON

      FOR A PETROLEUM DEVELOPMENT AND PIPELINE PROJECT




                           December 15, 2006

                          CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                       (Exchange Rate Effective June 2006)

                            Currency Unit = CFA Franc
                            CFA F513.45 = US$ 1.00
                                US$ 2.06 = CFAF 1,000

                                 FISCAL YEAR
                            January 1    December 31

                      ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS



API                   American Petroleum Institute
CAPECE                Cameroon Petroleum Environment Capacity Enhancement Project
CCSRP                 Oil Revenues Control and Monitoring Board (Collège) (Chad)
Consortium            Oil companies which jointly hold the Petroleum Rights
COTCO                 Cameroon Oil Transportation Company
CTNSC                 Comité Technique National de Suivi et de Contrôle
DPU                   Doba Petroleum Unit
EA                    Environmental Assessment
ECMG                  External Control and Monitoring Group
EEPCI                 Esso Exploration and Production (Chad)
EIB                   European Investment Bank
EMP                   Environmental Management Plan
FEDEC                 Federation for Environment and Development (Cameroon)
GEEP                  Management of the Petroleum Economy Project (Chad)
GNI                   Gross National Income
GoC                   Government of Cameroon
GoT                   Government of Chad
IAG                   International Advisory Group
IBRD                  International Bank of Reconstruction and Development
IDA                   International Development Association
IDC                   Interest During Construction
IFC                   International Finance Corporation
IMF                   International Monetary Fund
MIGA                  Multilateral Investment Guarantee Agency
MP                    Ministry of Petroleum (Chad)
NPV                   Net Present Value
Operator              EEPCI
Pipeline Companies    COTCO and TOTCO

PDO                      Project Development Objective
PRML                     Petroleum Revenue Management Law
PRMP                     Petroleum Revenue Management Program
PSMC                     Pipeline Steering and Monitoring Committee (Cameroon)
SNH                      Société Nationale des Hydrocarbures (Cameroon)
Three Fields             The fields of Miandoum, Bolobo, and Komé
TOTCO                    Chad Oil Transportation Company
WCS                      Wildlife Conservation Society
WWF                      World Wildlife Fund

                              Vice President:  Gobind T. Nankani
                          Country Director:    Ali M. Khadr
                            Sector Manager:    Iyer V. Subramaniam
             Task Team Leader/Task Manager:    Marc L. Heitner

                                  CHAD and CAMEROON
               PETROLEUM DEVELOPMENT AND PIPELINE PROJECT


                                         CONTENTS




                                                                              Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                    1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                   1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry         2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                            5
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                              9
6. Sustainability                                                                11
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                 12
8. Lessons Learned                                                               16
9. Partner Comments                                                              17
10. Additional Information                                                       19
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                             20
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                             23
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                             24
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                             25
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components             26
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                27
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                            28
Annex 8. Beneficiary Survey Results                                              29
Annex 9. Stakeholder Workshop Results                                            30
Annex 10. Summary of Inspection Panel--Cameroon                                  34
Annex 11. Summary of Inspection Panel -- Chad                                    53
Annex 12. Partner Comments-Full Transcripts CHAD and CAMEROON                    67

Project ID: P044305                                                  Project Name: TD/CM PIPELINE
Team Leader: Marc L. Heitner                                         TL Unit: COCPO
ICR Type: Intensive Learning Model (ILM) of ICR                      Report Date: December 15, 2006


1. Project Data
                   Name: TD/CM PIPELINE                                           L/C/TF Number: SCL-45580; TF-29572;
                                                                                                     TF-29243; PPFI-P9310;
                                                                                                     PPFI-P9311; PPFI-P9312;
                                                                                                     PPFI-P9350
   Country/Department: CHAD                                                               Region: Africa Regional Office

        Sector/subsector: Oil and gas (84%); Roads and highways (4%); Railways (4%); Ports, waterways and shipping
                            (4%); Telecommunications (4%)
                  Theme: Pollution management and environmental health (P); Other economic management (P); Other
                            financial and private sector development (P); Environmental policies and institutions (P)


  KEY DATES                                                                  Original               Revised/Actual
           PCD: 04/24/1995                                     Effective: 09/30/2000                08/10/2001
     Appraisal: 06/23/1999                                         MTR: 11/18/2002
      Approval: 06/06/2000                                      Closing: 06/30/2005                 06/30/2005



    Borrower/Implementing Agency:          CHAD/CAMEROON/Esso Chad
                      Other Partners:      European Investment Bank/ChevronTexaco (US.)/Petronas (Malaysia)

STAFF                           Current                                        At Appraisal
Vice President:                 Gobind T. Nankani                              Jean-Louis Sarbib
Country Director:               Ali Khadr                                      Serge Michailof
Sector Manager:                 Subramaniam V. Iyer                            Mark Tomlinson
Team Leader at ICR:             Marc L. Heitner                                Philippe Benoit
ICR Primary Author:             Silvana Tordo


2. Principal Performance Ratings

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly Unlikely,
HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)

                           Outcome:        S
                      Sustainability:      UN
   Institutional Development Impact:       M
                 Bank Performance:         S
            Borrower Performance:          S


                                                      QAG (if available)             ICR
                                  Quality at Entry:                                  S
                     Project at Risk at Any Time: No
The ratings in the narrative part of the ICR were revised in order to make use of the six-point scale allowed by the
new guidelines. Those ratings are not reflected on the current page and in Annex 6 due to the fact that the ICR
was in PDS prior to the change of template. Even in the narrative part, only certain ratings have been adjusted.
The ratings of Outcome, Sustainability and Institutional Development Impact remain unchanged. With regard to

Bank Performance and Borrower Performance, the ratings on the old scale are S while on the new six-point scale,
they are MS.
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry

3.1 Original Objective:
    3.1.1 The Petroleum Development and Pipeline Project consists of the development of significant oil
    reserves in the Doba region (southern Chad), and exporting the production through a pipeline to an
    offshore loading facility in Cameroon, where it is shipped in oil tankers. This Project, supported by two
    IBRD Loans to Chad and Cameroon, provides for the construction of the infrastructure required to
    enable oil exports. Three related Projects, funded by IDA, support the two governments in developing
    capacities in:

    a. Public finance management, and management of the oil economy in Chad ­ Management of the
    Petroleum Economy Project (Cr. 3316-CD of January 27, 2000 of about US$17.5 million);

    b. Petroleum sector management (including the environmental aspects) in Chad ­ Petroleum Sector
    Management Capacity-Building Project (Cr. 3373-CD of June 6, 2000 of about US$23.7 million); and

    c. Monitoring of the Environmental Management Plan of the Chad-Cameroon Pipeline (including the
    Social and Health aspects) in Cameroon ­ Petroleum Environment Capacity-Enhancement Project (Cr.
    3372 ­ CAM of June 6, 2000 of about US$5.8 million).

    A detailed description of the three Projects appears in the Overview Document (Report no. 36569)
    which is being circulated together with this ICR.

    3.1.2 The Objectives of the Petroleum Development and Pipeline Project are, by enabling
    environmentally and socially sound private investments in the petroleum sector:

    a. to increase the Chadian Government's expenditures on poverty-alleviation activities; and

    b. to increase Cameroon's fiscal revenues available for financing priority development expenditures in
    the context of the Government's strategy for growth and poverty reduction.

    3.1.3 Assessment: With a population of 8.6 million (2003), a Gross National Income (GNI) per capita
    of US$260, a life expectancy of 48 years, and a literacy rate below 50 percent, Chad is one of the most
    impoverished countries in the world. On the basis of the 2003 household survey, the incidence of
    poverty (defined as the proportion of households with annual spending below what is necessary to meet
    minimal food and non-food needs) was estimated at 55 percent of the population. With annual
    Government non-oil revenues of the order of US$250 million (which corresponds to a bit less than 40
    percent of total expenditures), Chad's prospects for growth would continue to be limited in the absence
    of its oil resources. Cameroon, with a population of 16.1 million (2003), a GNI per capita of US$800,
    a life expectancy of 48 years, and a literacy rate of 68 percent, is better off than Chad. Still, despite a
    reduction by 13 points in the incidence of income poverty over the past decade, 40 percent of the
    population lives below the national poverty line.

    3.1.4. In the case of Chad, the project development objectives were and remain highly relevant. Given
    its poverty level and its resource limitations, the generation of new, significant revenues makes eminent
    sense. Cameroon's cooperation was needed to implement the Project and to enable Chad to achieve its
    PDO. However, the overall long-term economic impact of the Project is relatively small in Cameroon,



                                                      - 2 -

    given the size of its economy. As a result of many years of internal strife, Chad has long been perceived
    as unstable politically, with serious security and public order issues, and considerable governance
    problems. In this environment, the Consortium of oil companies (ExxonMobil ­ 40 percent; Petronas
    Carigali ­ 35 percent; and Chevron Texaco- 25 percent) that was preparing to invest approximately
    US$4 billion in the Project made it clear that it would not be able to go ahead without the "political
    risk" coverage provided by World Bank participation. The need to strengthen, the host governments'
    capabilities to oversee inter alia the management of the Project, and in the case of Chad to manage the
    petroleum sector at large and the need to ensure; the transparent utilization of petroleum revenues
    derived from the Project; and the handling of the environmental aspects were one of the key concerns
    for the World Bank in defining the framework for its support to and participation in the Project.
    Particularly in the case of Chad, these demands were extraordinarily challenging, given the lack of
    experience and hence the absence of institutions and skills. For this reason, the capacity-building
    projects listed above were put in place. Notwithstanding, the Project was considered high-risk.

3.2 Revised Objective:
Project Objectives were not revised.

3.3 Original Components:
    3.3.1 The Project involved the development of three oil fields (Miandoum, Bolobo, and Kome, the
    "Three Fields") in the vicinity of Doba (Southern Chad), including drilling of about 300 wells and
    construction of associated facilities and infrastructure; the construction of a pipeline 760 millimeters
    (30 inches) in diameter and 1,070 kilometers in length, buried to about 1 meter depth, from the Doba
    oil fields to Cameroon's Atlantic coast at Kribi, with three related pumping stations, ancillary facilities
    and infrastructure improvements; and the installation of an offshore floating storage, offloading vessel
    and related facilities as well as an 11-kilometer submarine pipeline from the Atlantic coastline to the
    vessel. The development of the Three Fields was referred to as the Field System and was entirely
    financed and managed by the Consortium. The other components were called the "Export System" and
    were to be constructed and operated by two joint ventures companies, Tchad Oil Transportation
    Company ("TOTCO"), and Cameroon Oil Transportation Company ("COTCO"), in which the
    Governments would have minority equity shares along with the Consortium.

    3.3.2 The Implementing Agency for the Project was the Chad affiliate of ExxonMobil, Esso
    Exploration and Production Chad, Inc, (EEPCI) acting as Operator for the Consortium.

    3.3.3 The Petroleum Revenue Management Program for Chad was an important building block. In
    January 1999, Chad approved an oil revenue management law ("Law 001"), which governs all oil
    revenues generated from the production of the Three Fields. The terms of the Law 001 were later on
    reflected and clarified in the Petroleum Revenue Management Program (PRMP) that is described in
    Annex 5 of the IBRD Loan Agreement. Law 001 provides that oil revenues will be deposited in an
    offshore escrow account. After providing for service payments on the IBRD and EIB loans to Chad, 10
    percent of direct oil revenues (royalties and dividends) would be allocated to a Future Generations
    Fund; 4.5 percent of royalties to the Oil-Producing Region; and 72 percent of royalties and 76.5
    percent of dividends to priority sectors for poverty reduction (health, education, infrastructure, rural
    development, environment, water, livestock, and social affairs), and 13.5 percent of royalties and
    dividends to general budget support for a period of five years from the start of production. Although
    Law 001/PR/99 provides for the 15 percent to be allocated to general budget needs for five years from
    the date of production (that is, until October 2008), Decree Law 238/PR/MEF/03 specifies that the
    Banque des États de l'Afrique Centrale (BEAC) shall transfer this amount into the current account of
    the treasury, with the BEAC, until December 2007 and to priority sectors thereafter. All indirect



                                                    - 3 -

    revenues (taxes, levies, and duties) from the exploitation of the Three Fields were to go into the
    Treasury account and used for the financing of the country's general budget.

    3.3.4 Environmental and Social Protection and Impact Mitigation were not formally components of the
    Project but were a substantial requirement, given the Project's objectives. The sponsors prepared an
    Environmental Assessment (EA) and an Environmental Management Plan (EMP) which they agreed to
    implement as a condition of the World Bank Loans. (The EMP contained a Compensation and
    Resettlement Plan for Chad and a Compensation Plan and Indigenous Peoples Plan for Cameroon.
    After several revisions and extensive consultations, the EA and the EMP were deemed consistent with
    the World Bank Group safeguard policies. The main duties of the two governments under the EMP
    were: (i) to facilitate the Operator's access to the project site; and (ii) to monitor the activities of the
    Operator during the life of the Project. The two governments also assumed responsibility for
    monitoring and managing indirect impacts on communities in the project areas, including in particular
    health impacts.

    3.3.5 Assessment The Project was designed by some of the world's largest oil companies which have
    vast resources, knowledge, and experience. They also made sizeable financial commitments for this
    Project. The required measures were taken up front to ensure a transparent and sound revenue
    management program. A comprehensive EMP was likewise agreed up front. The design of the Project
    was thus consistent with the objective of generating additional revenues for Chad, while ensuring that
    this would be done in an environmentally and socially sound manner.

3.4 Revised Components:
The Project components did not change materially during Project execution.

3.5 Quality at Entry:
    3.5.1 The Project is rated Satisfactory at entry on the following grounds:

    ·    Substantial progress was made prior to Board presentation of the Project in key areas including: (i)
    revenue management in Chad; (ii) environmental and social aspects; (iii) development of the
    institutional set-up; (iv) mobilization of financing. In particular: (i) a Law 001 was adopted; (ii) the
    EMP was agreed upon; (iii) the institutional framework was agreed upon and a capacity-building
    program established and funded; and (iv) except for an international bond issue, financing for the
    Project had been largely secured.
    ·    Moreover, on the technical side, independent evaluations were made of the reserves potential, of the
    crude quality and possible discount to Brent value (taking into account its characteristics), and of
    Project costs, as part of IFC's due diligence. These data were shared with the World Bank and formed
    the basis for the financial analysis of the benefits of the Project to the host governments under different
    oil price and production volumes scenarios. It was determined that the returns to Chad and Cameroon
    would have been acceptable even in the worst case scenario.
    ·    Finally, at the request of the Regional Vice President, a QAG team reviewed the Project at entry
    and concluded that all of the World Bank's safeguard policies were complied with. This was one of the
    first Quality at Entry reviews and engaged the World Bank's most senior advisory staff, as the Project
    was regarded as posing a high reputational risk for the World Bank.
    ·    In 2002, the Inspection Panel was asked to determine whether the World Bank's policies and
    procedures had been complied with in the preparation and implementation of the Project in Chad. The
    Panel determined that the World Bank was generally in compliance with its policies, but it criticized the
    lack of cumulative impact assessment at a regional level, the quality of the baseline data, and the slow
    pace Chad had adopted in developing institutional capabilities. The panel concluded that "Despite the
    shortcomings to which we have drawn attention, the Chad project, in terms of other similar oil and gas



                                                      - 4 -

    projects, is noteworthy for implementing a practical, `hands-on' approach to environmental
    management. The EMP reflects an exceptional effort to address the challenges associated with
    environmental management of a complex project in a challenging physical and political environment."
    A similar conclusion was reached with respect to the Project activities in Cameroon in 2003. The
    Executive Summaries of the reports of the inspection panels, together with those of the Management
    Responses, appear at Annexes 10 and 11.
    In all, the Project was well prepared, and the key priorities were addressed well. There were some
    weaknesses, but they did not have serious consequences in the overall context.


4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs

4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:
    4.1.1 Annex 1 lists the agreed outcome indicators which continue to be highly relevant. The ICR rates
    the performance as satisfactory, given that the key targets are expected to be attained.

   a. Increase in Chad of US$40 million per annum in petroleum-financed budget expenditures over
    2005­09. The Project was commissioned a year ahead of schedule. By the end of 2005 Chad has
    accrued gross direct oil revenues of approximately US$426 million (vs. an appraisal forecast of US$96
    million) of which US$307 million were transferred from the escrow account to the account of the
    Treasury in Chad for use in priority sectors. Financial Projections indicate by the end of 2009 Chad
    will have accrued direct revenues of approximately US$ 1,223 million largely exceeding this target
    thanks to the higher than anticipated level of oil prices. Oil price projections are based on the World
    Bank forecast published in the Global Development Finance, May 2006. Because these prices reflect a
    conservative price outlook if compared to market expectations (future prices as per the IMF World
    Economic Outlook May 2006), the economic benefit for Chad might be greater (up to 35 percent more
    than the figure provided above, without counting the revenue from additional fields currently in
    production as well as future production beyond the Three Fields). Although transfers of oil revenues
    from the Government's offshore accounts started only in July 2004, US$ 68 million were used in
    priority sectors during that year, and US$ 178 million in 2005. Given the trend expected in oil revenues
    the target should be attainable. However, it should be noted that it is premature to rate the achievement
    of the PDOs at this time in the absence of a Poverty Assessment Survey linking petroleum revenues to
    household income. The target is expected to be achieved.

    b. An increase of at least US$40 million per annum in petroleum-generated revenues in Cameroon over
    2005­07. Oil started to flow through the pipeline in the summer of 2003 and the first revenues for
   Cameroon started soon after. By the end of 2005, Cameroon received about US$86 million (versus an
    appraisal forecast of US$82 million) in transit fees and dividends. Cameroon's revenue flows from the
    Three Fields are very much dependent on the crude volumes that are shipped through the pipeline.
    Therefore, a change in the production profile of the Three Fields compared to initial expectations
    determines a shift in the level of transit fees. It is worth noting, transit fees are, and are expected to
    remain, a minor component of Cameroon total revenues. In effect, in 2005 they represent less than 2
    percent of total revenues of the country. According to the current production forecast Cameroon would
    receive US$157 million between the last quarter of 2003 and the end of 2007, versus an appraisal
    forecast of US$179 million between the end of 2004 and the end of 2007. However, the target of
    US$40 million per annum over 2005-2007 is expected almost achieved (8 percent less). However,
    revenues were received by Cameroon one year earlier than expected at appraisal. In the future,
    production from satellite fields will also mitigate the shortfall from the Three Fields. The revenue target
    is therefore substantially achieved.

    Overall high oil prices have enabled Chad to exceed its revenue target.



                                                      - 5 -

4.2 Outputs by components:
    4.2.1 Except for the implementation of the Revenue Management Program which is an on going
    activity, the implementation of all components is rated satisfactory.

    a. Production to begin at the end-2004 at the rate of 81 million barrels per year of crude oil exports
    over 2005­07 period. Commercial production began in October 2003. As of December 2004,
   approximately 69.9 million barrels were exported. The peak production of 81 million barrels, which at
   appraisal was expected to be reached in the second year of production, was never attained mainly due
   to higher than expected production of water. The shortfall in production was also due to reservoir
   pressure depletion, and declining productivity in individual wells. The Operator is evaluating and
   testing options (water injection, stimulation workovers, pump upsizing, and water shutoffs) to
   maximize oil recovery; in addition, more wells are to be drilled to access bypassed oil in reservoirs. The
   data accumulated during this phase have allowed the Operator to better understand the performance of
   the reservoir and refine field development and reservoir management. Although, the Operator has
   succeeded in stabilizing the decline, and although new fields have been put in production or are about
   to be put in production, the target of 81 million per year over 2005-07 will not be achieved.

   b. Chad's petroleum revenues of at least US$70 million per year over 2005-08. The overall increase in
    crude oil prices has resulted in substantially higher- than- forecasted revenues for the Chadian
    government, more than offsetting the decline in production from the Three Fields. As the oil price is
    expected to remain substantially above the levels anticipated at project appraisal throughout the
    forecast period, the target average revenue of US$70 million per year over 2005-08 is expected to be
    achieved. In effect, by the end of 2005 the Three Fields had already generated royalties for US$421
    million, more than the cumulated level of total oil revenue expected at project appraisal. In addition,
    new fields within and outside the Three Fields are and will continue to be put on stream thus generating
    additional direct and indirect revenue.

    c. Petroleum Revenues allocated and disbursed in accordance with Petroleum Revenue Management
    Program. The allocation of funds was broadly in accordance with the law (taking into account the level
    of preparedness of the different sectors), and the bulk of the receipts (about 60 percent) were used for
    road construction, awarded following competitive bidding. An inspection conducted by the Collège de
    Contrôle et de Surveillance des Resources Pétrolieres (CCSRP, the Oversight Committee on the
    Management of Petroleum Resources) on the use of the petroleum proceeds during 2004 (published in
    July 2005) underlined the weaknesses of the Public Finance Management already identified in the
    preparation of the Action Plan for Modernization of the Public Financial Management (PAMFIP), as
    well as a number of irregularities in procurement procedures notably, noncompetitive award of
    contracts, inflated invoices, non-delivery of goods as well as delivery of goods significantly below
    specifications. It also noted lack of communication with the benefiting communities. It recommended
    measures to improve the financial procedures and systems. The dialogue between the World Bank and
    the government of Chad on the implementation of the PRMP worsened significantly during the last
    quarter of 2005, culminating in Parliament's adoption of an amendment to Law 001 on December 29,
    2005 in noncompliance with the Loan Agreement which stated that "the Petroleum Revenue
    Management Law shall not be amended or waived so as to materially and adversely affect the
    implementation of the Program". The amendments to the Law broadened the definition of priority
    sectors to include, among other areas, security and territorial administration. Consequently, the senior
    World Bank management decided on January 6, 2006, to suspend all disbursements under the World
    Bank's active portfolio in Chad. The suspension automatically triggered a freeze on the movement of
    certain of Chad's oil revenues within the Citibank escrow account structure in London. After a series of
    consultations reinstating the dialogue, the two parties reached an interim agreement in April 2006 by


                                                    - 6 -

    which the government agreed to pass a 2006 revised budget law specifying that 70 percent of direct oils
    revenues would be used for priority poverty programs (excluding security) and take parallel measures
    to improve transparency and accountability in the use of oil revenues. This led to the lifting of the
    suspension of the World Bank portfolio and the unfreeze of the Escrow Account. Subsequently, a MoU
    was signed in July 2006 as a basis to develop a permanent framework for government spending. The
    MoU provides four steps to: (i) revise the PRSP and formulate long-term allocation rules for spending
    on poverty-related programs; (ii) allocate 70 percent of all budgetary resources to poverty reduction
    programs in the 2007 budget; and (iii) accelerate improvements in Public Finance Management and (iv)
    support to strengthen the College to ensure effective oversight.

    d. Private Sector ownership and control over the oil fields and Pipelines (barring minority government
    share). The target has been achieved.

    e. Achievement of Targets and norms prescribed in the EMP for Chad including Resettlement and
    Compensation. Project operations were generally in compliance with the EMP Project. Exceptions were
    noted by the External Compliance Monitoring Group (ECMG) and by the World Bank Group and they
    were promptly remedied. The execution of the Resettlement and Compensation Plan in Chad was
    considered satisfactory. However, little progress was made on regional development (a government
    responsibility under the EMP). On the whole, the targets were achieved.

    f. Physical completion and commissioning of export system before end-2004 (Cameroon). The Project
    was completed a year early, so this target was achieved.

    g. Achievement of Targets and norms prescribed in the EMP for Cameroon including Resettlement and
    Compensation. Project operations were generally in compliance with the EMP. Implementation of the
    Compensation Plan and, more seriously, the Indigenous Peoples Plan was delayed due to government
    procedures and the need to establish a new institution (the Foundation for Environment and
    Development in Cameroon, FEDEC). Overall, the target can be considered to have been achieved.

    The physical completion targets, as well as the environmental and social targets, have all been
    achieved. This is also the case for the revenue targets in Chad, which to date have exceeded
    expectations. On the other hand, ultimate recovery from the Three Fields (Proved and Probable) is
    expected to remain approximately 17 percent below the levels estimated at project appraisal Ultimate
    recovery for the Three Fields was estimated by the World Bank on the basis of data provided by the
    government of Chad. The inefficiency with which a portion of the petroleum revenues in Chad were
    spent has prompted a discussion of what measures should be put in place to prevent this from
    happening in the future.

4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
    4.3.1 The economic analysis (Annex 3) has been updated to reflect the current environment of the
    Project, while using the appraisal methodology. The main changes have been as follows:
    · Oil price increase. At appraisal, it was estimated that the price of Brent crude would be
    US$15.25/bbl, with an escalation component. Prices have increased considerably since. At the end of
    2005, the average Dated Brent had reached US$60/bbl, and the weighted average for the period
    2003-2005 was US$45.14/bbl (at project appraisal the weighted average over the same period was
    estimated at US$16.39/bbl). Estimates provided in this report are based on the World Bank's Forecast
    published in the Global Development Finance Review in May 2006. This is a conservative price
    outlook that anticipates a decline from US$61/bbl in 2006 to US$35/bbl in 2015. It was assumed that
    beyond 2015, it would remain at US$35/bbl.
    · Increase in the discount. The value of a crude oil is normally determined by applying discounts or
    premia to the price of a "marker" crude, i.e. a crude that has a sufficiently large volume of trade on



                                                    - 7 -

    international markets (typically the Brent Blend or the West Texas Intermediate). The discount or
    premia are defined to reflect the difference in quality and transport costs between the particular crude
    and its marker. The wellhead price of the Doba Blend is determined by applying a discount to the price
    of the Brent Blend, which reflects the difference in quality and the distance from the market. The Doba
    Blend is not only heavy compared to the Brent Blend but its acidy is remarkably higher, as is its
    calcium content. The tightness of the international petroleum market, mainly due to the high demand
    for transportation fuel, had determined a sharp increase in the differential, in particular for crudes with
    lower light yields like the Doba Blend. At appraisal, it was anticipated that the discount would be
   approximately twenty percent of the Brent price. In the updated analysis, a variable discount linked to
   the Brent price level was assumed (resulting in a weighted average for the period 2003-2033 of 28.4
   percent).

   4.3.2 The Consortium's estimate of proven and probable reserves (917 million barrel of total
   recoverable oil, Three Fields only) was used to calculate the economic returns to the host governments
   at project appraisal. As underlined above various production difficulties have emerged due to the
   complexity of the geological formation. A new reservoir model has been prepared by the operator based
   on the data collected during production. In this ICR economic analysis we have used updated proven
   and probable reserves estimates provided by the government (764 million barrels of total recoverable
   oil, Three Fields only). If the oil price had remained the same as assumed at project appraisal, the
   16.68 percent reduction in volume would have determined a 15 percent decline in Chad's direct oil
   revenues as estimated at project appraisal (i.e. a loss of revenue of approximately US$2 billion).
   However, the dampening effect of the volume decline on direct revenues is expected to be more than
   offset by the higher average price of the Doba blend that may increase the level of direct oil revenues
   by 92 percent compared to project appraisal (i.e. a potential increase of US$10 billion undiscounted).
   Therefore, even without considering the additional production from other currently producing fields and
   fields currently under development, and without considering the increase in tax revenues generated by
   higher oil prices, the estimated project return is expected to be satisfactory

4.4 Financial rate of return:
    4.4. For Chad, Cameroon and the Operator, the most important measure of benefits is the Net Present
    Value (NPV) of their respective net cash flows. A comparison between the NPV expected at appraisal
    and the NPV currently expected is shown below.

                                    Net P resent Va lue s (Rea l @ 10%)
                         US$ Million
                                           Appra isal          Thi s ICR          % Di ffere nce
                         Chad                          463             1,884            307.2%
                         Cameroon                      144                112            -21.9%
                         Consortium                    706               1,345            90.5%
                         Proje ct                    1,417               3,721          162.5%


                          Note: Project NPV is calculated before taxes, fees and royalties.


    4.4.2 In comparison with the appraisal estimate, the NPV for Chad is expected to be more than four
    times the value at appraisal, largely on account of higher oil prices, and early production. In the case of
    Cameroon, it has declined by about 21 percent; largely on account of lower volumes which have
    reduced the income from the transit fees (Cameroon's income is unrelated to the oil price). One should
    note however that the Consortium is currently already producing from a new field outside the Project
    area and that other fields are under development, which will improve the return to all stakeholders. For
    this reason, and notwithstanding the lower than expected return for Cameroon, the financial



                                                               - 8 -

    performance of the Project is rated satisfactory.


4.5 Institutional development impact:
    4.5.1 Although the development of institutional capabilities was not an objective of this Project (these
    were handled under the three capacity-building credits), its preparation and implementation has so far
    had only a Modest impact on Chad's institutional development.

    a. In Chad, two project units, the Doba Petroleum Unit (DPU), and the Comité Technique National de
    Suivi et Controle (CTNSC), were set up to monitor, respectively, the financial and technical aspects of
    implementation of the Project, and its environmental and social impact. The DPU had a functional
    reporting line to the Directorate of Petroleum (in 2002 this latter became the Ministry of Petroleum),
    and the CTNSC had a functional reporting line to the Ministry of Environment. Both units were
    coordinated by a National Coordination, initially reporting directly to the Office of the President (in
    2004 the National Coordination was moved under the responsibility of the Ministry of Petroleum).
    Given that petroleum is a new sector for Chad, the level of sector specific technical and financial skills
    available within the two project units and the National Coordination was extremely low. Thus, Chad
    had to rely very heavily on external technical advisers.


    b. Ensuring that Project revenues would be directed to poverty alleviation was the responsibility of the
    Ministry of Finance. Under the Revenue Management Law, the Oversight Committee of Surveillance
    and Control (the Collège), involving both government and civil society representatives, was established
    to monitor expenditures and ensure that they were directed to priority poverty-alleviation activities. The
    Collège played an important role with its audit of the use of a portion of the oil revenues in 2004 which
    highlighted some shortcomings and initiated the discussion on improving the monitoring and
    compliance mechanisms.

    c. In Cameroon, the government had substantial previous experience with petroleum operations through
   its National Hydrocarbons Corporation (Société Nationale des Hydrocarbures, SNH). Under a 1996
    law governing the Transportation by Pipeline of Hydrocarbons Originating from Other Countries, an
    interministerial Pipeline Steering and Monitoring Committee (PSMC) was set up to implement the
    government's mandate with respect to such projects. The Executive Administrator General of SNH
    chairs the PSMC, and SNH provides its Permanent Secretariat (PSMC/PS). The PSMC/PS has six
    operational units: environmental, routing, and security; administration and accounting; economics and
    finance; engineering and resource mobilization; legal counsel; and communication and education. It
    also has three field units responsible for implementing the environmental and social monitoring
    mandate of the PSMC on the ground. These field units coordinate their work with the decentralized
    services of government and with local authorities, as well as with the environmental and social
    monitors employed by the Operator. Selected activities were supported by the IDA-financed Cameroon
    Petroleum Environment Capacity-Enhancement Project.


5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome

5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:
    The main factors affecting the Project, which could not be controlled by the host governments, have
    been the higher than expected level of oil prices and the lower level of production:
    ·   The higher than expected level of crude oil prices. Compared to project appraisal, this ICR shows
    an expected weighted average price increase of 108 percent of the Doba Blend over the life of the



                                                     - 9 -

    Project. This is due to the higher than expected level of the Brent blend, although partially mitigated by
    the lower than expected quality of the Doba blend (i.e. higher discount) due to the mismatch of
    petroleum product demand and supply. Crude oil prices are expected to remain well above the levels
    considered at project appraisal and well above the level reflected in the May 2006 World Bank forecast
    reflected in this ICR.

    ·   The production of crude oil from the Three Fields has been lower then expected and the economic
    ultimate recovery over the life of the field is estimated to be approximately 16.68 percent lower (see
    para. 4.3 above). Unfortunately, all reserves estimates involve some degree of uncertainty. The
    uncertainty depends principally on the amount of reliable geological and engineering data available at
    the time of the estimate, and the interpretation of these data. Because reserves are defined as those
    quantities of petroleum which are anticipated to be commercially recovered from known accumulations
    from a given date forward, estimates of development costs and oil prices are also relevant. Reservoir
    models, and the resulting production forecast, are adjusted based on reservoir performance over time.
    As in the case of the Doba fields, the actual reservoir performance may prove to be quite different from
    assumptions made at the time of appraisal.

5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
    5.2.1 The two petroleum sector and environment capacity-building credits only became effective some
    nine months after Board presentation, and it took some time to recruit the national experts whose work
    was to be financed under these credits. Moreover, the credit for Chad was virtually committed by
    mid-2003. Under the latter, priority was given to setting up the field units in Doba and upgrading the
    skills of the Doba Project Unit. The delays had an adverse impact, particularly on the setting up of
    CTNSC, as a result of which it could not monitor the implementation of the EMP in the initial years.
    Regarding the implementation of the Petroleum Revenue Management Program, most of the
    shortcomings highlighted in the Collège's report on the use of revenues in 2004 were under the
    government's control; particular attention should therefore be paid to the concrete measures the
    government intends to take as a follow-up to the findings of the Collège.

    5.2.2 Implementation of the capacity-building project in Cameroon was also delayed, but because of
    the existing institutional structure, these delays had less of an impact on the ability of the government
    to carry out its monitoring responsibilities.

5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
    When the Project was submitted to the Board in June 2000, it was anticipated that a US$400 million
    bond issue would be floated toward the financing of the Export System. Due to the lack of market
    interests in the Project, the partners TOTCO and COTCO (including the two governments) decided
    subsequently to proceed without the bond issue and to provide additional equity financing instead.
    However, Chad and Cameroon could only invest to the extent of the IBRD and European Investment
    Bank (EIB) loans made available for this purpose. Hence, the shortfall was financed by the private
    sponsors. As a result, Chad's share in TOTCO declined from 11 percent to 8 percent, and its share in
    COTCO dropped from 5 percent to 3 percent; Cameroon's share in COTCO declined from 10 percent
    to 5 percent.

5.4 Costs and financing:
    Annex 2 shows a comparison between the Project costs. At Project appraisal the cost of the project was
    defined as the value of the investment made between 2000 and 2005. It is worth noting that the costs
    expressed above represent only a portion of the total investment in the Project. estimated at appraisal
    and the latest estimate Unaudited values. Compared to project appraisal, the total investment was



                                                     - 10 -

    estimated to be US$3,723 million. Recent data place this value at US$4,816 million (of which
    US$1,978 million was spent between 2000 and 2003), i.e. 29.4 percent more than expected. The vast
    majority of the increase occurred with respect to the field system where considerable investment was
    made to maintain production levels and to dispose of excess water. With respect to the financing plans,
    as anticipated at appraisal the upstream was funded by oil companies' equity or semi-equity. Regarding
    the export system, it was anticipated that US$1.4 billion would be funded by debt (including a US$0.4
    billion bond issue), US$0.7 billion by the oil companies equity, and US$0.1 billion by the two
    governments (through the World Bank and EIB loans). In effect, due to the lack of market interest in
    the bond's offering, only US$0.6 billion was funded by debt, US$0.1 billion by the governments, and
    the rest was funded by oil companies' equity contributions.


6. Sustainability

6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:
    6.1.1 Sustainability is defined as the probability with which the objectives are likely to be achieved
    over the economic life of the Project. The ICR rates the sustainability of the Project as unlikely on the
    following grounds:

    a. On the institutional side, in the case of Chad, the two main agencies--the DPU and the
    CTNSC--have been largely dependent on the capacity-building project not only for technical
    assistance and training but also for meeting a portion of their payroll. This support was critically
    required to accelerate the ability of the government to monitor compliance with the EMP. As the IDA
    credit has been fully disbursed, unless supplemental financing is approved or appropriate institutional
    measures are taken by the government, the progress that has been achieved under the capacity-building
    project may be put at risk, if the government does not prioritize support to these activities.

    b. The experience thus far with the utilization of the petroleum proceeds in Chad has been mixed, as
    noted earlier. On the one hand, allocations were effectively made to priority sectors according to the
    law, but the problems are broader ones--such as the capacity of the government to do better at
    establishing priorities in the allocation of revenues to priority sectors to avoid a piecemeal approach
    and strengthen the expenditure cycle. Hence, unless a major effort is made to upgrade the planning and
    procurement of goods and services internally, comments similar to those already expressed by the
    Collège could be expected in the future. The World Bank is working with the authorities on the
    implementation of an action plan to improve public finance management in a comprehensive manner.
    Sustainability will depend on proper implementation of the said action plan.

    c. The government did not demonstrate a strong will to comply with its commitments and obligations.
    The Petroleum Management Program was challenged by Chadian authorities who unilaterally amended
    the Petroleum Management Law. Since then, efforts have been made on both sides to maintain dialogue
    and find a solution satisfactory to all parties where an agreement may be reached on a more durable
    basis.

    d. The Three Fields production target of 81 million bbls per annum over a five-year period that was
    expected at project appraisal will not be met. The Operator is accelerating production of those fields
    that were mapped as prospects at project appraisal as a result of its geological analyses of the area
    covered by the Convention to make up for the shortfall in production of the original three Doba fields.
    One satellite field started production in June 2005 (adding approximately 7,500 barrels per day). A
    larger field started production in 2006 and several others are being evaluated. On the other hand, the
    Three Fields which permitted the Operator to determine the commerciality of the upstream and
    transportation investments are only part of the prospects already mapped for development in the area
    covered by the 30 years production concession. The existence of the pipeline system together with very



                                                    - 11 -

    favorable prices for crude oil provides the government of Chad an excellent opportunity to turn its
    hydrocarbon wealth into financial resources which can be used to achieve its goal of reducing poverty
    and accelerating economic growth.

    In all, the risks in attaining the outcomes remain significant on account of the need to introduce major
    changes in the management of public resources in Chad. Much will depend on the country's situation
    and the government's ability to move forward with the stated reforms. For this reason the level of
    uncertainty remains too high to allow a "likely" rating of sustainability at this stage.


6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
    The management and operation of the petroleum fields were transferred to the relevant specialized unit
    of ExxonMobil. As the majority shareholder, ExxonMobil is also the operator of the pipeline system,
    through TOTCO and COTCO, and can be counted on to meet the objectives of the Project. On the
    other hand, the ability of Chad and Cameroon to continue monitoring the social and environmental
    aspects of the Project will depend on the governments' continued commitment to strengthen its
    institutions and implement the necessary reforms.


7. Bank and Borrower Performance

Bank
7.1 Lending:
    7.1.1 The World Bank was cognizant of the impact that additional budgetary resources could have on
    Chad's economy but at the same time was fully aware of the considerable risks it was assuming in
    supporting this operation. So it required up-front actions prior to allowing the Project to proceed,
    including the setting up of a revenue management system anchored in legislation, the definition of an
    Environmental and Social Management plan, and the definition of the institutional framework,
    particularly in Chad. Internal World Bank Group issues had to be addressed, such as the lending terms
    and the financing instruments--IBRD loans, IDA credits (US$300 million was envisaged for some
    time), partial risk guarantees, IFC, MIGA, etc.; coordination and consistency of approach between the
    World Bank and the IFC; and a common stand vis à vis the governments and the oil companies.

    7.1.2 Management was involved early on, as World Bank procedures had not anticipated the issues
    raised by this Project, so that many policy notes, briefings, and Operating Committee Memoranda as
    well as Project documents needed to be prepared. Not surprisingly, more than 50 World Bank staff and
    20 IFC staff were associated with the Project. Particularly after 1995, the World Bank received a
    barrage of complaints from NGOs, parliamentarians, and individuals, largely from western industrial
    countries, expressing serious concerns about the advisability of the Project. (The arguments were often
    environmental and social, based on Chad's human rights record and the potential of diverting
    petroleum revenues away from poverty alleviation, as well as questioning the rationale for using IDA
    resources in a commercial venture.) To address some of these issues, it was ultimately decided to
    support the Project with three IDA credits for capacity building. Moreover, the design of the Project
    took into account the major concerns expressed by NGOs and other parties.

    7.1.3 As can be observed in Annex 4 (b), the cost of preparing the Project for the World Bank (over
    1998­2000, as pre-1998 data are not available) can be estimated at US$1.3 million. (Project
    preparation costs for the World Bank Group as a whole have been separately estimated at US$6
    million.) After Board approval, the World Bank negotiated a fee with the sponsors of US$1 million,
    which was paid when the loans became effective.




                                                    - 12 -

    7.1.4 Even though, as noted earlier, the Inspection Panels for Chad and Cameroon highlighted certain
    weaknesses in the preparation of the Project, this should not detract from the extraordinary efforts the
    World Bank made not only in setting the framework but also in working with the Chad government to
    ensure that the requisite safeguard measures were adopted up front.

    For the thoroughness of the preparation the World Bank's performance at appraisal is rated
    satisfactory.

7.2 Supervision:
    7.2.1 The World Bank and IFC supervised the Project, with the World Bank focusing on the
    implementation of Chad's Petroleum Revenue Management Program and the three capacity building
    Projects and IFC staff focused on the technical, environmental, and financial aspects of the pipeline
    Project. In addition, two independent bodies were entrusted with certain aspects of supervision.

    a. The World Bank Group appointed a consultant (the External Compliance Monitoring Group) to
    monitor the implementation by the Consortium of the EMP, and to assess work of the government's
    implementing agencies in Chad and Cameroon. It visited Chad and Cameroon on a quarterly basis. The
    average cost of ECMG's services was about US$400,000 per annum. Its reports that were favorably
    judged by all parties involved are available on the Project Web site

    b. In addition, five distinguished individuals--the International Advisory Group (IAG)--were
    appointed to provide an independent overview of the Project, and to advise the World Bank's President
    on progress in achieving the broad objectives of the pipeline Project and the related capacity-building
    projects. The IAG visited the two countries twice a year and its reports are also available on the Project
    Web site. The IAG was instrumental in helping all stakeholders, including civil society; reach a
    common understanding on the challenges and achievements of the Projects and its contribution was
    highly appreciated. The cost of IAG's services was approximately US$600,000 per annum.

    c. The internal arrangements for supervision evolved over the years. Initially, supervision was carried
    out by several units, with staff based in Washington. Staff was recruited in Cameroon (where the
    majority of the engineering work related to the pipeline was to be carried out) to conduct daily
    monitoring of the activities on the ground. While this approach proved satisfactory in Cameroon, it
    soon became evident that wider lack of sector expertise within Chad would require additional support
    from the World Bank. As a consequence, two experienced staff were appointed--one in Chad and the
    other at Headquarters--to coordinate the World Bank's supervision efforts and help the government to
    implement the different Projects. The two positions were later combined with the appointment of a
    senior program manager. Having a senior staff in the field to coordinate and manage the overall
    supervision effort proved very effective.

    d. The direct cost of supervising this Project was particularly high, about US$2.1 million or
    US$520,000 per annum on average. Including the costs of the IAG and ECMG, the overall supervision
    cost was about US$1.5 million per annum. The IAG's services and a portion of ECMG's were funded
    by EEPCI. The considerable amount of resources invested in external compliance monitoring is the
    result of the importance to all stakeholders of ensuring adequate safeguard measures.

    e. Notwithstanding the considerable supervision efforts, a few tasks were neglected, such as the
    financial monitoring of Project execution (the three advances under the Project Preparation Facility
    were only refinanced in 2005) and the monitoring of compliance with covenants.

    Overall, despite the substantial scope of the supervision, due to the weaknesses identified above, the
    World Bank performance is rated moderately satisfactory.




                                                    - 13 -

7.3 Overall Bank performance:
    Special efforts were made both at Project preparation and execution to ensure that the objectives would
    be attained. This was under the expectation that, unlike many other oil producers, the benefits of
    petroleum exports would be dedicated for the most part to economic development. Despite some
    shortcomings that occurred, the overall performance of the World Bank is rated moderately
    satisfactory.


Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
    7.4.1 The performance of the two governments in Project Preparation is rated satisfactory.

    a. The two governments were particularly cooperative. With continuous contact with the World Bank
    at the highest levels, the government of Chad supported fully the principles of transparency, passed
    appropriate legislation on revenue management, and endorsed the environmental and social features of
    the Project. Contacts in Cameroon were largely at the level of the Société Nationale des
    Hydrocarbures, the government enterprise entrusted with the national petroleum holdings and with
    providing the Technical Secretariat to the Pipeline Steering and Monitoring Committee (PSMC). Much
    of the debate concerned the impact of the Project on biodiversity, acquisition of pipeline right-of-way
    while avoiding resettlement, and the protection of forest-dwelling indigenous people living in the area
    crossed by the pipeline.

    b. At the urging of the World Bank, the governments--particularly Chad's--introduced new
    institutions that were expected to play a major role in the monitoring of the execution of the Project,
    and the good use of petroleum resources.


7.5 Government implementation performance:
    7.5.1 The performance of the Governments during project implementation is rated moderately
    unsatisfactory, on the following grounds:

    a. In Chad, the delay in setting up the project units, mainly due to the scarcity of a locally available
    skilled labor pool, coupled with the accelerated pace of development of the Project, hindered their
    ability to monitor project implementation while at the same time build capacity through intensive
    training of their staff. This was particularly relevant for the CTNSC that had to heavily rely on
    external advisers to ensure the monitoring of implementation by the Consortium of the EMP principles.
    The high turnover within the staff compounded the difficulties. As a result, the government came to
    rely more and more on the ECMG and World Bank supervision missions to identify potential issues.

    b. A few weeks before Board Presentation, in May 2000, the government of Chad received a US$25
    million bonus from the oil companies (on account of having reconstituted the Consortium), part of
    which (US$5 million) was used for military expenditures. Although Law 001 did not explicitly refer to
    signature bonuses, the World Bank expected that these revenues would be used for poverty-reduction
    expenditures in consistency with the provisions of the law and with the agreement on public
    expenditures then in existence between Chad and the IMF. The use of the bonus proceeds raised
    serious concerns for the World Bank, given its commitment to assist in promoting and implementing
    better governance in Chad, including a transparent and efficient use of oil revenues. Following
    extensive consultations with all stakeholders, in December 2000 Chad agreed to allocate the balance of
    the bonus to the different sectors targeted for the use of oil revenues in accordance with the agreed
    principles and procedures.




                                                    - 14 -

   c. As indicated in Section 4.2, a review conducted by the Collège de Contrôle et de Surveillance des
   Resources Pétrolieres (CCSRP, the Oversight Committee on the Management of Petroleum
   Resources) on the use of the petroleum proceeds during 2004 (published in July 2005) confirmed some
   weaknesses in the implementation of the PRMP. In addition, the decision to unilaterally amend the
   PRML constituted a breach of contract, which allowed the Bank to exercise certain legal remedies
   available under the agreements entered into between the Bank and the Government of Chad.
   Nevertheless, efforts were made by both sides to maintain dialogue and find a solution satisfactory to
   all parties. These efforts resulted in an MoU signed in July 2006 as the basis for re-engagement
   between the Government of Chad and the Bank.

   Overall, Chad's implementation performance is rated moderately unsatisfactory.

   d. In Cameroon, the Environmental Section of PSMC/PS functioned reasonably well, although staff
   training was seriously delayed. SNH provided limited logistical support and mobilized environmental
   and social monitors in the field. Effective monitoring was, however, constrained by a highly centralized
   decision-making structure, which closely scrutinized Project resources. Implementation of the health
   program for communities in the pipeline influence area required collaboration from the Ministry of
   Health, which was initially difficult to achieve. Other ministries that had responsibilities under the
   EMP were initially reluctant to mobilize under the leadership of SNH. The situation gradually
   improved as these ministries were drawn into the process of preparing annual work programs and
   budgets for the Cameroon Petroleum Environment Capacity-Enhancement Project.

   e. The start-up of FEDEC was delayed by an initial lack of clarity and commitment by some Board
   members as well as by government formalities. However, the Private Operator provided strong and
   consistent support, and FEDEC became more effective as Board members and staff gained a clearer
   understanding of their roles. Contracts for the management of the Campo Ma'an environmental offset
   and for technical studies leading to a management plan for the Mbam Djerem environmental offset
   were awarded to the World Wildlife Fund and the Wildlife Conservation Society, respectively, and a
   Community Development Facilitator was hired by FEDEC to help implement the Indigenous Peoples
   Plan. The activities of FEDEC were delayed by about two years beyond the original Project schedule.

   Overall, Cameroon's implementation performance is rated satisfactory.

7.6 Implementing Agency:
    The performance of the Consortium is rated satisfactory, on the following grounds:

   a. In relation to Project preparation, contacts at the senior level between Exxon (now ExxonMobil) and
   the World Bank were initiated in 1992/93. Given the different cultures of the two, a great deal had to
   be learned on both sides. Exxon cooperated with the World Bank in preparation of the Project. In
   particular, the main contract for the laying of the pipeline was awarded in accordance with the World
   Bank's applicable guidelines. Exxon also arranged for the preparation and revision of the EA and
   subsequently of the detailed EMP. The company agreed to the need for transparency, and detailed
   information on the Project appears on its Web site. Exxon was also instrumental in finding, in only a
   few months, new partners for the venture after two large multinational oil companies withdrew at a late
   stage.

   b. EEPCI's performance in Project implementation, given the size of the Project and its location, was
   outstanding. The Project was commissioned some 18 months prior to the expected date. The efficiency
   of the operations improved continuously, particularly in relation to drilling. All the facilities were tested



                                                     - 15 -

    for completion during the second half of 2004, and they were all found to be satisfactory. Water in
    excess of the 1 percent water content required under the pipeline agreement occurred at the beginning
    of the Project, due to malfunctioning of equipment. Excess water in the pipeline increases corrosion and
    poses the problem of water disposal at the end of the line. This was corrected in April 2004. The
    average water content in the pipeline has since been below the contractual limit and in line with
    industry best practice.


7.7 Overall Borrower performance:
    Achievements have been very significant. The Project, which was commissioned early, has generated
    considerably higher-than-expected revenues for Chad. Additionally, institutions have been put in place
    to ensure that the project continues to perform satisfactorily.

    These positive developments, notwithstanding, the overall performance of the Borrowers is rated
    moderately satisfactory, on account of the shortcomings on the part of the Government in taking steps
   to develop and/or strengthen institutions.

                                        Summary Borrower Performance
    Chad                                                  Moderately Unsatisfactory
    Cameroon                                              Satisfactory
    Implementing Agency                                   Satisfactory
    Overall Borrower Performance                          Moderately Satisfactory


8. Lessons Learned

    8.1 The governments of Chad and Cameroon, with the support of the World Bank and IAG, conducted
    workshops in N'Djamena and Yaoundé in October 2005 that were attended by representatives of
    government, the oil industry, NGOs, and civil society and other stakeholders. The workshops, the
    highlights of which are in Annex 9, made an important contribution to the findings of the ICR and, in
    particular, the lessons learned.

    8.2. Outsourcing World Bank Supervision Duties. As indicated earlier, there was an informal
    agreement between the World Bank and the IFC on the allocation of supervision responsibilities. In
    addition, two external bodies, the ECMG and the IAG, acting independently, were appointed to
    supervise certain aspects of the project. The ECMG provided independent environmental monitoring
    and insured that project implementation complied with the requirements and provisions of the EMP. In
    contrast, the IAG had a broader oversight mandate spanning social and economic aspects of the
    project. The monitoring completed by these two bodies constituted an innovative feature of the project.
    Based on this experience, the World Bank Group is already using such arrangements to good
    advantage in large infrastructure projects elsewhere in the world.

    8.3 Host Governments' Revenue Estimates. Estimating the future economic performance of an oil
    project is a very difficult exercise due to the high level of uncertainty of oil prices, development costs,
    and reservoir factors. Although after the first year of production certain types of risk are better
    understood ­ reservoir management and project investments ­ oil prices are normally difficult to
    predict. This is particularly true if the quality of the oil produced from the particular project area is
    very different from that of the most traded crudes on the world oil market (the marker crudes). The
    need to manage expectations has been one of the key lessons learned from this project.




                                                     - 16 -

8.4. Government Institutions. Developing national expertise in the different facets of the oil industry
(geology, geophysics, engineering, commercial, finance and economics, environment, and so on) is a
daunting task. By not having this expertise, governments are at a disadvantage when negotiating or
supervising petroleum projects. Particularly in the case of Chad--and, to a lesser extent,
Cameroon--the lack of sufficient oil and gas expertise has been a real handicap. These issues were
largely debated during the two ICR workshops held in Chad and Cameroon in October 2005, and a
certain number of lessons were drawn, notably the need to carry out a solid pre-assessment of existing
national capacities and hence define the needs and the importance of initiating capacity-building
programs as much as possible in advance of a project. Nevertheless, it was equally remarked that
capacity-building programs alone could not provide a country with high-level expertise. Hands-on
experience (learning by doing) remains the best approach to develop national capacities. Besides, the
workshops brought out the fact that, thanks to the Project, there has been a transfer of knowledge in
both countries to consulting firms as well as local businesses. As a result, they have become much
more competitive as a result of the exigencies imposed by the Consortium. Civil society and NGOs
have acquired more expertise in the supervision of environmental and social aspects of big projects.
Thus the knowledge and experience acquired can be used in future projects. With respect to revenue
management, strengthening the administration is of high priority, particularly in connection with public
finance management, and the Collège has been a positive innovative experience. It has established
itself, but its recommendations remain to be applied

8.5 Public-Private Partnerships. One purpose of this Project was to pilot a new model for delivering
development assistance in Africa using public-private partnerships with World Bank guarantees
(implicit or explicit) to mobilize larger volumes of foreign direct investment than these countries could
normally command. In cases like these, private partners may reasonably be asked, as they were in this
case, to bear a share in the cost of mitigating the risks associated with insufficient country capacity.
The World Bank and other partners should also anticipate and budget for extraordinary supervision
expenses and emphasize collaboration and synergies among their respective programs. In addition,
there should have been a quicker resolution of issues raised by the project early on in the project cycle:
(a) the modalities for World Bank financial participation, whether an IDA Credit, or an IDA
Guarantee, IBRD and/or MIGA and/or IFC , (b) how were risks to be allocated between various
parties (political, commercial, technical, pre and post project completion).

8.6 Communications. While a considerable amount of information has been published on various Web
sites (of governments, EEPCI, and the World Bank, in particular), and several information campaigns
were conducted in the producing areas, many participants in the October 2005 workshop felt that this
has not been sufficient and that direct, frequent contacts would have been necessary to allow the parties
to exchange views on various issues as they arose. This was particularly the case for the environmental
and social impacts of the Project, including revenue management.

8.7 Maintaining the Involvement of the World Bank. Misunderstandings regarding the meanings of
"social closure" (conceived as an organized process to identify and resolve all outstanding complaints
from affected persons in the oilfields and along the rights-of-way) and "implementation completion" led
to widespread concern among workshop participants that the World Bank would henceforth withdraw
from supervision of the Project. While normally the World Bank's active involvement in a project
concludes upon its completion, in this instance many stakeholders asked the World Bank to maintain its
presence, particularly to continue to pursue the capacity-building effort, and to ensure that the agreed
operating framework for the Project is maintained. This would of course entail the release of additional
budgets for this purpose

8.8 Sustaining Compliance with EMP Principles. The so-called gatekeeping clause in the Project's
legal documents specifies that oil from new fields can only be accepted for shipment through the


                                                 - 17 -

     pipeline if those fields have been developed and operated in accordance with the principles of the EMP
     for the Three Fields. Guidelines for the interpretation and implementation of the EMP principles were
     agreed by the stakeholders (World Bank Group, Government and Consortium) and were published on
     the Web site of the CTNSC in the last quarter of 2005. Given that Chad's experience in managing
     environmental issues related to this new sector of its economy is still relatively new, the technical
     assistance of the World Bank is still necessary to support the implementation of the required
     institutional and legal measures.

     In addition, as recommended by the participants in the workshop in Chad, the government of Chad
     should provide CTNSC with the means to carry out its mandate, and the system of an external audit
     (as exemplified in the ECMG) of EMP implementation should be maintained and extended to all
     petroleum projects in Chad (this principle was incorporated in the preparation of the EMP Guidelines).

9. Partner Comments

(a) Borrower/implementing agency:


(b) Cofinanciers:
                                                     CHAD

In view of ensuring that the activities related to the Chad Export Project are implemented, (DOBA Project)
as well as the monitoring of the associated technical assistance projects, a National Coordination has been
created by Decree No.339/PR/2000 of August 9, 2000, whose essential mission consists of:

-        coordinating the physical activities of the Project;
-        monitoring the proper execution of the activities associated with the Consortium, TOTCO and
COTCO, in particular with respect to the implementation schedule the Project and the construction of the
Pipeline;
-        monitoring compliance by the Consortium and its contractors with the agreements relative to the
Export Project and the other agreements related to it, particularly: the Environmental Management Plan
(PGE), the National Oil Spill Response Plan, the Compensation and Resettlement Plan;
-        monitoring the proper implementation of the corporate investments to be made in the Project area
as provided for in the Regional Development Plan (PDR) and the programs for increasing capacities.

Production
The production at the Three Fields began respectively with the one at Miandoum in July 2003, Komé in
February 2004, Bolobo in August 2004 and Nya in June 2005.
The production level of 225,000 barrels per day set by the Consortium was never reached due to geological
problems. In October 2005, at the time this document was being prepared, production was running around
170,000 barrels per day.

Marketing
Chadian oil is marketed by three members of the Consortium. The Government of Chad receives royalties
of 12.5 percent of the amounts sold in cash. The discount and the cost of transportation by [sic] pipeline
still remain an enigma for most Chadians.

Borrower's Performance
The performance of the borrower is satisfactory with regard to the performance indicators for the Project.




                                                     - 18 -

Performance by the World Bank
The success carrying out the Project certifies the performance of the bancker.

Impact of the Project on the Development of Economic Growth
Petroleum exports since the last quarter of 2003 have contributed to a rapid improvement in the country's
GDP since the start of construction activities at the end of the year 2000. From 990 billion CFAF in 2002,
real GDP has passed 1,444 billion in 2004, for an increase of more than 21 percent in two years, which is
quite considerable.

Implementation of the Petroleum Revenue Management Program
The Petroleum Revenue Management Program is an innovative mechanism.                      Its implementation,
particularly as concerns the mandate of the Collège, has not encountered major difficulties.             Those
identified at the beginning of the process were very quickly resolved thanks to the willing cooperation of the
National Institutions.

                                                CAMEROON

The Administrative Oversight and the Technical Monitoring work were carried out by the administrative
bodies concerned, under the coordination of the Pipeline Steering and Monitoring Committee (PSMC)
placed under the authority of the National Society of Hydrocarbons (SNH).

Execution of the Project
The Project by its nature was new in Cameroon. Also, the implementation of the Project raised concerns
that were at once legal, financial, technical, and environmental. At the technical level, the main oil pipeline
was designed and built in compliance with national standards, and when the latter were not available, those
in particular of the American Society of Engineers and the American National Standards Institute were
used. On the environmental and social level the conservation policies of the World Bank were applied.

Performance by the Borrower (Republic of Cameroon)
Cameroon asked for and obtained a loan for US$70 million from the IBRD and the EIB to finance its
capital participation in COTCO.
Auditing was carried out by the on-site units of the PSMC and the teams from the administrative bodies
concerned, under the coordination of the PSMC.

Performance by the World Bank
The financing mechanism and the participation of the two Governments has allowed for establishing a
connection with the World Bank and the Lenders who were thus able to provide major support in the
development of the Project. The staff of the World Bank, moreover, implemented a detailed review of the
environmental documentation for the Project. These staff also helped the Consortium and the governments
of the two countries to comply with the construction standards, including those related to environmental
protection.

(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):


10. Additional Information

NOT APPLICABLE




                                                     - 19 -

Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix

Outcome / Impact Indicators:
                                                                                    1
               Indicator/Matrix                                Projected in last PSR                      Actual/Latest Estimate
CHAD
Increase in Chad of US$40 million per            Production started a year ahead of schedule   Although transfers of oil revenues from the
annum in petroleum-financed budget               and thanks to higher oil prices, the revenue  Government's offshore accounts started only
expenditures over 2004­09                        target was exceeded one year ahead of         in July 2004, US$ 68 million were used in
                                                 schedule                                      priority sectors during that year., and US$178
                                                                                               in CY2005. Given the trend expected in oil
                                                                                               revenues the target should be attainable.
                                                                                               However, it should be noted that it is
                                                                                               premature to rate the achievement of the
                                                                                               PDOs at this time in the absence of a Poverty
                                                                                               Assessment Survey linking petroleum
                                                                                               revenues to household income.
1. (a) Export of first oil flow through pipeline The production target of 225,000 b/d by       Production from the Three Fields started
by end-2004 and 81 million barrels/year in       mid-2004 has not been attained as             flowing through the pipeline in July 2003, one
2005-2007                                        anticipated and production seems to be        year ahead of schedule. The crude was first
                                                 declining (185,000 b/d in first quarter 2005) sold on international markets in October
                                                 since end-2004 (when production was           2003. The production target of 81 MBO in
                                                 212,000 - 213,000 b/d). The operator EEPCI, 2005-2007 is likely not to be met, due to
                                                 is examining technical options to increase    higher then expected production of water.
1. (b) Government's petroleum revenues of at productivity of wells. Follow up done by Bank
least US$70 million per year over 2005-08        and IFC staff                                 The overall increase in crude oil prices has
                                                                                               resulted in substantially higher than
                                                                                               forecasted revenues for the Chadian
                                                                                               government, more than offsetting the decline
                                                                                               in production from the Three Fields. By the
                                                                                               end of 2005 the Three Fields had already
                                                                                               generated royalties for US$421 million, more
                                                                                               than the cumulated level of total oil revenue
                                                                                               expected at project appraisal. As the oil price
                                                                                               is expected to remain substantially above the
                                                                                               levels anticipated at project appraisal
                                                                                               throughout the forecast period, the target
                                                                                               average revenue of US$70 million per year
                                                                                               over 2005-08 is expected to be achieved.

2.. Petroleum revenues allocated and                                                           The allocation of funds was broadly in
disbursed in accordance with Petroleum                                                         accordance with the law. Serious procedural
Revenue Management Program                                                                     deficiencies in contract award and
                                                                                               implementation were highlighted in the 2004
                                                                                               report of the Collège. Remedial actions were
                                                                                               proposed.

3. Private sector ownership and control of                                                     Consortium of oil companies (ExxonMobil -
Doba oilfield and pipeline companies                                                           40%; Petronas Carigali - 35%; and Chevron
(excluding minority government share).                                                         Texaco- 25%) fully own the exploration and
                                                                                               development rights in the Three Fields.
                                                                                               Transportation is ensured by two companies,
                                                                                               TOTCO and COTCO, owned by the
                                                                                               Consortium and by the Governments of
                                                                                               Cameroon and Chad (with minority shares).

4. Achievement of targets and norms              Following several months of discussions,      Project operations were generally in
prescribed in the EMP, including under           EEPCI has finally agreed to apply to the      compliance with the EMP. Exceptions were
Resttlement and Compensation Plan.               satellite fields the same EMP as that         noted by the ECMG and World Bank Group
                                                 applicable to Doba. This will be monitored by and were promptly remedied. The execution
                                                 the Bank and IFC, as well as the ECMG         of the resettlement and compensation plan
                                                                                               was exemplary.
CAMEROON

1An increase of at least US$40 million per                                                     Oil started to flow through the pipeline in the
annum in petroleum-generated revenues over                                                     summer of 2003 and the first revenues for
2005­07.                                                                                       Cameroons started soon after. By the end of




                                                                      - 20 -

                                                                           2005, Cameroon received about US$86
                                                                           million (versus an appraisal forecast of
                                                                           US$82 million) in transit fees and dividends.
                                                                           According to the current production forecast
                                                                           by 2007 Cameroon would receive US$157
                                                                           million versus a forecast at appraisal of
                                                                           US$179 million.
2. Physical completion and commissioning of
Export System before end 2004                                              Project started to operate in July 2003.

3. Achievement of targets and norms                                        The physical completion targets, as well as
prescribed in the EMP, including under the                                 the environmental and social targets, have all
Compensation Plan and Indigenous Peoples'                                  been achieved. Project operations were
Plan                                                                       generally in compliance with the EMP.


Output Indicators:
                                                                      1
                 Indicator/Matrix                 Projected in last PSR                Actual/Latest Estimate
CHAD


The cost of US$ 1.52 billion for field system,                             The actual cost of the field system between
and US$1.57 billion for export system                                      2000 and 2005 was US$2.64 billion, and of
(excluding financial costs).                                               the export system US$1.93 billion.


1. (a) (a) drilling of at least 50 wells by                                About 115 wells were drilled by end 2003. By
end-2003 and at least 150 wells by end-2004                                the end of 2004 approximately 90 additional
                                                                           wells were drilled.
1 (b) Construction progress of at least 35                                 The construction was completed in July 2003
percent by end-2002 and at least 75 percent
by end-2003.
1. (c) Construction of 70 km of pipeline in                                The construction of the export system was
Chad by end-2003                                                           completed in July 2003


2. Preparation.
3 (a). Project Investments in Chad of                                      Cumulated investments in Chad were
US$250 million by end 2001, of US$550                                      US$478 million at the end of 2001, US$1,359
million by end-2003 and of US$1,350 million                                million by the end of 2002, and US$2,117
by end-2003.                                                               million by the end of 2003.


3. (b) successful mobilization of commercial                               The anticipated US$400 million bond issue
financing and bond issue by end-2001, and                                  did not materialize for lack of market interest.
financing of at least US$200 million for                                   Commercial loans were secured for US$ 600
COTCO/TOTCO by end-2003.                                                   million. The rest was financed by the
                                                                           shareholders through equity.
4. Regarding the EMP and social aspects,
(a) compensation and resettlement;
(b) no significant or lasting environmental                                (a) Done
damage caused by construction;                                             (b) No major environmental damage identified
(c) minimal social conflicts in project area;                              so far.
and                                                                        (c) Social conflicts have been contained
(d) affected communities participate in
economic benefits.                                                         (d) done
5. Achievement of targets and norms
prescribed in the EMP, including under the
Compensation Plan and Resettlement Plan
CAMEROON


Total Cost (excluding financing costs) of                                  cost estimated at US$1.7 billion.
US$1.3 billion.


1 (a). Construction of 175 km by end-2002                                  The construction of the export system was




                                                        - 21 -

and 890 km by end 2003;1                                  completed in July 2003
(b). Construction of submarine pipeline by
end-2004;1
(c). Construction of FSO by end 2004.1
(d). Upgrading of approximately 200 km of                 The construction of the FSO was completed
roads and construction of Mbere River bridge              early 2003
by end-2002.                                              Done


2 (a) Investments in Cameroon of US$350                   Investments by the end of 2001 were of
million by end-2001, of US$750 million by                 US$625 million, by the end of 2002 were
end-2002, and of US$1,250 million by                      US$1.3 billion, and by the end of 2003 were
end-2003.                                                 US$1.7 billion (excluding financial costs)


3. Regarding the EMP and social aspects,                  (a) Ibid
(a) compensation and Indigenous Peoples                   (b) No major damage identified so far.
Plan implemented in a timely manner; (b) no               (c) Ibid.
significant or lasting environmental damage               (d) Done
caused by construction; (c) minimal social
conflicts in project area; and (d) affected
communities participate in economic
benefits.



1End of project




                                                - 22 -

   Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing

   Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                                    Appraisal      Actual/Latest    Percentage of
                                                                    Estimate         Estimate         Appraisal
                           Component                               US$ million       US$ million
    A. Field System
     Development Drilling, Surface Facilites, Logistical,           1521.00           2648.00                174
    Trasportation Infrastructure, Project Management,
    Operator and Start up Costs, etc

    B. Export System
     Linepipe, infrastructure, offshore facilities, Project         1567.00           1931.00                123
    Management, Operator and Start up Costs.
    Interest During Construction and other financial costs           458.00             156.00                34
    Debt Service Reserve Funding                                     177.00              82.00                46



    Total Baseline Cost                                             3723.00           4817.00
     Physical Contingencies                                            0.00               0.00
     Price Contingencies                                               0.00               0.00
                              Total Project Costs                   3723.00           4817.00
                       Total Financing Required                     3723.00           4817.00




Project Financing by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                                                               Percentage of Appraisal
       Component                  Appraisal Estimate               Actual/Latest Estimate
                             Bank         Govt.        CoF.     Bank        Govt.      CoF.     Bank   Govt.   CoF.
Field System                  0.00        0.00       1521.00     0.00       0.00     2648.31    0.0     0.0    174.1
Export System                            117.50      2084.50     0.00      119.00    2049.01           101.3    98.3




                                                         - 23 -

Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits

                                                                           CHAD - CAMEROON PETROLEUM DEVELOPMENT AND PIPELINE PROJECT
                                                                                        IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
                                                                             UPDATED ECONOMIC & FINANCIAL EVALUATION OF THE PROJECT
                                                                                                    (US$ Million)

                                                 Total       Total         2000 2001 2002  2003  2004  2005      2006 2007  2008  2009  2010  2011  2012  2013  2014  2015  2016  2017 2018  2019  2020
                                                 Update      Appraisal
Shipped Crude Sales Volume - millions of barrels        748          883     -     -   -     9     61    62       52   49    48    43     41   39    36     34   32    30    26    20   18    16    14
Crude Sales Revenue                                   24,182      13,721     -     -   -   236  1,760 2,602    2,429 2,136 1,846 1,491 1,339 1,188 1,004  882   792   737   650   509  452   414   362
Revenue per bbl (US$)                                    32.3        15.5                   27.5  28.7  42.1     46.4  43.3  38.2  34.8  32.4  30.6 27.6   25.8  24.6  24.9  25.1  25.4 25.7  26.0  26.2
Equity Investments
              CMs - Upstream                          2,490        1,459    73   208 342   564    785   747      706  565   424   371    159     -     -     -     -     -     -     -    -     -     -
              CMs - Downstream                        1,428          713   149   325 316   156    370   520      480  341   114    13      0     -     -     -     -     -     -     -    -     -     -
              Chad                                        53          42     -    16  19     6     13    18       17   12     4     0     (0)    -     -     -     -     -     -     -    -     -     -
              Cameroon                                    76          70     -    24  27     8     19    26       24   17     5     1     (0)    -     -     -     -     -     -     -    -     -     -
Total Equity Investments                              4,047        2,285   222   573 705   733  1,187 1,311    1,227  935   548   384    159     -     -     -     -     -     -     -    -     -     -
Debt Financing                                          600        1,400     -     - 219   514    381    86        -     -     -     -     -     -     -     -     -     -     -     -    -     -     -
Total Cash Inflow                                     4,647        3,685   222   573 923  1,248 1,568 1,397    1,227  935   548   384    159     -     -     -     -     -     -     -    -     -     -
Capital Investment
              Exploration & Pre-Development                -           -     -     -   -      -     -      -       -     -     -     -     -     -     -     -     -     -     -     -    -     -     -
              Chad Upstream Development               5,144        1,597    73   208 342   564    785   747      706  565   424   371    317  401   485   515   545   473   401   433  464   242    20
              Chad Export Pipeline                      244          299    13    34  55    78    101    79       58   44    18     2      -     -     -     -     -     -     -     -    -     -     -
              Cameroon Export Pipeline                1,913        1,840   136   331 526   606    682   571      463  326   106    12      -     -     -     -     -     -     -     -    -     -     -
Total Investment Expenditures                         7,302        3,737   222   573 923  1,248 1,568 1,397    1,227  935   548   384    317  401   485   515   545   473   401   433  464   242    20
              of which Export Pipeline                2,157            -   149   365 581   684    783   650      521  370   124    14      -     -     -     -     -     -     -     -    -     -     -
Operating Costs
              Chad Upstream                             619        2,625     -     -   -      -     -      -      11   45    69    72     70   63    60     55   50    49    47    44   42    40    39
              Chad Export Pipeline                      198          144     -     -   -      -     -      -       4   14    21    21     18   15    14     12   10    10     9     9    8      8    8
              Cameroon Export Pipeline                1,639        1,043     -     -   -      -     -      -      34   88   116   120    113   98    86     84   83    82    81    79   77    76    74
Total Operating Costs                                 2,456        3,813     -     -   -      -     -      -      48  147   206   213    201  176   160   150   143   140   137   132  127   124   121
              of which Export Pipeline                1,838            -     -     -   -      -     -      -      38  103   137   141    131  113   100     96   93    92    90    88   85    84    82

Project Operating Cash Flow                           19,071       9,857    (0)    0  (0)    0      0     0      187  723  1,554 2,054 2,242 2,076 1,785 1,628 1,448 1,407 1,309 1,103 899  1,034 1,198

Total Debt Service                                      758        1,909     -     -   -      -     -      -       -   19   100   157    146  135   124   113   102    91    80    71   63    56    49

Distributable Returns                                 18,394       8,125    (0)    0  (0)    0      0     0      187  786  1,535 1,896 2,097 1,942 1,661 1,516 1,347 1,316 1,228 1,032 836   978  1,148
              (including DSRA)
Chad Cash Flow
              Chad Royalty                            2,402        1,017     -     -   -      -     -      -      18   67   149   206    253  267   244   231   215   202   182   162  142   132   126
              Chad Upstream Tax                       3,933          553     -     -   -      -     -      -       -     -     -     -    70  277   438   379   300   271   265   267  226   229   252
              Chad Pipeline Tax                         128          166     -     -   -      -     -      -       -     -     -    1      1    1     2      2    0      -    5    15   20    19    18
              Chad Share of COTCO ROE                     74          56     -     -   -      -     -      -       1    5     8     9      8    8     8      8    8     8     7     7    7      6    6
              Chad share of TOTCO ROE                     23          25     -     -   -      -     -      -       1    2     3     3      3    3     3      3    3     3     3     2    1      1    1
Total Chad Revenue                                    6,560        1,818     -     -   -      -     -      -      20   75   161   217    335  557   696   623   527   483   461   452  395   388   404

Cameroon Cash Flow
              Cameroon Transit Fee                      352          362     -     -   -      -     -      -       4   14    25    28     25   23    21     21   20    20    20    19   18    17    17
              Cameroon Pipeline Tax                       62          48     -     -   -      -     -      -       -     -     -     -     -     -     -     -     -     -     -    2    9    14    13
              Cameroon share of COTCO ROE               132          138     -     -   -      -     -      -       2    9    15    15     15   15    15     15   14    14    13    13   12    11    11
Total Cameroon Revenue                                  546          548     -     -   -      -     -      -       6   23    40    44     40   37    37     36   34    34    33    33   38    42    41

Consortium Cash Flows
              Consortium Upstream Revenue             8,584        3,904     -     -   -      -     -      -     113  494  1,026 1,321 1,420 1,039  609   547   489   511   458   291  169   327   489
              Consortium Share of TOTCO ROE             237          283     -     -   -    15     38    37       33   32    29    11     10    9     7      8    5     1     1     1    1      1    1
              Consortium Share of COTCO ROE           2,336        1,572     -     -   -   159    297   276      262  246   231   205    190  176   148   142     0     1     1     0    0      0    0
Total Consortium Revenue                              11,157       5,759     -     -   -   174    335   313      408  773  1,285 1,537 1,619 1,223  764   698   494   513   459   292  170   328   490




                                                                                               - 24 -

Annex 4. Bank Inputs

(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                      No. of Persons and Specialty                 Performance Rating
                                           (e.g. 2 Economists, 1 FMS, etc.)         Implementation Development
                    Month/Year    Count              Specialty                        Progress       Objective

 Identification/Preparation
               8/8/1995                       2    Team Leader (1), Sr. Energy
                                                   Economist (1)
               11/13/1995                     7    Team Leader (1), Sr. Energy
                                                   Economist (1), Petroleum
                                                   Engineer (2), Pipeline Engineer
                                                   (1), Economist (1),
                                                   Environmental Specialist (1)
               1/27/1996                      1    Environmental Specialist (1)
               3/19/1996                      2    Petroleum Engineer (2)
               9/6/1996                       1    Sr. Energy Economist
               2/8/1997                       3    Team Leader)(1), Sr. Energy
                                                   Economist (1), Economist (1)
               7/12/1997                      4    Team Leader (1), Sr. Energy
                                                   Economist (1), Economist (1),
                                                   Environmental Specialist (1)
               5/10/1998                      1    Team Leader

 Appraisal/Negotiation
               7/2/1999                       4    Team Leader (1), Counsel
                                                   (1), Environmental Specialist
                                                   (1), Program Assistant (1)

 Supervision
               6/10/2001                      1    Team Leader                           S               S
               11/18/2002                     1    Deputy Coordinator                    S               S
               12/03/2004                     2    Lead Financial Analyst (Team          S               S
                                                   Leader) (1); Petroleum Engineer
                                                   (1)

 ICR
               03/15/2005                     1     Team Leader



(b) Staff:

       Stage of Project Cycle                        Actual/Latest Estimate
                                        No. Staff weeks                   US$ ('000)
  Identification/Preparation                  193.3                          1134.0
  Appraisal/Negotiation                       157.3                            205.6
  Supervision                                 186.9                          2,034.1
  ICR                                              4                            43.6
  Total                                       541.5                          3,417.3
The staff weeks and totals for Supervision and ICR are not disaggregated in SAP.




                                                    - 25 -

Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components

(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
                                          Rating
  Macro policies                        H        SU    M       N    NA
  Sector Policies                       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Physical                              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Financial                             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Institutional Development             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Environmental                         H        SU    M       N    NA

Social
           Poverty Reduction            H        SU    M       N    NA
           Gender                       H        SU    M       N    NA
           Other (Please specify)       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Private sector development            H        SU    M       N    NA
  Public sector management              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Other (Please specify)                H        SU    M       N    NA




                                                    - 26 -

Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)


6.1 Bank performance                           Rating

   Lending                                       HS     S     U       HU
   Supervision                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU


6.2 Borrower performance                       Rating

   Preparation                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Government implementation performance         HS     S     U       HU
   Implementation agency performance             HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU




                                                    - 27 -

Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents

1. Semi Annual Reports to the Board (11)
2. Quarterly Reports of the Operator (until first half 2005).
3. IAG Reports (9)
4. ECMG Reports (11)
5. Oversight Committee of Surveillance and Control (College)




                                                   - 28 -

Annex 8. Beneficiary Survey Results




                                      - 29 -

Annex 9. Stakeholder Workshop Results




           N'Djamena (Oct. 10-11, 2005) and Yaoundé (Oct. 13-14, 2005)

I. Background

1.      Two workshops were held in N'Djamena and Yaoundé, consistent with the Bank's
procedures for innovative projects. They had two essential objectives: (i) to enable all parties
including the stakeholders and the observers to exchange views on the Project during inception,
construction and operation; and (ii) to draw the lessons not only to improve performance in the
operational phase, but also to support future projects in the two countries and elsewhere.
2.      Participants included representatives from the Governments, the Consortium of petroleum
companies, the oversight and monitoring bodies involved in the project, both national and
international NGOs, the private sector, trade unionists, parliamentarians, opinion leaders and the
World Bank Group.
3.      These workshops focused on five key topics which were presented to the audience,
followed by intense debates. These topics were:
i.      Technical aspects, including oil production and sale;
ii.     Environmental and social aspects;
iii.    Institutional arrangements, capacity building and supervision of the project during
execution;
iv.     Economic impacts for the two countries and,
v.      Petroleum Revenue Management in Chad.

II. General Observations

4.      A large number of parties/individuals expressed strong interest in the workshops, and
certain stakeholders made considerable efforts to prepare themselves for the event. Taking into
account the quality of the presentations, the intensity of the debates, the commitment of the
participants, one would conclude that these workshops were both timely and useful.
5.      A remarkable feature was the preparation and involvement of national NGOs of Chad and
Cameroon. Cameroonian NGOs held a preparatory meeting in Yaoundé in August, to adopt a
common strategy. On the sidelines of the N'Djamena workshop, Chadian NGOs organized a
forum on "Social Closure of the petroleum project: the World Bank faced with its
responsibilities" from the 6th to the 11th of October.
6.      Even though the Bank was heavily criticized at times, particularly by civil society, all
parties, including the NGOs, recognized the very important role that the Bank has played in
connection with the Project. Some expressed fears that the ICR would constitute a termination of
Bank involvement and expressed a strong desire that the institution remain present and active.
With insistence, these NGOs requested that the ICR concept be clarified. To them, this was
tantamount to the withdrawal of the World Bank, and they urged the Bank to continue
supervising the Project in the future.
7.      While there were tense moments during the workshops, these were largely the result of a



                                                - 30 -

lack of prior communication. It became clear that a constructive and respectful dialogue can be
maintained, and that frequent contacts would benefit all.
III. Key Lessons

       a. Technical Aspects

8.     Chad is now a producer and exporter of oil. The fact that the implementation of the Doba
project took place without major problems should attract the international oil industry to investing
in Chad. Considerable technology and know-how were transferred to Chad thanks to the Project.

9.     The production targets are far from being attained as increasing quantities of water are
being produced instead of oil.
10.    The concept of the discount is not understood by all. Does the discount represent a means
to value the oil, or is it a post facto measurement reflecting the fact that the Doba blend is valued
independently of Brent, given its characteristics? Some participants noted that the discount is
almost three times higher than the PAD estimate, but it was noted that the discount also fluctuates
with oil prices.
11.    The pipeline tariffs seem high and the underlying calculation is not understood by many.
12.    It was agreed that there is considerable uncertainty in assessing reservoirs, and it is also
true that petroleum markets are volatile and unpredictable. Still, many participants felt that the
Consortium could be more transparent and communicate more effectively ­ otherwise, an
atmosphere of suspicion could develop.
13.      Some participants thought that the Bank could have done a better job in appraising the
Project, to better align expectations with performance and outcome.

       b. Environmental and Social Aspects

14.    The main recommendations were as follows:
i.     The concept of social closure needs to be clarified. This wording might imply that beyond
that point, the Consortium ceases to be responsible for the communities affected by the Project.
There should be a mechanism to enable affected parties to communicate with the Operator;
ii.    The concept of non-compliance and its implications ought to be clarified;
iii.   A mechanism should be instituted to enable various parties to meet, exchange views, and
make decisions;
iv.    An external supervision mechanism like the ECMG should apply to all petroleum projects
in Chad;
v.     The Bank should have better assessed the resources and skills required to manage and
monitor the environmental and social aspects of big projects;
vi.    To better assess and evaluate the Project's impact, some participants recommended better
communicating the baselines, particularly at the social level,
vii.   When parties are compensated in cash, an advisory service should be put in place to
ensure that the funds received are wisely utilized; and
viii.  The EMP should allow for the resolution of unforeseen issues. This requires that provision
be made for a mechanism for resolving non-anticipated problems in the EMP of future projects.

       c. Institution Building and Capacities Development




                                                - 31 -

15.     The institutional framework put in place has proven effective in enabling the countries to
look after their interests. Structures such as the National Coordination in Chad or the Pipeline
Steering and Monitoring Committee (PSMC) in Cameroon would be more effective if they could
fall directly under the Prime Ministry or the Presidency.
16.     The capacity-building projects should be maintained and even intensified to allow better
supervision of the operational phase as well as better preparation for future projects; and the
Governments should make good use of the skills acquired under the Project;
17.     Civil Society should be involved as much as possible in some of the capacity building
programs.

        d. Economic Aspects

18.     The Project's economic benefits are significant both on the macro and micro levels.
Unfortunately, the gains are not explicit so a methodology should be developed to obtain
concrete, representative result.
19.     The two Governments, with the assistance of the World Bank Group, should take
advantage of the fiber optic cable which was installed along the pipeline route to bring benefits to
the two countries.
20.     In the future, the Government should consult more with the Private sector to generate
higher levels of local participation. In addition, it became apparent that some local enterprises
were not competitive. They need to draw lessons and organize themselves better for future
projects ­ competitiveness should be a major concern for local firms.

        e. Petroleum Revenue Management

21.     This was a contentious issue, calling for reinforcement of communication and
information-sharing to allow parties to understand the content and implementation of the
Petroleum Revenue Management Law.
22.     Civil Society did not want the provisions of the revenue management law amended as
proposed by the Chadian Government. From the NGOs' standpoint, if any changes were to be
made, those should entail only the application of the law to all the petroleum fields in Chad.
23.     It was felt that the Collège had been able to establish itself as an oversight body. However,
many of its recommendations had yet to be implemented. It was felt that strengthening the
Collège should be an absolute necessity, particularly in connection with managing public funds.


IV. Conclusions

Three strong messages emerged from the two workshops:

        i. Communication and information-sharing should be improved;

        ii. The social dimension of a project such as the CCPP should be clearly articulated and
        closely monitored, particularly in meeting the needs of those affected by the project; and

        iii. Government monitoring/supervision capacity, as well as that of civil society, should be
        strengthened as much as possible before the project starts.

        iv. While normally the World Bank's active involvement in a project concludes upon its


                                                - 32 -

completion, in this instance many stakeholders requested that the World Bank maintain its
presence, particularly to continue to pursue the capacity building effort, and to ensure that
the agreed operating framework for the project is maintained. This would of course entail
the release of additional budgets for this purpose.




                                        - 33 -

   Additional Annex 10. Summary of Inspection Panel-CAMEROON


                                                May 2, 2003

INTRODUCTION

1. The Petroleum Development and Pipeline Project (hereinafter `the Pipeline Project') and the Petroleum
Environment Capacity Enhancement Project (hereinafter `the CAPECE Project') are two closely related
Bank-supported Projects in Cameroon. The World Bank's Board of Executive Directors approved both
Projects on June 6, 2000. The Pipeline Project is partially financed by (i) a loan from the International Bank
for Reconstruction and Development (IBRD), in an amount equal to US$53.4 million; and (ii) a loan from the
International Financial Corporation (IFC), in the amount of US $100 million. The Pipeline Project is
principally financed by three private sector petroleum companies (ExxonMobil, Chevron and Petronas or the
"Consortium"). The CAPECE Project is financed by the International Development Association (IDA) in an
amount equivalent to SDR 4,300,000 (about US$5.77 million).

2. The Pipeline Project is the largest private sector investment in Sub-Saharan Africa and consists of the
development of three oil fields in Chad's Doba Basin (Rome, Miandoum, and Bolobo), which constitute the
Field System. The Tchad Oil Transportation Company S.A. (TOTCO), a Chadian Government Company, is
operating the Field System. The Project includes the construction of an Export System comprising a 1,070
kilometers long pipeline, from the oil fields in Chad to an offshore oil-loading facility near Cameroon's
Atlantic coast. The Cameroonian component of the Project consists of 880 kilometers of buried on-land
pipeline, eleven kilometers of off-shore pipeline, two pumping stations, a pressure reduction station, and the
off-shore floating storage and offloading vessel at Kribi (see Map 1
of this Report). According to Project documents, the Export System in Cameroon will be built and operated
by Cameroon Oil Transportation Company S.A. (COTCO), a joint-venture company formed between the
Consortium, the Government of Chad, and the Government of Cameroon. The pipeline is nearing completion,
and "first od" is expected in the second half of 2003.

3. In addition to supporting the Pipeline Project, the Bank is financing capacity building in Cameroon through
the Petroleum Environment Capacity Enhancement Project (CAPECE). This project aims to establish a
national capacity to protect and mitigate the social and environmental impacts of the Pipeline Project. The
CAPECE Project includes (a) the strengthening of the local institutional, regulatory and legal framework; (b)
coordination of capacities for environmental management; (c) public intervention capacity for environmental
management; and (d) project management, monitoring and evaluation.

4. On September 25,2002, the Panel received a Request for Inspection (`the Request') submitted by the Center
for the Environment and Development (CED), a local nongovernmental organization (NGO) based in
Yaoundé acting on behalf of a number of people living along the pipeline route in Cameroon, and by a number
of individuals, including workers or former workers of COTCO and/or its contractors, all residents of the
Republic of Cameroon (the `Requesters'). This Request for Inspection relates to the Cameroon portion, of the
Chad-Cameroon Pipeline Project. As a result of a previously received Request for Inspection, the Panel had
an opportunity to investigate the Chad portion of the project in 2002 (see Annex 1 of this Report).

5. The Request alleges that the Pipeline Project and the CAPECE Project have had an adverse impact on local
communities and their environment or they are likely to result in harm because of flaws in project design and
implementation. The Requesters allege violations of the following Bank policies and procedures:



                                                       - 34 -

Environmental Assessment, Natural Habitats, Poverty Reduction, Indigenous Peoples, Involuntary
Resettlement, Project Supervision, and Disclosure of Operational Information. The Request was registered by
the Panel on September 30, 2002.

6. Bank Management responded to the Request on October 29, 2002 (the `Response'). In its response,
Management included a summary of the overall project framework and of the Bank's role in the design,
implementation and supervision of the Pipeline Project and CAPECE Project. Management maintained that it
made every effort to apply Bank policies and procedures to the Projects, and it disagreed with the Requester's
claim that their rights or interests had been and would be adversely affected by Management's failure to
comply with Bank policies and procedures.

7. The Panel found that the Request and the Requesters had met all the applicable eligibility criteria. After a
short visit to Cameroon, the Panel issued its Eligibility Report to the Board of Executive Directors on
November 26, 2002 recommending an investigation into the matters raised in the Request. The Board
approved the Panel's recommendation on December 16, 2002.

8. The following sections present a summary of the Panel's Investigation Report. The Panel is generally
pleased with the efforts shown by the Bank Management to reach compliance with its own policies and
procedures, although it has found noncompliance instances in particularly during the design stages of the
project. In addition, the Panel feels that it is important to call attention to the difficulties and delays associated
with the implementation of the CAPECE Project. This situation, if not corrected, may adversely affect the
sustainability of the Pipeline Project. In the same vein, it is the Panel's view that successful socio-economic
programs hinge on effective communication among all parties involved, something that has not yet been fully
achieved in the context of the Pipeline Project.

ENVIRONMENTALIMPACTASSESSMENTANDMITIGATION MEASURES

9. General Considerations. In reviewing the history and timing of the Project, the Panel considers that there
are two distinct phases of the Pipeline Project that form the basis of the Panel's analysis of Bank compliance
with OD 4.01 on Environmental Assessment. The first phase is the Evaluation and Assessment Phase while
the second is the Implementation and Monitoring Phase. The Evaluation and Assessment Phase covers the
initial stages of project preparation including the completion of the initial Environmental Assessment (EA) of
1997 and the subsequent 1999 Environmental Management Plan (EMP) and the Project's appraisal until the
time of Project Approval by the Bank Board of Directors in June of 2000. In the Evaluation and Assessment
Phase, the Panel assesses Bank's compliance with its policies during the process which leads to the approval
of the Project. In the Implementation and Monitoring Phase, the Panel examines compliance with the
applicable Bank policies during the implementation of the 1999 EMP associated with pipeline construction
activities in Cameroon.

10. Participation of the Independent Panel of Experts. Paragraph 13 of OD 4.01 (Environmental Assessment)
requires that for large projects, an Independent Panel of Experts should be retained. The Panel found that the
Bank was not in compliance with such provision since the required Independent Panel of Experts was not fully
engaged during the preparation and approval of the 1999 EA/EMP since its participation was discontinued.
There has been no independent review of the 1999 Environmental Management Plan by the IPE and no
significant full-time participation of an IPE in Cameroon since 1997. In addition, the Panel is not in agreement
with Management's contention that, as of February 2001, the International Advisory Group's (LAG) advisory
role to the governments of Chad and Cameroon helped to fill the gap left by the absence of the IPE. Rather the
IAG advice forms part of the Bank's supervision role of the Project along with that of the External
Compliance Monitoring Group (ECMG). Since the LAG and the ECMG report to the Bank and to the IFC


                                                         - 35 -

respectively, they cannot be considered as technically independent in the sense intended by OD 4.01. Thus,
these mechanisms do not meet the requirement of an Independent Panel of Experts as laid out in the provisions
of OD 4.01.1.

11. During the February 2003 meetings with the Pipeline Steering and Monitoring Committee (CPSP) in
Yaoundé, the Panel was informed that the GGC is currently seeking a no-objection approval from the World
Bank for the selection of a new Independent Expert Panel. Management noted that the terms of reference for
the IPE will be addressed during the Projects' mid-term review mission planned for April/May 2003. The
Panel is concerned with the proposed role of the new IPE since the construction phase of the project is now
almost completed. The roles and responsibilities of the IPE need to be defined in this context in conjunction
with the CPSP and the National Hydrocarbons Corporation (SNH) in order to comply with the requirements
of paragraph 13 of OD 4.01 for providing advice on "(...)(d) implementation of the EA's recommendations,
and (e) development of environmental management capacity in the implementing agency." Given the
difficulties encountered with the first IPE over a failure to agree on its roles and responsibilities, the Panel has
doubts regarding the real value of the IPE in this context. Clearly an opportunity exists to avoid the problems
encountered with the first IPE. The new IPE needs to have a credible niche that meets the institutional
capacity and technical needs of the CPSP/SNH and does not duplicate the activities and functions of the IAG
and ECMG.

12.   Baseline Data. The Panel noted the Requester's claims and the Bank's response concerning the
inadequacy of baseline information during the Evaluation and Assessment Phase of the project through the
completion of additional baseline surveys of biodiversity in both Chad and Cameroon. In addition, a series of
alignment sheets was produced for the final routes selected which incorporated important environmental
information.

13 The Panel concluded in the Chad Investigation Report that there was a lack of linkage between baseline
data collection, the assessment of project impacts and the subsequent application of mitigation and
management actions. A similar comment applies to Cameroon, which leads the Panel to find that Management
is not in compliance with paragraph 2 of Annex C of OD 4.01.

14. In the Panel's view, the Bank was not in compliance with paragraph 7 of Annex D of OD 4.01 regarding
the collection of a full year of baseline data at the project Evaluation and Assessment Phase. Overall, greater
efforts should have been made to collect at least one year's baseline data during the Project Evaluation and
Assessment Phase. The Panel notes COTCO's extensive commitment to an ongoing collection of baseline
data, but observes that this has occurred only since the start of project implementation. Nevertheless, such an
effort should provide more data on seasonal and annual differences in environmental conditions of the area
over the life of the Project and may eventually accomplish the intent of OD 4.01 on collection of baseline data.
However, there is still a limited amount of information available on pre-project conditions. Many of the
resource conflicts that have arisen during project construction could have been avoided had there been a full
year's baseline information prior to project approval.

15. Analysis of Alternatives. The Panel reviewed the selection of alternatives prepared by COTCO in Volume
4 of the EMP concerning the routing of the proposed pipeline through Cameroon. The Panel notes that
significant attempts have been made to avoid sensitive ecological areas and to follow the routes of most
disturbances wherever possible, often at considerable extra cost. Changes to the pipeline alignment were made
to avoid the Mb&e Rift Valley, to minimize disturbance in the Deng Deng Forest region and to follow
disturbed sites through the Atlantic Littoral Forest region, and lands also occupied by the BakoWBagyeli
people. The Panel finds that the EA/EMP section on alternative pipeline routings is well presented and
contains extensive analysis using computerized mapping techniques to define the routes having the lowest


                                                        - 36 -

environmental and socio-economic impacts. Accordingly, the Panel finds the Bank in compliance with the
provisions of OD 4.01 concerning the analysis of alternative routings of the pipeline right-of way in
Cameroon.

16. Analysis of Cumulative Effects (and the need for a Regional Assessment). The Panel's analysis of the
need for a cumulative effects assessment is directed more to the Evaluation and Assessment Phase of the
project, prior to the approval by the World Bank rather than to the Project Monitoring and Implementation
Phase. As noted in the Chad Investigation Report, Bank Management recognized the need for assessment of
cumulative effects early in the project. Cumulative effects should have been taken fully into account during
the initial stages of project review and during the scoping process.

17. The Panel is concerned by Management's narrow interpretation of cumulative impacts of the project in
that it is restricted to the narrow imprint of the pipeline right-of-way through Cameroon. It is clear that this
project will be a stimulus to the development of additional oil resources in Cameroon and that the development
of project infrastructure such as roads and other associated offsite developments will lead to further
development within the Pipeline area. The Panel therefore sees no basis for the comment that "the cumulative
impacts of the Pipeline project are expected to be below the threshold that would warrant further analysis or a
`formal' cumulative impact assessment." The Panel would like to know what criteria were the threshold
determined that would warrant further analysis or a formal cumulative impact assessment. The Panel notes
that a formal cumulative impact assessment was not in fact completed even though it had been identified as a
requirement by Management during the revision of the 1997 EA.

18. The Panel believes that a cumulative impact assessment of the project in Cameroon should have been
completed by taking into account the future development of upstream oil developments in northern Cameroon
and new oil/gas fields off the Cameroon coast, in addition to large scale regional oil and gas developments that
are planned for Equatorial Guinea, Gabon and Nigeria. Additional projects in the vicinity of the Pipeline
Project, such as the Lam Pangar Dam and the new European Union funded highway linking southern Chad to
northern Cameroon, should also have been factored in. The Panel finds, therefore, that Management is not in
compliance with OD 4.01 as regards the need for an adequate assessment of the Project's cumulative effects.

19. Institutional Concerns. The Panel conducted a detailed study of the CAPCE Project and its relation with
the Pipeline Project. In addition, the Panel met with representatives of the CPSP and the SNH in Yaoundé. At
this meeting, the Panel noted that representatives of the CPSP consisted of personnel from the SNH and that
there was no presence of other Government sectors which conformed to the CPSP.

20. In addition, the Panel independently did not have the opportunity to verify the presence of the CPSP
monitors in the field as pipeline construction has, to all intents and purposes, been concluded. Their presence
was not noted during the Panel's February 2003 inspection of the pipeline right-of-way in Cameroon. It is not
in the mandate, or is it the purpose of the Panel to evaluate the capabilities of the GOC in implementing the
CAPECE project. Rather it seeks to evaluate the role of the Bank in its supervision and assistance to the GOC
to ensure effective project implementation. Nonetheless, the Panel could not confirm that the CPSP indeed had
an effective field monitoring presence during pipeline construction activities. In fact, it was reported from
independent sources, that the CPSP often lacked adequate training, equipment and transport in the field and
therefore relied heavily on logistical support provided by COTCO.

21. From the evidence, the Panel has to conclude that it was not possible for the CPSP to have a fully
independent field monitoring capability to assess environmental and social compliance of the 1999 EA/EMP
as originally envisaged by the CAPECE Project. This is because the needed financial resources and personnel
were not provided in a timely fashion. In fact, approximately 90% of funds remain to be disbursed out of the


                                                        - 37 -

relevant Bank Credit that finances the CAPECE Project.

22. After a detailed review of the CAPECE Project and discussions with Bank staff, GOC and COTOCO
officials, the Panel is concerned about the fragility of the local institutional framework which, ultimately, will
be in charge of monitoring the Pipeline Project on behalf of the GOC. The delays associated with the
implementation of the CAPECE Project which was specifically designed to mitigate this fragility, affected the
GOC's performance during the entire construction period. The Panel finds, therefore, that the purpose of OD
4.01, paragraph 12 regarding the strengthening of environmental capabilities to adequately assess construction
impacts during the Implementation and Monitoring Phase of the project has not been achieved.

23. Preparation for Oil Spills. During its visit to Cameroon, COTCO informed the Panel of the status of the
six ASOSRPs that are being prepared for the Project (two for Chad and four for Cameroon). The plans have
been prepared and have been distributed to 11 reading rooms in Cameroon. COTCO also stated that they had
distributed copies of the plans (both in hard copy and CD-ROM) to offices of the World Bank, the JFC,
NGOs, Embassies, and the CPSP. Public consultation on the plans was completed at 11 locations in
Cameroon during January and February 2003. A company, Oil Spill Response Ltd. (OSRL) has been
contracted to complete an independent review of the plans.

24. The Panel received electronic copies of the six ASOSRPs for Chad and Cameroon. The documents are
well prepared and extensive. The Panel notes that the GOC has now prepared a draft of the National Oil Spill
Response Plan and that there is sufficient time to coordinate the NOSRP with the four ASOSRPs (Cameroon
portion) prepared by COTCO.

25. Management informed the Panel of the plans of the CPSP for consultation on the National Oil Spill
Response Plan. In addition, an external reviewer is currently being sought to comment on the NOSRP. The
consultations and external review should be coordinated with COTCO to ensure consistency with their review
and consultation process for the six ASOSRPs.

26. COTCO also provided the Panel with a letter of certification from OSRL, the external reviewer contracted
to complete the independent review of the six ASOSRPs. The letter indicates that the six plans have been
prepared in accordance with internationally recognized oil spill planning guidelines and that they reflect
standards set by the International Petroleum Industry Environmental Conservation Association. The
documents also comply with conditions established in the project EMP and are consistent with the General Oil
Spill Response Plan (GGSRP). Management has assured the Panel that the NOSRP will follow the same
review process as the ASOSRPs. The Panel concurs with the results of the independent reviewer. The
National Oil Spill Plan and Area Specific Oil Spill Plans are being prepared in accordance with EMP
provisions and established international standards.

27. Impacts on Water Quality and Quantity. The Panel notes that since the oil has not started to flow yet, the
range of probable water problems relate to the presence of bacteriological contamination and/or the
destruction of water sources. In addition to examining the general plans and procedures used during
construction with respect to water sources, the Panel felt that it was important to examine those specific cases
that were brought to its attention.

28. The Panel visited five specific areas associated with disputes over water issues during its field visits. It is
neither the role nor the mandate of the Panel to be the arbiter in resolving these disputes. Rather the Panel can
only comment on whether the Bank is in compliance with the Bank policy OD 4.01 on Environmental
Assessment.




                                                        - 38 -

29. While there are a few unresolved disputes regarding alleged damage to specific water sources along the
pipeline right-of-way in Cameroon, there is no evidence that serious harm has resulted from the Pipeline
project. Based on a review of these cases, the Panel considers that the Bank is in compliance with OD 4.01
pertaining to water issues. Management should however continue to monitor each specific situation to ensure
that a resolution amicable to all parties has been reached.

30. Impacts on Freshwater Fisheries. A claim pertaining to freshwater fisheries was raised during the Panel's
investigation mission to Cameroon. In addition, the Panel examined the overall procedures for building the
river crossings required for the construction of the pipeline and found them to be adequate and in compliance
with the EMP. In the specific case investigated, COTCO provided the Panel with baseline data it had collected
in compliance with the EMP. The Panel reviewed the data and found no long-term impact on freshwater
fisheries. On the basis of the foregoing, the Panel finds the Bank in compliance with OD 4.01 with respect to
impact on freshwater fisheries.

3 1. Assessment of Greenhouse Gas Emissions. The Panel addressed the issue of greenhouse gas emissions in
the Chad Investigation Report. The Panel accepts Management's contention that the assessment of greenhouse
gas emissions is in compliance with OD 4.01, paragraph 11 concerning global issues. In addition, the Panel
believes that the likelihood of a substantial contribution by the Pipeline Project to greenhouse gas emissions is
low. The Panel notes the recent study commissioned by the Bank to review its role as far as extractive
industries are concerned.

32. Noise Disturbance Associated with Construction Work. The Requesters raise two specific claims
regarding noise impacts associated with construction. The first related to a claim at Mpango regarding noise
from bulldozers and from blasting activities over three month duration. The second claim relates to noise
impacts of construction machinery on the presence of game in Bakola/Bagyeli communities that
has affected their subsistence. The Panel investigated this claim in conjunction with other claims discussed
elsewhere in this Report. The Panel could find no evidence of long-term harm to the Requester and his family
resulting from noise disturbance associated with construction activities. There is no doubt that noise could be
a nuisance during the time of construction, but the duration is short, normally no more than one month at any
given location.

33. Based on a review of this information, the Panel believes that noise impacts to both humans and wildlife
populations during construction is a temporary disturbance limited to at most a month's duration in any one
particular location. In the specific case of the Bakola/Bagyeli, the Panel notes that the final pipeline alignment
in the Atlantic littoral forests follows a disturbed corridor where game populations are scarce due to human
presence and activities. The Panel concludes that there is no evidence of serious harm associated with noise
resulting from pipeline construction activities. Once reclamation activities are completed, there will be little or
no activity and thus little or no noise relating to pipeline activities in the pipeline right-of-way during the
operations phase.

34. Concerns about Dust. The production of dust was raised as a specific health issue by the Requesters. In
its Response to the Panel, Management does not provide a detailed position on the dust issues, but has asked
COTCO to follow up on the individual cases raised in the Request for Inspection. The one specific claim by
an individual who suffers from pulmonary problems which was raised in the Request for Inspection, was
dismissed by the Panel during the Eligibility phase of the Request because the Panel found that the person had
a pre-existing pulmonary condition.

35. Regarding concerns about dust pollution from roads in communities affected by pipeline construction, the
Panel observed the implementation of a DBST on the road surface in the Dompta and Bemboyo area which


                                                        - 39 -

has been put in place at the cost of approximately US$50,000 per kilometer. The Panel did not receive any
community complaints about dust pollution during consultations in the Investigation phase. The Panel agrees
that although dust was a nuisance factor during the pipeline construction period, COTCO has taken steps to
mitigate this disturbance by providing a hardened bitumen road surface. As pipeline construction activities are
now concluded in Cameroon, dust disturbance will only be associated with construction of the two pumping
stations and the pressure reduction station. COTCO is attempting to reduce these dust impacts by watering
the roads around areas of ongoing construction.

36. The Panel cannot find any evidence of serious harm arising from project related dust emissions in
Cameroon. COTCO should continue to mitigate these impacts by the continued implementation of DBST
measures, or watering of the road surfaces, while ensuring that water withdrawal is within limits prescribed
by the 1999 EMP.

37. Natural Habitats The Panel notes that the Requester's claim regarding the offset compensation areas only
applies to the Camp0 Ma'an Protected Area and that they have no specific concerns regarding the Mbam
Djerem protected area created as compensation for project losses to the semi-deciduous forest in Cameroon.
This was confirmed to the Panel by the CED during the field investigation of February 2003
(Map 2 shows the Campo Ma'an area).

38. In the Panel's view, the location of the Camp0 Ma'an offset area in the coastal lowland forest region
represents the only opportunity for preservation of this important habitat type within Cameroon.

39. Regarding the claims of illegal logging, the Panel notes that the one instance of illegal logging reported,
while clearly undesirable, appears to be a single event and not necessarily indicative of larger systemic
problems that would constitute noncompliance with OP 4.04. Also, the reported illegal logging did not
compromise the ecological integrity of the park. The Panel urges Bank staff and FEDEC to work closely with
MINEF to ensure that illegal logging does not occur again within the boundaries of Camp0 Ma'an protected
area and that sustainable land use practices in the surrounding buffer zone areas take place.

40. The Panel is in agreement with Management that the activities of FEDEC for ensuring the protection of
the Campo Ma'an and Mbam Djerem environmental offset areas have begun slowly, but that this in itself does
not constitute non-compliance with OP 4.04. Management has the responsibility to supervise the activities of
FEDEC to ensure that the recently signed contract with WWF for Camp0 Ma'an and WCS for Mbam Djerem
will result in clear objectives and management responsibilities in conjunction with MINEF.

41. Lom River Bridge. The Lom River Bridge is a temporary structure across the Lom River that is used for
the egress of the Pipeline from the ecologically important Deng Deng Forest. In accordance with the
provisions of the 1999 EA/EMP, all temporary bridge structures are to be removed at the end of the
construction period. However, some local communities and other interests are calling for the retention of the
bridge in order to provide vehicular access across the Lom River, where access does not currently exist. The
concern about maintaining the bridge is that it could also provide vehicular access to the Deng Deng Forest
resulting in logging and eventual destruction of the forest. The Panel believes that the removal of all
temporary bridges (including the Lom River Bridge) is necessary to ensure compliance with the EMP (and the
spirit of OD 4.01 and OP 4.04).

42. Consultation and Disclosure of Information. The Panel finds that there have been misunderstandings
during both consultations and compensations processes between COTCO representatives and project-affected
people. However, it would be simplistic to assign the fault to these misunderstandings. For example, in the
community compensation case at Ngovayang III discussed in Chapter Four (Social Assessment and


                                                        - 40 -

Mitigation) COTCO presented ample evidence that a series of meetings took place and decisions were taken
and communicated to the project affected people. Yet when the Panel interviewed members of this village,
there were clearly misunderstandings about what was communicated. Similar findings were made by the Panel
during discussions with communities relating to water issues.

43. The Panel notes that a major problem has been the large disparity between expectations of local people
about the rewards and consequences of the project, and what the project was in fact able to offer. The Panel
believes that some of these high expectations were generated in part by unguarded pronouncements by some
members of the Consortium and some representatives of the GOC, thus, creating unfulfilled expectations.
Apart from the Consortium the Panel heard reports of local leaders telling people that the Project would bring
wealth to Cameroon and that all Cameroonians would find work.

44. From the available records and following discussions with all parties involved, the Panel concludes that
the consultations and disclosure information that took place in the context of the Pipeline Project were
frequent and consistent with the Bank's applicable policy requirements. In the implementation phase, it is
essential that the stakeholders understand the components of the projects and their effects. A renewed Project
outreach effort should be initiated now that the operations' phase is imminent. The Bank's local staff in Chad
and Cameroon could take a leading role in bringing all major stakeholders to a common understanding about
the Project's major topics.

OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH AND SAFETY& PUBLIC HEALTH

45. Occupational Health & Safety. The Panel examined the relevant sections of the EMP related to
occupational health and safety and found them consistent with the spirit and letter of OD 4.01 and the 1998
World Bank Health and Safety Guidelines. With respect to implementation, the safety statistics, the Lost Time
Incident (LTI) frequency rates, i.e. injuries and illnesses resulting in lost time from work, confirm that, on the
whole, this has been a safe project. Data from the United States Department of Labor, Bureau of Labor
Statistics (BLS) indicate that the project has a first-rate safety record. For 2001, the BLS data report a LTI
rate for heavy construction of 7.9 lost day incidents per 200,000 man/hours. The same statistic for Spread 1
in 2001 is 0.15 and for Spread 2 it is 0.25. This is considerably better than the experience recorded in the
United States.

46. As to the specific concerns presented by project workers on occupational health and safety practices, the
Panel, after examination of documents, field observations, and interviews with pertinent project staff, observes
as follows:
· Training: A training program was devised to provide each new employee with the kind of training that is
commensurate with the tasks to be performed. The program is designed to meet the needs of unskilled and
semi-skilled workforce under the `rolling employment' policy. The Panel was satisfied with the quality of
training following its discussions with many of the workers.
· Personal Protective Equipment: The Panel observed that there was a general misunderstanding among some
of the workers with respect to the kinds of protective equipment to which they were entitled. Field
observations by the Panel indicate that workers engaged in specific tasks wore the correct working clothing
and used the appropriate safety equipment.
· Safety Supervision: The work force and supervision of project progress can be measured to some degree by
the construction schedule and the safety record associated with the Project. Since the pipeline construction
seems to be ahead of schedule and the safety record is excellent, it would be safe to assume that supervision
must be effective.
· Medical Care: The Panel found that employees receive a pre-placement physical examination



                                                        - 41 -

commensurate with the type of employment they were offered. Medical facilities are in place to provide health
care and supervision to all employees.

47. The Panel finds that the Consortium, the contractors and the sub-contractors have responded positively to
the requirements of Annex A (0) of OD 4.01. In addition, the Panel found no indication that EMP
requirements on occupational health and safety have been ignored or violated. During the investigation nearly
60 workers associated with the Pipeline Project approached the Panel with a variety of concerns, including:
compensation for work-related accidents, hiring and dismissal practices, disputes over the employers'
contribution to the local social security system, as well as claims that the "Project's poor working conditions"
were adversely impacting on the workers' health and safety. After a detailed review of the specifics of these
claims, which included interviews with many of the people that submitted or were referred to in these claims,
the Panel has concluded that, other than those relating to occupational health and safety, the alleged violations
are not covered by any Bank policy or procedure and that, therefore, the Panel is precluded from reviewing
them. The Panel notes, however, that Cameroonian authorities including its Judiciary have had a history of
involvement with these issues in the context of the Pipeline Project.

48. Public Health. The Project is formally committed to an HIV/AIDS mitigation strategy in the
Environmental Management Plan. The Bank Management did request an assessment of the HIV/AIDS risk in
the pipeline area, which was submitted in November 1999. This report presented a model of significantly
elevated estimates of HIV/AIDS prevalence rates associated with Project construction. However, this report
was criticized by public health consultants to the Consortium, who argued that their model was poorly
executed, technically flawed, and based on data from East Africa rather than West Africa.

49. The Panel finds that the omission in the EMP of an up-to-date regional health assessment with particular
focus on risk and impact of the Pipeline Project in Cameroon (as well as Chad), and the omission of a
long-term plan aimed at risk mitigation, is a serious shortcoming at the project preparation phase. This was
pointed out early and repeatedly by public health consultants to the Consortium and the Bank.

50. The Panel finds that Bank Management was aware of the need to undertake a wider regional assessment
of the health risks posed by the Project, particularly with the implementation of seroepidemiological study to
assess the risk of HIV/AIDS in the pipeline construction region. The Panel finds that by not requiring the
preparation of such study the Bank has not complied with the relevant requirements on baseline data of OD
4.01 on Environmental Assessment.

SOCIAL IMPACT ASSESSMENT AND MITIGATION MEASURES

51. Compensation Issues. The Panel observes that the guiding principles for a suitable compensation plan
provide for: (a) the local population to perceive the compensations as fair and equitable; (b) the process to
treat people the same way whenever practicable, and be as transparent as possible; (c) the affected people's
standard of living not to be less than their current conditions when compensation is completed, and preferably
better.

52. The Panel examined COTCO's compensatory framework and finds it to be consistent with Cameroonian
law. In Cameroon, the state legally owns all land except that which is formally titled a fraction of the
population who own mainly large private estates. The GOC however recognizes user improvements
(L`mis-en-ten-e") as subjects for compensation. Therefore, compensation is provided for `loss of
improvements to the land', which includes time and effort spent in the cultivation of food and commercial
crops, trees, as well as material improvements such as houses and water wells.




                                                        - 42 -

53. The Panel finds that the value that COTCO pays in compensation for cultivated crops and trees to
affected Cameroonians is consistent with Bank Policy on Involuntary Resettlement. In comparison with the
large protective areas, the Pipeline has not taken large areas of land (30 meters wide) and, for most of the
pipeline route; land is plentiful and accessible to farmers under customary land tenure rules. The pipeline has
resulted in improved roads and better trading conditions for the individual farmers, as well as improved
community facilities through the regional compensation program (discussed below). Furthermore, the Panel
finds that the Pipeline Project has initiated a process of fair and transparent compensation and consultation.
Although the Panel notes the need for these processes to be effective, the Panel expects that it will be difficult
for future private projects in Cameroon not to provide the same level of consultation and compensation.

54. The Panel notes that land acquisition for the pipeline began with the 1997 centerline survey. During this
time, representatives from COTCO, the GOC (usually the `souspr@&`), the village chief, and the land user,
would participate collectively and openly in the survey process. COTCO representatives told the Panel that
they used the compensation list of crops and trees, based on the market surveys described above. They
admitted to the Panel that there were delays in paying individual compensations, and they attributed this to the
work involved in surveying and determining compensation cases.

55. The same representatives also informed the Panel that, based on the criticism leveled by the IAG for
protracting resolution of certain outstanding cases, COTCO speeded up the settlement of compensation
grievances that were expected to be completed in early 2003. They also informed the Panel that based on the
ECMG's recommendations; COTCO will implement a Social Closure Program and complete all
compensation cases by June 2003. Although not required in the EMP, the objective of the social closure
program is to have each village sign-off on a close-out document that notes the particular details of their
compensation by COTCO, and indicates that there are no grievances outstanding that have not been addressed
(positively or negatively). As with the compensation program, this closure must be transparent and clearly
understood by the local population.

56. Community Compensation. The Panel notes that according to the IAG, almost all of the villages eligible
for the regional and community compensations have identified specific investment projects they wish to see
implemented by COTCO. The majority of project requests are in the areas of education and water supply.

57. Regional Compensation for Indigenous Peoples. The Panel notes that COTCO recently introduced a new
program of regional compensation for the Bakola/Bagyeli villages within a 2 km radius of the pipeline,
including compensation for loss of access to medicinal plants and diminished game population. The program,
according to COTCO, would be dedicated to housing improvements, in keeping with the major concern
expressed by the BakoWBagyeli during the survey conducted by the Company's sociologists within the period
1997 to 2001. The Panel observes that this program, which had not been originally planned, represents a
significant amount of compensation for the BakoNBagyeli populations.

58. Individual cases. The Panel investigated several of the individual cases that were brought to its attention in
the Request and could not find any violation of the relevant Bank policy (OD 4.30 on Involuntary
Resettlement). Annex 8 of this Report presents the current status of each of the cases raised in the Request for
Inspection 59. Grievance Mechanism. The Panel observes that the grievance management process can be
initiated in several ways. The principal method of initiating a grievance is by submission to the Project's
right-of-way assistants or the Local Community Contacts (LCC). There are ten LCCs along the Cameroon
portion of the pipeline, two of which are in the BakoWBagyeli areas at Lolodorf and Kribi. In addition,
temporary LCCs were hired during the construction period within each zone. These temporary LCCs helped
right-of-way assistants in identifying the land users in the village, providing information to the communities
about the grievance management process and collecting grievances in the communities.


                                                       - 43 -

60. The Panel investigated several grievances raised in the Request. Many of these grievances included
complaints about the grievance procedure, including difficulties in getting COTCO to respond to complaints.
The Panel found that, for some of the cases, procedures were not followed by the prospective complainants,
including informing (either verbally or in writing) the LCC representative in their respective areas.
Furthermore, the Panel found that many different channels of contact with COTCO exist on the ground from
survey and construction crews to compensation teams and designated LCCs, through which complaints could
be transmitted. The Panel finds the mechanisms and procedures of grievances to be clear-cut and accessible.

61. The Panel observes that many grievances concerning compensation centered not on the amount of
compensation offered or the procedure for its implementation, but rather on the hope of obtaining more
benefits from the project than was offered. A COTCO representative, a member of the centerline survey team,
said "when we surveyed villages and mapped the location of water sources, people mistakenly assumed we
would come back and build them permanent wells. When we did not do this, they were angry and disappointed
with us." See Annex 4 for further discussion on water issues.

62. In conclusion the Panel finds the design and implementation of the compensation policy and the grievance
mechanism to be orderly, transparent, and fair, although communication among the parties could have been
more effective. The Panel, therefore, finds the Bank in compliance with OD 4.30 on Involuntary Resettlement.

63. Indigenous Peoples. The BakoWBagyeli are a small population of about 4,500 occupying some 12,000
km2 in southwestern Cameroon in the Atlantic forest zone. This includes the area between Kribi on the coast
to the northeast of Lolodorf that lies along the pipeline route. About 1,000 BakoWBagyeli live within 2 km of
the Pipeline route in settled communities interspersed with Bantu villages along the Kribi-Bipindi-
Lolodorf-Akongo Road. Bakola/Bagyeli shares a long-term relationship with their Bantu neighbors including
shared clan identities and family names. Although their relationship is based in part on their specialized
economies, one hunting and the other agriculture, it is not an equal relationship but one of subservience and
dependency of the Pygmies on the Bantu. BakoWBagyeli depend on the Bantu farmers for 20% of their
starchy food, access to tools, salt, tobacco and clothing, and the land that they cultivate, which is claimed by
the Bantu. They are often mistreated by their Bantu patrons, sometimes physically abused, and usually
`spoken for'. This inequality is reflected by the BakoWBagyeli's greater morbidity, mortality, lower literacy
and reduced wage employment due to their poorer access to health clinics, schools, and other social services.
The Panel considers appropriate the Bank Management's designation of the BakoWBagyeli as a vulnerable
population subject to the requirements of OD 4.20 on Indigenous Peoples.

64. Concerning any adverse impact of the Project on BakoWBagyeli, the Panel observed that the impact of the
pipeline project on the hunting resources appears to be minimal, but is not yet known. The Pipeline is laid
adjacento the Kribi-Lolodorf road, where BakolaiBagyeli live on sedentary farms. The major hunt ("gram-
&-chasse") that Bakola/Bagyeli annually engage in has always taken place in the deep forest, ten to thirty
kilometers away from the settled agricultural communities along the road, as identified in the 2002 baseline
studies. This area is unaffected by the Pipeline route. 65. The Indigenous Peoples Plan. The Indigenous
Peoples Plan is presented in the Environmental Management Plan (EMP) Volume 4, Part 3 (May 1999),
which states that, "[t]he IPP includes three programs: health, education, and agriculture and are described in
section 5.0. Within each, an initial set of potential projects have been identified as result of studies and in
consultations sponsored by the Project" and that, Environmental Foundation [i.e. FEDEC] will be established
to provide defined long-term financial support for defined IPP-related projects/programs."

66. The Panel observed that the IPP provides a development framework for the BakolaBagyeli settlements in
the pipeline areas. It specifies three programs and projects; (a) assist identified BakolaBagyeli communities


                                                        - 44 -

regarding health matters in order to help them counter potential health pressures caused by the Project and
generally promote their health status; (b) promote and support education and training initiatives in identified
Bakola/Bagyeli communities in order to contribute to an increase in their ability to make informed decisions
regarding issues of their interest; (c) support local initiatives in identified BakolaBagyeli communities to
improve agricultural production. The Panel finds that the programmatic goals specified in the IPP are
reasonable and appropriate to the affected Bakola/Bagyeli community, and furthermore, were developed in
fair and open consultation with representatives of the BakolaBagyeli community.

68. The Panel investigated the Requester's claims that the Indigenous Peoples Plan was not in compliance
with OD 4.20, as project-affected People did not fully participate in the preparation of the IPP; that
consultation was not fair or adequate; that the baseline surveys were not adequate, and that the delay in
launching the activities of FEDEC has meant that the Bakola have not been able to benefit from the mitigation
measures envisaged under the project.

69. The Panel through its investigation finds that the consultations leading up to the IPP were inclusive of a
wide range of people, and contributed directly to developing effective IPP programs in health, education, and
agriculture. The Panel takes note of the consultation activities, which included reading rooms, 400 public
meetings between 1997 and 1999 (of which 111 were in the villages of affected people), and an NGO
organized seminar for stakeholders. The Panel finds the IPP in compliance with OD 4.20 in regards to
consultation and participation of affected indigenous peoples. 70. However, the Panel is concerned that the
baseline data, while providing important information for the programs of the IPP, ignores BakolaBagyeli
occupation and use of forest resources outside the Pipeline right-of-way. The Panel finds that the EMP and
IPP lack a wider regional assessment, particularly in terms of the Bakola/Bagyeli's use of the wider littoral
forest for hunting and gathering activities. Consequently, the Panel finds that Management is not in
compliance with OD 4.20 regarding Baseline Surveys.

7 1. With respect to the implementation of the IPP, the Panel finds that while the delays in implementing the
Environmental Foundation were very unfortunate, they may have been unavoidable given the capacity
predicament of the GOC and the undefined and in-process nature of the specific IPP plans. The Panel
observes that the Bank could have taken a more direct role in constituting the Board and ensuring it can
operate effectively instead of leaving the responsibility to COTCO only. Nevertheless, the Panel also
recognizes that as a result of Bank intervention and oversight, FEDEC is now up and running and that it is
moving ahead with its programs, including the antituberculosis campaign, the issuing of national identification
cards, and contributing to school supplies and medicines. The Panel finds Management in compliance with
OD 4.20 in regards to paragraph 15 (c) "the institutions responsible for government interaction with
indigenous peoples should possess the social, technical, and legal
skills needed for carrying out the proposed development activities."
72. The Panel wishes to note that FEDEC's budget is based on an annual yield of interest on a US$3.7 million
investment in an endowment that is to last the life of the pipeline, which is approximately 25 years. But the
Project Appraisal Document (PAD) allocates only US$600,000 of the endowment for the IPP, which is
expected to yield US$50,000 per year for implementing the programs of the IPP. Once the IPP administrative
costs are factored in, including support for the Community Development Facilitator (salary, vehicle, office
space), very little remains to fund a comprehensive program covering health, education and agriculture.
However, Management states in its response that the annual funds would be enough to support the IPP
programs which generally consist of low-cost expenditures such as for ID cards, school supplies, and medical
supplies described in the updated 2003 FEDEC Plan of Action.

73. In the Panel's view, FEDEC's budget seems inadequate to carry out the programmatic elements of the
IPP. The Bank should* have considered FEDEC's operating budget in more detail, noting in particular that


                                                       - 45 -

$50,000 allocated to the IPP would not be sufficient to manage the IPP programs, particularly as these
programs were still in the process of conceptualization and design. Nevertheless, the Panel recognized that
while these delays were unfortunate, they may have been unavoidable given the capacity predicament of the
GOC and the undefined and in-process nature of the specific IPP plans.

74. Finally, the Panel notes Management's acknowledgement of the shortcomings in the original IPP, but also
recognizes the fact that these shortcoming did not produce harm to the BakolaIBagyeli community. The
Project has created a positive environment for the BakoWBagyeli through its procedures on consultation,
compensation, and development programs, where the Bakola/Bagyeli community now is in a stronger position
to assert their rights as full citizens of Cameroon.

75. The Panel understands Management's strategy that the IPP is a `work-m-progress' although under normal
circumstances such `work' would not be in compliance with the provisions of OD 4.20, the Panel, however,
sees the practicality of Management's strategy because of the conditions and practices of the
Bakola/Bagyeli/Bantu community within the wider Cameroonian society. Furthermore, the Panel observes
that Bank Management and COTCO have corrected the shortcomings in the intervening years since the EMP
was written. The Panel agrees that the IPP is a longxxii term endeavor expected to be carried out over the 25
years of the Pipeline operation. Of necessity it must be fine-tuned in the process of implementation. Finally,
the Panel finds that the original IPP, in this special circumstance, is in compliance with paragraphs 13-18 of
OD 4.20 on Indigenous Peoples, except for the geographical scope of the baseline data. The Panel finds that
current efforts to prepare and implement a detailed IPP are in place to meet the requirements of OD 4.20 on
Indigenous peoples.

PROJECT SUPERVISION

76. The Panel found that adequate resources and attention continue to be given by the Bank to the supervision
of the Pipeline Project. Furthermore, the ECMG has proved to be a valuable monitoring tool for Bank
Management, COTCO and the host countries. To ensure consistent policy compliance, arrangements should
be made to retain ECMG beyond the Bank's final disbursements of the two projects.

77. The Panel also found that Bank Management has been aware of the issues that have risen in connection
with implementation of the projects. When both the IAG and the ECMG raised concerns about the possibility
of retaining the Lom River Bridge that would contradict the EMP, Bank Management communicated its
concerns to the GOC. Similarly, all major concerns raised by the Requesters seem to have been communicated
by Bank staff to the Cameroonian authorities and COTCO staff during its supervision missions. Finally, the
Requesters acknowledged to the Panel that their interaction with Bank staff has been frequent.

78. Regardless of how well-structured external supervision may be, it cannot serve as a substitute for
in-country monitoring. A large and strategically sensitive Project such as the Pipeline Project requires constant
supervision. Presently there is no local supervision team in place to handle the volume and quality of
supervision required by important goal of the Bank's policy on Project Supervision: "[A]$ a development
agency, the Bank also has an interest in assisting member countries to achieve their development objectives on
a sustainable basis."

79. In conclusion, the Panel recognizes Management's effort to comply with the Bank's applicable policy
requirements. In this spirit, and in order to ensure the sustainability of the benefits of the Pipeline Project and
effectively monitor its risks, the Bank should consider within its larger dialogue framework with the country,
an effective incentive to help integrate important sectors, such as environment and public health, in a local
monitoring team for the Pipeline Project.


                                                        - 46 -

                                                     CAMEROON

                                      Summary of Management Response
                                                     May 28, 2003


                      IV. MANAGEMENT'S ACTION PLAN IN RESPONSE TO THE FINDINGS

                                      Table 3. Proposed Management Action Plan
ISSUEACTION
Environmental Assessment and Mitigation Measures




OD 4.01, para 13: Independent
Panel of Experts         .
(Annex 1, item 1)Independent Panel of Experts: Management is working with the CPSP to provide for independent
experts to be contracted to help with: (i) review of the NOSRP; (ii) monitoring of the implementation phase of the
offshore portion of pipeline construction and the operationalization of the offloading facility; (iii) implementation of
the training program; and (iv) monitoring of pipeline operation in high risk zones. The contracting process for the
independent expert to assist in the review of the NOSRP is underway; ToRs are being prepared to address the other
tasks. See Annex 2.




In addition, under the ToRs for the Long-Term Vision Study of the Environmental and Social Management of the
Petroleum Sector in Cameroon, it is contemplated that the GoC will develop a comprehensive approach to the subject
including: (i) a survey of all planned investments in the petroleum sector; (ii) drawing lessons learned from the
Chad-Cameroon Pipeline project; (iii) identification of strengths and weaknesses of the institutional framework for
environmental and social management of the petroleum sector, including monitoring and supervision of pipelines and
other oil-related infrastructure; and (iv) recommendations for further design and development of an institutional
framework conducive to environmentally and socially sustainable management of the petroleum sector. Experts for
this task will be hired during the last quarter of 2003.




                                                             - 47 -

OD 4,01, paragraph 2, Annex C
and paragraph           of Annex D of
OD 4.01
(Annex 1 Item 2)
Baseline Data.
    Survey. A third run of the household socio-economic baseline survey along the pipeline route will be
    carried out in the post-construction period to assess sustainability and gauge the net socio-economic impact
    of the Pipeline Project on affected communities.
Access to Data. Based on discussions with the IAG, COTCO has developed list of Project-related
documents that would be usefully placed in universities and institutions in Cameroon. These documents are
mainly environmental and socio-economic materials prepared for the pre-approval assessment of the Pipeline Project,
together with follow-up studies that were undertaken subsequently. COTCO's EMP Manager recently sent a letter to
the Cameroon Minister for Higher Education proposing distribution in Cameroon similar to that which has occurred
in Chad. Once the distribution of these reports is complete, the Pipeline Project will update its website to indicate
where the reports have been placed for review by students and others.




OD 4.01, paragraph 5
(Annex I, Item 4)Analysis of Cumulative Effects (and need for Regional Assessment).




The Draft Cameroon NOSRP prepared in February 2003 contains an extensive simulation of the cumulative impacts
of multiple oil spills from Cameroonian sources, Cameroonian ports, oil tanker accidents in Cameroonian marine and
estuarine waters, but also including oil spills originating from Nigerian and Equatorial Guinean sources. Cumulative
impacts have been simulated and are presented on pages 22 to 58 of the draft NOSRP.

The Long-Term Vision Study of the Environmental and Social Management of the Petroleum Sector will address the
cumulative impact of the Pipeline Project through projection of its impacts on the overall economic and social
development of Cameroon and their environmental and social consequences.



OD 4.01, paragraph 12
(Annex 1, Item 5)Institutional Capacity. The planned Mid-Term Review of CAPECE between May 26 and June 7,
2003 is an important opportunity to assist the GoC through the CPSP to complete ongoing actions and launch new
actions to procure services and equipment and train staff to improve its capacity, particularly in the new context of
operation of the pipeline. The Bank's Project team will work closely with the GoC on a number of activities. Details
are provided in Annex 1, Item 5.




                                                              - 48 -

Environmental Management
Plan
(Annex 1, Item 6)Preparation for Oil Spills. Management agrees with the Panel's observation that consultations and
external review of the NOSRP should be coordinated with COTCO to ensure consistency with their review and
consultation process for the four ASOSRPs in Cameroon. These latter plans were disclosed in the country and at the
Bank's InfoShop. The CPSP has already received comments from stakeholders on the ASOSRPs, which are being
transmitted to the Bank for information. The NOSRP will be disclosed in the country and through the Bank
InfoShop. It will be reviewed by the independent expert currently being contracted by the CPSP. Workshops with
NGOs and consultation with communities, government agencies and local government are planned and will take
place as soon as the NOSRP is disclosed. The CAPECE Mid-Term Review mission will follow up on
implementation of the review, consultation and public participation process.




OD 4.01 ­ in compliance but
individual situations require
monitoring
(Annex 1, Item 7)Water Quality. Management will continue to monitor specific situations as they arise. Details on
follow-up with regard to the Panel's specific suggestions for Pembo and Kour Mintoum, as well as a more general
approach to ensure communication, are provided in Annex 1, Item 6.

OD 4.01 ­ in compliance but
need for continued monitoring
(Annex 1, Item 11)Dust. As requested by the Panel in its report, management and ECMG will continue to supervise
and monitor COTCO's work on dust control measures with respect to water withdrawal constraints.




OP 4.04, paragraph 5 ­ in
compliance, but greater
vigilance requested, in
particular concerning illegal
logging
(Annex 1, Item 12)Natural Habitats. The Bank team is assisting in the establishment of closer working relationships
between COTCO, CPSP, FEDEC and MINEF. Joint meetings at COTCO's headquarters in Douala and CPSP's
headquarters in Yaounde were convened in July 2002, November 2002 and March 2003. The main achievements of
these meetings were the acceleration of FEDEC financing, negotiations and signing of the agreements between
FEDEC and WCS, and FEDEC and WWF to begin preparation of management plans for Mbam Djerem and Campo
Ma'an, respectively, with the cooperation of MINEF and CPSP. Clarification of the roles and responsibilities of each
stakeholder in the implementation of the offset will be further discussed during the CAPECE Mid-Term Review
Mission and within the proposed Forest and Environment Sector Program (PSFE ­ Programme Sectoriel ForOts et
Environnement), which the Bank is helping Cameroon to prepare and which is expected to be presented to the Board



                                                            - 49 -

in the next fiscal year. Concerning measures to help prevent illegal logging, two complementary mechanisms
are in place. The first is an addendum to the concession contract between the GoC and the logging company
operating closest to the Park. Signed in April 2002, this addendum ("cahier des charges") commits the company to
collaborate actively with Government authorities in preventing illegal logging and commercial poaching. The
concession contract provides for periodic external evaluations of results and penalties in case of poor or non
performance. The second mechanism involves the services of an Independent Observer to assess compliance with
logging laws and regulations (a service currently provided by the international NGO, Global Witness) and detect
weaknesses by the private sector and government institutions. Through its dialogue with the GoC and the upcoming
PSFE, the Bank will monitor closely implementation of the "cahier de charges" provisions and will ensure that the
Campo Ma'an area remains a priority for MINEF and the Independent Observer.




TheProposed Cameroon Community Development Program (PNDP ­ Programme National de
Developpement Participatif) will finance community driven investment plans; the Campo Ma'an area was
designated as one of the pilot areas during project preparation. This project, along with the community
oriented communication strategy of the CPSP and the future investment program under the PSFE, will
constitute a comprehensive action plan to help sustain the protection of the two parks and achieve development
objectives for neighboring communities and stakeholders.

OD 4.01, OP 4.04,
Environmental Management
Plan
(Annex 1, Item 13)Removal of the temporary Lom River Bridge. In compliance with the 1999
EAIEMP, the Lom River bridge is scheduled to be dismantled during the week of
June 8, 2003. Removal of the bridge will take from 7 to 10 days.




OP 17.50 ­ incompliance but
greater outreach requested
(Annex 1, Item 14)Consultation and Disclosure. The Bank has been working with COTCO and the GoC to launch a
national information campaign prior to first oil. Currently the CPSP is publishing a Newsletter (the Pipeline Letter)
which is widely disseminated in Cameroon and abroad. A communication expert will be hired by the Bank to help
design a communication strategy. The objective of this strategy is to ensure that various stakeholders are fully aware
of the features of the operation phase of the pipeline. A communication firm would be recruited by the Bank prior to
first oil to implement the strategy.




Occupational Health and Safety and Public Health




OD 4.01
{Annex 1 Item 16)Public Health, The Minister of Health has agreed to develop an action plan for the development



                                                             - 50 -

of heath care facilities along the pipeline route to address health in a comprehensive manner beyond the HIVIAIDS
Issue. Doctors and staff are being appointed for the focal points, a health care map is being developed and
discussions are underway between the Minister of Health and other stakeholders, including the CPSP, on the
equipment and allocation of additional resources to the planned or existing healthcare facilities.




The CAPECE Mid-Term Review mission will explore further actions that may be taken by GoC with Bank
support to promote public health in the Project area, including actions to address HIVIAIDS.

OD 4,30 ­incompliance but social closure process suggested
(Annex 1, Item 18)Grievance Mechanism. In accordance with the Panel's suggestion, Management notes that dunng
the January 2003 visit, the ECMG proposed that COTCO establish a cut-off date for the submission of grievances
associated with construction activities, and then tie the resolution of these grievances into a Social Closure process.
COTCO has taken steps to put in place such a process.

      OD 4.20, paragraphs 13-18 ­ in compliance except for
      geographical scope of baseline
      data
      (Annex 1, Item 21)IPP Design and Implementation. Management will discuss appropriate ways to address
      indigenous people's issues, including access to wildlife, during the course of its monitoring of the
      implementation of the IPP by FEDEC.
Project Supervision




OP 13,05
{Annex 1, Item 22)Project Supervision. During the CAPECE Mid-Term Review, the Bank team will work with the
CPSP to ensure that the conditions for development and




implementation of the strategy will be dealt with appropriately within the Long-
Term Vision Study of the Environmental and Social Management of the Petroleum
Sector in Cameroon, with regard to the Panel's suggestion on continued participation of the ECMG,
Management wishes to note that as per the ToRs the ECMG, following the Project Completion Date, will continue to
monitor Project operational compliance with the 1999 EAIEMP during each twelve month period at the discretion of
the lender group and prepare a report after each visit to assess compliance by the Consortium with its obligation
under the 1999 EAIEMP, up until full repayment of senior lenders to the Pipeline Project and beyond.
Sustainability




                                                              - 51 -

Overall Panel ConclusionSustalnability. Management will seek to ensure that relevant sectors are fully
integrated in the local monitoring team. In particular, through supervision of CAPECE, Management will
continue to encourage coordination across sectors, with specific focus on strengthening the active involvement of key
sector ministries such as those in charge of public health and environment, in the monitoring of the Pipeline Project.
On a broader scale, enhancement of cross-sectoral coordination and integration will be an underlying goal of the
upcoming FY04-06 CAS, and several planned instruments of Bank assistance will help further this goal in




relation to the Pipeline Project. Aside from continued supervision of CAPECE, proposed new lending instruments
(e.g., a sectoral program on forestry and environment and a poverty reduction support credit) will, as appropriate,
seek to further strengthen contributions from the environment and health administrations in the monitoring of
activities in the Project area.

      . . .




                                                            - 52 -

Additional Annex 11. Summary of Inspection Panel-CHAD




                                              July 23, 2002

INTRODUCTION
1. The Chad-Cameroon Oil Pipeline Project (hereinafter referred to as the Pipeline Project or the Project) is
the largest energy infrastructure development on the African continent. Estimated at US$3.7 billion, it is
being funded largely by private industry (ExxonMobil, Petronas, and Chevron). It involves the drilling of
300 oil wells in the oil fields in the Doba region of southern Chad and the construction of a 1,070km long
export pipeline through Cameroon to an offshore loading facility. With petroleum reserves estimated at
225,000 barrels per day, the Project is expected to yield approximately US$2 billion in revenues to Chad
over a 28-year operating period. The World Bank and the International Finance Corporation (IFC) are
participating in the Project by providing US$39.5 million and US$100 million, respectively.

2. Two complementary projects are supported by the International Development Association (IDA) of the
World Bank Group, namely: (i) The Petroleum Sector Management Capacity Building Project (IDA credit
US$23.7 million equivalent) which aims to build Chad's capacity to manage oil revenues and to use them
efficiently for poverty reduction; and (ii) Management of the Petroleum Economy Project (IDA credit US$
17.5 million equivalent) which aims to assist the Government of Chad in building capacity to implement its
petroleum revenue management strategy.

3. The Request for inspection (the `Request') was submitted on March 22, 2001 by Mr.Ngarlejy Yorongar,
a Member of Parliament in Chad's National Assembly and an active opposition leader, who was acting for
himself and on behalf of more than 100 residents (the `Requesters') in the vicinity of three fields of the
Pipeline Project area. The Requesters alleged that the Pipeline Project constituted a threat to local
communities, their cultural property and the environment and that people in the oil field region (in the Doba
Basin area) were being harmed, or were likely to be harmed, because of the absence, or inadequacy, of
environmental assessment and compensation; and that proper consultation with and disclosure of
information to the local communities had not taken place.

4. The above-mentioned allegations (and related subsidiary ones) involved possible violations of the
following Bank policies and procedures: Environmental Assessment (OD 4.01), Involuntary Resettlement
(OD 4.30), Natural Habitats (OP/BP 4.04), Pest Management (OP 4.09), Poverty Reduction (OD 4.15),
Indigenous Peoples (OD 4.20), Forestry (OP 4.36), Disclosure of Operational Information (BP 17.50),
Economic Evaluation of Investment Operations (OP 10.04), Project Monitoring and Evaluation (OD
10.70), Project Supervision (OD 13.05), and Management of Cultural Property in Bank financed Projects
(OPN 11.03).

5. After reviewing Management's response to the allegations (and following a visit to Chad) the Panel
recommended an investigation to the Board of Executive Directors. The Board approved the Panel's
recommendation on October l, 2001.

ENVIRONMENTAL COMPLIANCE




                                                    - 53 -

General Environmental Concerns
6. The Panel notes the substantial effort that has been made in the assembling of the 19-volume
Environmental Management Plan (EMP), which followed the preparation of an Environmental Impact
Assessment (EIA) in 1997. It also notes the exceptional operational and managerial demands in
implementing this plan in a challenging physical and political environment. Furthermore, the Panel finds
that Management is in compliance with OD 4.01 with respect to project classification.

7. In considering the spatio-temporal context of the Project, the Panel finds that Management did not
explicitly consider them, as required by OD 4.01. There is neither a discussion on how the boundary of the
study area was defined, nor any mention of the potential area that could be affected by project development.
In light of this, the Panel finds Management not in compliance with OD 4.01 in this respect. On the other
hand, the Panel is satisfied that the EA covers the life of the Project and that the temporal context has been
clearly defined.

8. Evidence collected by the Panel both at the Bank's headquarters and during field visits indicates that oil
and other economic development activities are already taking place outside of the scope addressed in the
approved EMP. In reviewing the documentation contained in the EMP, however, the Panel cannot find any
indication that any cumulative effects assessment was completed. The Panel finds this a serious omission,
particularly when one of the objectives of the Petroleum Sector Capacity Management Project is to assist
the Government of Chad to manage the development of its petroleum resources in an environmentally and
socially sound manner, "including the need for cumulative/regional/sectoral environmental
assessments." The Panel finds that in failing to require a cumulative effects assessment, Management is
not in compliance with OD 4.01.

9. The scale of the now proposed development will impact the lives of the people living in the Region as a
whole. In failing to require the preparation of a Regional Environmental Assessment, which would
adequately assess the nature, and extent of broader environmental and social concerns resulting from the
Project, the Panel finds that Management is not in compliance with paragraph 5 of OD 4.01.

10. OD 4.01 makes specific reference to the importance of engaging an independent advisory panel of
international experts. The need for an Expert Advisory Panel is particularly acute "or major, high risk or
contentious projects with serious, multidimensional concerns" and is clearly evident in the case of the
Pipeline Project. The Panel noted that the Government of Chad (GOC) retained independent experts on X
environmental assessment but, to its surprise, it was unable to find any relevant records reflecting their
work or the conclusions. The Inspection Panel finds this disturbing. Moreover, the Panel cannot understand
why or how Management was unable to followup and monitor the work of such an important part of the
EA process. The Panel, therefore, finds Management not in compliance with paragraph 13 of OD 4.01.

11. The Panel notes the significant efforts made by the Consortium to collect baseline information about the
Project. Apart form the additional baseline data collected in response to previous reviews of the 1997 EA,
significant site-specific information in the form of environmental baseline assessment has also been
collected in areas scheduled for Project development. The Panel finds, however, that this data has not been
properly utilized to support the EA process. There is no direct reference of data gaps in the 1999 EMP and
those embodied in the 1997 EA. Consequently it is not clear how each specific management action is
related to specific impacts or how these impacts relate to relevant data in Management's actions. The
Panel, therefore, finds that Management is not in compliance with Paragraph 2 of Annex C of OD 4.01.

12. With the exception of the economic evaluation of Project alternatives, the Panel considers the analysis
made by Management to be extensive, well prepared, and in support of the final decision for process and


                                                    - 54 -

route selection. OD 4.01, however, requires that for each of the alternatives, the environmental costs and
benefits should be quantified to the extent possible, and economic values should be attached where feasible.
The Panel finds little evidence that this economic analysis was undertaken in the evaluation of Project
Alternatives. While noting its satisfaction with the justification provided for the selection of the Project
alternative, the Panel concludes that Management is, however, not in compliance with paragraph 2 (f) of
Annex B of OD 4.01 concerning the cost-benefit analysis of Project alternatives.

13. A key objective of the Capacity Building Project, and a major rationale for the Bank's involvement in
the Project, was to develop and strengthen the institutional capabilities of the Government to a level where
it could manage the petroleum sector in an environmentally and socially sound manner. This included
increasing the Government's capacity to the point where it could begin to monitor the Project effectively
before the revenues start to flow. This objective has not been achieved and raises questions about the
Project's ability to realize several of its social objectives. The largest component of the Capacity Building
Project involves the development of the capacity of the Committee for Monitoring and Evaluation of the
Pipeline Project (CTNSC), which up to January 2002 had limited field staff, was not in position to execute
its mandate. The Panel recognizes the lack of human and institutional capacity at the national level to
manage and monitor projects of this magnitude and complexity and recognizes Management's significantly
increased efforts to improve the situation on the ground. In light of the above, however, the Panel finds that
Management is not in compliance with the institutional capacity requirements of OD 4.01, in respect to
CTNSC.

14. As a general observation on environmental issues, the Panel notes the substantial effort the Consortium
and the two host Governments have made in the preparation of the 19- volume EMP. Despite the
shortcomings to which we have drawn attention, the Chad Project, in terms of other similar oil and gas
projects, is noteworthy for implementing a practical, `hands-on' approach to environmental management.
The EMP reflects an exceptional effort to address the challenges associated with environmental
management of a complex project in a challenging physical and political environment. The Panel, however,
wants to restate some of the actions indicated by its general findings: the Project's spatial dimensions have
to be explicitly defined to embrace all areas that will experience significant impacts from the Project. Issues
relating to Regional Assessment, embodying assessment of cumulative impacts, which were not undertaken
should be integrated with the Environmental Management Plan.

15. It is imperative that action on the Regional Development Plan be expedited and that the needed
institutional capacity be put in place or developed without delay. Each mitigation measure identified in the
EMP should be related to a specific impact, which can be evaluated on the basis of relevant and adequate
data. It is vital that the capacity for formulation of environment management plans, which meet the Bank's
operational policies and procedures, be matched by institutional capacity for implementation.

SPECIFIC ENVIRONMENTAL CONCERNS

Oil Spills
16. Concerning possibility oil spills, the Panel has noted that, apart from a Hazardous Operation
assessment and risk assessment that had been already performed and would be repeated at least yearly, the
oil field facilities have been designed to conform to international standards, including corrosion prevention
and leak detection. An Area Specific Oil Spill Response Plan (ASOSRP), which includes immediate shut
off protection and containment and clean-up provisions, is also expected to be in place and operational
three months before the first oil is transported. The plans will be subject to audit and approved by outside
experts. In the Panel's view, however, Management must require that the Area Specific Oil Spill Response
Plans reflect adequate consultation with affected stakeholders and civil society within the geographical area


                                                       - 55 -

covered by each plan.

17. The Panel understands the concerns of the Requesters and their apprehension about a possible repeat of
the environmental situation in Ogoniland, Nigeria. It should be noted, however, that the Pipeline project is
using a much more advanced technology for petroleum extraction, including specially insulated buried
pipelines, lined pits and ponds, use of non-toxic drilling muds, and the latest oil spill detectors. Based on its
field observations, discussion with Bank staff, and the monitoring results provided by the Consortium, the
Panel concludes that the situations are profoundly distinct. In the Panel's view, however, it is imperative
that the environmental management actions in the 1999 EMP are fully implemented and that Management
ensures periodic independent monitoring to assess the success of these actions.

18. In light of the above, the Panel finds that the overall preparatory steps undertaken by the Consortium so
far, and the existing obligations set forth in the relevant Project documents suggest that Management is in
compliance with the provisions of OD 4.01 related to assessment and management in the event of an oil
spill. The Panel observed, however, that it is imperative for Management to monitor and ensure that all
commitments by the relevant parties, in particular the complementary oil spill response plan to be
developed by CTNSC, are implemented in their entirety and on a timely basis. The Panel concludes that
there is no violation of Bank policies in this regard.

Contamination of Lake Chad and Groundwater
19. With respect to pollution of surface water sources and Lake Chad, the Panel was able to confirm the
assertion that the Project EA includes a Comprehensive Ground Water Quality Monitoring Program, which
is planned to be in place before the commencement of oil production. Among other measures, flow-lines
and production pipelines are buried as a safeguard against third party damage. The Panel further noted
that, in accordance with the relevant legal documents, a review of the response to a spill to watercourses
including the watershed of Lake Chad should form part of the ASOSRPs to be instituted.

20. Although the Consortium has incorporated a number of mitigation measures in the Project design to
avoid contamination of regional water supplies, the institutional mechanism for regional water management
has not been developed to a similar extent. In the Panel's view, it is imperative that Management ensures
that the Regional Development Plan, and those responsible for its implementation give priority to the
provision of safe and clean water to those living in the Project area. It is also imperative that such Area
Specific Oil Spill Plans contain a review of the response to a spill to watercourses that form part of the
watershed of Lake Chad.

21. Given the current status of Project implementation, and the cyclical nature of water shortages and
availability in southern Chad, the Panel was unable to find any conclusive evidence that Management is in
violation of OD 4.01 in connection with this issue. In the Panel's view, however, it requires continuing
observation and monitoring by Management, perhaps through the International Advisory Group (IAG).

Air Pollution Concerns
22. Since local Non-Governmental Organizations (NGOs) raised concerns about gas flaring, the Panel
investigated whether the Project was likely to cause air pollution and degradation of the environment.
Although the Panel i s satisfied that the probability of future harm due to air pollution is low, it should be
subject to periodic monitoring by Management.

Natural Habitats
23. The Requesters allege in general terms that OP/BP 4.04 on Natural Habitats had not been complied
with. From its own field observations and from the relevant documentation, the Panel accepts the response


                                                      - 56 -

of Management that the vegetation in the oilfield area and around the pipeline in Chad is almost exclusively
wooded savannah, much of which has been heavily grazed or cultivated. Furthermore, what native habitat
remains, largely in the form of gallery forest along watercourses, is not expected to be subjected to
significant conversion during pipeline construction. At the current stage of Project implementation, the
Panel finds Management in compliance with the provisions of OP/BP 4.04, but as construction progresses,
monitoring should continue to ensure the detection of any problems that may arise.

Forestry
24. The Requesters allege in general terms that Bank Policy on Forestry OP 4.36 has not been complied
with. The Panel was able to confirm Management's observation, based on aerial and field surveys, that
there is no primary moist tropical forest in Chad. The Panel is also satisfied that the Project design avoids
or minimizes the clearing of riverbank gallery forest. Based on the foregoing and on its own observations,
the Panel is satisfied that Management is in compliance with the provisions of OP 4.36.

Pest Management
25. The Requesters allege that the Bank's Policy on Pest Management (OP 4.09) has not been complied
with. The Panel accepts Management's response that the Project will not finance pesticides for public use
and that land clearance for pipeline construction will not involve the use of herbicides. The Panel further
notes that pesticide use will be limited to the protection of the Consortium's work force against
vector-borne diseases for which the Bank's safeguard polices would not be appropriate. Based on the
foregoing, the Panel finds that Management is in compliance with the relevant provisions of OP 4.09.

Consultation
26. The Requesters allege that the obligation to take the views of affected groups and local NGOs fully into
account in Project design and implementation, and particularly in the preparation of the EA was never
fulfilled. Management maintains that consultation of the affected population was extensively undertaken.
The Panel finds that, at least prior to 1997, the consultations were conducted in the presence of security
forces, which is incompatible with Bank's policy requirements. As the Panel has said on previous
occasions, full and informed consultation is impossible if those consulted perceive that they could be
penalized for expressing their opposition to, or honest opinions about, a Bank financed project. At the same
time, the Panel recognizes that, since 1999, Management has made significant efforts to achieve
compliance with paragraph 19 of OD 4.01, by encouraging frequent consultations with local communities
and civil society in an environment more conducive to an open exchange. In these circumstances, the Panel
would commend these efforts and urge that they continue.

Disclosure of Information
27. On disclosure of information, the Panel concludes that adequate and timely release of documents was
the norm rather than the exception in the context of the Pipeline Project. In fact, key Project documents (in
particular the multi-volume EMP) appear to have been made routinely available on a continuous basis to
the local population through specific events and the existence of `reading rooms.' The Panel finds,
therefore, that Management has complied with BP 17.50 on Disclosure of Operational Information.

SOCIAL COMPLIANCE
Involuntary Resettlement
28. The Requesters allege that the Bank has not followed its own rules and procedures on Involuntary
Resettlement, while Management maintains that it is in compliance with OD 4.30.

29. The Requesters raise questions about the possibility of 80,000 to 100,000 people being displaced in the
production region. The Panel notes that Chad differs widely from other large projects funded by the World


                                                    - 57 -

Bank in respect of involuntary resettlement. In Chad, only 50 households (much lower than the 150
households anticipated in the EMP) have had houses replaced and thus officially relocated to make way for
oil well sites, the pipeline route, or road widening and they have been successfully accommodated within
existing village and lineage-based land resources.

30. Concerning compensation, the Requesters allege that failure to comply with Bank policies has led to
expropriation without compensation. Management believes that the compensation design and
implementation is in compliance with applicable Bank policies and procedures. In the Panel's view, Esso's
policy of compensating the community rather than the individual for fallow land is a sensible one and
consistent with Bank policies and procedures on involuntary resettlement. More generally, it appears that
all actions in the Compensation and Resettlement Plan with regard to expropriation have so far been
respected. The Panel was able to confirm that a 12-step land acquisition procedure has been followed,
involving public consultation. Villagers have also accepted compensation in the form of cash payments or
`in-kind' payments in the form of bicycles, plows, and water pumps.

31. After a careful review of the available evidence, the Panel is satisfied that Management is so far in
compliance with the provisions of OD 4.30 concerning compensation. The Panel, however, views the
monitoring of the overall resettlement process as critical to ensure continuing compliance with the
requirements of this policy.

Indigenous Peoples
32. The Requesters allege that OD. 4.20 on Indigenous Peoples has not been complied with. The Panel
finds that the people affected by the Pipeline Project do not constitute an `indigenous people' because they
form a majority of the population in southern Chad and share a larger identity with the region as a whole.
On the basis of the above considerations, the Panel concludes that OD 4.20 is not applicable to the present
case.

Cultural Property
33. The Requesters allege that OPN 11.03 on Management of Cultural Property was not followed.
Management asserts that the Project EA paid particular attention to sacred sites, graves, and other elements
of cultural property. The Panel finds that EMP procedures on cultural property have been adhered to, as it
was able to witness several concrete examples in the field. A pre-construction survey was conducted by a
Chadian archaeologist and a `Handbook on Archaeological Sites' was developed for Project environment
staff in the field. Accordingly, the Panel is satisfied that Management is in compliance with OPN 1 1.03 on
Management of Cultural Property.

Governance and Human Rights

34. The Requesters allege violations of Directives on proper governance and human rights. Management
maintains that improving governance is one of the key objectives of the Bank's Assistance Strategy to Chad
and instances of poor governance are of great concern to it. As for human rights, Management states that
the Bank is concerned about violations of human rights in Chad as elsewhere while respecting the Bank's
Articles of Agreement but that, in this case, it believes that the Project can achieve its developmental
objectives.

35. It is not within the Panel's mandate to assess the status of governance and human rights in Chad in
general or in isolation, and the Panel acknowledges that there are several institutions (including UN bodies)
specifically in charge of this subject. However, the Panel felt obliged to examine whether the issues of
proper governance or human rights violations in Chad were such as to impede the implementation of the


                                                      - 58 -

Project in a manner compatible with the Bank's policies.

36. As far as "good" or "proper" governance is concerned, the Panel recognizes that this is an evolving
process in Africa and elsewhere in the developing world and that several Bank-supported Projects,
including the Capacity Building Project which is the subject of this investigation, have components
designed to improve the country's governance record and performance.

37. As for human rights, the Panel has examined several reports addressing the situation in the country and
the extensive exchange of correspondence between Bank Management and NGOs in Chad and abroad. The
Panel takes note of the fact that on more than one occasion when political repression in Chad seemed
severe, the Bank's President personally intervened to help free local opposition leaders, including the
representative of the Requesters, Mr. Yorongar, who was reported as being subjected to torture. During its
visit to Chad, the Panel did not seek out the other opposition leaders in N'Djamena who had been arrested.
In the field, however, several local leaders and organizations mentioned to the Panel that, while at times
feeling harassed by the authorities, they have expressed their opinions about the Project without incurring
physical violence. The Panel observes that the situation is far from ideal. It raises questions about
compliance with Bank policies, in particular with those that relate to informed and open consultation, and it
warrants renewed monitoring by the Bank.

ECONOMIC COMPLIANCE

Economic Evaluation
38. The Requesters allege that OP 10.04 on Economic Evaluation of Investment Operations has not been
complied with. In view of the general nature of this allegation the Panel examined the Bank's actions with
regard to the salient provisions. Concerning alternatives, the Pipeline PAD states that design effort for the
Project began in 1993 with the consideration of alternatives, and says that it was decided to proceed with
the Project because estimates of costs and benefits indicated that the Project would provide net benefits to
all parties. As for the `no project' case, it argues that without the Project Chad would forgo the expected
significant net benefits. However, the discussion in the PAD of alternatives for oil field development and oil
transportation is limited to two key paragraphs. They contain no quantitative economic evidence to support
the findings reported. In the Panel's view this is inconsistent with the emphasis in paragraph 3 of OP 10.04
which states "Consideration of alternatives is one of the most important features of proper project
analysis throughout the project cycle. " In this respect, therefore, the Panel finds Management not in
compliance with OP 10.04.

39. The Panel was struck by the estimated financial returns to Chad over a 28-year period, having regard to
the magnitude of the Project, and is concerned that it was unable to find any analysis to justify the
allocation of revenues among Chad, Cameroon, and the Consortium. While the Panel recognizes that
Management sought to ensure that Chad had access to reputable legal and financial services in its
negotiations with the Consortium, it remains concerned about the adequacy of the allocation of revenues to
Chad.

40. The economic analysis for the base-case scenario reports switching values for four key variables
(capital expenditures, operating costs, crude sales revenue (price) and crude sales revenue (quantity) in
relation to the economics of the Project as a whole, but none is reported for regarding the benefits to Chad.
Although it can be reasonably argued that this is not strictly a matter of compliance with OP 10.04 (since
the switching values are reported for the whole Project), in the Panel's view it would have been appropriate
and valuable to supply them. The Capacity Building Project makes provision for technical assistance to
place Chad in a position where it can monitor and audit both the oil produced and the revenue generated by


                                                     - 59 -

the Pipeline Project. In the Panel's view it is essential that this be made operational before oil production
commences and revenues begin to flow.

41. The risk analysis reported in Annex 4 (and elsewhere in the PAD) is broadly in compliance with
paragraph 6 of OP 10.04 in that it took, "into account the possible range in the values of the basic
variables" and assessed, "the robustness of the project`s outcome with respect to changes in these
values." It also considered the sensitivity of the Project's net present value to changes in certain key
variables. Nevertheless, in the Panel's view, a fuller and more systematic examination and explanation of
the results for Chad (as opposed to the results for the Project as a whole), including the apportionment of
the oil revenues between Chad and the Consortium, would have been desirable.

42. The PAD notes that other economic benefits apart from the direct project revenues included in the
economic analysis will be experienced by Chad, but the economic analysis focuses on the direct revenues to
Chad. While accepting that some of the `other economic benefits' might not have been easy to value, in the
Panel's view full compliance with OP 10.04 required a more detailed examination of these other benefits
than was reported in the PAD.

43. The Economic and Financial Summary of the Petroleum Economy Project PAD does not attempt to
explain why the project represented the least-cost way of attaining the stated objectives. This matters
because the PAD does not include an explicit discussion on Economic Analysis, which would normally set
out in some detail the satisfaction of the criteria and procedures covered by OP 10.04.

44. The discussion of Sustainability and Risks is very brief. This is significant because of the
acknowledged complexity of the project's design and the recognition that to avoid the failure associated
with development of oil or mineral resources in other Sub- Saharan African countries, Chad must put in
place before 2004 the essential building blocks of its strategy for the management of the petroleum
economy. In the Panel's view, therefore, a more thorough appraisal of sustainability and risks would have
been required in order to ensure proper compliance with paragraphs 5 and 6 of OP 10.04. 45. OP 10.04
states that the main purpose of the analysis of risk is "to identify the scope for improving project design,
increase the project's expected value, and reduce the risk of failure." Given the identified weakness in
implementation capacity in the Ministries of Environment and of Energy and Petroleum, and the
importance of timely implementation of the rapid intervention measures, the Regional Development Plan
and the pilot development fund (FACIL), the Panel finds that Management is not in compliance with OP
10.04 in respect of the analysis of sustainability and risk issues.

46. The analysis in Annex 4 of the PAD shows that, consistent with the requirements of OP 10.04, and
despite problems of quantification, some detailed attempts were made to take externalities into account, and
in several cases to produce cost estimates. The Panel therefore finds Management in compliance with OP
10.04 in respect of its treatment of externalities.

Poverty Reduction
47. Although the Request does not explicitly mention OD 4.15 on Poverty Reduction, issues related to
compliance with this policy are addressed in Management's Response. According to Management, the
Bank's approach with regard to petroleum revenue management is to help Chad target the bulk of direct oil
revenues from the Project to expenditures in priority sectors for poverty alleviation.

48. The Revenue Management Program has detailed rules for the handling and allocation of the oil
revenues. The Pipeline PAD notes that 10 percent of royalties and dividends (which represent 85 percent of
expected revenues over the first ten years of production) will be invested in long-term external investments,


                                                      - 60 -

whose proceeds will be used to benefit poverty reduction programs in the future. The remaining 90 percent
will pass through Special Petroleum Revenue Accounts. The Panel recognizes the importance of this but, in
its view, it is vital that this be the subject of continued monitoring, review and assessment by an
independent body such as the IAG.

49. The Panel recognizes Management's intention to comply with the broad provisions of OD 4.15, and its
awareness of the challenges to effectively reduce poverty in Chad. Nevertheless, the Panel has concerns on
whether some components of OD 4.15 have been fully met and whether Management has succeeded to put
in place sufficient measures to ensure the sustained delivery of poverty reduction outcomes, and hence
future compliance with OD 4.15.

50. The Panel's investigation revealed serious concerns about the failure to develop and strengthen the
institutional capabilities of the Government of Chad to a level where it could begin to monitor the Project
effectively before the revenues start to flow. In this regard, it is vital that the operations of the dedicated
special account be subject of continuing monitoring, review and assessment by an independent body such
as the IAG.

51. During the Panel's visits to Chad, several local leaders expressed deep reservations on whether
Chadians would be the ultimate beneficiaries of the Project. In more specific terms and in relation to the
oil-producing region, the Request alleged that "the laughably small quota assigned to the production zone
bears little or no relation to the magnitude of the needs of this region and the size of its population."
This refers to the 5 percent of royalties from oil revenues over the life of the field project for the producing
region. While there are no Bank policies and procedures that directly guide the allocation of resource
revenues to producing regions, and consequently no question here of non-compliance with OD 4.15, it
would appear that no targeted studies were carried out to determine the appropriate share; nor is there any
review of material that might underpin the choice of 5 percent. In the Panel's view, this is a matter of great
concern. It is also not clear that Management yet has the information that would enable it to estimate
regional shares of planned priority sector expenditures. In the Panel's view, this kind of information is
essential if the various stakeholders are to be in a position to debate and argue for appropriate shares in
national income and wealth.

52. The Panel is concerned that activities such as project mitigation measures, establishment of FACIL,
the completion of a Regional Development Plan, and the establishment of the Collège de Contr6le et de
Surveillance des Ressources Pètroliers have been running significantly behind schedule while oil field and
pipeline development are running ahead of schedule. In the Panel's view, these delays threaten to
compromise the delivery of poverty reduction in the later stages of construction and the early stages of
operation of the Pipeline Project. Obviously, Management must renew and invigorate its efforts to ensure
that the structures created are fully operational before the expected earnings arrive.

53. It is neither obvious to the Panel that the Capacity Building Project nor the Petroleum Economy
Project have made appropriate provisions to identify and address the above mentioned types of problems in
the areas touched by the Pipeline Project's activities This is despite their potential to impinge on that
Project's potential to attain the poverty reduction envisaged in OD 4.15. Furthermore, it is not obvious to
the Panel that there is sufficient communication and coordination between the two projects to rule out the
possibility of their becoming poverty-increasing problems which fall between two stools and fail to be
identified and addressed. In the light of this, the Panel finds that the Project is not in compliance with these
aspects of OD 4.15. The Panel, therefore, reiterates its call for Management to accelerate its efforts to
improve the situation on the ground.




                                                      - 61 -

54. With regard to the Revenue Management Program, no explicit set of arrangements for dealing with
large surpluses and fluctuations that would smoothen out the annual inflows has been agreed upon. Such an
eventuality will need to be accommodated to ensure a gradual consistent rise in spending within the bounds
of absorptive capacity. In the Panel's view, in order to avoid macroeconomic risks that could jeopardize
poverty reduction, Management should have addressed this serious risk to its poverty reduction objectives
in a more definite manner than the statement in the Revenue Management Program that "Revenues (. . .)
.will be sterilized under arrangements acceptable to the Bank." In light of this, the Panel finds that
Management is not in compliance with the provisions of OD 4.15 concerning risk analysis and institutional
design.

PROJECT MONITORING AND SUPERVISION

55. The Panel had expressed its concern about delays in establishing local capacity required to monitor
effectively the Project in order not to compromise its long-term sustainability. At the same time, the Panel
wishes to express its satisfaction that Management has established a strong external Project monitoring
capacity in the form of the IAG and the External Compliance Monitoring Group (ECMG). Under the
circumstances surrounding the Project, they clearly have a very important role to play. The Panel would
urge the Board to ensure that this function is sustained for as long as necessary and certainly well beyond
disbursement of the loans in question.


                                                      CHAD

                               Summary of Management Response
                                               August 21, 2002

      56. Management has considered fully the findings of the Panel's Report, as shown in Annex 1, and has
      developed concrete actions to address outstanding issues, both those in which the Panel raises questions
      about compliance with Bank policies and procedures and its more general suggestions to improve the
      effectiveness of the three Projects. Management proposes the following actions, presented in Table 3 below.

                                  Table 3. Proposed Man

                               ACTION                                                    ISSUE
                                                                         (numbers in parentheses refer to the Panel's
                                                                      findings and Management's comments in Annex 1)

                               Environmental and Social Compliance

 Regional Development Plan (RDP) and 1999 EA/EMP -
 Management will intensify its efforts to work with the relevant
 Chadian agencies to prepare the RDP, in lieu of revising the 1999
 EA/EMP, to address spatial issues and satisfy the objectives of
 Regional EA. A consultant contract award for RDP services is       OD 4.01: Spatial context, Regional EA and

 expected by end September 2002 with a final plan due in April      cumulative impacts (2, 4, 5 and 7)

 2003.
      Management will also request the opportunity for dialogue with
 the Inspection Panel to exchange views on the spatial context for
 the
 Petroleum Development and Pipeline Project and the application of
 Regional EA.

 Expert Advisory Panel - In May 2002, GOC received bids for
 another Expert Advisory Panel and selection is expected shortly.



                                                         - 62 -

Management will involve the Quality Assurance and Compliance
Unit (QACU) of ESSD and the safeguards team of the Africa
Region                                                              OD 4.01, paragraph 13: Expert Advisory Panel

in the formal review of the reports and recommendations prepared    involvement during EA formulation (6)

by this panel. These reviews will support the supervision and
monitoring activities of the Bank. Management will facilitate
coordination between this panel and other groups involved in the
Petroleum Development and Pipeline Project's implementation and
monitoring.

Baseline Data - Management will continue to monitor
implementation of the 1999 EA/EMP in order to address linkages of
the baseline situation to success or failure of mitigation measures OD 4.01, Annex C, paragraph 2: Baseline data
and will follow up on recommendations of the ECMG and the IAG       linkages to impacts and mitigation (8)
regarding baseline data linkages to impacts and mitigation.
     Management will facilitate the provision of new economic,      Baseline data to compare health impacts pre-
demographic, social and health data to the GOC and RDP              and post-oil (9)
preparers. The RDP is expected to consider health and socio-
demographic issues and impacts.

Consideration of Alternatives -- The Petroleum Development and
Pipeline Project is being implemented based on the preferred alter- OD 4.01, Annex B, paragraph 2 (f): Panel

native presented in the 1999 EA/EMP and in the PAD approved by      notes satisfaction with justification for selected

the Board in June 2000. Management will request the opportunity     alternative but questions lack of environmental

for dialogue with the Inspection Panel to exchange views on meth-   cost-benefit analysis and economic valuation

odologies for comparison of alternatives used in the Project.       of environmental impacts of alternatives (10)




                              ACTION                                                    ISSUE
                                                                        (numbers in parentheses refer to the Panel's
                                                                     findings and Management's comments in Annex
                                                                     1}

Institutional Capacity - Management has strengthened its field
presence in Chad and will provide continued monitoring and super-OD 4.01: Institutional capacity, particularly in
vision on a regular basis from both Bank headquarters and its field respect to CTNSC (11)
offices to ensure that progress in capacity-building is sustained.

Monitoring - Management is committed to continued monitoring
through its own supervision efforts and the independent monitoring  Panel urged continued monitoring of a number

of the ECMG and the IAG.                                            of issues:

     Management is continuously monitoring progress in              · Oil spills I ASOSRP (13)

     preparation                                                    · Regional water contamination (14)

of sound NOSRP and ASOSRPs, consistent with the standards of        · Local potable water contamination (15)

the International Petroleum Industry Environmental Conservation     · Contamination of surface/groundwater from

Association (IPIECA) and the 1999 EA/EMP. Management will              drilling (16)

follow                                                              · Air pollution (17)

up to ensure that disclosure and consultation are carried out       · Avoidance of 0goniland, Nigeria situation ­

appro-                                                                 (21)

priately                                                            · Compensation (25)




                                                         - 63 -

      The RDP will incorporate concerns regarding regional water
management, including provision of clean drinking water.
ASOSRPs will contain scenarios located in the drainage area of
Lake Chad.

Consultation - Management will continue the consultation efforts
and will pursue,the establishment of a permanent framework for
dialogue. In November 2001, the Bank engaged a communications OD        4. 01, paragraph 19: Consultation -Panel

expert to assist the GOC; discussions are focusing on upgrading      commends efforts and urges that they continue

radio station facilities in southern Chad and organizing regular     (22, 28)

Information Caravans to the villages in the Project area.

Economic Evaluation

Economic Analysis - Management will continue to monitor
implementation of the Petroleum Sector Management Capacity-          Technical assistance to monitor and audit oil
Building Project, including monitoring of the training program for   produced and revenue generated ­ essential
staff of the Petroleum Directorate and recruitment of 10 Chadian     that this is operational before oil production
controllers. Management will also follow up on the potential need to commences (31)
hire international experts under the Capacity-Building Project.

Other Economic Benefits. Although no action is feasible with re-
spect to the PAD itself, Management will continue to monitor and    OP 10.04: More detailed examination of other

collect data on the economic benefits of the Project.                economic benefits desired in the PAD (32)


Sustainability and Risks - Management has intensified supervi-
sion, notably by the assignment of senior staff members to the      OP 10.04: Analysis of risks and sustainability

Chad                                                                 in Management of the Petroleum Economy

office, and will continue its efforts to support accelerated         Project and Petroleum Sector Management

implemen-                                                            Capacity-Building Project (34)

tation by GOC of measures to build capacity in environment and
petroleum revenue management.




                                ACTION                                                    ISSUE
                                                                         (numbers in parentheses refer to the Panel's
                                                                      findings and Management's comments in Annex 1)


Poverty Reduction

PRMP - Handling and Allocation of Oil Revenues - Management
has intensified supervision of the Project, notably by the appoint- OD 4.15: Future compliance with OD 4.15 ­
ment of senior staff members to the Bank's Chad office, and         sufficiency of measures to deliver poverty
remains                                                             reduction outcomes are of concern; vital to



                                                          - 64 -

committed to supervise and help strengthen monitoring of PRMP         have continuing monitoring, review and
implementation. Management is also committed to the continued         assessment of handling and allocation of oil
monitoring, review and assessment of its implementation by the        revenues by an independent body such as the
IAG.                                                                  IAG (35)
In addition, Management will continue to pursue the actions that are
being taken outside the scope of the three Projects to assist GOC
to
put in place long-term economic and budget management capacity.

PRMP - Institutional Capabilities and Monitoring- Management          Petroleum Revenue Management Program

is committed to continued monitoring, review and assessment by        and institutional capabilities and monitoring -

the IAG and will continue to implement measures recommended by        vital that the dedicated Special Accounts be

the IAG as appropriate.                                               subject of continuing monitoring, review and
                                                                      assessment by an independent body such as
                                                                      the IAG (36 D)

Allocation of Resources to Producing Regions - Management
and the GOC will continue to carry out work underway in the Public
Expenditure Review (PER) to determine regional patterns of public     Allocation of resources to producing regions -

expenditure and to define the specific modalities by which            information essential for stakeholders

decentralized local structures will manage the additional 5 percent   concerning appropriate shares in national

of                                                                    income and wealth (37)

petroleum revenues reserved for the producing region.
Implementation Delays and Accelerated Action - Management
remains committed to continue its intensified supervision efforts in
the future. As per the Panel's suggestion, Management will pursue OD 4.15: Future compliance in jeopardy if
efforts to improve the situation on the ground. IAG and ECMG will     implementations delays are not addressed
also continue their regular monitoring and assessment of the          (38A and 38E).
Petroleum Development and Pipeline Project.
Community and Entrepreneur Needs, Commodity Price In-                 Priority community needs in danger of not
creases - Management will follow up on assisting GOC to acceler-      being fulfilled (38B)
ate measures on serving community needs through FACIL and to          No evidence that capacity-building and support
implement progress on the Chad/Cameroon SME initiative and IDF for entrepreneurs are in place (38C)
Grant. Management will also follow up on issues related to price      Affordability of goods and services to the poor
inflation.                                                            (38D)


Possible Variations in Oil Revenue Inflows - Together with the                   OD 4.15: Risk analysis and institutional

IMF, Management is currently discussing with GOC the modalities                  design ­ poverty reduction jeopardized

that would apply to the sterilization of unused funds held for future            by possible variations in oil revenues
                                                                                 inflows (39)

Monitoring and Supervision

Continued External Monitoring - IDA is seeking replenishment of
the Trust Fund to finance the work of the IAG. The ECMG will re-
main in place to monitor the Petroleum Development and Pipeline       IAG and ECMG work urged to continue as long

Project four to five times per year during construction and a mini-   as necessary and well beyond disbursement of

mum of once per year during the 13-year life of the loan.             loans (40)




                                                        - 65 -

- 66 -

Additional Annex 12. Partner Comments-Full Transcripts CHAD and CAMEROON

      RESUME DU PROJET DE RAPPORT D'ACHEVEMENT DU PROJET

                               TCHAD-CAMEROUN



SOMMAIRE

I- INTRODUCTION

II- ADMINISTRATION

II-1 Réalisations
II-2 Difficultés

III- ASPECTS TECHNIQUES

III-1 Développement

III-2 Production des Hydrocarbures

III-3 Transport

III-4 Commercialisation du Brut

III-5 Difficultés Rencontrées


IV- ASPECTS ENVIRONNEMENTAUX

IV-1 Indicateur de Performance du Projet

IV-2 Impacts du Projet

IV-3 Commentaire spécifique sur la gestion du Projet

IV-4 Performance de l'Emprunteur

IV-5 Performance du Bailleur

IV-6 Principales Difficultés

IV-7 Conclusion Partielle


V- DIMENSION ECONOMIQUE

V-1 Investissement




                                       - 67 -

V-2 Retombées Economiques du Projet

   A- le FACIL

   B- Contribution du Consortium

   V-3 Retombées Fiscales et Parafiscales

V-4 Points de Litige

V-5 Conclusion Partielle


VI- GESTION DES REVENUS PÉTROLIERS

VI-1 Contrôle et de Surveillance des Ressources Pétrolières

VI-2 Rôle du Collège dans les Principales Étapes

de la préparation du Budget

 VI-3 Mise en oeuvre du Programme de gestion des Revenus

 Pétroliers Conformément au mandat du CCSRP.

 VI-4 Revenus Pétroliers Perçus par le Gouvernement

 VI-5 Évaluation des Premiers résultants de l'allocution des ressources

dans les Secteurs Prioritaires, Notamment l'impact sur la qualité de vie

des Populations




                                    - 68 -

I- INTRODUCTION

L'introduction du présent rapport fait la genèse du Projet d'Exportation
Tchadien, depuis la déclaration de la commercialité des trois champs de Komé,
Miandoum et Bolobo en 1990, jusqu'à la date du premier chargement du Brut
de Doba vers les marchés internationaux le 03 octobre 2003 à partir de Kribi
au Cameroun.

II- ADMINISTRATION

En vue d'assurer l'exécution des activités relatives au Projet d'Exportation
Tchadien (Projet DOBA) ainsi que le suivi des projets annexes, il est créé une
Coordination Nationale par décret N°339/PR/2000 du 09 août 2000, dont la
mission essentielle consiste à:

Ø      coordonner les activités physiques du Projet ;
Ø      suivre la bonne exécution des activités relevant du Consortium, de
TOTCO et COTCO, en particulier du respect de calendrier de réalisation du
Projet et de la construction du Pipeline ;
Ø      suivre le respect par le Consortium et ses contractants des accords
relatifs au Projet d'Exportation et autres accords y relatifs, notamment :le Plan
de Gestion de l'Environnement (PGE), le Plan National en cas de Déversement
Accidentel d'Hydrocarbure (PNDAH), le Plan de Compensation et de
Réinstallation (PCR) ;
Ø      suivre la bonne mise en oeuvre des investissements sociaux à réaliser
dans la zone du Projet prévus par le Plan de Développement Régional (PDR) et
de programmes de renforcement des capacités.

Pour l'accomplissement de sa mission, la Coordination Nationale s'appuie sur
les structures suivantes:

Ø      le Comité Technique National de Contrôle et de Suivi des aspects
environnementaux (CTNSC) ;
Ø      l'Unité Projet Doba.
Ø      le Fonds d'Actions Concertées d'Initiatives Locales (FACIL) ;
Ø      la Cellule Economique ;
Ø      le Projet de Gestion de l'Economie à l'Ere Pétrolière (GEEP) ;
Ø      le Secrétariat National de Renforcement des Capacités (SENAREC).

II-1 REALISATIONS

o      Elaboration de trois avis juridiques pour l'octroi des prêts IDA, BIRD et
BEI ;
o      Inscriptions hypothécaires des concessions en collaboration avec le



                                        - 69 -

Ministère du Pétrole, la Direction en charge des Domaines et de la Conservation
Foncière et d'un notaire désigné ;
o      Négociations pour l'extension au public de l'utilisation du Câble à fibre
optique ;
o      Facilitation des opérations d'importation de biens et équipements dans le
cadre du Projet ;
o      Signature des nouveaux textes relatifs au Travail Extra Légal et Certificat
d'origine ;
o      Création d'une cellule de suivi des travailleurs expatriés et homologation
et formation des travailleurs nationaux aux travailleurs expatriés ;
o      Elaboration des Conventions d'entreprises pour les travailleurs
nationaux ;
o      Résolution des conflits des travailleurs ;
o      Elaboration d'une étude relative à la démobilisation et réinsertion des
travailleurs nationaux en fin de contrat ;
o      Organisation des journées d'information publique à l'endroit des
travailleurs et des populations ;
o      Révision du Système de communication téléphonique à KOME
o      Organisation des réunions d'échanges et d'information ;
o      Soutien aux hommes d'affaires nationaux auprès du Consortium
o      Mise sur pieds de la Commission Tchad-Cameroun, etc..


II-2 DIFFICULTÉS

Les difficultés sont rencontrées dans les domaines suivants :

Ø      Recrutement du personnel ;
Ø      Communication/information ;
Ø      Assurances ;
Ø      Micro finance ;
Ø      Opportunités d'affaires ;
Ø      Démobilisation ;
Ø      Voyages d'études ;
Ø      Ouvrages ;
Ø      Sécurité.

III-ASPECTS TECHNIQUES

III-1 DEVELOPPEMENT

Le développement des champs des champs de Komé, Miandoum et Bolobo dans
le bassin de Doba au Sud du Tchad est dirigé par Esso Exploration &
Production (EEPCI) pour le compte du Consortium composé du Groupe Esso,
Chevron et Pétronas.


                                       - 70 -

Réalisations

Ø      Construction des camps de Base-Vie ;
Ø      Construction du Centre de Traitement de Komé-5 ;
Ø      Construction du Centre de collecte et de traitement de Komé-5 ;
Ø      Construction de la Centrale Electrique ;
Ø      Construction de l'Unité de stockage et d'expédition du brut (PS1) ;
Ø      Construction du Centre de commande et de contrôle ;
Ø      Construction des installations de surface, forage et production des
champs de Miandoum, Komé et Bolobo.


III-2 PRODUCTION DES HYDROCARBURES

La production des trois champs a commencé respectivement par celui de
Miandoum en juillet 2003, Komé en février 2004, Bolobo en août 2004 et Nyan
en juin 2005.

Le plateau de production de 225 000 barils par jour prévu par le Consortium
n'a jamais été atteint. Actuellement la production tourne autour de 170 000
barils par jour.

La production cumulée depuis juillet 2003 à octobre 2005 est de 128 475 996
barils.

III-3 TRANSPORT ET EXPORTATION DU BRUT

Le brut de Doba est exporté à travers un pipeline de 1070 km jusqu'au
terminal maritime de Kribi au Cameroun où des navires viennent s'alimenter à
destination des marchés mondiaux.

L'exportation du brut tchadien est assurée par les trois membres du
Consortium, à savoir Esso, Chevron et Pétronas.

Le volume des ventes depuis octobre 2003 à octobre 2005 est de 123 816 320
barils.

III-4 COMMERCIALISATION DU BRUT

Le pétrole tchadien est commercialisé par les trois membres du Consortium à
partir de Kribi, l'Etat tchadien perçoit en espèce 12,5% de redevance sur les
volumes vendus.

Jusqu'en octobre 2005, la redevance perçue par le Tchad s'élève à 374 545



                                      - 71 -

669,08 dollars US.

III-5 DIFFICULTÉS RENCONTRÉES

Ø      Pannes récurrentes des équipements
Ø      Défaillance mécanique des équipements
Ø      Diminution des réserves
Ø      Non respect du profil de production prévisionnel
Ø      La percée d'eau
IV- ASPECTS ENVIRONNEMENTAUX

Créé par décret N° 298/PR/MTE du 10 juillet 1997 pour le Projet Doba, Comité
Technique National de Suivi et de Contrôle (CTNSC) a pour mandat de
surveiller la mise en oeuvre du Plan de Gestion de l'Environnement (PGE) du
Projet de Doba et de façon plus générale, de s'assurer que le développement du
secteur pétrolier ne se réalise pas au détriment des populations et de
l'environnement. Il est constitué de: (a) un organe de réflexion et d'orientation
de 24 membres, présidé par le Secrétaire              Général du Ministère de
l'Environnement et de l'Eau, (b) une équipe de 9 personnes basée à N'Djamena,
placée sous la responsabilité d'un Secrétaire Exécutif (SE), et (c) une équipe de
17 personnes, basée sur le terrain et placée sous la responsabilité d'un
Superviseur sur Site répondant au SE.

Le CTNSC dispose d'un Manuel d'Exécution qui est destiné à assurer la bonne
exécution du projet de développement et d'exportation des ressources
pétrolières de Doba par le renforcement des capacités du Tchad dans le
domaine du développement du secteur pétrolier, en conformité avec les accords
de financement et notamment le Crédit IDA 3373.

IV-1 INDICATEURS DE PERFORMANCE DU PROJET

Au total cinq (5) indicateur ont permis de gérer les paramètres suivants du
Projet :

§      Suivi efficace de l'exécution du Projet d'Exportation Tchadien ;
§      Bonne Gouvernance ;
§      Objectif de développement - Amélioration de l'infrastructure sociale et
création d'emploi dans la zone de production ;
§      Les extra Projets ;
§      Accroissement sensible des prises de contact entre le Gouvernement et
les investisseurs potentiels.

IV-2 IMPACTS DU PROJET

Les impacts du Projet d'Exportation Tchadien sont d'ordre écologique, et



                                        - 72 -

institutionnel.

Les impacts écologiques vont dans le sens d'une contribution à la protection de
l'environnement conformément au PGE.

Aucun cas de non conformité de niveau 3 n'a été relevé par les surveillants du
CTNSC

Les impacts institutionnels vont dans le sens d'améliorer d'une part, des
capacités des équipes du CTNSC basée à N'Djaména et Komé à remplir leur
important mandat de régulateur et garant de la protection de l'environnement
lors du développement du secteur pétrolier et d'autre part à pallier les
insuffisances du cadre législatif et réglementaire, par l'élaboration de directives
afin de permettre au Gouvernement tchadien de baliser la voie en la matière, de
manière à orienter les pétroliers à s'engager sur un cadre précis, dans l'attente
de textes réglementaires spécifiques qui seront inclus lors de la réforme
législative environnementale. Ces directives permettront au CTNSC d'encadrer
les campagnes de prospection d'ores et déjà en cours pour assurer le suivi et le
contrôle de la gestion environnementale dans son sens large.

Il est important de noter que jusqu'à ce jour, plusieurs sociétés détentrices de
permis d'exploration ne sont pas assujetties légalement à suivre des normes
environnementales pour la protection de la nature, du patrimoine culturel, et
des intérêts des populations locales (Consultations publiques, compensations,
et la divulgation d'informations durant ces activités).


IV-3 COMMENTAIRES SPECIFIQUES SUR LA GESTION DU PROJET

La gestion du Projet est encadrée grâce aux mécanismes de contrôle et de
supervision mis en place avec les 7 niveaux de supervision indiqués ci-dessous
:

§      Niveau 1: Activités du Consortium Pétrolier ;
§      Niveau 2: Activités des Gouvernements (Tchad/Cameroun) ;
§      Niveau 3: Activités du Groupe Externe de monitoring (ECMG & GIC) ;
§      Niveau 4: Activités du Groupe Banque Mondiale;
§      Niveau 5: Activités du PCI ;
§      Niveau 6: Activités de la Société Civile ;
§      Niveau 7: Activités du Panel d'Inspection ;

IV-4 PERFORMANCE DE L'EMPRUNTEUR

La performance de l'emprunteur est satisfaisante au regard des indicateurs de
performance du Projet.



                                        - 73 -

IV-5 PERFORMANCE DU BAILLEUR

La réussite de l'exécution du Projet, certifie la performance du bailleur.

IV-6 PRINCIPALES DIFFICULTES

Ø      Démarrage tardif du Projet dans les deux pays ;
Ø      Lenteur des mesures de développement institutionnel par rapport à la
construction du Projet ;
Ø      Lenteur par les procédures de décaissement de la Banque Mondiale ;
Ø      Mauvaise exécution des plans de formation ;
Ø      Non finalisation des Plans Nationaux de Déversements Accidentels ;
Ø      PDR/EER ne son pas disponibles.

IV-7 CONCLUSION PARTIELLE

La protection de l'environnement est véritable facteur de développement.




V- DIMENSION ECONOMIQUE

 V-1 INVESTISSEMENTS

Le coût de la construction du projet était estime à 3,724 Milliards de Dollars et
reparti comme suit :

Installation de surface sur champs (y compris le forage, pipeline inter- champs,
centre des opérations et acquisition de la terre) : 1.521Millions de Dollars.

Système de transport (y compris les tuyaux, la construction de pipeline,
l'entrepôt flottant et le bateau de chargement, des stations de pompage et
l'acquisition du droit de passage du pipeline) 1.568 Millions Dollars.

Coûts financiers (y compris les intérêts pendant la construction, les frais de
créditeurs et la consolidation des comptes de réserve des services de dettes):
634 Millions Dollars.

V-2 RETOMBÉES ECONOMIQUES DU PROJET

A) Le FACIL

Le FACIL comme mesure d'accompagnement du PET mise en place parle
Gouvernement dans le but, dans un premier temps, d'atténuer les impacts



                                       - 74 -

sociaux négatifs du projet et ensuite de valoriser les retombées positives du
projet d'exportation tchadien dans la zone des installations de surface et de
tracé du pipe-line. Il a pour objectif global de contribuer au développement
économique et social durable de la zone intéressée par le Projet d'Exportation
Tchadien par :

1.    l'amélioration des conditions de vie des populations locales en
contribuant à leur donner un meilleur accès aux infrastructures et aux services
sociaux et économiques de base ;
2.    l'accroissement des revenus des populations et contribuer à la réduction
de la pauvreté par la création d'emplois temporaires et/ou permanents, le
développement d'activités génératrices de revenus, la création d'opportunités
économiques et le renforcement des capacités des petites et micro entreprises.




                                      - 75 -

Réalisations :

Ø      Vingt deux (22) micro projets d'infrastructures ;

Le coût total de ces réalisations est de 605 millions FCFA. Les travaux ont été
réalisés à 100% par les artisans et les micros entreprises de la région.

Ø      12 micro projets de renforcement de capacités ;

Le coût de mise en oeuvre des micros projets de renforcement des capacités est
de 129,3 millions FCFA.

Ø      6 programmes de micro crédit pour un coût total de 481,5 millions
de FCFA dont 354,7 millions FCFA ont permis d'octroyer un millier de crédits
touchant environ 8000 bénéficiaires.

Leçons tirées de la mise en oeuvre du FACIL

Le FACIL semble répondre à un besoin des communautés de la zone pétrolière
au vu du nombre des requêtes formulées par elles et qui sont parvenues au
bureau du FACIL en si peu de temps. Sur une zone d'intervention composée de
13 cantons et 4 communes, soit le quart de la région administrative du Logone
Oriental, le FACIL a enregistré :

Ø      233 requêtes d'infrastructures socio-économiques de base :
infrastructures scolaires, sanitaires, de fourniture d'eau potable, de
franchissement de cours d'eau, d'aménagements hydro agricoles... Etc.
Ø      238 requêtes de renforcement des capacités et développement local
relatives à diverses activités, à l'appui institutionnel et aux techniques de
montage et de gestion des projets de développement,
Ø      1795 requêtes de micro crédit dans des domaines aussi variés que les
activités de production et de commercialisation dans la zone.


V-3 RETOMBEES FISCALES ET PARAFISCALES LIEES DIRECTEMENT OU
INDIRECTEMENT AU PROJET PETROLE

La contribution du secteur pétrole ou du moins les retombées fiscales du Projet
Pétrole sont très importantes et concourent d'une manière ou d'une autre à la
réalisation des objectifs budgétaires notamment en ce qui concerne le
recouvrement des recettes fiscales.

La Contribution dans le budget de l'Etat des entreprises travaillant pour le
compte du Projet pétrole au regard des impôts et taxes payés se chiffrent pour



                                         - 76 -

les années 2002 à fin 2004 à : 60 ,647 milliards f CFA notamment et se
repartissent comme suit :

Ces retombées fiscales ont substantiellement amélioré le niveau des recettes de
l'Etat. A titre d'illustration, les recettes budgétaires de l'année 2004 se sont
inscrites en forte hausse (63,4%) pour se situer à 217,5 milliards dopées
principalement par les revenus pétroliers qui sont passés de 10,6 milliards en
2003 sur trois mois à 69,8 milliards en année pleine en 2004. Ces effets induits
ont amené les recettes non pétrolières en augmentation de 20,5% pour s'établir
à 147,6 milliards contribuant ainsi à des bonnes performances des
Administrations Fiscale et Douanière.

A)     L'impact du projet sur l'évolution de la croissance économique.
Sur le plan intérieur :

L'exportation du pétrole à partir du dernier trimestre 2003 a contribué à une
amélioration rapide du PIB du pays depuis le début des activités de
construction à la fin de l'année 2000. De 990 milliards de Fcfa en 2002 le PIB
réel est passé à 1 444 milliards en 2004, soit un accroissement de plus de 21%
en 2 ans, ce qui est assez considérable.

Sur le plan extérieur :

Le déficit du compte courant extérieur (hors transferts officiels) a continué à se
résorber ,passant de 41,8 % du PIB en 2003 à 19,4 % en 2004.Cette
performance s'explique par l'augmentation des exportations de pétrole et la
forte    décélération des importations consécutive à l'achèvement de la
construction du site d'exploitation pétrolière ainsi que la partie tchadienne de
l'oléoduc Tchad Cameroun.

Pendant ces périodes de construction et d'exportation du brut, le déficit
considérable des transactions courantes s'est réduit revenant de 444,2
milliards(28,9% du PIB) en 2003 à 156,1 milliards (7,6% du PIB) en 2004, en
relation avec le redressement significatif de l'excèdent de la balance
commerciale, surtout pétrolier (762,8 milliards en 2004, contre un déficit de
104 milliards en 2003) et ce malgré une dégradation de prés de moitié du solde
négatif des paiements au titre des services (636 milliards contre 439,1 milliards
précédemment) et une aggravation au titre des revenus, notamment des
dividendes pétroliers (366,4 milliards contre des entrée de 51,3 l'année
précédente).

B) L'analyse des emplois créés et leur pérennité

Depuis le début de la construction du pipeline, le niveau de l'emploi a atteint
son apogée 13156 employés toutes nationalités confondues dont 4700
tchadiens. Pendant les deux premières années de la construction, le chiffre


                                         - 77 -

était beaucoup élevé et représentait 90% de la main d'ouvre totale. Cependant,
le pourcentage de la main d'ouvre nationale a diminué au cours des derniers
mois de 2000 à cause du grand nombre des ouvriers qualifiés Philippins.

Il faut souligner que ces philippins sont vénus avec l'assistance et l'accord de la
Coordination Nationale de la République du Tchad et l'Office National d'Appui à
la Promotion de l'Emploi (ONAPE) afin d'accélérer le rythme de construction et
d'assurer que les installations de la zone de développement des champs
pétroliers soient conduites conformément aux normes rigoureuses de qualité
du Projet. Les salaires versés à ces employés tchadiens s'élevaient à fin 2002 à
4,1 milliards de FCFA. En tout, depuis le démarrage du projet il a été versé au
titre des salaires quelques 72 milliards de FCFA (110,8 millions de Dollars)
dont 38 milliards environ revenant aux employés nationaux (soit 24,66 millions
de Dollars).

C) la compétitivité de l'économie tchadienne

La compétitivité d'une économie peut être définie, de manière liminaire, comme
la capacité d'un pays à assurer à moyen terme le financement de ses relations
internationales à un niveau satisfaisant de son activité. Cette définition large
inclut les entrées et les sorties de capitaux (investissements directs comme
investissements de portefeuille) tout comme les revenus de facteurs (dont le
payement des intérêts de la dette), et il semble préférable dans un premier
temps de l'appliquer essentiellement aux relations commerciales, importation et
exportation de biens et de services.

La capacité de vendre les productions domestiques à l'extérieur, à des
conditions rentables (couverture des coûts) dépendra alors de deux sortes de
compétitivité, la compétitivité prix et la compétitivité hors prix, cette dernière
étant liée à la qualité de la spécialisation de l'économie.

Il apparaît alors que c'est la qualité de la spécialisation, l'adéquation de la
structure productive domestique à la structure de la demande domestique et de
la "demande intérieure mondiale" qui déterminera en bonne partie les effets
favorables ou non de l'ouverture sur la croissance et le développement des
pays, les pays pouvant se spécialiser dans la production de bien relativement
peu concurrencés, "nouveaux", bénéficiant donc d'un avantage certain par
rapport à ceux qui doivent se cantonner dans la production de biens
"banalisés", et concurrencés.

A ce sujet, situons le Tchad par rapport à ses définitions générales et
l'indicateur de compétitivité Ic:

-      Ic > 1 implique que, même sur son propre territoire, le produit
domestique est plus onéreux que le produit étranger: il n'est donc pas



                                         - 78 -

compétitif, et encore moins sur les marchés tiers. Le Tchad s'y retrouve en ce
qui concerne ses produits traditionnels notamment ceux du coton et de
l'élevage

-      Ic < 1 implique que le prix du produit domestique est moins élevé que
celui du produit étranger concurrent, et que, au moins sur le territoire
domestique, ce produit est compétitif; sa compétitivité sur les marchés tiers
dépendra du différentiel existant entre le droit de douane levé à l'importation
du produit concurrent étranger et le différentiel de coût hors douane. Là
également il s'y retrouve avec certains produits plus le pétrole dont la fixation
de prix dépend de plusieurs paramètres internationaux.

En conclusion, de tous ces points traités, il y ceux qui ont des effets immédiats
dont les résultats sont palpables ; par contre, d'autres ont des effets induits,
non perceptibles sur l'économie.
Par ailleurs, les retombées pourraient être encore intéressantes si certains
termes de la convention pourront être clairement définis et si le Consortium
joue le jeu en faisant une délimitation réelle du champ d'application de certains
impôts et taxes. Tel en est le cas de l'imposition des frais de siège, d'étude et
d'assistance technique versés par les contractants et sous-traitants à leur
siège.


V-4 POINTS DE LITIGES


Le litige né entre la République du Tchad et le Consortium est dû le plus
souvent à une interprétation divergente des textes en vigueur au Tchad et de la
Convention de 1988 et ses avenants.

Les points suivants font l'objet de Négociations :

Ø      Le point de mesure de la production totale des hydrocarbures et la
       détermination de la redevance sur la production totale
       des hydrocarbures.
Ø      périmètre d'exonération de la T.V.A ;
Ø      Les royalties à payer par le contractant Schreiner à TOUMAÏ AIR Tchad.


Les points suivants ont fait l'objet d'un règlement négocié :

Ø      La limitation de la déductibilité au titre de l'impôt sur les Sociétés, des
frais de siège et de l'assistance technique étrangère des contractants du
Consortium basée sur l'ordonnance de 1992 ;
Ø      Les assurances ;
Ø      Le Certificat d'origine de la chambre de commerce.


                                        - 79 -

V-5 CONCLUSION PARTIELLE

1.     l'exécution du projet a été écourtée de près d'une année sans le moindre
justification économique ;

2.     le coût total de construction prévu dans la demande de Concession
(document de base à la ratification de la Convention) est de 1.542.000.000 $US
contre le coût réellement exécuté qui est de l'ordre de 2.079.600.000 $US ;

3.     le coût de la construction à donc augmenté de 537,4 millions $US ;
4.     l'accélération de la production pour profiter des retombées de
l'augmentation du prix du brut sur le marché international et de la
disponibilité du pipeline a engendré des dépenses d'exploitation
supplémentaires à celles prévues dans la Demande de Concession. Ainsi, les
chiffres communiqués par Esso font ressortir que les dépenses d'exploitation de
2003 à 2005 seront de l'ordre de 402 millions $US, somme qui dépasse de 27%
les dépenses d'exploitation prévues dans la Demande de Concession.

5.     le fait le plus marquant est celui de la décote qui ne cesse d'évoluer car
nous enregistrons son augmentation au jour le jour (de 4$ à 19$) ;


VI- GESTION DES REVENUS PETROLIERS

VI-1 CONTROLE ET DE SURVEILLANCE DES RESSOURCES PETROLIERES

1)- Cadre juridique

Le Collège de Contrôle et de Surveillance des Revenus Pétroliers est un organe
de contrôle indépendant, créé par la Loi n° 001/PR/99 du 11 Janvier 1999 et
modifiée par celle n° 016/PR/2000 du 18 Août 2000. L'objectif principal ayant
conduit à la création du Collège est l'assurance voulue par le Gouvernement
que les revenus pétroliers du Tchad sont utilisés pour la lutte contre la
pauvreté. A ce titre, le CCSRP veille à ce que les revenus du pétrole issus de
l'exploitation des trois champs de Komé, Miandoum et Bolobo à savoir les
recettes directes (dividendes et redevances), les recettes indirectes (impôts,
taxes et droits de douane liés à l'exploitation pétrolière), soient rigoureusement
comptabilisés dans les comptes de l'Etat selon les textes réglementaires
nationaux et les normes internationales, avec sincérité et dans la transparence,
de manière à ce qu'il n'y ait aucun manque à gagner pour le Tchad.

VI-2 ROLE DU COLLEGE DANS LES PRINCIPALES ETAPES DE LA
PREPARATION DU BUDGET



                                       - 80 -

Le    Décret n° 240/PR/MEF/03 portant organisation, fonctionnement et
condition du contrôle et de surveillance du Collège de Contrôle et de
Surveillance des Ressources Pétrolières,        définit clairement les modalités
d'interventions du CCSRP à chacune des étapes de la préparation et de
l'exécution du Budget Général de l'Etat et particulièrement le chapitre
concernant les ressources pétrolières. Selon les dispositions de l'article 26 du
Décret n° 240/PR/MEF/03, le Collège :

·      reçoit la lettre de cadrage du ministère de l'économie et des finances et
les avant-projets de budget et budget programmes à moyen terme des
Ministères prioritaires, accompagné d'un rapport de chaque ministère sur le
suivi et les niveaux d'indicateurs inscrits dans les budgets de programme de
l'année précédente ;
·      participe aux discutions budgétaires relatives aux Ministères prioritaires
;
·      reçoit le projet de budget du ministère de l'économie et des finances dix
jours avant sa discussion au Conseil des Ministres.

·      s'assure si les montants alloués sont conformes à la stratégie de
réduction de la pauvreté telle qu'élaborée à cet effet. En cas d'incohérence, le
Collège fait des observations qu'il transmet avant l'adoption du projet du
budget au gouvernement.

·      reçoit le projet de budget dès son approbation par le Conseil des
Ministres pour s'informer des changements éventuels avant qu'il soit envoyé à
l'assemblée nationale avec ses observations.

   Au niveau de l'exécution du budget, les marchés des Ministères Prioritaires
   sont approuvés par le Collège conformément au plan annuel de passation de
   marché élaboré par lesdits Ministères et de commun accord avec le Collège.

    Le Collège reçoit de la direction générale des marchés publics l'ensemble
   des documents afférents à l'attribution des marchés et s'assure du respect
   des procédures de passation et d'exécution des marchés publics,
   notamment que les appels d'offre soient ouverts et que le dépouillement et
   l'attribution se passent dans les conditions de transparence absolue. A cet
   effet, le Collège reçoit les rapports de la sous-commission technique
   concernant l'évaluation des offres et celui de la Commission d'Appel à la
   concurrence sur l'attribution des marchés. Il s'assure que les règles en
   vigueur ont toutes été respectées et sont en conformité avec le code des
   marchés publics.

   Le collège, a cinq jours francs pour donner son avis sur les engagements et
   les décaissements, passé ce délai et en l'absence de refus écrit, l'accord du
   collège est considéré comme obtenu ; en cas de désaccord avec les services



                                        - 81 -

   en charge de l'exécution de la dépense sur une autorisation de paiement, la
   décision est soumise à l'arbitrage final de la Cour Suprême.

 VI-3 LA MISE EN OEUVRE DU PROGRAMME DE GESTION DES REVENUS
PETROLIERS

La mise en oeuvre du Programme de Gestion des Revenus Pétroliers
conformément au mandat du Collège n'a pas rencontré des difficultés
majeures. Les difficultés identifiées au début du processus ont été très vite
réglées grâce à la volonté de coopération des Institutions de l'Etat.




                                       - 82 -

VI-4 REVENUS PETROLIERS PERCUS PAR LE GOUVERNEMENT

Les revenus prévus pour le gouvernement du Tchad comme résultats directs du
projet sont les suivants :
Le paiement de royalties (redevances) ;

Revenus sur les sociétés du consortium ;

Revenus sur les sociétés payés par TOTCO ;

Les dividendes dues à sa participation dans TOTCO et COTCO.


VI-5 EVALUATION DES PREMIERS RESULTATS DE L'ALLOCATION DES
RESSOURCES DANS LES SECTEURS PRIORITAIRES, NOTAMMENT
L'IMPACT SUR LA QUALITE DE VIE DES POPULATIONS.

Il serait trop tôt de parler de l'évaluation des premiers résultats de l'allocation
des ressources pétrolières dans les Ministères Prioritaires en terme de l'impact
sur la qualité de vie des populations. Pour arriver à une appréciation cohérente,
il serait nécessaire d'attendre l'analyse des indicateurs de suivi de la Stratégie
Nationale de réduction de la Pauvreté (SNRP) et aussi organiser une enquête en
terme d'études d'impact auprès des zones dans lesquelles les projets sociaux
des Ministères Prioritaires sont exécutés.




                                        - 83 -

             REPUBLIQUE DU CAMEROUN

                              --------------------------

                        COMITE DE PILOTAGE ET DE
                               SUIVI DES PIPELINES
                                        ------------------------------


PROJET PIPELINE TCHAD/CAMEROUN




                  RAPPORT D'ACHEVEMENT
                     DE LA CONSTRUCTION

                                                                          JUILLET 2005

Abréviations                                                                      1


Introduction                                                                      2


I ­ Exécution du projet                                                           3

   1.1     Le CPSP                                                                3
   1.2     COTCO                                                                  3
     1.2.1      Exécution financière du Projet                                    3
     1.2.2      Audit des comptes                                                 4
     1.2.3      Décaissements                                                     4

II ­ Evaluation du projet                                                         4

   2.1     Appréciation générale                                                  4



                                                    - 84 -

      2.1.1       Exécution du projet                                                                          4
      2.1.2       Cadre juridique                                                                              5
      2.1.3       L'organisation opérationnelle                                                                5
   2.2      Construction du Pipeline                                                                           6
      2.2.1       Principales étapes de la construction                                                        6
      2.2.2       Mise en oeuvre du PGE                                                                        6
      2.2.3       Retombées économiques de la phase de développement du Projet                                 9
      2.2.4       Retombées économiques de la phase d'exploitation du projet                                 10
      2.2.5       Performances de l'emprunteur (République du Cameroun)                                      10
      2.2.6       Performances de la Banque Mondiale                                                         11
   2.3      Leçons à tirer                                                                                   11
      Au plan institutionnel                                                                                 12
      Au plan financier                                                                                      12
      Au plan socio-économique :                                                                             12




                                                                                                     Abréviations

ATP                                   Autorisation de Transport par Pipeline
BEI                                   Banque Européenne d'Investissement
BIRD                                  Banque Internationale pour la Reconstruction et le Développement
CAPECE                                Projet de Renforcement des Capacités de Gestion Environnementale dans le
                                      secteur pétrolier
CED                                   Centre pour l'Environnement et le Développement
CNLS                                  Comité National de Lutte contre le Sida
COTCO                                 Cameroon Oil Transportation Company S.A.
CPSP                                  Comité de Pilotage et de Suivi des Pipelines
FOCARFE                               Fondation Camerounaise pour une Action
                                      Rationalisée des Femmes sur l'Environnement
GIC                                   Groupe International Consultatif
IDA                                   International Development Association
OHADA                                 Organisation pour l'Harmonisation en Afrique du
                                      Droit des Affaires
ONG                                   Organisation Non Gouvernementale
PGE                                   Plan de Gestion de l'Environnement
SFI                                   Société Financière Internationale
SNH                                   Société Nationale des Hydrocarbures
TOTCO                                 Chad Oil Transportation Company S.A.
VIH/SIDA                              Virus d'Immunodéficience Humaine / Syndrome
                                      d'Immunodéficience Acquis

                                                                                                     Introduction

Des découvertes pétrolières ont été faites dans le sous-sol tchadien, notamment au Sud-Ouest de son territoire, dans
le bassin de Doba.     Aussi, pour permettre l'exportation de ce pétroler vers les marchés internationaux, la
République du Cameroun a accordé à la République du Tchad, Etat sans littoral, un droit d'accès à la mer en
acceptant la construction et l'exploitation sur son territoire d'un pipeline.

Ce pipeline d'une longueur de 890 kilomètres comprend une partie terrestre et une partie maritime , ainsi que des
installations annexes, notamment deux stations de pompage, une de réduction de pression et un terminal flottant de
stockage et de déchargement.




                                                          - 85 -

Pour la réalisation de cet important ouvrage, un consortium de sociétés pétrolières(Exxonmobil, Petronas et
ChevronTexaco) a été constitué et a engagé des négociations avec l'Etat camerounais à cet effet. Lesdites
négociations ont abouti à la création de la société Cameroon Oil Transportation Company (COTCO) et à la mise en
place d'un cadre institutionnel, légal, et opérationnel spécifique.


La protection de l'environnement du Projet a été un souci majeur dans sa réalisation. Aussi, un accent particulier a
été mis sur l'atténuation des impacts de ce projet, par les actions suivantes : la réalisation d'une étude d'impact et
la mise en oeuvre d'un Plan de Gestion de l'Environnement (PGE) traitant de divers aspects notamment, la gestion
des déchets, la lutte contre les déversements accidentels des hydrocarbures, l'indemnisation des populations, les
compensations régionales et environnementales.


Le capital de la société COTCO, maître d'oeuvre de la construction et de l'exploitation du pipeline, est constitué des
participations du Consortium, de la République du Cameroun et de celle du Tchad.
Pour le financement de ce projet de 3,7 milliards de Dollars US, les fonds ont été mobilisés auprès du Consortium,
de la BIRD, de la SFI et des banques commerciales (Eximbank et COFACE). La part du Cameroun au capital de
COTCO, soit 70 millions de Dollars US a été financée de la manière suivante : (i) La convention de financement
7020 CM de $ 53,4 millions approuvé par le conseil d'administration de la Banque Mondiale en date du 6 juin
2000 et signé le 29 mars 2001 ; (ii) La convention de financement BEI N° 20996 de 35,7 millions d'euros.

Pour la construction et l'exploitation du pipeline, la société Exxonmobil a été désignée opérateur. La réalisation des
travaux a nécessité l'intervention des entreprises contractantes et sous-traitantes (étrangères et locales). Le suivi et
le contrôle par la République du Cameroun a nécessité la mise en place du Comité de Pilotage et de Suivi des
Pipelines (CPSP), interlocuteur unique de COTCO, chargé principalement de la coordination et la facilitation des
interventions des administrations dans le Projet.


L'une des exigences de la convention de financement 7020 CM est la soumission à la BIRD d'un rapport
d'achèvement à la fin du Projet. Le présent rapport a pour objectif de rendre compte de la mise en oeuvre des
dispositions réglementaires et des mesures édictées dans le cadre du Plan de Gestion de l'Environnement. En outre,
il rend compte de l'utilisation du financement mis à la disposition de la République du Cameroun pour financer sa
participation au Projet. Il n'intègre cependant pas le crédit IDA 3370 en cours d'exécution par le projet CAPECE
qui fera l'objet d'un rapport d'achèvement séparé.

                                                                                               I ­ Exécution du projet

L'exécution du projet au Cameroun, à été confiée à COTCO. La Surveillance Administrative et le Contrôle
Technique ont été effectués par les administrations concernées, sous la coordination du CPSP dont l'organisation
est présentée dans l'Annexe 1.

1.1        Le CPSP

Créé par décret N° 97/116 du 7 juillet 1997, organisé par arrêté N° 433 du 24 août 1999 et placé sous l'autorité
d'un Président, Administrateur-Directeur Général de la Société Nationale des Hydrocarbures (SNH). Le CPSP a
pour missions la négociation avec les promoteurs et le suivi de toutes les phases de réalisation des projets de
pipelines, ainsi que la coordination des interventions des administrations et organismes publics compétents dans le
cadre des travaux de construction, d'exploitation et d'entretien des systèmes de transport par pipeline. A ce titre, il
initie les activités suivantes :

·         Etudes et enquêtes relatives à la délivrance de l'ATP ;
·         Le suivi des travaux de construction et d'exploitation par les administrations ;
·         Le suivi de la mise en oeuvre du PGE ;
·         Le suivi en liaison avec les administrations et organismes publics concernés de tout contentieux entre la
République du Cameroun et le ou les titulaires de l'ATP



                                                         - 86 -

1.2      COTCO

Cette société est dotée d'un capital de $ 67 855 300 réparti entre les membres du Consortium, les deux Etats soit
5,17% pour le Cameroun et 2,73% pour le Tchad. Elle a assuré la gestion des trois composantes de la phase de
développement du Projet (construction du système d'exportation, mobilisation des fonds auprès des Prêteurs, mise
en oeuvre du plan de gestion de l'environnement) et a fait appel à des sous-traitants dans le cadre de l'exécution
des travaux.
1.2.1    Exécution financière du Projet
-        Passation des marchés.
    Les commandes d'achat des biens et services ont été effectuées par COTCO, conformément aux procédures
    d'ExxonMobil et de la Banque Mondiale.

-        Système comptable
    Le système mis en place a respecté les principes comptables des entreprises privées tels que définis par les
    instituts de normalisation internationale et l'acte uniforme relatif au droit comptable.
    Ce système a permis la production de l'information financière périodique ainsi que les états financiers annuels
    soumis à la certification d'un commissaire aux comptes et à l'approbation de l'assemblée générale des
    actionnaires de COTCO.

1.2.2    Audit des comptes
Le Cabinet PriceWaterhouseCoopper a été nommé Commissaire aux Comptes.

1.2.3    Décaissements
En raison de la configuration du Projet, les dépenses à engager par COTCO, n'ont pas été structurées en catégorie
de dépenses. Les décaissements sur les différentes lignes de crédits mobilisés ont été les suivants :
-        BIRD                        100%
-        SFI                                  100%
-        BEI                         100%
-        EximBank           - Coface 100%

Les marchés réalisés dans le cadre de ce projet ont été exonérés d'impôts, de droits et taxes par le Gouvernement
camerounais. Ces exonérations ont été appliquées à l'ensemble des opérations de la construction du pipeline faites
par COTCO et ses sous-traitants, conformément à sa Convention d'Etablissement.


                                                                                            II ­ Evaluation du projet

Bien avant le démarrage de la phase de construction du pipeline de transport de pétrole brut au milieu de l'année
2001, plusieurs des étapes nécessaires à la préparation des travaux de construction avaient déjà été achevées. Ces
étapes portaient notamment sur les négociations du montage du projet, la mise en place d'un cadre institutionnel et
réglementaire, et d'une organisation opérationnelle.


2.1      Appréciation générale
2.1.1    Exécution du projet
Le Projet, de par sa nature, était nouveau au Cameroun. Aussi, sa réalisation soulevait à la fois des préoccupations
juridiques, financières, techniques et d'ordre environnemental.
Au    plan de la réalisation technique, l'oléoduc principal a été conçu et réalisé conformément aux normes
nationales, et lorsque ces dernières n'étaient pas disponibles, celles notamment de l'American Society of Engineers
et de L'American National Standard Institute étaient utilisées. Sur les directives de la Banque Mondiale, des
normes de sécurité ont été également prises dans le but d'assurer la protection de l'environnement, la sécurité et la
santé des populations pendant la période de développement et d'exploitation du pipeline. Un document en 19
volumes sur l'impact environnemental a ainsi été élaboré.



                                                         - 87 -

Sur le plan financier, l'implication des gouvernements du Cameroun et du Tchad ainsi que la caution de la Banque
mondiale ont permis la mobilisation des fonds nécessaires au développement du projet.

2.1.2     Cadre juridique
Les activités du Projet sont régies notamment par les textes suivants : (i) L'Accord Bilatéral du 08 février 1996
entre la République du Cameroun et la République du Tchad, relatif à la construction, et à l'exploitation d'un
système de transport des hydrocarbures par pipeline, (ii) Loi N° 96/14 du 5 août 1996 portant régime de transport
par pipeline des hydrocarbures en provenance des pays tiers, et son décret d'application, (iii) La Convention
d'Etablissement signé le 20 mars 1998 entre la République du Cameroun et COTCO, accordant des avantages
spécifiques à cette dernière.
2.1.3     L'organisation opérationnelle

Dans l'optique de la construction d'un pipeline en territoire camerounais, une structure permanente d'exécution,
COTCO, a été mise en place. Il s'agit d'une société privée avec une participation minoritaire de la République du
Tchad et de la République du Cameroun. Sa création a permis l'exécution du Projet selon les normes requises et
dans les délais impartis.

Ce Projet a également nécessité la mise en place du CPSP, structure interministérielle, dans le cadre du partenariat
entre les secteurs public et privé. Cet organisme facilite les relations entre les administrations et les promoteurs du
projet et les négociations directes avec les populations affectées. Ce rôle de facilitateur dévolu au CPSP, a permis
de raccourcir les délais d'instruction des dossiers du Projet auprès des administrations camerounaises concernées.

Par ailleurs, pour le suivi du Projet et le contrôle du respect des engagements pris par COTCO et la République du
Cameroun dans le cadre des conventions de financement susmentionnées les structures ci-après ont également été
mises en place :

(i) Le Groupe International Consultatif (GIC) : Cet organe fait partie des structures de contrôle créées par la
Banque Mondiale, pour s'assurer de la réalisation des objectifs de développement du Projet tant au Tchad qu'au
Cameroun. Ses différentes missions ont permis la résolution des problèmes et le recadrage de certaines activités du
Projet. A ce jour, le GIC a réalisé 9 missions de supervision ;


(ii) Le Panel d'inspection : Ce panel, créé par la Résolution BIRD 93-10 et La Résolution IDA 93-6, a été mis à
contribution dans le cadre du contrôle de l'exécution du Projet. Il a réalisé une inspection à la suite d'une requête
du 30 septembre 2002 du CED, une ONG basée à Yaoundé ;

(iii) Le Groupe Externe de Suivi de la Conformité Environnementale. Ce groupe est constitué des consultants du
cabinet d'Appollonia et a été chargé par la SFI de produire une évaluation indépendante de la conformité
environnementale des activités du Projet. ;

 En outre, des ONG , regroupés d'abord au sein d'un organe appelé Groupe de Concertation et d'Action (GCA),
puis au sein du Comité de Suivi Indépendant du Projet Pipeline, ont facilité l'expression et la prise en compte des
préoccupations des populations riveraines du Projet.


2.2       Construction du Pipeline
2.2.1     Principales étapes de la construction
En dépit des événements extérieurs enregistrés au cours de l'année 2000 suite au retrait du Consortium des sociétés
Elf et Shell et leur remplacement par les sociétés Pétronas et Chevron, les travaux de construction du pipeline
proprement dits, dont la durée prévisionnelle était de 05 ans, ont débuté au début du deuxième semestre 2001 et se
sont achevés à la fin de l'année 2003.

Les principales étapes de la construction du pipeline, pour la période allant du démarrage des travaux de pose des
tubes à la réalisation du premier déchargement au Terminal Offshore, sont les suivantes :


                                                          - 88 -

·         Certificat de conformité du Pipeline : La République du Cameroun a délivré à travers le Ministère
chargé des Mines, le certificat de conformité du Système de Transport Camerounais par arrêté N°
0033/MINMEE/DMG du 17 juillet 2003. Une certification similaire a été délivrée au Tchad le 5 juillet de la même
année sur la base de la déclaration de conformité du cabinet Stone and Webster.
·         Pompage du brut : Le brut en provenance des champs de Miandoum dès la fin du 2ième trimestre 2003.
·         Mise en service des installations : Mise en service des stations de pompage qui font circuler le pétrole à
travers le pipeline ainsi que de la station de réduction de pression et des installations maritimes.
·         Emplissage du Pipeline : A la mi-septembre 2003, la première quantité de Brut introduite dans Pipeline
à Komé, au Tchad, avait terminé son périple de 1070 Kilomètres, jusqu'au Terminal Offshore, au large de Kribi, au
Cameroun.
·         Première exportation du Brut tchadien vers les marchés internationaux : Au début du mois d'octobre
2003, s'effectuait le premier déchargement d'une cargaison de brut pour l'exportation , au Terminal Offshore, au
large de Kribi.

Les différentes synergies dégagées lors de la phase de montage du Projet ont donc permis de gagner deux années
sur la durée de la construction.

2.2.2      Mise en oeuvre du PGE
Pour le Cameroun, le Plan de Gestion Environnementale prévoyait les axes d'interventions suivants : (i) Un plan de
gestion des sites culturels, (ii) un plan de gestion de l'accès induit, (iii) les mesures d'atténuation à chaque site, (iv)
un plan de suivi de l'environnement, (v) les exigences et les spécifications techniques dans les domaines
Biophysique, Socio-économique et de la Santé, (vi) un plan de compensation, (vii) la création d'une fondation pour
l'environnement, (viii) un programme d'amélioration environnementale en dehors des sites du projet, (ix) un plan
de gestion des Peuples Autochtones Vulnérables, (x) Un plan de gestion des déchets, (xi) Un plan de lutte contre les
déversements accidentels des hydrocarbures.

Les travaux de construction ont fait l'objet d'un suivi rigoureux, conformément au programme défini au début du
Projet. Le système de reporting a été respecté par l'ensemble des organes impliqués dans le suivi des travaux.

COTCO a régulièrement produit les rapports suivant le programme établi à savoir : (i) Rapports immédiats pour
toutes les situations de non-conformité de niveau III ; (ii) Rapports mensuels pour toutes les situations de
non-conformité niveau II ; (iii) Rapports trimestriels pour toutes les situations de non-conformité de niveau I mais
aussi rapport d'état intégrant la sécurité, la santé, les données environnementales et socio-économiques.

Le PGE définit les situations de non-conformité de la manière suivante : (i) Une situation de non-conformité de
niveau I est une situation qui n' a pas un impact significatif sur une ressource sensible identifiée, mais qui n'est pas
conforme avec le PGE ; (ii) Une situation de non-conformité de niveau II est une situation qui n'a pas encore
produit de dommage clairement identifiés ou un impact irréversible sur une ressource sensible ou importante, mais
qui requiert une action corrective rapide et une attention spécifique sur le site pour éviter ces dommages ; (iii) Une
situation de non-conformité de niveau III est une situation critique dans laquelle on peut observer des dommages
causés sur une ressource sensible protégée ou qui peut donner lieu à des dommages probables imminents.

Ce système de reporting a été complété par les travaux de contrôle des organes suivants : (i) Le Groupe Externe de
Suivi de la Conformité Environnementale ; (ii) Le Groupe International Consultatif ; (iii) Le Panel d'Inspection ;
(iv) Le Comité de Pilotage et de Suivi des Pipelines.

Une seule situation de non-conformité de niveau III a été signalée au le Cameroun pour laquelle un programme de
compensation devant être exécuté par COTCO a été établi. Ce programme incluait : (i) L'octroi des bourses à deux
étudiants camerounais ; (ii) La rénovation d'un bâtiment destiné à l'entreposage des artefacts trouvés pendant la
construction du Pipeline ; (iii) L'élaboration d'une publication sur les découvertes archéologiques et l'organisation
d'une conférence de restitution.



                                                           - 89 -

Le projet de publication des découvertes archéologiques a été élaboré en anglais et est actuellement en cours de
traduction en langue française. La rénovation du bâtiment d'entreposage est terminée. Quant aux bourses, le
processus de la désignation par le Gouvernement camerounais des deux boursiers est en cours.

Pour l'ensemble du Projet (Tchad et Cameroun), les situations de non-conformité recensées se dénombrent comme
suit : (i) Situation de non-conformité de niveau I, 473 ; (ii) Situation de non-conformité de niveau II, 65 ; Situation
de non-conformité de niveau III, 2. Le détail de ces situations de non-conformité est donné en annexe II.

i)         Les compensations
Le plan de compensation prévoyait des compensations individuelles, communautaires et régionales. Les réalisations
en matière de compensations sont les suivantes :

Compensations individuelles : Au premier trimestre de l'année 2005, le montant des compensations individuelles
versées à 4 130 exploitants est évalué à 9,7 millions de Dollars US (5,4 Milliards FCFA).

Compensations communautaires et régionales : Ces compensations avaient quasiment toutes été exécutées au 31
mai 2005. Evaluées à FCFA 1,84 milliard, la liste des réalisations figure en annexe III.

Pour les compensations pour lesquelles les populations ont exprimé leur insatisfaction, COTCO s'est engagé à
prendre des actions correctives sur les cas où sa responsabilité est interpellée. Par ailleurs, le contrôle de l'exécution
de certaines compensations a révélé quelques insuffisances dans les domaines suivants :
·          Travaux non livrés : En raison des devis présentés qui sont inférieurs aux coûts réels, certains petits
entrepreneurs n'ont pas pu livrer les travaux commandés dans les délais. Cette situation reste en étude auprès de
COTCO .
·          Coût de certains micro-projets : Quelques communautés ont choisi des micro-projets dont le coût de
réalisation est largement supérieur au montant des compensations prévues pour elles. Des négociations sont menées
conjointement par le CPSP et COTCO pour amener les communautés concernées à faire des choix de micro-projets
dont la valeur est compatible avec les enveloppes financières octroyées.
·          Compensations communautaires additionnelles : Le décret sur l'ATP prescrit le maintien d'un périmètre
de sécurité de 100 m autour des stations de pompage. En vue de s'y conformer, COTCO envisage de mettre sur
pied une procédure de compensation complémentaire, afin de libérer ce périmètre de sécurité.

ii)        Fondation pour l'Environnement et le Développement au Cameroun
Au cours de la phase de développement du Projet, la Fondation pour l'Environnement et le Développement au
Cameroun a été créée et est opérationnelle depuis 2002.

La FEDEC vient de mener à son terme la phase initiale de 3 ans du Plan pour les Populations Autochtones
Vulnérables à savoir : (i) Aider les Bagyeli/Bakola à intégrer la vie publique nationale (Education à la citoyenneté
et délivrance des cartes d'identité) ; (ii) Les faire accéder aux programmes nationaux de santé ; (iii) Améliorer leur
méthodes culturales ; (iv) Leur faciliter les conditions d'accès au système éducatif.

Pour ce qui est du programme d'amélioration environnementale, deux conventions de financement ont été signées
en 2002 avec World Wildlife Fund pour le programme du Parc national de Campo-Ma'an et avec Wildlife
Conservation Society pour celui du Parc national de Mbam et Djerem.

iii)       Gestion des déchets
La décharge conçue pour les besoins du projet a été achevée au courant du 3ème trimestre de l'année 2003 et sa
mise en service est intervenue au cours du 1er trimestre de l'année 2004. Cette décharge qui a été construite au
niveau de la station de pompage N° 3, près de Belabo, est destinée à recevoir les déchets non biodégradables. En
outre, un contrat d'incinération des huiles usagées du Projet a été signé avec la société camerounaise BOCOM,
basée à Douala.



                                                          - 90 -

iv)       Santé
Conformément à la stratégie du projet, les problèmes de santé publique demeurent de la responsabilité du
Gouvernement. Toutefois, le Projet s'est impliqué dans la prévention et le traitement des maladies liées directement
à ses activités, ainsi que dans certaines activités d'éducation. C'est le cas de la campagne « Roll Back Malaria » où
des moustiquaires ont été distribuées aux populations riveraines du Pipeline.

Des études sur les maladies sexuellement transmissibles effectuées le long du tracé du pipeline ont permis, sans que
cela soit nécessairement imputable aux activités du Projet, de constater un taux significatif de prévalence du
VIH/SIDA. Une stratégie de lutte contre cette pandémie impliquant le Ministère de la Santé Publique, le CNLS, le
CPSP et COTCO est en cours d'élaboration et devrait être mise en oeuvre pendant toute la phase d'exploitation du
Projet.

2.2.3     Retombées économiques de la phase de développement du Projet
i)        Utilisation des compensations par les bénéficiaires
Lors des consultations avec les ONG, des appréhensions ont été quelquefois exprimées quant à l'utilisation
judicieuse par les populations, de l'argent reçu en ne l'affectant pas à des dépenses qui entraîneraient des avantages
à long terme pour leurs foyers. Au Cameroun, une campagne préalable de sensibilisation sur l'utilisation
rationnelle des compensations individuelles a été faite. Au cours de cette campagne, les populations ont été
encouragées à choisir des compensations en nature plutôt qu'en espèces. Ces campagnes ont permis d'atteindre un
taux de compensation en nature de près de 20%.

ii)       Infrastructures routières et ferroviaires
Un pont frontalier, a été construit sur la rivière M'Béré lors de la phase de développement du Projet. Ce pont ouvre
une voie de connexion supplémentaire entre le Cameroun et le Tchad, dont les effets sur l'économie des localités
riveraines des deux pays seront importants. Le Projet a également contribué à : (i) L'amélioration et à la
re-construction des routes existantes sur plus de 436 km dans la partie septentrionale du Cameroun ; (ii) La
réfection des voies ferrées et des équipements ferroviaires, à savoir la réparation de 175 wagons et 4 locomotives;
(iii) L'installation de la fibre optique au Cameroun : sur les 18 fibres optiques enfouies dans la tranchée du
pipeline, 12 fibres sont réservées à l'usage exclusif de la République du Cameroun, et permettront une amélioration
de ses capacités de télécommunications.

iii)      Emploi local
Pendant la phase de construction de l'oléoduc, le Projet, COTCO, ses Contractants et Sous-traitants compris, a
mobilisé en moyenne 4 000 salariés locaux par mois pour une masse salariale totale évaluée à FCFA 18,9 milliards.
Les chiffres relatifs à la main d'oeuvre utilisée ont été largement au dessus des prévisions comme le montre le
graphique ci-après.




                                                         - 91 -

                                             PROJET PIPELINE TCHAD-CAMEROUN
                                           Comparaison Effectif estimé et Effectif réalisé


       9 000

       8 000

       7 000

       6 000
Effectif5000

       4 000

       3 000

       2 000

       1 000

           0




                                  Main d'oeuvre prévisionnelle
                                                                                            Main d'oeuvre




iv)       Débouchés économiques locaux
Pendant la période de développement du Projet, le volume d'affaires traitées avec les partenaires locaux a été évalué
à FCFA 264 Milliards ( 406 Millions Dollars US). Au cours de cette période, l'évolution des débouchés locaux a
connu son pic en 2002.

2.2.4     Retombées économiques de la phase d'exploitation du projet
Lors de la phase d'exploitation, la principale retombée financière directe attendue du Projet par le Cameroun est le
droit de transit.


Sur la base d'un volume moyen d'extraction évalué à 917 millions de barils, le montant total des droits de transit
escompté pendant la période d'exploitation est de 376 millions de Dollars US.


Les données disponibles sur les deux premières années d'exploitation sont les suivantes pour ce qui est des droits
de transit :


          Au 30 juin 2005, COTCO a versé au Cameroun des droits de transit évalués à 42,039 millions Dollars
          répartis comme suit :

·         2003 (trois mois d'exploitation)   3,520 millions de Dollars US
·         2004                               25,143 millions de Dollars US
·         2005 (six mois d'exploitation)     13,376 millions de Dollars US


2.3. Performances de l'emprunteur et de la Banque Mondiale




                                                        - 92 -

Les travaux à exécuter au cours de cette phase ont été réalisés à 100% et dans les délais. Cette performance est à
mettre au crédit de l'emprunteur et de la Banque Mondiale.

2.2.5     Performances de l'emprunteur (République du Cameroun)
i)        Phase de préparation du Projet

Dans le cadre de la préparation du Projet, le Consortium a demandé et obtenu des crédits par l'intermédiaire de la
Société Financière Internationale (SFI), qui est un organe du Groupe Banque Mondiale, chargé de la promotion des
investissements privés dans les pays en voie de développement. Il a également demandé et obtenu le reste des prêts
auprès des banques commerciales, prêts qui ont été garantis par les agences de crédit à l'exportation et les marchés
financiers.

Le Cameroun a demandé et obtenu un prêt de 70 millions de Dollars US à la BIRD et à la BEI pour financer sa
participation au capital de COTCO.

ii)       Phase de construction

a) Les contrôles sur le terrain : Les contrôles ont été effectués par les unités de terrain du CPSP et les équipes des
administrations concernées, sous la coordination du CPSP. Ces équipes, chargées de la surveillance administrative
et du contrôle technique des activités, pour le compte de la République du Cameroun, étaient basées dans toute la
zone du Projet, sur les sites des travaux et dans les camps de construction des entrepreneurs. Elles ont visité les
sites du Projet, y compris les bases-vies, revu les rapports des entrepreneurs et recueilli des données
environnementales, socio-économiques, de sécurité et de santé. Les contrôleurs ont transmis leurs rapports à leur
hiérarchie respective (CPSP et Ministère).
b) Les décaissements des prêts : La République du Cameroun approuvait semestriellement les plans de tirage
élaborés par COTCO, (l'agence d'exécution), pour le financement des activités approuvées lors de ses Conseils
d'Administration. Cette démarche a permis à COTCO de disposer directement des fonds nécessaires à ses activités,
tout en l'obligeant à rendre compte semestriellement à la République du Cameroun de l'utilisation de ces fonds.

2.2.6     Performances de la Banque Mondiale

Les fonds nécessaires au Projet de développement des champs pétroliers et des deux sociétés de pipeline (TOTCO et
COTCO) ont été obtenus de la façon suivante : (i) Approximativement 80% des coûts du Projet ont été à la charge
directe des partenaires et des filiales du Consortium ; (ii) Approximativement 17% ont été financés par des prêts au
taux du marché, obtenus auprès de la SFI, des agences de crédit à l'exportation et des banques commerciales ; (iii)
Les 3% restants provenaient des participations des gouvernements du Tchad et du Cameroun au capital respectif
de COTCO et de TOTCO. Pour financer leurs investissements, les deux pays ont reçu, dès approbation du Projet
par le Conseil d'Administration de la Banque mondiale, un montant total d'environ 115 millions de Dollars US (69
milliards de F CFA) sous forme de prêts de la BIRD, ainsi que de la BEI.

Ces mécanismes de financement ont permis d'établir un lien avec la Banque Mondiale et les Prêteurs qui ont ainsi
pu apporter un soutien important au développement du Projet. Le personnel de la Banque a, par exemple effectué
une révision approfondie de la documentation environnementale du Projet. Ce personnel a également aidé le
Consortium et les gouvernements des deux pays à respecter les normes de construction, y compris celles relatives à
la protection de l'environnement et des populations, ainsi qu'aux consultations publiques, prescrites dans les
Directives et politiques opérationnelles de la Banque Mondiale. Toutefois, il y a lieu de relever que lors de
l'évaluation financière et économique du Projet, le Cameroun a été classé comme pays à risque, ce qui lui a valu le
paiement d'une prime de près de 5 millions de Dollars US. Or, ce niveau de risque ne correspond pas au taux de
rentabilité (10%) retenu pour l'évaluation du Projet.


2.3       Leçons à tirer




                                                         - 93 -

Au plan institutionnel


i)        Gestion des relations entre l'Administration et le secteur privé : Ce projet multidimensionnel avait
besoin pour sa réussite de l'intervention de plusieurs administrations. Pour éviter que l'agence d'exécution
(COTCO) sollicite directement chaque administration concernée, ce qui aurait constitué autant de risques de retard,
le CPSP a été mis sur pied dans le but d'assurer l'interface entre le secteur privé (COTCO) et le secteur public
(l'Administration) ; ce qui a permis de raccourcir les délais d'intervention de ces administrations, ainsi que ceux de
réalisation du Projet.

ii)       Respect des délais : Une bonne planification du projet avec une définition claire et partagée des objectifs à
atteindre permet la réalisation des activités dans les délais.




Au plan financier




iii)      Procédure de décaissement : Les crédits obtenus dans le cadre du projet ont tous fait l'objet de
décaissement dans les délais, parce que les modalités souples de décaissement mises en place par la République du
Cameroun, COTCO et la Banque mondiale, permettaient le tirage direct par COTCO du prêt, essentiellement sur
approbation par la République du Cameroun des plans de tirage.


Au plan socio-économique :


iv)       Compensation : Il est apparu au moment de la clôture des dossiers de compensation que les espoirs
suscitées par le projet tout au long du corridor ne pouvait être satisfait par les financements ponctuels qui ont été
débloqués dans ce cadre. Le contact entre COTCO et les populations restera maintenu durant la phase
d'exploitation dans la perspective de résoudre les problèmes résiduels.
v)        Taux des indemnisations : La réalisation de ce Projet est un précédent qui rend désormais difficile, une
future expropriation dans la zone du Projet avec les taux et procédures d'indemnisation en vigueur
vi)       Adhésion des populations : L'adhésion des populations au Projet est nécessaire pour la bonne réalisation
d'un projet de cette envergure.


                                        ANNEX II


         Situation de non conformité par catégorie


                                                                   Niveau I      Niveau II  Niveau III        Total
Travaux en dehors des zones autorisées                                      93            10          0             103
Gestion des déchets                                                         62            3           0              65
Contrôle de l'érosion                                                       15            9           0              24
Santé et sécurité                                                           51            9           0              60
Questions socio-économiques                                                 18            7           0              25
Entretien/manutention des équipements                                       47            5           0              52
Gestion de la couche arable                                                 31            1           0              32
Rejets d'effluents                                                          15            6           0              21
Mauvais abattage des arbres/défrichage                                      12            0           0              12



                                                          - 94 -

Manque de formation SHE                                           10    0     0     10
Mauvaise intervention en cas de déversement                       7     0     0      7
Remise en état                                                    2     0     0      2
Faune sauvage/gibier de brousse                                   1     5     0      6
Traversées des cours d'eau                                        3     1     0      4
Matériaux et équipements                                          30    2     0     32
Extraction (matériaux de remblai, etc)                            27    4     0     31
Entreposage des substances dangereuses/huile                      32    0     0     32
Elimination de l'eau                                              4     0     0      4
Administration                                                    4     0     0      4
Gestion de la poussière                                           1     0     0      1
Pratiques générales de construction                               0     1     0      1
Gestion des accès induits                                         1     1     0      2
Gestion des sites culturels                                       2     1     2      5
Equipe PGE insuffisante                                           2     0     0      2
Conducteurs mal disciplinés                                       1     0     0      1
Utilisation de matériaux sans autorisation préalable du PGE       2     0     0      2



Total                                                            473    65    2    540



(b) Cofinanciers:


(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):




                                                       - 95 -

- 96 -

