Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No: 22694
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
(TF-24247; IDA-28230; PPFI-P9670; TF-20913; TF-24246)
ON A
CREDIT
IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 11.8 MILLION (US$17.50 MILLION EQUIVALENT)
TO THE STATE OF ERITREA
FOR A COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT FUND PROJECT
May 6, 2002
AFTH3
Human Development Unit, Group 3
Africa Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective November 2001)
Currency Unit = Eritrean Nakfa
Eritrean Nakfa 10.0 = US$ 1.00
US$ 0.10 = 1 Eritrean Nakfa
FISCAL YEAR
January I  December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AWPB                        Annual Work Plan and Budget
CAS                         Country Assistance Strategy
CDP                         Community Development Program
ECDF                        Eritrea Community Development Fund
ECRF                        Eritrean Community Rehabilitation Fund
ICB                         International Competitive Bidding
IDP                         Internally Displaced Person
ILI                         Intensive Learning Implementation Completion Report
MIS                         Management Information System
MOE                         Ministry of Education
MOF                         Ministry of Finance
MOH                         Ministry of Health
MOLG                        Ministry of Local Government
NBF                         Non-Bank Financing
NGO                         Non-governnental Organization
NRM                         Natural Resources Management
RRPE                        Recovery and Rehabilitation Program for Eritrea
SAR                         Staff Appraisal Report
SMCP                        Savings and Micro-Credit Program
TMT                         Transitional Management Team
Vice President:  Callisto Madavo, AFRVP
Country Director:   Makhtar Diop, AFC05
Sector Manager:   Arvil Van Adams, AFTH3
Task Team Leader:    Marylou Bradley, AFTHI



FOR OFFICIAL USE: ONLY
Intensive Learning Implementation Completion Report
Eritrea Community Development Fund Project
CONTENTS
Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                     1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                    1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry          2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                             4
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                              14
6. Sustainability                                                                  16
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                   18
8. Lessons Learned                                                                 20
9. Partner Comments                                                                23
10. Additional Information                                                         23
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                               30
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                               31
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                               33
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                               34
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components               36
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                  37
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                              38
Annex 8. Beneficiary Survey Results                                                39
Annex 9. Stakeholder Workshop Results                                              53
Annex 10. Borrower's Evaluation Report                                             58
Annex 11. Gender                                                                   64
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.






Project ID: P039264                                       Pr oject Name: COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT
FUND
Team Leader: Marylou R. Bradley                           TL Unit: AFTH4
ICR Type: Intensive Learning Model (ILM) of ICR           Report Date: May 6, 2002
1. Project Data
Name: COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT FUND                     L/C/TF Number: TF-24247; IDA-28230;
PPFI-P9670;
TF-20913; TF-24246
Country/Departnment: ERITREA                                             Region: Africa Regional Office
Sector/subsector: SF - Social Funds
KEY DATES
Original            Revised/Actual
PCD:   02/02/95                                Effective: 06/24/96           06/24/96
Appraisal:  06/19/95                                  MTR- 12/01/98              12/07/98
Approval:  02/29/96                                Closing: 12/31/2001           12/31/2001
Borrower/lImplementing Agency: GOVERNMENT OF ERITREA/ECDF
Other Partners:  Belgium, Italy, The Netherlands
STAFF                Current                                    At Appraisal
Vice President.      Callisto Madavo                            Edward K. Jaycox
Country Manager:     Makhtar Diop                               James W. Adams, Department Director
Sector Manager:       Arvil Van Adams                           Jacob van Lursenburg Maas Division Chief
Team Leader at ICR:  Marylou Bradley                            Laura Frigenti
ICR Primary Author:   Marylou Bradley
2. Principal Performance Ratings
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly
Unlikely, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)
Outcome. S
Sustainability: L
Institutional Development Impact: SU
Bank Performance: S
Borrower Performance: HS
QAG (if available)        ICR
Quality at Entry:                         S
Project at Risk at Any Time: No



3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry
3.1 Original Objective:
Context: The objectives and design of the Eritrea Community Development Fund Project (ECDF) are assessed
here in the context of the political, economic, institutional and social conditions prevailing in Eritrea during the
last decade. Eritrea was at war on and off during the last four decades. At the time of independence in 1993,
Eritrea's then provisional govermnent faced a shattered economy, severely damaged infrastructure, barely or
non-functional social services, abysmally low basic social indicators, a human resource base which had
depreciated over the past three decades, and the daunting task of creating an administrative government
structure. Following independence, the Government embarked on an extensive reconstruction program for its
war-tom country, driven by a series of reform measures. Broadly, this occurred in three phases:
Phase 1: 1991-1993. Government focused its attention on: (i) conducting an internationally-supervised popular
referendum to put the country's independence on solid legal ground; (ii) mobilizing qualified and experienced
manpower within and outside the country, including staffing newly established public institutions; and (iii)
undertalcing emergency economic rehabilitation programs in the area of infrastructure development which
included the Eritrea Recovery and Rehabilitation Project (ERRP) of which the pilot phase of ECDF was a part.
Phase 2: 1994-1997. Government focused on developing the institutional, legal, and policy frameworks
required to promote the country's long-term economic, social, and political development. Government's macro
policy document was adopted and broad based fiscal, monetary and trade policy regimes were introduced.
Government machinery was restructured and heavy investments were made to develop the country's
infrastructure, build local capacity, and restore the productive capacity of the economy. In 1997, the National
Constitution of Eritrea was ratified and the use of the Birr (Ethiopia's currency) as the legal tender in Eritrea
was terminated and replaced with the Nakfa currency. During this period, Eritrea enjoyed an average growth
rate of 7%.
Phase 3: 1998-2000. Since independence and through early 1998, Eritrea made important progress in all
sectors of the economy, in improving basic social indicators, and in rebuilding the new government apparatus to
effectively formulate policies and strategies and to engage in investments which can promote broad-based
economic growth. However, the outbreak of the border conflict with Ethiopia in May 1998 (which later
escalated to war) eroded important gains realized in the past. The war led to the loss of many lives, the
displacement of over 30% of the population, heavily damaged social and economic infrastructure, loss in
agricultural outputs and port revenues, rising costs, high budget deficits and an acute shortage of manpower
which Eritrea needs to achieve its overall development agenda. Eritrea and Ethiopia agreed to a Cessation of
Hostilities on June 18, 2000 and signed a comprehensive Peace Accord on December 12, 2000.
As a country emerging from a long war, Eritrea presented a special scenario for creating the Eritrea
Community Development Fund Project. There was Government commitment and ownership of its development
agenda, the will for innovation, and the general mind set for change was enormously high. Eritrea's long
tradition of community participation and the successful experiences of the pilot provided important building
blocks for facilitating the process of rebuilding and advancing development.
An Intensive Learning Implementation (ILI) Completion Report was completed to permit a more comprehensive
analysis of the ECDF Project's implementation experience and achievement, focusing especially on lessons
learned. These lessons are expected to guide the further development of the next operation. The participatory
process adopted in preparing the Report helped build the capacity of local stakeholders to carry out
multi-sectoral program evaluation. To maximize the learning potential from a wider institutional perspective,
Bank staff from the Sector Thematic Group and OED also participated in the Completion Mission. A
-2 -



Stakeholder Workshop was carried out as part of this evaluation to obtain feedback from a wide range of
beneficiaries and stakeholders about their overall satisfaction with the Project
Objective: The Project's objectives were to finance community-based sub-projects which would: (i) support
the rehabilitation and development of basic social and economic infrastructure critical to the improvement and
development of the social and economic conditions of the population, especially in the rural and war-devastated
areas of Eritrea; and (ii) improve the income-generating capacity of poor people and households. Underlying
these objectives was the shift from the ECRF pilot's emphasis on recovery and rehabilitation to more
sustainAble development Project interventions to achieve these objectives were intended to be national in scope
and implemented over five years.
Project objectives reflected essential government priorities for improving the social and economic conditions of
Eritrean citizens. They were consistent with the Government's overall development strategy to promote
sustainable broad-based economic growth, develop the country's human resource base, reduce infrastructure
constraints, and promote self-reliance. Although the Project was prepared before the first Bank's Country
Assistance Strategy (CAS) was fully developed, its objectives were nevertheless confirmed as part of the CAS
which called for the creation of employment opportunities, strengthening physical infrastructure, including the
provision of public services, development of human resource base, and assisting with community-based
programs targeted to poor communities and vulnerable groups.
3.2 Revised Objective:
Project objectives were not formally revised.
3.3 Original Components:
The Project had three main components:
Social and Economic Infrastructure and Services (US$40.47 million total, 81% of total cost). This
component financed two broad categories of community-based sub-projects to improve: (i) basic economic
and social infrastructure through the rehabilitation and/or construction of education facilities, health
facilities, market places, feeder roads, rural water supply facilities, soil, water and forestry conservation;
and (ii) basic social services. A total of 283 community-based sub-projects was planned from which
approximately 1,586,250 people were expected to benefit.
Pilot Savings and Micro-Credit Program (US$3.11 million, 6% of total cost). This component financed
a pilot savings and micro credit program to support investments in economic activities at the village level.
Operating under the village banking model, the program was to provide credit incrementally to poor
individuals who have demonstrated a capacity to save through elected Village Administrations. This
component was intended to create a total of 270 village banks with 13,500 members.
Training and Capacity Building (US$1.75 million, 4% of total cost). This component financed the
organizational strengthening and short-term professional (technical) training of central and regional ECDF
staff, capacity building at the community level, and technical assistance for the preparation, supervision,
and ex-post evaluation of sub-projects, a series of special evaluations and technical studies, staff training,
beneficiary assessments, financial audits, development of MIS, and the establishment of a financial
management system.
Approximately US$4.35 million (9% of total cost) was allocated to finance expenditures related to project
administration and management, office equipment, furniture, and vehicles for ECDF's central and regional
offices, and operating costs.
-3 -



The Project was co-financed by the Belgians (US$3.21 million equivalent), the Dutch (US$8.78 million
equivalent), and the Italians (US$5.98 million). These funds were used to finance civil works, equipment,
capacity building activities, technical assistance, and micro credit. In 2001, the Italian Government
approved an additional funding of US$5.0 million to support interventions in the rural water supply sector.
3.4 Revised Components:
There was no major revision of the project components. However, the total number of sub-projects originally
planned for ECDF was reduced during implementation due to: (i) capacity constraints, including shortage of
skilled manpower; (ii) implementation delays attributed to the lack of contractors especially in remote areas;
(iii) exchange rate losses; and (iv) the war. Some Project funds were reallocated to provide emergency support
for internally displaced persons (IDPs) in the areas of water supply, make-shift classrooms, and the
rehabilitation of feeder roads.
3.5 Quality at Entry:
Quality at entry is considered satisfactory from the following perspectives: (i) relevance: objectives were
consistent with the priorities of the country, the Government's development strategy, including its priorities
for poverty alleviation; and confirmed by the Bank's CAS; (ii) knowledge and lessons learned: project
was designed on the basis of successful experiences and lessons learned from the ECRF pilot and other
social fund operations; local culture and local practices were taken into account; (iii) participation. project
preparation was conducted in a participatory manner involving a wide range of stakeholders; (iv)
sustainability: measures to ensure sustainability of sub-projects were incorporated in the design of the
project, putting particular emphasis on the appraisal of sub-projects; (v) gender: a gender action plan
describing measures to strengthen female participation was developed; and (vi) political commitment:
there was government leadership, ownership of the project, and commitment to make the necessary
institutional changes to achieve project objectives (i.e., establishment of ECDF as an autonomous body
within the Ministry of Local Government). Bank fiduciary requirements, including the establishment of an
accounting and financial management system, procurement system, and mechanisms to ensure the
transparent and regular flow of project funds to the regions, were addressed up-front.
With the benefit of hindsight, there were two shortcomings: (i) monitoring and evaluation: with the exception
of the SMCP component, agreement was reached only for a limited and broadly defined set of indicators which
make it difficult to monitor and evaluate the more qualitative and sector-specific outcomes and impacts of
project investments; agreement on a formal set of performance indicators was not a Bank requirement at the
time of project preparation; and (ii) strengthening institutional capacity: although an institutional capacity
building program was developed, there was no up-front agreement to ensure the timely implementation of key
capacity building activities, especially at the community level, as described in the Project's key documents.
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs
4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:
Achievement of objective and outputs under the ECDF Project is satisfactory. The environment in which ECDF
operated was difficult, particularly during the period of crisis (1998-2000). In addition to the challenges inherent
in scaling up participatory operations nationwide, ECDF faced numerous constraints including the shortage of
skilled manpower, a situation further exacerbated by the war. Other war-related factors such as sharp increases in
the prices of goods and materials, extreme delays and/or halting of works and disruptions in the operations of
regional offices in affected areas, heavy damages to already completed physical infrastructure, and the
deployment of several ECDF staff to the front line, affected project implementation.
- 4 -



Over the years, these constraints have contributed to the doubling of workload of several ECDF staff, many of
whom were already overstretched. To cope, ECDF adopted several strategies, including: (i) greater use of
turnkey contracts, especially in remote areas (e.g., health and education facilities); (ii) greater reliance on local
consultants to assist in building technical capacity at the local level and in carrying out supervision of works; and
(iii) devolving greater procurement and implementation responsibilities to those regional offices with capacity. In
addition, with support from all regional governments, a flexible interim arrangement was established to assist
very poor communities to meet their contributions during the crisis period.
To help assess the achievements of the project's development objectives, the Govemment of Eritrea and the World
Bank organized a stakeholder workshop (Annex 9) to listen to the views of representatives from central, regional,
and local governments, line ministries, beneficiary groups, participating donors, government institutions, and
communities. An external impact evaluation (Annex 8) was also implemented. The results of these efforts are
summarized below by sector.
1. SOCIAL AND ECONOMIC INFRASTRUCTURE
(i) Education. The project financed the construction, rehabilitation and furnishing of education facilities,
including make-shift classrooms, and skills training for women. In the sites surveyed, the number of children
attending primary school before and after the construction of schools showed a 191% increase in attendance. The
increase for junior secondary schools was 69%. Based on the sample, 94% of households living in the catchment
area sent their children to school. Part of this increase may be due to the reduction in time required for students
to get to school. Average travel time to schools for primary and junior secondary students was reduced by 60%
and 50%-60%, respectively, improvements which are of particular importance for girls. Make-shift schools
provided IDPs with access to schooling. Approximately 200 women benefited from skills training courses
provided by the Afabet Women's Training Center, the only sub-project of this kind included in ECDFs portfolio.
Unfortunately, the impact of the war continues to diminish the effects of training.
(ii) Health. The Project's support to the construction/rehabilitation and furnishing of lower level health facilities
have complemented ongoing efforts of both the Government and other partners to increase access to and improve
the quality of health services. In the sites surveyed, the health facilities were found to be providing the required
services to communities and, in some cases, expanded the services provided. Travel time for families to reach the
facilities, including the waiting time, were reduced. The number of episodes in households for 9 major diseases
(including diarrhea, malaria, TB, and others) were reported to decline by about 15%. When especially looking at
children, there was a reported decline in episodes of diarrhea, malaria, intemal parasites, malnutrition, and
respiratory diseases by just over 13%. Nevertheless, some households still bypass lower-level facilities because
they lacked medicines and/or health personnel.
(iii) Water Supply. The Project financed various water supply sub-projects (i.e., construction or
rehabilitation of boreholes, hand-dug wells, and public fountains, and the installation of mechanized or
hand pumps), including related design and feasibility studies and capacity-building activities at the local and
community level. Survey findings estimated that ECDF provided access to safe water for 5.64% of the rural
population and for 4.23% of Eritrea's total population. The newly constructed water systems are accessible
to all community members; 90% of water is used for domestic purposes while 10% is used for livestock,
horticulture and other activities. The distance from water points and time spent waiting in line to collect water
were substantially reduced, thus releasing valuable time for other productive activities. Revenue generated for
the community from the sale of water has bolstered sustainability as communities can manage their water points,
minor repairs and maintenance can be carried out immediately, and the overall management capacity of
communities was strengthened. The construction of water supply schemes had a direct income benefit, with
- 5 -



contractors, on average, employing about 42 community members earning Nfa. 49,500 per sub-project. A visible
increase in business enterprises such as teahouses, water vendors, and other shops was observed.
(iv) Feeder Roads. Feeder roads increased access to and from rural communities, markets, and social services.
The average travel per person per year increased by 56% along the feeder roads. While 97% of goods were
transported previously by pack animals or on people's backs, after the feeder roads 66% of goods were
transported by trucks and another 21% by a combination of trucks, animals, and people. The time saved for
motorized transport was almost two hours (118 minutes/person/week). Feeder road construction contributed to
an increase in access to a wider range of commodities available in local stores, a reduction in the costs of
transporting agricultural produce, provided incentives for farmers to exploit new markets, stimulated'agricultural
production, and created links between deficit and surplus area Other benefits noted included an increase in
fertilizer usage, the mechanization of 170 hectares of land, and reduced loss of perishable goods. As a
shorter-term benefit, 38% of households surveyed had employment opportunities during road construction for an
average of 71 days and a total earning of Nfa 1379 per household. The provision of government services
increased due to easier access. Pregnant women benefited from better transportation and this was reflected in the
increased use of health services.
(v) Natural Resource Management (NRMW. The Project supported community-based initiatives to protect and
improve the environment. Terracing sub-projects contributed to enhancing community awareness of the benefits
of terracing and helped minimize soil erosion, raised the water level, retained moisture in the soil, permitted the
reclamation of extra farm land, and generated income for households. Tree planting sub-projects are expected to
produce long term economic benefits from the sale of trees and short-term benefits from the sale of grass grown
in the enclosure. There were also perceived positive health impacts through the planting of Mim trees which are
believed to protect against malaria. Overall, NRM activities promoted a strong community level organizational
structure which is necessary for managing and sustaining subprojects requiring the cooperation of the community
as a whole.
(vi) Veterinary Clinics. The construction of veterinary clinics increased households', including women's, access
to veterinary services. Although not fully validated, survey findings reported a decline in the use of traditional
medicines by some farmers. Greater access to veterinary services have encouraged some women to engage in
animal husbandry. Veterinary clinics constructed with ECDF support operated throughout the year and provided
emergency services during week-ends and holidays. Some clinics, however, reported a shortage of personnel,
equipment and supplies. Major services rendered included vaccination of livestock and drug distribution.
Distance between the service provider outlets and livestock owners was shortened. The construction of veterinary
clinics: (i) increased income for livestock owners; (ii) improved livestock production capacity; (iii) increased
drought power for transportation and production purposes; (iv) improved animal health and reduced animal
mortality; and (v) increased income for Community Animal Health Workers.
(vi) Market Places. The construction of market places created access for the rural population, including urban
dwellers (who make the most use of them). Apart from the gainful employment of about 325 traders of which the
majority are women, market place sub-projects created job opportunities for a small number of community
members. At full capacity, market places are expected to generate employment for 800 people. At the time of
the Impact Evaluation, however, market places were operating below their maximum capacity (41%) due to the
high turn over of traders caused by the low volume of business, in part due to the war. Traders benefited from
lower operating costs due to subsidized rent and shared utility bills, leading to an estimated savings of about
Nakfa 1,500.
Given the widespread poverty in the country, the Project sought broader geographical coverage to support
community-initiated development projects. Generally, ECDF sub-project selection criteria focused on the
- 6 -



remoteness of the proposed investment, number of beneficiaries, acuteness of problem, type of sub-project
proposed (priority to education, health, rural water supply, natural resource management, and feeder roads), fit
within central ministries' master plan and their agreement to supply staff and essential supplies once the
investment is completed and handed over to communities and local government. Through this approach, ECDF
has generally been progressive in its geographic targeting of the poor. The four poorest regions accounted for
54% of the population, received 61% of the sub-projects, and 59% of the ECDF's investment. ECDF was
particularly effective in targeting its resources to the war-tom region of Gash Barka (the 3rd poorest region) and
in minimizing its resources to the richest region of Maekel (accounting for 29% of population, but only 12% of
projects and 15% of investments).
II. SAVINGS AND MICRO CREDIT PROGRAM (SMCP)
The SMCP was established as a pilot to create new income and employment opportunities in poor communities.
It provided two types of loans: (i) Tier I loans were made to village solidarity groups; and (ii) Tier II loans were
made to individual borrowers. Before the SMCP, 84% of the clients operated their businesses using their own
funds, with 64% of the clients experiencing a shortage of working capital funds. Savings and micro credit
services were provided to 11,800 individuals of which approximately 36% are women. Women were able to
successfully use loan funds to improve their livelihood and increase their self-confidence and economic
independence. Average household income increased from Nakfa 750 before SMCP to Nakfa 906 after access to
the program, with the highest average increases in income being experienced by those engaged in livestock and
trade. Of the clients surveyed, 34% reported increases in working capital; 30% reported increases in business
income; and 20% reported increases in fixed assets. The percentage of clients with cash holdings of Nakfa
10,000 increased from 15% before joining SMCP to 72% after joining SMCP. The average monthly household
expenditures of clients surveyed increased by 24% after accessing a SMCP loan.
II. TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE AND CAPACITY BUILDING
Results of the Impact Evaluation showed that ECDF's training and capacity-building activities helped strengthen
local capacity for project implementation. Promotional and community mobilization workshops built
communities' awareness about the ECDF Project, including the roles and responsibilities of local stakeholders in
the sub-project cycle. The development of technical manuals, including the delivery of more
operationally-focused training activities in some sectors enabled communities to carry out operations and
maintenance functions. Similarly, training in basic skills (i.e., managing funds, book-keeping, accounting,
project planning, supervising works, etc.) helped community project committees, in collaboration with community
members, to better manage and implement their sub-projects.
Overall, however, capacity building activities, including the institutional mechanisms to promote greater
community participation, remain inadequate. The results of the Impact Study and the Stakeholder Workshop
revealed that not all communities received the level of training they needed to effectively participate in the project
cycle, including maintenance, and more importantly, in the decision-making process. In some communities, there
was a lack of clarity on the roles of benefiting communities and local administrations. With a few exceptions
(e.g., water supply and micro credit), capacity building activities were generally not provided continuously; there
were also gaps in delivering training activities that responded to the changing and evolving needs of benefiting
communities.
Considering the difficult environment in which it operated, ECDF's overall achievements have been remarkable.
Trade-offs were made, however, which contributed to the partial implementation of the Project's capacity building
program. Given the immense infrastructure needs in the country at the time of independence, and
- 7 -



recognizing the limited capacity at the start of project implementation, ECDF placed greater operational emphasis
in expanding access and improving the delivery of social and economic services. In parallel, ECDF adopted a
more pragmatic approach to addressing training and capacity building needs, focusing on problem-solving.
While this two-pronged approach may have been necessary initially, it did divert ECDF's attention from
effectively implementing essential capacity building and training activities at the community level. Capacity
building activities to strengthen the participation of communities in all key phases of the project cycle, in decision
maldng, and in maintaining and sustaining community created assets, were only partially implemented with
generally uneven attention paid across sectors.
Over time and on the basis of lessons learned, sufficient awareness was raised among ECDF Management Staff
on the importance of systematically building and sustaining community capacity. To this end, ECDF has started
to implement more strategic training activities to strengthen community capacity for operations and maintenance,
and for ensuring the sustainability of newly created community assets. Although this process started late in the
implementation phase, currently involve only a few sectors (e.g., water supply, micro credit, feeder roads), and
require additional work, initial results are promising. Preliminary work to facilitate the development of a more
comprehensive and well-targeted capacity building program at all levels has been initiated within the context of
the next operation.
4.2 Outputs by components:
A. SOCLAL AND ECONOMIC INFRASTRUCTURE
Achievement of this component is satisfactory. ECDF implemented a total of 184 sub-projects against an
original target of 283; the target was reduced due to factors described in Section 3.4. Of the 184 sub-projects,
155 were completed, 16 are under implementation, four were suspended (due mainly to drilling problems and
the war), and nine were cancelled. Approximately 1,142,417 million individuals (about one-third of the
population) of which 50% are women are expected to benefit from the 171 subprojects already completed
and/or under implementation. The cost of sub-projects varied across sectors, averaging about US$151,700,
excluding the costs of related feasibility and design studies. Average investment per capita was about US$23
(see Table IA). Infrastructure damaged by the war included 18 schools, 12 health facilities, and 4 water
supply systems totaling US$3.1 million. Total costs of the component are estimated at US$40.37 million,
compared with the initial base cost estimate of US$40.47 million.
In most cases, the sub-project proposals originated at the community level. Proposals were submitted to
regional councils through the Baitos (locally-elected councils) who were responsible for the collective welfare
of the community. Village and district Baitos prioritized community-based proposals according to various
criteria (see Section 4.1) after which the agreed lists were submitted to ECDF's Regional Branch. Benefiting
communities were to contribute 10% (cash or in-kind) of the total cost of sub-projects. Recurrent costs were to
be provided by relevant line ministries; communities and local government were jointly responsible for ensuring
the periodic and regular maintenance of investments. ECDF's role was to organize, finance, and help
communities carry out the work either through direct hire of labor or through contractors selected from
competitive bidding. Turnkey contracts were widely implemented due to the remoteness of many villages. From
the fourth year of implementation onwards, responsibilities for contracting were delegated to the regional
offices, except for feeder roads and water supply.
Community contributions varied across sectors averaging 7%, partly because of the exceptional circumstances
caused by the war. The deployment of breadwinners, heads of households, and able-bodied community
members to the front line affected the ability of communities to provide their contributions on time. Findings of
a recent study showed that ECDF's information on community contributions, especially of labor and material
contributions, was either totally or only partially unrecorded in the MIS. By monetizing labor and in-kind
-8 -



materials provided by communities at local market rates at the time of project implementation, the study
revealed that community contributions for education, health, and natural resources management (NRM)
sub-projects were above 10% (12%, 16%, and 22%, respectively), while it remained below 10% for market
places, water supply and feeder roads (due to their higher costs).
Project implementation was affected by the lack of skilled manpower, including engineers, a situation
exacerbated by the war. Where possible, ECDF hired consultants to provide a minimum of supervision, but
those consultants were also in short supply and had a limited capacity. Average contract costs increased in real
terms during the war due to the acute shortage of manpower and the rising costs of goods, materials and
transport. The inherent complexity of water supply and feeder roads sub-projects combined with the need to
carry out feasibility and design studies often translated to a longer implementation period. In the case of the
water supply sector, an initial mistake in combining contracts for drilling and construction prior to obtaining
results from drilling (which led to major change orders and delays), was corrected.
Sub-project cost overruns (and underruns) were frequent, revealing the effects of a nascent contracting
industry, the unchartered waters of construction (and its cost) in remote areas, large price increases due to
shortages caused by the war as well as labor shortages, and an administration and social fund still developing
its engineering designs and costing structures. As the economy gets back on a firmer, post-conflict footing and
as ECDF rebuilds its unit cost database, costing of works should improve.
Selected sub-projects included the construction and rehabilitation of health and education facilities, water
supply schemes, feeder roads, market places, veterinary clinics, and environment/NRM projects. The
construction of health and education facilities and water supply schemes were top priorities, accounting for
69% of sub-projects and 60% of costs. NRM sub-projects were also in demand, accounting for 33% of
projects. The six completed feeder road sub-projects (about 120 Km) accounted for 27% of costs.
SOCIAL INFRASTRUCTURE SUBPROJECTS COMPLETED AND UNDER IMPLEMENTATION
Year        Health Facilities        Education Facilites     RWS       FR      NRM      MP       VC      Tot
HS      HC     HP     ES     *SS   MS      TC
1996-97     6       5      0      9      5     0       1        1        0         5       0       2       34
1998       9       1      1     4       2     0      0        20        0        I1       1       0      49
1999       8       I      0      8     14     0      0        16        l        5       3        5      61
2000       0       0      0      1      1     3       0        1                  1       1       0       9
2001       0       0      0      0      0      1      0       0         4        1 1      2       0       18
Total     23       7      1     22     22     4       1       38        6        33       7       7      171
% of total  13%     4%    <1%    13%    13%    2%     <1%      22%       4%       19%      4%      4%     100%
%oftotal   4%       5%    0.5%    7%    12%    2%     0 5%     29%A      27%      8%       4%      1%     100%
amounts
disbursed
Avg cost   553     1,888  112    886    1,570  1.585  688     2,145     13,117    424     1,822   370     1,517
per subproject
k'000 Nakfa)             _      .__
HS=health station; HCOhealth center; HP - health post, ES-elementary school; JS&jwunor secondary school, MS - make shift classrooms, TC - training center,
RWS- rural water supply; FR-feeder mads; VC=vetennary climic, MP=market place, and NRM = natural resources management/environment.
The quality of infrastructure financed by ECDF was satisfactory. Most facilities were built following high
standards which in part explains the relatively higher cost of sub-projects. The original designs of health and
education facilities were further improved to effectively address varying climatic conditions in the regions.
ECDF strengthened its support to the feeder road sector by improving the full length of tertiary roads to gain
accessibility to the primary and secondary road networks. Recognizing that roads are costly
-9-



investments (in relation to other types sub-projects), ECDF roads were improved using well-defined criteria for
road selection and most cost-effective approaches to meet the objective of providing mobility and accessibility
to social services at a minimum cost. Most water supply sub-projects were found to operate adequately.
B. SAVINGS AND MICRO CREDIT PROGRAM (SMCP) COMPONENT
Achievement of this component was satisfactory. SMCP provided a transparent, relatively simple savings and
lending methodology for the client base it targeted in its solidarity group and individual borrower programs.
SMCP provided two lending programs: (i) Tier I loans ranging from Nakfa 7,000-10,000 were made under the
solidarity group methodology and required borrowers to accumulate 10% mandatory guarantee deposit; and (ii)
Tier II loans ranging from Nakfa 10,000 to Nakfa 100,000, required a cosigner, and a guarantee deposit or
owner's equity equal to 20% of the loan amount. The underlying loan application assessment, basic approval
(village level for Tier I loans), turnaround time and loan administration, monitoring and collection processes
were simplified to enable future versions of the village bank/sub-region office structure to absorb much of the
processes. SMCP demonstrated its effectiveness and capability as a delivery institution for micro-credit
services with portfolio quality sustained at a high level, with repayments almost at 97%.
The operations of the SMCP component have been affected by the recent war, as borrowers called to military
services and/or displaced by the conflict could not continue to make scheduled payments on their Tier I and
Tier II loans. The total amount of Nakfa 2.576 million in Tier I loans to 1,182 front line clients and to 609
IDPs was frozen as of June 30, 2001, while Tier II loans to 7 front line clients and 1 IDP client amounted to
Nakfa 50,489. The amounts have been steadily declining and are reflected in the financial records of the
SMCP but not provided for in the loan portfolio reserves.
Performance of Savings nd Micro CredltP P ram
End 1996    End 1997    End 1998  End 1999   End 2000      End 20011/
No. of Village Banks             25          14         37          9          3              58
Balance of Loans Outstandmng
(US$ eqwuv.)
Tier I    131,610     377,837     890,252    918,481   925,971        1,782,535
Tier n         o                   51562     580211    265*822        1,405.273
No. of Active Loans:
Tier 1      1,470       2,373       5,477      5,779     5,942           10,304
Tier n                     7          33         46        259            1,040
Effective interest rate:
Tier I       16%         16%01 16%             16%        16%             16%
Tier 11      14%         14%         140%       14%        14%             14%
Inflation (during period)                 3.7%        9.5%       9.00/0    14.6%           14.6%
Real effective nterest rate:
Tier I       16%       0.12%      0060%      0.064%     0.012%          0.012%
Tier 11      14%       0099%       0.041%    0.046%     0005%          -0.005%
Delinquency rate 2/              0        1.15%      2.04%      7.12%      5.96%           2.71%
Portfolio at risk 3/             0        1.28%      2.09%      7.48%      6.33%           3.37%
* Exchange rate: Nakfa 10 = USS 1.0
1/ Data for 2001 are preliminary.
2/ Delmquency rate: amount of payments more than 30 days overdue / total outstandmg balance of loan portfolio
3/ Portfoho at risk: total outstanding balance of loans with payments more than I day over / total outstanding balance of loan portfolio.
Outreach targets. The war exerted a negative overall impact on the planned expansion of the SMCP Program.
More importantly, the amount of funds budgeted in the Project for the SMCP pilot proved inadequate and
placed a significant constraint on the expansion of membership and of village banks. Under SMCP, a total of
146 village banks in 519 village clusters (154 village administrations in six regions) were established against
the original target of 270 village banks. Savings and micro-credit services were provided to 11,800 clients
against the original target of 13,500 clients. Of the total clients, 36% are women. Mandatory savings totaled
Nakfa 2,680,115 - equivalent to 15% of the Tier I outstanding loan amount, and Nakfa 260 per client. The
- 10 -



15% ratio of mandatory savings deposits to loans outstanding, which is significantly more than the mandatory
10% level for Tier I loans, is an indication of the degree of village bank clients' capacity and willingness to
save. Almost 95% of Tier I loans and over 80% of Tier II loans were used to support economic activities in
the agriculture and trade sectors (see Table 2E). SMCP clients in the war-affected regions of Gash Barka and
Debub accounted for 46% of total clients.
Solidarity groupformaadon and village bank promodon. The network of autonomously functioning village
banks, each consisting of an average 35-80 members from a village who elect their own officers, create their
own by-laws, and review and approve loan applications provided the dynamic foundation for the SMCP. The
borrowers for the micro credits extended by a village bank were required to belong to a solidarity group which
was jointly liable for the repayment of all loans made to individuals in the solidarity group. The program was
administered at the village level in 49 sub-regions through a Saving and Credit Unit comprising at least one
woman. Flexibility was provided in defining borrower's repayment schedules between 3 to 12 months. No
new loans to members of the group were processed or approved until all outstanding loans to the group were
made. Because members of the solidarity group went through a self-selection process, peer group pressure was
effective in promoting and ensuring the timely repayment of loan obligations. Findings of the Impact
Evaluation indicated that village banks have not suffered from significant drop-out rates in their membership
base, the most common adverse development in the village banking methodology. Many village bank clients
under the solidarity group approach returned for new loan cycles; this could in part be explained by SMCP's
controlled membership base which is more likely to maintain homogeneity in the membership's composition and
be less vulnerable to discord. SMCP's village bank approach kept the membership to a maximum of 80
members, and proceeded to the formation of another cluster from the same village when the maximum was
reached.
Institutional capacity-building. The project financed training activities which consisted of one-day village
bank briefing meetings with clients, 3-day training for village bank committees, and staff training through
short-duration workshops. Subjects included computer applications, credit and savings, feasibility studies,
formation of solidarity groups, village bank and its structures, operational manuals of Tier I and Tier II loan
programs, interest rate calculation, provision of loan loss reserve, and accounting at the village and
sub-regional levels. Theoretical training was combined with some amount of practical field work and exposure
at village bank levels regarding fund disbursement, collection of loan repayments, recording of transactions,
handling of cash, and meetings with communities and clients. While useful, these training programs were
inadequate - training was not viewed as a continuous process and regularly updated to make it more relevant
to new and changing requirements.
Enterprise development efforts. SMCP assisted clients to improve their income by providing access to
working capital. The Impact Evaluation showed that 90% of the clients in the villages surveyed were able to
increase their income, in turn, improving their repayment capacities which contributes not only to the
sustainability of the village bank methodology but also served to ensure financial sustainability of the program.
The SMCP was concentrated on village bank formation and the provision of micro-credit to support existing or
on-going business activities of village bank members. Due to the significant shortage of staff and the
inadequate training strategies for both staff and clients, SMCP was not enable to take a more pro-active posture
in addressing enterprise development needs of target client households, not only for the expansion of existing
businesses but also for new business activities.
C. TRAINING AND CAPACITY BUILDING COMPONENT
Achievements of this component at the central and regional levels are, on balance, satisfactory. Training and
capacity building activities were implemented to increase ECDF's overall efficiency and effectiveness during
-11 -



implementation. These included short-term technical training in specific sectors covered by the Project and
training in procurement, financial management, strategic planning, community mobilization, and the MIS.
ECDF staff participated in a few study tours to enhance their understanding of how social funds operate and
how to design project interventions in specific sectors (e.g. water supply, feeder roads, and micro rural
finance). The development of a well-functioning and transparent financial management and accounting system
increased the Project's overall efficiency in managing Project funds and ensuring timely disbursements.
Several studies, assessments, and evaluations were completed. These included: (i) sector-specific technical,
design, and feasibility studies, including technical handbooks; (ii) a beneficiary assessment; (iii) an irnpact
evaluation study; (iv) an assessment of procurement practices; (v) a diagnostic assessment of ECDF's current
MIS; (vi) in preparation for the follow-up operation, a two-pronged study examining strategic options for the
future operation of ECDF, including a stock taking exercise on capacity building needs, and (vii) a mini-study
to evaluate the scope of community participation.
Attempts were made to improve ECDF's MIS before and after project inception, but proved inadequate. The
MIS was not designed as an integrated system and did not have the full capability to respond to the specific
needs in each sector covered by the Project. Consequently, there was limited use of the MIS as a planning,
management, and monitoring tool both at the Project and sector levels. Weaknesses in the MIS were overcome
to some extent through the beneficiary assessments and impact studies which helped document some of the
weaknesses of the community participation process. In addition, some Unit Heads developed their own parallel
systems for monitoring and evaluating implementation performance in their respective sectors. Over time and
on the basis of lessons learned during implementation, sufficient awareness was raised among ECDF
Management Staff on the importance of a well-functioning and integrated MIS. Work is currently underway to
facilitate the process of strengthening ECDF's MIS at the central and regional levels.
Achievements in strengthening and sustaining community involvement in all sectors are less satisfactory.
The capacity building program at the local and community levels was only partially implemented due to a
combination of factors: (i) higher priority was given to expanding access to basic infrastructure; (ii)
understaffing constraints in ECDF; (iii) lack of qualified personnel to deliver training; (iv) inadequate planning
and targeting of capacity building and training activities in terms of the specific and, in some cases, the
changing needs of local stakeholders in all key phases of the project cycle; and (v) the overwhelming demands
placed on ECDF's central and regional staff to assist in providing emergency support during the conflict.
ECDF carried out capacity building activities consisting mostly of workshops to build community awareness
about the Project's objectives, activities, and modality of operations. Although a number of training activities
providing more operational focus was implemented specifically for the water supply, micro credit and feeder
roads sectors, similar training interventions were not provided to the other remaining sectors which comprised
more than 50% of the portfolio.
Based on lessons learned, however, ECDF has begun to address some shortcomings in strengthening
community capacity. In the water supply sector, for example, Transitional Management Teams were
established starting in the fourth year of implementation to provide back-stopping support to benefiting
communities in operating and maintaining water supply schemes. Similar efforts to strengthen community
capacity to carry out O&M functions are being taken in a few other sectors, albeit gradually.
4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
This ICR does not attempt to re-assess the project's economic rate of return for two key reasons. First, the war
with Ethiopia led to significant changes in the implementation of the project, including the destruction of
completed facilities, the displacement of people, and the disruption in the use of services. Given this unstable
state, the stream of benefits are too diffused to assess. Second, there is an absence of reliable and appropriate
data to permit a meaningful evaluation of project benefits and costs. However, broad assessments can be made.
- 12 -



(i) ECDF was cost-effective. ECDF's operational costs was at 6% which compares favorably to other social
fund averages that ranged from 7% to 14% (SF2000 Study).
(ii) Given the remoteness of many ECDF investments and their willingness to go where most contractors will
not, and ECDF's use of high quality design standards and materials, it is likely that unit and average costs for
EDCF investments may be above average. Notwithstanding, ECDF average sub-project costs in some sectors
were either comparable to or lower than line ministry averages. ECDF constructed health centers and junior
secondary schools at an average cost of US$188,000 and US$157,000, respectively. Corresponding line
ministry averages were US$200,000 and US$242,700, respectively. ECDF average cost of constructing
elementary schools was US$88,600, slightly more than the line ministry averge of US$85,000.
(iii) Under SMCP, the repayment rate averaged 98% during the years of operation preceding the conflict.
Although delinquent payments increased during the conflict period, repayment rates have now started to recover,
from a low 92% in 1999 to almost 97% by the end of 2001. Interest rates paid to borrowers were positive in
real terms, with the exception of Tier II loans during the period 2000/01.
4.4 Financial rate of return:
Not applicable.
4.5 Institutional development impact:
On balance, the institutional development impact of the project was substantial. The Project provided an
important platform for harnessing local input in local development efforts; strengthened community capacity in
managing and implementing their own development priorities; enhanced regional and local government's
approach to community-driven development and their capacity to conduct public procurement; and indirectly,
strengthened local contracting firms which had to meet set standards and abide by established procedures for
externally-funded projects. SMCP's successful experience provided the national government with the medium
for articulating a coherent national policy on micro-finance and an effectively functioning institutional vehicle
for implementing a sustainable micro-finance program. The SMCP also provided a platform for promoting
institution building, notably through strengthening the capacity of Village Administrations to manage
village-based savings and micro-credit services program.
Central Level: The Project created an autonomous unit - ECDF - within the Ministry of Local Govermment
(MOLG), with qualified and highly committed staff, perforning well in terrns of expanding access to basic
social infrastructure during conflict and post-conflict periods. The institutional location of ECDF in the
MOLG with ECDF's General Manager also the head of the Ministry, enhanced opportunities for learning
across the ECDF and this Ministry, which is the umbrella ministry for the decentralization process. ECDF
contributed to improvements in national standard designs for social infrastructure (e.g. health and education
facilities), by making them more responsive to varying climatic conditions in the region. Its requirement for
community contribution was adopted by several regional governments also for non-ECDF sub-projects. Some
line ministries have adopted its approaches, technical standards and/or procedures.
Local Government Level: Positive impacts were realized from the decentralized structure of ECDF
management that operated through regional offices located in the regional administration. ECDF regional staff
and the regional administration (including regional line ministry staff) collaborated on all elements of the
project cycle, thus building regional and local capacity to implement participatory community-based projects.
This collaboration de facto forged a valuable and effective tripartite relationship between the regional
administrations, ECDF regional staff, and line agencies' regional staff and generally improved the planning,
coordination, and harmonization of development interventions at the local level.
- 13 -



Savings and Micro Credit Program (SMCP): SMCP demonstrated the usefulness and effectiveness of
institution-building efforts aimed at creating new income and employment opportunities in poor communities.
The organization and operation of the village banking model (with its underlying solidarity group structure)
promoted community cohesiveness, highlighted the importance of collective action and accountability by
members in servicing and repaying loans, and strengthened the interaction and relations between the village
administrator (a local government official) vis-a-vis credit committee members, the village bank membership,
and even the rest of the village residents. SMCP's operational structure achieved a degree of demonstrable
competence in effectively orchestrating, at the region and sub-region levels, the operations of the various
member-based village banks. These village, regional, and sub-regional level structures provided a dynamic
foundation for the further institutional development of Eritrea's community-based micro-finance development.
Community Level: ECDF's capacity building interventions, combined with its operational procedures and
participatory approaches, helped build the capacity of communities to identify and implement their investment
priorities, albeit at varying degrees across sectors. Community Project Committees (CPC) have developed their
skills in participatory project planning and management, including preparing sub-project proposals, managing
community's interests in the project cycle, contracting implementation services, managing finances, and
assisting in supervising works in progress. CPCs played a key role in mobilizing community members for
collective action, including raising community contributions toward the cost of sub-projects.
The relatively strong existing community organization benefited the project, but the project did forego an
opportunity to significantly strengthen community capacity across the board, including the local councils, or to
increase technical expertise and skills at the community level except for project committee members. The
limited role played by communities in sub-project implementation and monitoring minimized their potential for
learning by doing.
Unfortunately, effects were less than they could and should have been because the project's capacity building
component received less operational emphasis throughout the project's life. In addition, the Capacity Building
Officer was recruited late into the project implementation phase only to leave shortly after being trained, and
has not been replaced. Social development officers were not recruited to help facilitate more strategic planning
and effective coordination, implementation, and monitoring of activities in important areas such as community
mobilization and strengthening and sustaining community capacity in all key phases of the project cycle. Full
implementation of the capacity building component could have had other important institutional development
impact at various levels. It is essential that this program be carried out as soon as possible.
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome
5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:
(i) The project started a few years after the country gained its independence and Government administrative
apparatus was not fully established. At that time, there was a general lack of qualified individuals who could
be mobilized to rapidly move the development process forward.
(ii) Donor coordination under the Project was an excellent example of good practice. ECDF was an effective
mechanism for diverse government agencies and donors to work together. The project attracted and managed
funds from the World Bank and three other international donors - Belgians, Dutch, and Italians. ECDF
activities did not conflict with existing Eritrean legislation and regulations, while donors agreed to the use of
one common set of procurement procedures and related documents.
- 14 -



5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
(i) The war with Ethiopia further aggravated the shortage of qualified staff and skilled workers. The war
contributed to delays in implementation, including the suspension and/or cancelation of sub-projects, increases
in the cost of completing sub-projects, destruction of already completed infrastructure, and increases in
delinquent payments for credit facilities provided under SMCP. With the deployment of breadwinners and
able-bodied community members to the front line, the war also contributed to poor communities' inability to
raise their contributions on time.
(ii) There was a lack of incentives to attract and maintain qualified staff.
5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
The flexibility, commitment and professionalism of ECDF staff were instrumental in enabling the project to
survive the war with Ethiopia with no long-term detrimental effects to any of the project's three components.
However, during the implementation phase, there were some areas in which ECDF could have done better:
(i) ECDF placed more operational emphasis on expanding access to basic social and economic infrastructure.
Less attention was paid to the full and timely implementation of the Project's capacity building program at the
community level.
(ii) Although attempts were made to strengthen the Project's MIS, ECDF could have taken a more assertive
role in addressing shortcomings in its management and information system in order to further strengthen project
implementation, improve the quality of monitoring, evaluation and reporting, and prevent the unnecessary and
inefficient use of staff time in managing information.
(iii) ECDF was less effective in enforcing the requirements for community involvement stipulated in the key
documents of the Project and the Operational Manual. This had some negative impacts on site identification
and selection, including the scope and quality of community involvement in the sub-project cycle. Nevertheless,
the Impact Evaluation Study indicated that, on balance, project selection closely matched beneficiary
communities' priorities.
5.4 Costs andfinancing:
There were no major changes in overall projects costs and financing. However, originally planned costs for
sub-projects in some sectors required some minor adjustments in order to improve its quality and increase its
efficiency. In some cases, difficulties in attracting contractors to work in very remote areas have led to
increases in contract price. The dramatic rise in the prices of goods and materials during the war led to an
increase in the cost of feeder roads sub-projects.
The Project suffered: (i) exchange rate losses totaling US$3.93 million; and (ii) war-induced damages to
already completed sub-projects totaling US$3.1 million. During the crisis, US$3.7 million of the IDA Credit
was reallocated to assist IDPs. Outside of the Project's financing, ECDF also implemented portions of other
Bank-financed programs to assist those affected by the war (including implementing activities under a
reallocation from the Human Development Resources Project and part of the Government's Emergency
Reconstruction Program).
Government contributions were always provided on time; in some cases exceeding originally planned
contributions. Although ECDF's MIS data show an average of 7% community contribution, there is evidence
that in several sectors, community contributions exceeded the 10% requirement (see Section 4.2).
- 15 -



6. Sustainability
6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:
Overall, project sustainability is rated as likely. ECDF gained visibility and prominence both as an effective
institution and a transparent delivery mechanism to support Government's efforts to reduce poverty and
promote self-reliance and for which there is a high level of beneficiary satisfaction.
Institutional Level:
(i) The legal basis for creating ECDF as an autonomous government entity within MOLG, its unique
capacity in Eritrea, and its reputation with central, regional and local government, beneficiary communities
and donors are all firmly established.
(ii) ECDF's modus operandi, transparent procedures, participatory processes, institutional arrangements,
and close collaboration with line ministries and regional/local governments have assisted in laying
important building blocks to advance the decentralization process. Based on its track record and
experience, ECDF has and continues to be an important player in facilitating the transition to local
government-led program implementation.
(iii) There is Goverment commitment to and ownership of the Project's development objectives and
outcomes, including the sustainability of project investments. The Government has continuously made
available its full contribution in a timely manner and, in some cases, contributed more than its share.
(iv) In five years, the SMCP reached an operating self-sufficiency level of almost 173%. Effective
relationships have been established between the staff of ECDF/SMCP and village level institutions, with
ownership at the village level. Based on the successful experience of the pilot, work is underway to
develop SMCP into a National Government Program.
Project Level:
(i) Most social and economic investments are in good physical condition and are operating, staffed,
equipped, and in use although some shortages exist in supplies and qualified staffing due to national
shortages.
(ii) Among communities, there is high satisfaction with ECDF operations, a high demand for continued
ECDF support, and a willingness to contribute to the costs of community-based investments.
(iii) Although results have been uneven across sectors, there is greater community awareness and capacity
to maintain their newly created assets. Work to strengthen mechanisms for ensuring the proper
maintenance of community assets and for effectively addressing related capacity building needs have
already begun in the context of preparing the next operation.
(iv) ECDF built on Eritrea's long tradition of community participation and relatively strong community
organization structure, aspects which have contributed to the success of the project and to some extent
compensated for the project's shortcomings. These aspects have been reinforced by the joint collaboration
and partnership established between ECDF and local institutions/beneficiary communities during
implementation. ECDF worked more intensively with communities than local or central governments
- 16 -



previously had in project design, implementation, and maintenance. The positive results of this process,
which was not previously present in the government's processes, helped forge greater collaboration and
coordination with both regional/local governments and local communities, key factors that have important
implications for enhanced sustainability of ECDF interventions and the ongoing decentralization. The
degree of this collaboration has already been seen as some regions have adopted the 10% community
contribution to their other investments.
(v) Institutional and financial mechanisms to ensure the sustainability and maintenance of investments are
being strengthened within the context of the follow-up operation. Some actions have already been taken for
the two most complex sub-projects. For water supply sub-projects, ECDF established one-year
Transitional Management Teams to provide more intensive training and technical support to communities
in managing and maintaining their respective water systems. The three month revenue generated from
communities' sale of water is adequate to cover operational and routine maintenance costs. In addition,
ECDF contributed two years' worth of spare parts for water supply schemes and US$750 per km of feeder
roads (inclusive of the 10% community contribution) to cover maintenance costs in the short-term to ensure
good road conditions during the transition period. Similarly, beneficiary communities are using the skills
and knowledge they have acquired from the ECDF Project to manage their community assets.
(vi) Effective relationships have been established between the staff of SMCP and the village credit
committees, with ownership at the village level. Ownership and sustainability of the village level banking
institutions for savings and micro credit management were demonstrated when they survived the crisis with
no long-term detrimental impact on repayment performance.
(vii) Sub-projects financed by ECDF were in most cases implemented by partnerships involving
beneficiaries/community project committees and regional/local administrations and were backed up by
recurrent/operating budgets provided by line ministries and local government This is expected to continue,
particularly in light of the ongoing decentralization. Budgets for recurrent costs (i.e. personnel salaries and
operating costs) will continue to be provided by relevant line ministries. Regional/local govemment will
have the responsibility for major repairs while beneficiary communities will have the responsibility for
minor repairs/routine maintenance of project investments. In the case of water supply schemes, user fees
collected will help augment beneficiary community resources to cover basic operations and maintenance
costs.
Solidifying sustainability will require actions at the community level, the regional administration level, the
central government level, and ECDF. Discussions on key sustainability measures have already begun in
the context of preparing the follow-up operation which, on the basis of lessons leamed, emphasizes the
importance of strengthening institutional capacity at all levels. Although the details are still being worked
out, there is Govemment commitment and agreement to use the first phase of the next operation almost
exclusively to focus on strengthening institutional capacity, including the establishment of supportive
institutional, financial, administrative mechanisms.
This ICR rates sustainability as likely at the project level. In line with the Govermment's decentralization
policy, the next operation (to be implemented in two phases) is being developed to help facilitate the full
devolution of responsibilities for program implementation to local government with strong community
involvement. Drawing on lessons learned, the primary goal of the first phase would be to strengthen and
sustain local capacity for improving the delivery of quality social and economic services, establish
decentralized institutional, financial and administrative mechanisms, and promote institution building.
Given its experience and track record, ECDF is expected to play an instrumental role in facilitating the
transition to local-government led program implementation.
- 17 -



Sustainability from a broader macro perspective is considered uncertain, however. The consequences of
the recent conflict, the shortage of manpower, and the deteriorating situation in the country pose risks that
may not lead to the full and satisfactory achievement of Government's decentralization, including the full
devolution of responsibilities for program implementation to the local level. In this context, the
Transitional Strategy will be a key instrument for confirming Government commitment to ensuring the
sustainability of future operations.
6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
Under the follow-up Community Development Program (CDP), necessary arrangements are being made to
ensure the future operations of the ECDF Project. The ICR Stakeholder Workshop revealed strong
support from central, regional, and local governments, line ministries, donors, and community
representatives for continuing activities financed under both the Social and Economic Infrastructure
Component and the Savings and Micro Credit Pilot Program. Local stakeholders also expressed their
strong desire for ECDF to intensify its training and capacity building activities, interventions which are
essential to enhancing the quality and scope of stakeholder involvement and for sustaining investments.
The CDP is being prepared with strong operational emphasis on strengthening institutional capacity at all
levels. Operational procedures are being strengthened to increase the scope and quality of stakeholder
participation and the efficiency of project implementation. Similarly, new procedures are being developed
to support greater (but initially gradual) devolution of responsibilities for approving development projects
and managing financial resources to local government Preliminary work has begun to jump start the
process of developing: (i) a comprehensive institutional capacity building program; (ii) a strategic
operational framework for promoting broader community involvement; and (iii) an integrated management
and information system.
For SMCP, preliminary work is underway to prepare the legal foundation and establish the framework by
which the SMCP of the ECDF can be spun off into an autonomous legal entity, with proper governance,
adequate funding for capital and operations, and with the required staffing levels.
7. Bank and Borrower Performance
Bank
7.1 Lending:
Bank performance during the preparation phase is rated as highly satisfactory. Project objectives were
consistent with the needs and priorities of the country and the Government's overall development strategy.
(Project objectives were also later confirmed by the Bank's CAS). Project was designed in a simple,
flexible, transparent and participatory manner, building on experience and lessons learned from the ECRF
pilot and other similar operations. Project design reinforced the strengths and traditions of the Eritrean
society and correctly identified key measures to facilitate the achievement of project's objectives.
7.2 Supervision:
Bank performance had substantial strengths:
(i) The Bank exercised a great deal of flexibility to accommodate the needs of the project, ECDF
staff, and the realities on the ground, an important aspect which very much helped ECDF in
strengthening its implementation capabilities. Such flexibility also allowed ECDF to cope with the
numerous constraints it faced during implementation, particularly during the crisis period.
- 18 -



(ii) The Bank promoted a spirit of participatory decision-making and joint learnling. Communication
and exchanges between the Bank and the ECDF were continuous and regular. While the Bank did
provide practical guidance and advice whenever needed, it systematically allowed the
Borrower/ECDF to take the lead role.
(iii) Annual reviews were carried out jointly with the Borrower and participating donors. Bank
supervision was conducted twice yearly and included a relatively large number of technical staff for
all sectors covered under the project Complementary (and smaller) sector-specific missions were
carried out as the need arose.
(iv) Financial and procurement assessments were carried out, ensuring an adequate financial system
and after a while, a transparent procurement system. The Bank provided several training workshops
to enhance ECDF's knowledge of Bank procedures for procurement and financial management and
reporting.
(v) There was staff continuity and close collaboration with participating donors throughout the
implementation phase.
Bank performance is rated Excellent by the Borrower. Although Bank performance was more than
satisfactory in many respect, on balance, the ICR rates Bank performance as Satisfactory. Bank
perfonnance could have been rated "highly satisfactory" had the Bank been firm and more pro-active
in ensuring the full and timely implementation of key capacity building activities, which was key to
both mitigating the main risk to the success of the project and to maximizing project achievements
and benefits. More attention could have been given to ensure that community capacity building
needs were systematically addressed and that the requirements for community involvement, stipulated
in key project documents and the Operational Manual across all sectors, were followed. In addition,
the processes for monitoring sector-specific qualitative outcomes, including related institutional
capacity building needs, could have been addressed earlier in the implementation phase. Although
the Bank did take corrective action to address shortcomings in this area following the Mid-Term
Review and also ensured the implementation of various assessments (e.g., beneficiary and impact
assessments) which facilitated the partial documentation of some sector-specific outcomes, additional
work is required to effectively mainstream this important process in ECDF's operations.
7.3 Overall Bankperformance:
On balance, Bank performance is rated as satisfactory.
Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
Borrower performance is rated highly satisfactory. The project was a priority for the Government. There
was strong commitment to the project as reflected in its agreement to establish ECDF as an autonomous
body, its responsiveness to the Bank's requests, and its decision for staff involved in the ECRF pilot to
continue in ECDF.
7.5 Government implementation performance:
The project was implemented during a difficult period when Eritrea was confronted with another war only
shortly after independence. The strong leadership role and continued commitment of the Government,
however, enabled ECDF to achieve its development objectives. There was good colaboration between the
Ministry of Finance, Ministry of Local Government, line ministries, and donors. This collaboration
increased not only the efficiency of ECDF activities, but equally facilitated an informal process of shared
- 19 -



learning, joint decision-making, and collaborative planning. The relationship that developed between
ECDF and representatives of line ministries, particularly those at the regional level, also contributed to
strengthening capacity for implementing participatory community-based projects. Throughout the
implementation phase, Government continuously provided its full counterpart contribution.
7.6 Implementing Agency:
The performance of ECDF was highly satisfactory. ECDF continuously demonstrated strong commitment
to the project's development objectives. Despite the difficulties and challenges it faced during
implementation, ECDF managed to implement most of its sub-projects, including "fast track" emergency
operations and fairly sizable portions of other Bank-financed operations. It fully complied with the
Project's legal covenants and the Bank's fiduciary requirements.
ECDF's procurement and project fund management promoted transparency and was in accordance with the
Development Credit Agreement and Generally Accepted Accounting Standards. ECDF Management
promoted team work, team building, joint decision-making, and staff autonomy while maintaining clear
areas of accountability. There was a shared vision among all staff of ECDF, an important attribute that
allowed ECDF to effectively carry out its activities. ECDF collaborated with line ministries and local
government in planning, coordinating and implementing its activities. ECDFs modus operandi contributed
to enhancing the capacity of technical staff in the line ministries, albeit informally and at varying degrees.
At all times, ECDF demonstrated a sense of professionalism in its dealings with the Bank and other donors.
It was open to advice and to adopting recommendations that could further enhance its overall efficiency and
effectiveness.
Nevertheless, ECDF could have done more to address the urgent need for community training in the project
cycle, including maintenance, and to strengthen its management and information system to facilitate more
effective monitoring, evaluation, and reporting on project performance and outcomes.
7.7 Overall Borrower performance:
On balance, Borrower performance is rated highly satisfactory.
8. Lessons Learned
1. Efforts to build on existing institutional structures should be complemented by explicit measures to
ensure that the institutions function in an effective, inclusive, and participatory manner. By building on
existing community and government structures and processes, ECDF wag able to be seen as an integral
part of the govemment's implementation arm at both the central and local levels. Allowing village councils
and regional administrations to elicit and screen community proposals also offers many advantages, but the
adequacy and appropriateness of the process depends on the strength of these institutions. Explicit
measures may be needed to support existing institutional processes through greater community
mobilization, information dissemination, knowledge-sharing, and more structured and rigorously executed
training and capacity building in specific activities and functions.
2. Clear mechanisms and incentives need to be established up-front to facilitate the achievement of the
less visible objectives of institutional development and sustainability. The trade-offs between the physical
and more qualitative output targets need to be confronted in the project design stage and the hierarchy of
objectives needs to be defined and established up-front. Explicit measures are needed to compensate for the
natural bias towards maximizing immediately visible and more easily measurable results. Performance
indicators are a useful tool to signal the outcomes vis-a-vis project development objectives.
- 20 -



3. Community-based projects can contribute to Eritrea's broader efforts to decentralize the provision of
public goods and services to local governments in a way that also helps local governments fight poverty.
The delegation of sub-project preparation and implementation tasks to the regional/ocal governments
augurs well for greater benefits in terms of promoting local governance, transparency, accountability, local
capacity building and sustainability of local services. ECDF could contribute more to effective
decentralization by investing in continuous training and capacity building activities and by further refining
its methodologies, capacity, and mechanisms to evaluate the institutional capacity of regional/local
governments during sub-project appraisal.
4. Maximizing development impact requires that interventions be designed in a more integratedfashion
and that necessary complementary inputs, including "software" are in place. Health clinics without safe
water supply or water investments without sanitation cannot be expected to yield optimal outcomes. This
calls for better design and implementation of integrated investments and may necessitate coordination
between different service delivery agents. Infornation, Education, and Communication (IEC) may be
critical to realizing the full benefits of investments, for which effective delivery mechanisms will have to be
found and supported.
5. Community-based projects can simultaneously create short-term jobs and improve basic social and
economic infrastructure andfacilities that are critical to developing Eritrea's human resources and
expanding private sector employment and growth. They protect and create vital public assets and have a
positive impact on local service availability and labor market externalities. Both the employment in
well-targeted sub-projects and the public goods they create can reduce poverty.
6. Rigorous and continuous implementation of well-defined capacity building measures, including the
establishment of appropriate mechanisms, can enhance the sustainability of service flows over the
operational life ofproject investments. Sustainability of investments should serve as the justification of
the project up-front. Capacity building and training activities and the establishment of sustainability
mechanisms should be pursued early and vigorously during the execution of the project. Continued
engagement with the community during the post completion phase, providing technical assistance and
training as operations and maintenance issues arise, and close monitoring and follow-up on recurrent costs
can further enhance sustainability.
7. Commitment, strong drive for results, andflexibility to respond to changing circumstances are
important elements to bridge shortcomings and enhance effectiveness. Despite some shortcomings,
ECDF staff were able to learn by doing, make improvements along the way, and get the sub-projects
implemented under less than ideal circumstances. The commitment and continuity of ECDF staff and their
pragmatic and flexible approach were contributing factors to success. Nevertheless, in responding to the
new needs brought out by the war, they had less focus on some of the important underlying systems that
can enhance effectiveness (e.g. use of more efficient monitoring and evaluation systems, rigorous and
continuous implementation of capacity building activities).
8. Establishing local ownership in development projects requires a holistic approach to community
involvement and careful targeting and integration of continuous capacity building interventions. A more
holistic approach is needed to recognize the totality of community involvement. Communities have
considerable local knowledge from which implementing agencies can benefit. However, such knowledge is
often not easily translated in ways that "fit the operational language" which implementing agencies often
apply. Communities participated in various forns during implementation, but
-21 -



often lacked the knowledge necessary for making informed decisions and the basic skills for project
management and implementation. Effective and continuous capacity building interventions are required to
strengthen and sustain community capacity and develop social capital.
9. Mobilizing client members into genuine and homogenous groups with clearly defined areas of
responsibilities and accountabilities are essential to strengthening solidarity groups and village banking
operations. Irregular group meetings which discourage closer monitoring of mandatory savings deposits
and the timely identification of potential problems with scheduled loan repayments, combined with the lack
of written by-laws and rules can increase default rates. Greater female participation in village bank
operations should be emphasized.
10. The village banking model can promote community cohesiveness and community-driven
micro-finance development. Collective action and accountability by members in servicing and repaying
loans can promote community cohesiveness. The benefits of group-based self-reliance and financial
assistance on village residents who are not yet members of the village bank can be substantial. Designing
the demand for SMCP loans in ways that a variety of micro-enterprise activities of poor and unserved
households can be addressed, combined with the flexibility to respond to loan demands from present and
potential client can increase the program's responsiveness. Close collaboration with lower level
administrative structures also provide a dynamic foundation for strengthening the institutional development
of community-driven micro-finance development.
1 1. Social Funds provide an enabling environment for strengthening local stakeholders'participation in
decision making, building local ownership through local participation in the project cycle, and
improving service delivery in a sustainable, cost-effective, and participatory manner. Social Fund
operations can be more effective when (i) community-driven projects include the development of social
capital and institution building as explicit objectives; and (ii) interventions are linked to more broader
national goals of promoting sustainable development and reducing poverty.
12. Social Funds are effective in delivering urgent basic social and economic services during conflict
and post-conflict periods. By ensuring a complementarity between ECDF goals and broader national
development objectives at the outset, and by building on, strengthening, and collaborating with existing
Government and local institutions during implementation, ECDF was able to assist Govemment in
addressing the emergency needs arising from the war. Flexibility in project design allowed ECDF to make
the necessary adjustments during implementation quickly. National ownership, mobilizing stakeholder
participation, and the strong drive for results were key factors that defined the processes ECDF adopted to
effectively cope with and respond to the consequences of the war.
13. Socialfunds can help transform "top down " and heavily centralized institutions to more
participatory institutions that encourage local level involvement. By building on Eritrea's existing
community organization structure, adopting transparent and participatory approaches to local development,
promoting wider stakeholder participation, and ensuring proper coordination with sectoral policies and
strategies, ECDF, over time, was able to assist the Governnent in developing local institutions that can
effectively manage and implement development programs in a participatory manner. In addition, the
institutional arrangements, organizational structure, and operating procedures adopted by ECDF are in line
with Eritrea's decentralization policies which aim to devolve greater responsibilities to the regions for
development program implementation.
-22 -



9. Partner Comments
(a) Borrower/implementing agency:
This ICR was prepared with substantial assistance of the ECDF, regional administration, and
representatives of relevant line ministries, which have provided data and worked closely with IDA's ICR
mission. Representatives of central government, line ministries, regional administration, local government,
benefiting communities, private contracting firms, participating donors, and ECDF staff (central and
regional) participated in the ICR Stakeholder Workshop to discuss lessons learned from the project,
including their views about the future direction of ECDF. They expressed an overall high satisfaction with
the project. Lessons for the future are highlighted in Annex 9. The initial draft of the Borrower's Report
on the Project, prepared by ECDF, was discussed during the ICR mission; the final version is provided in
Annex 10. The draft of this ICR was sent to the Borrower for comments. A formal communication from
the Borrower was received on December 19, 2001 informing IDA that it is in agreement with the draft ICR
Report and had no further comments.
(b) Cofinanciers:
The draft of this ICR was sent to the Belgian, Dutch and Italian Governments for comments in
mid-December 2001. No major comments have been received.
(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):
10. Additional Information
COMPONENT I - SOCIAL AND ECONOMIC INFRASTRUCTURE
TABLE1A. COMPLETEDINFRASTRUCTUREBYTYPE OFSUB-PROJECTS
Planned                  No. of                            (Actual)                        Avg.
Number of Benefldaries       Subprojects   Avg. Cost to   Community Contribution       Avg.      Cost
completed     the Fund            ('000 Na              Ministry    per
Type of                                          and under    ('000 Nakfa)                                 Cost     Capita
Subprojects       Total      Male       Female    implementa-        1/           Total        As % of                  (in
don                      Contribution   total cost              Nakfa)
1. Health                                                          _
(a) Health Post        2,166       1,040      1,126       1            112                    _      -                     52
(b) Health Station    68,758     33,986      34,772       23           553           1,590          111%        432        185
(c) Health Center     88,996     42,896      46,010       7            1,888          1,301         100/0      2,000       148
2. Education
(a) Elementary        49,059     25,036      24,023       22           886            1,594         8%          850        397
school
(b) Junior           314,715     158,536    156,179       22           1,570         2,201          6%         2,427       110
Secondary School
(c) Training Center   27,000      12,960     14,040        1           688             57           8%          n.a.       25
(d) Make-shift        13,440      8,064       5,376       4            1,585            -            -          n.a.       472
class
3. water Supply      200,489     90,221     110,268       38           2,145          2,279         4%          n.a        382
4. Feeder Roads 2/    48,987      13,114     35,873       6           13,117          2,092          3%         n.a.      1,279
5. NRM               151,047     85,461      65,586       33           424            350            3%         n.a        87
6. Markets           114,464      57,905     56,559       7            1,822          1,116          9%         n.a.       59
7. Vet. Clinics       63,296     32,054      31,242       7            370            203            8%         n.a.       41
TOTAL:     1,142,417   561,183     581,234       171          1,517         12,783          6%                    227
NRM= natural resources management. 1/ Excludes retention money; 2/ Excludes related feasibility/design studies.
- 23 -



TABLE 1B. SOCIAL INFRASTRUCTURE SUBPROJEC`S, BY REO(COMPLETED & UNDER IMPLEMENTATION
Health Facilities          Educatlor Facllties
Region          HS       HC      HP    ES      JSS     MS      TC        RWS        FR    NRM     MP      VC       Total
S/K/Babri        2        0       0      3       1      0       1         7         0       4      2       1        21
D/K/Bahrl        5        I       0      3       1      0       0         0         0       0      1       0         11
Anseba           3        0       0      5       3      0       0         5          1      7      1       1         26
Gash Barka       5        1       0      2       4       1I     0         17         1      8      1       3     '43
Debub            7        3       0      8       8      3       0         3          3      9      2       2         48
Maekel           1        2       1      1       5      0       09        6          1      5      0       0         22
TOTAL:           23       7       1     22      22      4       1         38       6 /      33     7       7        171
HS=health station; HC=health center, HP = heatth post; ES=elementary school; JSS&-junior secondary school; MS = make shift classrooms; TC = training center;
RWS= rural water supply; FR=feeder roads; VC=veterinary clinic; MP-market place; and NRM = natural resources managementlenviromment.
a/ Excludes 8 feeder feasibility and design studies.
TABLE IC: ANNUAL ENGAGEMENT BY TYPE OF SUB-PROJECT (In '000 Nakfa)
Year                  Health     Educatlon    Water         Feeder                Veterinary    Natural Res.
Facilltles  Facilities   Supply       Roads      Markets     Clnic        Mgmt.           Total
1996            11,020.8     11,603.9                  2,251.1         -         794.9             -    25,670.7
1997             6,476.4      5,386 7      16,381.8   25,923 9    2,956.9            -       2,348.7    59,474.4
1998             9,114.3     37,152.3      48,922.4   20,760 0    6,768.1        886.1       5,887.9   129,491.1
1999                  -       1,188 3      22,909.6   45,708.3    5,070.4        969.5       8,949 3    84,795.4
2000                  -       6,745 2      27,609.6   24,123.5          -            -             -    58,478.3
2001                  -             -      14,688.2         -           -            -             -    14,688 2
Total Value:           26,611 5      62,076 4    130,511.6   118,766.8   14,795.4      2,650.5      17,185.9  372,598 1
Share of Total:             7%          16%           35%        32%         4%            1%           5%        100%
Total No. of
Sub-projects:               31            49           38           6          7            7            33        171
Share of Total:            18%          29%           22%         4%         4%            4%           19%       100%
- 24 -



TABLE ID: PROJECr COSTS BY COMPONENT (in USS 000)
Loss on    Additional    Total       Actual                               Actual +
Project Components     Appraisal  Exchange      Fund      Available  Expenditure  Commitment     Total     Commitment
Estimate    Rate 1/   Received 2/    Fund                                             as % of
Available Funds
1. Mlcro Projects
Rural Water Supply         5.53       0.44         5.00       10.09         8.64         4.22    12.86       127%
Education                  8.92       0.71                     8.21         8.60                  8.60       105%
Health                     5.81       0.46                    5.35          3.69                  3.69       69%
Roads                     16.53       1.31                    15.22         9.04         2.00    11.04       73%
Market Place               1.32       0.10                     1.22         1.81         0.04     1.85       152%
Nat. Res. Mgint.           2.36       019                     2.17          2.09         0.24     2.33       107%
Sub total:     40.47       3.20         5.00      42.27        33.87          6.50    40.37       96%
2. Micro Credit
Lines of Credit           3.11       0.25                    2.86          1 79                  1.79       63%
3. TA/Consultancy            1.75       0.14                    1.61         4.45         0.20     4.65       2890%
4. Office Equip. & Veh.      1.00       0.08                    0.92         0.83                  0.83        90%
5. Operational Costs         3.35      0.27                     3.08         2.37         0.54     2.91        94%
Total Project Cost    49.68       3.93         5.00       50.75        43.31         7.24    50.55      99.5%
Data as of December 31, 2001.
1/ Breakdown of loss: (IDA = US$1.43 milion; Belgian Fund= US$ 700,000; and Dutch= $1.80 nmllion).
2V Second Grant provided by Italian Government m 2001.
- 25 -



COMPONENT 2: SAVINGS AND MICRO CREDIT PROGRAM
TABLE 2A: PERFORMANCE OF MICRO CREDIT AND SAVINGS PROGRAM 1/
End 1996     End 1997     End 1998    End 1999     End 2000     End 2001
No. of New Village Banks                   25           14          37            9            3            58
Number of Cumulative village               8 1         107         246         285           290           519
Clusters
Avg .No. of Borrower per cluster           59           64          79          75            70            70
Balance of Loans Outstanding Tier I  1,316,100   3,778,367    8,902,521   9,184,808    9,259,712    17,825,351
(in Nakfa)
Balance of Loans Outstanding Tier 11       0        66,107     515,625     582,108     2,658,224    14,052,734
(in Nakfa)
No. of active loan                      1,470        2,373        5,477       5,779        5,942        10,304
Effective Interest Rate (TierI             16           16          16           16           16            16
Inflation(during the period) (Tier 1)       -          3.7          9.5         9.0          14.6         14.6
Real effective interest rate (Tier 1)      16        0.120        0.060       0.064        0.012         0.012
Effective Interest Rate (Tier II)          14           14          14           14           14            14
Inflation (during the period ) (Tier II)    -          3.7          9.5         9.0          14.6         14.6
Real effective interest rate (Tier 11)     14        0.099        0.041       0.046        -0.005       -0.005
TIER I
No. of Active Borrowers                 1,470        2,373        5,477       5,779         5,942       10,304
No of Loans                             1,685        3,808        9,005       4,391         2,744        9,206
TIER H
No. of Active Borrowers                                  7          27           36          245           925
No. of Loans                                -            7          33           46          259         1,040
Total Number of Women                      30        30.26        27.62        29.6         30.18           37
Beneficiaries; % (Tier I)
Total Number of Women Beneficiaries         -        14.29         6.45       14.29           29            36
% (Tier 11)
Delinquency Rate*                        0.00          1.15        2.04        7.12          5.96         2.71
Portfolio at Risk**                      0.00          1.28        2.09        7.48          6.33         3.37
* Delinquency rate: amount of payments more than 30 days overdue/total outstanding balance of loan portfolio.
** Portfolio at Risk: Total outstanding balance of loans with payments more than I day overdue/Total outstanding balance of loan portfolio.
-26 -



TABLE 2B: GENERAL INDICATORS
Indicators          1996         1997         1998         1999         2000         2001
No of Village             24            37           66          72           74           154
Administration
No of Sub Regions         22           24            29          33           33           49
No of Regions             5             5            5            5           5             6
No of Staff               I1            13           18          14           35           60
No of Officers            4             5            5            4           11           12
Number of Clients
(from the beginning)
-Tier I           1,525        2,666        6,010        6,339        6,204        10,763
-Tier II            -            7            33          45           256          1,040
Number of Loans
(from the beginning)
-Tier I           1,685        3,808        9,005        4,391       2,744         9,206
-Tieril             -            7            33          37           259         1,040
Number of Clients
who has paid off
-Tier I            55           293          532         561          262           459
-Tieril             -             -            1           5            7           115
Number of Active
Clients
-Tier I           1,470        2,407        5,477        5,779        5,942        10,304
-Tieril             -            6            23          32           245          925
Total Outstanding        1,316,100     3,844,474   9,418,145   9,766,916     9,766,916   31,878,085
(in Nakfa)
-27-



TABLE 2C: INDICATORS OF PORTFOLIO          UALITY 1/
Indicators          1996         1997         1998         1999         2000         2001
Repayment Rate               100%        98.85%       97.96%      92.88%        94.04%       96.63%
Average of the unpaid            -     43,495.50   181,194.81  653,974.89    552,187.17     1,073,118
loans -Past due (in
Nakfa)
Reserve Rate a/                  -            -        0.44%       1.18%         5.61%        2.11%
Portfolio in arrears             0          1.15         2.04        7.12         5.96          2.71
(installment) b/
Portfolio at risk c/          0.00          1.28         2.09        7.48         6.33          3.37
Loan Loss Rate d/                           N O   T     APPLICAB L E
Average of disbursed      1,370,600    6,364,550   13,894,050   9,429,800     7,018,350    19,768,570
loans (in Nakfa) Tier I           l                        ___        363
Average of disbursed             -       66,7551      635,179     302,363     2,681,145    14,645,553
loans (in Nakfa) Tier II       _   _              _
a/ Loan reserve (calculated for loans with payments past due/portfolio outstanding)
b/ Payments past due / portfolio outstanding
c/ Outstanding balance with payments past due / portfolio outstanding
d/ Wnte-offs (cumulative) / portfolio outstanding
TABLE 2D: INDICATORS OF EFFICIENCY 1/
Indicators                   1996        1997         1998        1999       2000          2001
Administrative Efficiency a/             20.95         15.3       13.24        10.81       2.88          1.26
Operative Efficiency b/                   14.35       83.51      136.43      137.41      140.53         172.9
Staff distribution (No. of Staffs) / total  44%        33%         24%         16%         40%          41%
distribution (No. of VB)
Active clients/No. of staff                134         183          304         413         170          187
Active clients / No. of Officers           368         475         1095        1445        540           938
Active Clients/Branch                      294         475         1095        1156        1188         1875
Unpaid loans-Past due/No .of officers        0     8,699.10   36,238.96   163,493.72  50,198.83        89,426
Total outstanding (In Nakfay No. of  329,025.00  768,894.80 1,883,629.06 2,354,536.33  841,791.96   2,656,507
officers
No .of village banks / No. of officers    6.25          7.8        15.2       21.25           8          12.1
No. of officers / No. of staff             0.36        0.38        0.28         0.29       0.31          0.20
a/ Adrninistrative expenses / Average Net portfoho
b/ Financial income / adjusted operating expense
1/ The operations of the SMCP component have been affected by the recent war, as borrowers called to military services and/or
displaced by the conflict could not continue to make scheduled payments on their Tier I and Tier II loans. The total amount of
Nakfa 2.576 million in Tier I loans to 1 ,182 front line clients and to 609 DPs was frozen as of June 30, 2001, while Tier II loans
to 7 front line clients and I IDP client amounted to Nakfa 50,489. The amounts have been steadily declining and are reflected in
the financial records of the SMCP but not provided for in the loan portfolio reserves.
- 28 -



TABLE 2E: NUMBER & VALUE OF LOANS DISBURSED BY ECONOMIC ACTIVITY
Value of Loans
Economic Activity  Number of Loans  Percentage    (in Nakfa)     Percentage
TIER I
- Agriculture                11,902        38.60       19,788,620       34.21
- Service                     1,171         3.80        2,422,550        4.19
- Trade                      17,274        56.00       34,700,650       59.99
- Manufacturing                492          1.60         934,100         1.61
Sub-Total:           30,839          100       57,845,920         100
TIER II
- Agriculture                  396         38.07        6,031,830       32.90
- Service                      146         14.04        3,448,300       18.81
- Trade                        450         43.27        7,326,550       39.97
- Manufacturing                 48          4.62        1,524,315        8.32
Sub-Total:            1,040        100.00      18,330,995       100.00
Grand Total:           31,879                    76,176,915
TABLE 2F: REGIONAL SMCP ALLOCATION OF LOAN FUNDS
Regions       No. of         Clients                Amounts Disbursed
Village Banks                                (in Nakfa)
Tier I   Tier H     Tier I       Tier II      Total
Gash Barka       24         1,919      476    10,586,750    5,655,000   16,241,750
Anseba         24         1,751       50    10,678,300    1,231,563   11,909,863
Maekel         31         2,010       42    15,252,220    1,441,793   16,694,013
Debub          37         2,547      246     8,638,600    5,688,079   14,326,679
S/K/B         23          1,450       31    11,436,050     568,560    12,004,610
D/K/B          7           627       195     1,254,000    3,746,000    5,000,000
Total         146       10,304     1,040    57,845,920   18,330,995   76,176,915
- 29 -



Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix
Outcome / Impact Indicators:
Indicator/Matrix                   Projected in last PSR                ActuallLitest Estimate
No. of people served by 100 primary health  159,920
facilities
No. of people with access to education  > 390,774                           404,214
facilities
No. of people served by water supply  200,489
facilities,women preferentially benefted.
No. of people benefltting from the    48,987
construction of rural feeder roads
Total number of beneflcaries          1,138,956                             1,54,220
Social Infrastructure: No. of female  575,858                               581.234
beneficlaries for completed subprojects
Savings and Micro Credit: No of female  33% Tier l; 32% Tier II             37% Tier l; 36% Tier II
benefidaries
The ICR Mission was carried out six months before project closing (e.g., July 2002).
Output Indicators:
Indicator/Matrix           .       Projected In last PSR                Actual/Latest Estimateo
No. of proposals received             775
Number of proposals approved          184                                   184
Number of projects which overran schedule  >85%
Number of projects which overran schedule  >80%
by more than 2 months
Social Infrastructure: Number of benefidaries 1,128,977                     1,142,417
Savings and Credi: Number of Active   9,193                                 10.304
Borrowers for Tier 1 Loans
Savings and Credit: Number of active  245                                   925
borrower for Tier II Loans
Social Infrastructure: No.of sub-projects  148 completed; 23 under implementaton  155 completed; 16 under implementabon
implemented
Number of km of feeder road constructed  120 km
Natural Resources Management Terraces  21 terracing sub-projects completed  1 terracing sub-projects completed
constructed
Natural Resources Management: Planting of 5 tree plantng sub-projects completed  5 tree planting sub-projects completed
seedlings
Natural Resources Management. Irrigatlon  1 sub-project completed           1 sub-project completed
Micro Credit: NewVillage Banks        139                                   146
Micro Credt Cumulatve Village Clusters  487                                 519
Micro Credit Average number of borrowers  66                                70
per ciuster
Micro-Credi: Number of Tier I Loans   5743                                  9,206
Micro Credit: Number of Tier II Loans  819                                  1,040
No. of markets constructed and in use  6 sub-projects completed
Community contribution                7% average; however, In some sectors
contribution exceeded 10%
End of project
The ICR Mission was carried out six months before project closing (e.g., July 2002).
- 30 -



Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing
Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
Appraisal   ActuallLatest- Percentage Of-
Estimate      Estimate      Appraisal
Project Cost By .Component           US$ milli6n.  US$ million  _
Education                                            8.92          8.60             96
Health                                              5.81           3.69             63
Feeder Road Rehabilitation                          16.53          11.04            67
Market Place                                         1.32           1.85           143
Rural Water Supply                                  5.53           12.86           233
Natural Resources Management                        2.36           2.33             99
Micro Credit (Lines of Credit & Administrative Expenses  3.11      1.79             58
TA/Training                                          1.75          4.65            266
Office Equipment/Vehicles                            1.00          0.83             82
Operational Costs                                   3.35           2.91             87
Total Baseline Cost                                49.68          50.55
Total Project Costs            49.68          50.55
Total Financing Required             49.68          50.55
Actual estimates reflect (i) disbursements as of April 2002; and (ii) second grant of US$5.0 million
provided by the Italian Government. The recovery of outstanding amounts from IDA Credit and the
Belgian, Italian, and Netherland accounts in progress.
Project Costs by Procureme nt Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
Procurement Method..
ExpenditureCategory      ICB           NCB         Oth          N.B.F.     Total Cost
1. Works                     0.00         15.63        9.57          0.00        25.20
(0.00)       (6.50)        (4.50)       (0.00)      (11.00)
2. Goods                     0.00          0.00        15.28         0.00        15.28
(0.00)       (0.00)       (4.50)        (0.00)      (4.50)
3. Services                  0.00         0.00          1.75         0.00         1.75
Consultancy Services        (0.00)        (0.00)       (0.50)       (0.00)       (0.50)
Training/TA
4. Miscellaneous             1.00         0.00          0.00         0.00         1.00
Office Vehicles/Equip.      (1.00)        (0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)       (1.00)
5. Miscellaneous             0.00         0.00          3.11         0.00         3.11
Lines of credit (Pilot      (0.00)        (0.00)       (0.50)       (0.00)       (0.50)
Savings)
6. Miscellaneous             0.00         0.00          0.00         3.35         3.35
Operational Costs           (0.00)        (0.00)       (0.00)         0          (0.00)
Total                      1.00         15.63        29.71        3.35         49.69
(1.00)       (6.50)       (10.00)       (0.00)      (17.50)
- 31 -



Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Actual/Latest Estimate) (US$ million equivale nt)
Procurement Method
A   Expenditure Category       ICBNCB                           2       N.B.F.      Total Cost
1. Works                       6.91          16.58         7.30          0.00         30.79
(2.52)        (7.66)        (0.88)        (0.00)      (11.06)
2. Goods                       0.00           3.08         0.00          0.00          3.08
(0.00)        (1.39)        (0.00)        (0.00)       (1.39)
3. Services                    0.00          0.00          4.45          0.00          4.45
Consultancy Services           (0.00)        (0.00)       (2.65)        (0.00)        (2.65)
Training/TA
4. Miscellaneous               0.35          0.00          0.48          0.00          0.83
Office Vehicles/Equip.         (0.35)        (0.00)       (0.13)        (0.00)        (0.48)
5. Miscellaneous               0.00          0.00          1.79          0.00          1.79
Lines of credit (Pilot         (0.00)        (0.00)       (0.49)        (0.00)        (0.49)
Savings)
6. Miscellaneous               0.00          0.00          0.00          2.37          2.37
Operational Costs             (0.00)         (0.00)       (0.00)        (0.00)        (0.00)
Total                        7.26         19.66         14.02         2.37         43.31
(2.87)        (9.05)        (4.15)        (0.00)       (16.07)
Data as of April 2002.
' Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the IDA Credit. All costs include contingencies.
21lncludes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of contracted staff
of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental operating costs related to (i)
managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local government units.
Project Financing by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
Percentage of Appraisal
Component             Appraisal Estimate          Actual/Latest Estdmate
IDA      Govt.     CoF.      IDA      Govt.     CoF.    IDA    Govt.  CoF.
Social and Economic and  15.50    8.71     16.26     12.45      6.70     14.72   80.3   76.9   90.5
Infrastructure
MIcro Credit and Savings  0.50    0.00      2.61     0.49      -0.40     1.70    98.0    0.0   65.1
Program
TA/Training             0.50      0.00      1.25     2.65       0.00     1.80    530.0   0.0   144.0
Equipment and Vehicle    1.00     0.00      0.00     0.48       0.35     0.00    48.0    0.0    0.0
Operational Cost        0.00      3.35      0.00     0.00      2.37      0.00     0.0   70.7    0.0
Note: Govt. = includes community contributions. Data includes estimated disbursements as of April 2002.
The recovery of outstanding amounts from the IDA Credit and the Belgian, Italian, and Netherlands
accounts in progress.
- 32 -



Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits
Not applicable.
- 33 -



Annex 4. Bank Inputs
) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                 No. of Persons and Specialty           Performance Rating,
(e.g. 2 Economists, i, FMS, etc.)  Implementation Development
Month/Year    Count           Specialty                     ! Progress    Objective
Identification/Preparation
Identification:            14    TTL, MFS (2) CONS, LEG, DO,
February 13,                     A, IS, RWSS (2), ESS, RE, CBS,
1995                             MDC
Preparation:                14   Same as above
March 23, 1995
Appraisal/Negotiation
Appraisal:                 17    TTL, PA, MFS (2), NRM,
June/July 1995                   LEG, OA, IS, ENV, RWSS.
FMS, ECON, CBS, RE,
CDS, HS, DO
Negotiations:               5    TTL, PA, LEG, DO, MWS
December 8-12,
1995
Board: February                                                    HS            HS
29, 1996
Supervision
Project Launch:              4   TTL, PROC, E/SMCP,                 S             S
June 25- July 19,                VB-CONS.
1996
November 25 -               12   TTL, ENV, OA, RWSS (2), 00,        S             S
December 5, 1996                 A, RE, DR (4)
June 25 - July 12,          12   TTL, ENV, IS, RWSS, MFS, A,        S             S
1997                             FR, SS, DR (4)
December 1-18,               9   TTL, ES, IS, A, RWSS, MFS,         S             S
1997                             RE, DR (2).
Mid-Term Review:            10   TTL, SS, ES, ECON, A, OA,          S            HS
December 7-17,                   RWSS, RE, MWS, 00
1998
July 5-10, 1999             10   TTL, ES, SS, 00, RWSS,            HS            HS
ECON, RE, DR (3)
February 28 -               11   TTL, 00 (2), ES, RE, A, SS         S             S
March 10, 2000                   ECON, RWSS, DR (2)
January 8-31, 2001          12   TTL, 00 (2), ES, SS, A, RE,        S             S
ECON, LFSS, RWSS, FMS, DR
ICR
July 12-27, 2001            6    00, MFS, SPS, SIF, EO,             S             S
DR
A=Architect, CBS = Capacity Building Specialist, CONS = Consultant; DO = Disbursement Officer; DR = Donor
- 34 -



Representatives; ECON - Economist, ES = Enviromnent Specialist, ESS = Energy & Sanitation Specialist, FMS = Financial
Management Specialist, LEG = Lawyer; IS = Implementation Specialist, MDC = Micro Dam Specialist; MFS - Micro-Finance
Specialist, NRM = Natural Resources Management Specialist; OA = Operations Analyst, 00 - Operations Officer, PA =
Procurement Advisor, RE = Roads Engineer, RWSS = Rural Water Supply Specialist; SIF = Social Investmnent Fund Specialist,
SPS = Lead Social Protection Specialist, SS = Social Scientst, TTL = Teask Team Leader
(b) Staff
Stage of Project Cycle                        Actual/Latest Estimate,
No. Stiff weeks                 US$ ('000)
Identification/Preparation                   83.5                          198.6
Appraisal/Negotiation                        77.8                          224.6
Supervision                                 189.0                          878.8
ICR                                            12                           62.1
Total                                                                       62.1
- 35 -



Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components
(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
Rating
OMacro policies                      O H OSUOM O N * NA
OSector Policies                     O H OSUOM O N O NA
? Physical                           * H OSUOM O N O NA
E Financial                          O H *SUOM O N O NA
O Institutional Development          0 H * SU O M 0 N 0 NA
OEnvironmental                       O H OSUOM O N O NA
Social
M Poverty Reduction            O H *SUOM O N O NA
Gender                        OH OSUOM ON ONA
OI Other (Please specify)      O H OSUOM O N O NA
Z Private sector development         0 H * SU 0 M 0 N 0 NA
O Public sector management           0 H   * SU O M 0 N 0 NA
O Other (Please specify)             O H OSUOM O N O NA
- 36 -



Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)
6.1 Bankperformance                                 Rating
? Lending                                           OHS OS       OLu    OHU
F Supervision                                       OHS * S      0 U    O HU
Z Overall                                           OHS OS OU 0 HU
6.2 Borrowerperformance                             Rating
 Preparation                                       OHS OS       0 U    0 HU
 Government implementation performance             0 HS O s     0 U    0 HU
? Implementation agencyperformance                  OHS *S       O    U  0 HU
z Overall                                           OHS OS       O U    0 HU
- 37 -



Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents
1. World Bank, "State of Eritrea, Community Development Fund Project," Staff Appraisal Report, Report
No. 14937-ER, January 30, 1996.
2. Woldtam and SDCS Consulting Services, "Eritrean Community Development Fund - Beneficiary
Impact Evaluation Study", November 1998.*
3. ECOSOC, Woldtam, GECOM, "Eritrea Community Development Find - Future Directions of ECDF",
March 2000.*
4. ECOSOC, Woldtam, GECOM and WORKU, "Eritrean Community Development Fund - Impact
Evaluation of ECDF 1", February 2001.*
5. Ciardi, Paulo, "Eritrean Community Rehabilitation Fund - Mid-Term Evaluation Report", April 1995.
6. Ministry of Finance, State of Eritrea, "Project Document - Savings and Micro Credit Program", April
2000."
7. Hurtado, Christian, (Diagnostic Assessment of ECDF's MIS).
8. World Bank, Bank to Office Report - Mid-Term Review, December 7-17, 1998.
9. World Bank, Memorandum of the President of the Intemational Development Association to the
Executive Directors on a Country Assistance Strategy of the World Bank Group for the State of Eritrea",
February 1996.
10. WOLDTAM Consultancy Services, "Report on Stock-Taking Exercise on Capacity Building",
December 2000.*
11. Department of Environment, "National Environmental Assessment, Procedures and Guidelines,"
March 1999.
12. Bamberger, Michael, "Evaluating the Participation of Women in Development Projects: The Case of
Social Development Funds", November 1999.
13. Supporting documents prepared by ICR Team: (i) Analysis of ECDF Targeting; (ii) Note on Water
Supply and Sanitation; (iii) Note on Environment; (iv) Note on Monitoring and Evaluation; (v)
Data/statistics: Social and Economic Infrastructure Component and Savings and Micro Credit Component;
and (vi) List of Training/Capacity Building Activities/Studies completed during implementation.
14. ICR Stakeholder Workshop Proceedings prepared by ECDF Consultants, July, 2001.
- 38 -



Annex 8. Beneficiary Survey Results
Impact Evaluation
Eritrea Community Development Project
Summary of Findings and Lessons Learned
I. INTRODUCTION
1.     An Impact Evaluation was carried out in March-December, 2000 in order to assess the social and
economic impact of the Eritrea Community Development Fund Project (ECDF) on beneficiary communities,
including the achievement of beneficiary satisfaction, the level of community participation in the selection and
implementation of sub-projects, and the project's sustainable impact on the rural poor's livelihood. All eight
sub-components (e.g., health, education, rural water supply and sanitation, markets, feeder roads, veterinary
clinics, markets, natural resources management/environment and savings and micro credit) were evaluated using
similar methodologies, combining qualitative and quantitative methods.
2.     The Impact Evaluation was commissioned during the fourth year of project implementation. It was
therefore not possible to conduct baseline studies and to use the conventional "before and after the project"
design. In six of the eight sub-components the three main sources of information were secondary data (i.e. school
records, data from health facilities), recall by beneficiaries of their situation before the project began and the
changes which have occurred, and key informants. This summary highlights the Impact Evaluation's main
findings, lessons learned and recommendations.
3.     Overall project rating. Overall, the Project made a significant contribution to the provision of national
social and economic infrastructure, reaching more han 600,000 beneficiaries of which 42% are women. A high
proportion of the target beneficiaries indicated their agreement with the choice of sub-projects and considered
them to have significant benefits. A wide range of economic and social benefits were achieved.
4.     Despite the overall positive assessment, a number of issues and challenges were identified. These
included: (i) constraints on the accessibility of some components to certain groups; and (ii) shortcomings in the
processes and institutional mechanisms for facilitating greater community involvement in the project cycle; (iu)
shortcomings in promoting the cross-sectoral impacts of project interventions; and (iv) criteria for sub-project
selection. Capacity building was considered one of the weakest components of the project. While progress has
been made in ensuring the equal participation of women in project planning and in employment of benefits, this is
an aspect of the project requiring further work.
5.     Methodology and sampling. This report is based on the results of: (i) 1350 sample survey
questionnaires, with random selection of household respondents; (ii) 242 in-depth follow-up interviews, including
discussions with the best informed 6-10 people per village/community; (iii) 39 focus group discussions with
various community groups; (iv) 9 community case studies, and (v) 4 longitudinal studies. The sample survey was
designed to obtain feedback on: (i) households' knowledge and use of and benefits obtained from ECDF
sub-projects; (ii) level of community involvement and participation; and (iii) sustainability of the sub-projects.
In-depth follow-up interviews were carried out to gain insights on households' attitudes to the sub-projects, how
they participated and the ways in which they have been affected by the sub-project. Focus groups gathered
approximately 6-10 people to learn more about community attitudes to the projects, how they were implemented
and their impacts on the lives of the community. Discussions with key informants were conducted to obtain their
estimates of the sub-projects' impacts and sustainability. Case studies were carried out in selected communities
to describe how the sub-projects were selected and organized, the impacts produced, the experience with
- 39 -



sustainability, and their impacts on community capacity building. Longitudinal studies were carried out for the
feeder roads and micro credit and savings credit sub-projects. Interviews with ECDF staff were carried out to
collect the necessary information and data on each sub-project; secondary data was collected from project records
and other sources in order to estimate the socioeconomic conditions of the households at the time each project
started.
6.     Forty-five sub-projects were selected, covering about 25% of the total value of all sub-projects (184
sub-projects) implemented by the ECDF Project and consisting of: 10 education facilities, seven health facilities,
five water supply projects; three feeder roads projects; three veterinary clinics; three markets, two terracing and
two tree planting, and 10 micro credit schemes. For the standard interviews, respondents were selected randomly.
For the in-depth interviews and focus group discussions, selection was based on targeting according to
sub-categories of respondents/participants.
7.     The sample included 1273 households in 40 sub-regions. Sixty percent of the study sites were located in
rural areas where the poverty level is higher and the provision of basic socioeconomic infrastructure limited.
Sample design responded to the need for fair representation of: (i) geographic coverage of the project; and (ii)
typology of implemented sub-projects. Consideration was also given to the regional distribution of sub-projects,
agrobiological diversity, successful and less successful projects.
8.     In order to evaluate the process of project implementation, accessibility and use of project services, and
impacts and sustainability, indicators for the following categories were developed: process indicators, measured
in terms of community participation in all phases of the project cycle; (ii) accessibility indicators, measured in
terms of access to social services, with emphasis to previously marginalized, remote and war-affected rural
communities; (iii) economic indicators; (iv) social indicators; and (v) sustainability indicators, measured in
terms of community capacity to manage, maintain, follow-up, monitor and evaluate sub-projects. Study findings
by type of sub-project are presented in the following sections on the basis of these indicators. In view of the
cross-cutting themes observed during the field work, study findings on process impacts across the different types
of sub-projects are presented globally in the next section. Key lessons leamed and study recommendations are
summarized at the end.
II. PROCESS IMPACTS OF ECDF SUB-PROJECTS
9.     Community involvement and participation in the project cycle varied across sectors in terms of nature,
scope, and intensity. Overall, the choices of sub-projects financed by ECDF reflected the priorities of the
benefiting communities and were consistent with local development priorities. ECDF's assistance contributed to
increasing access to basic social and economic infrastructure and social services. The savings and micro credit
component increased access of poor communities to income opportunities.
10.    Benefiting communities participated in various ways in the implementation of sub-projects. Community
Project Committees (CPCs) were established, with the mandate of assisting benefiting communities in all phases
of the project cycle, including raising the 10% community contribution. The performance of CPCs varied across
sub-projects; those with clearly defined roles and responsibilities and adequate resources were more pro-active in
promoting greater community involvement during the implementation phase.
11.    Project design required that benefiting communities contribute an average of 10% (cash, in-kind, or both)
towards the total cost of their sub-project. With the exception of the very poor and marginalized individuals,
most communities were able to meet this requirement. In some cases, the local administration or the better-off
members of the community assisted poorer or marginalized individuals in the community who could not afford to
contribute their respective share because of their low social and economic status.
-40 -



12.    Most benefiting communities were consulted about the sub-projects through public meetings held at the
village level. However, not all benefiting communities were involved in decision making with regard to site
identification and site selection. Decisions about sub-projects in the health and education sectors, including
veterinary clinics and markets, were generally taken by the local administrators/Baitos after which communities
were informed who were usually in agreement with the decisions taken by local officials. For education
sub-projects, there was a tendency by community elders and local officials to decide on behalf of communities
about their demand, priorities and capabilities. For market places, community involvement was generally
confined to the establishment of market place committees and providing their contributions toward the cost of
construction. The management and operation of market places were generally left to town administrations and in
several cases, the committees which were created to raise the 10% contribution were dissolved after the
construction of the facility.
13.    Water supply sub-projects were more successful in harnessing community involvement Most
sub-projects were initiated by the community who, through their water committees and with participation of the
local administration, also selected the appropriate schemes. The dual and interdependent responsibilities of water
committees and the village inhabitants were developed through active participation and involvement of
communities in the different phases of the project cycle. Actions were taken systematically to raise communities'
awareness and sense of ownership through community mobilization and training. Communities' initiatives were
bolstered by the institution of a transitional management support system to assist and develop communities'
capacity in the operations and maintenance of their water supply system.
14.    Generally, there was a greater sense of ownership and responsibility among benefiting communities who
were involved in the early stages of the project cycle. In this instance, community involvement during the initial
stages was a learning process that enhanced communities' action planning, responsibility, organizational and
problem-solving capacity throughout implementation. The provision of well-targeted and timely capacity
building interventions at the community level and the establishment of efficient financing and institutional
mechanisms are two important prerequisites for both further strengthening community involvement and for
ensuring the sustainability of operations.
m. EDUCATION SUB-PROJECTS
15.   Accessibility Impacts: ECDF increased access to and opportunities for schooling to all households in
the sampled sites, as evidenced by the overwhelming number of households that are now sending children to
school. Greater access to primary schools encouraged and motivated parents to support the continuation of their
children's education as communities that have primary schools are now demanding the construction of junior
secondary schools. The participation of children from either poor communities with marginal resources (i.e.,
Gulie) and/or from communities where returnees have settled (i.e., Tekerit), was constrained by the household's
very low economic status and problems associated with the returnees' settlement and reintegration in the host
communities.
16.    School attendance rates for primary school and junior secondary school increase, on average, by 191%
and 69%, respectively. Utilization rates in remote rural areas remain low because of the low income of the
population. In mountainous rural communities, distance to school still poses a problem for some children. With
the exception of the junior secondary students in Nakfa, the average time (one way) to travel to primary schools
and junior secondary schools substantially decreased by over 60%. In the case of Nakfa, overcrowding
prompted school administrators to restrict admissions in schools and assign them to new ECDF schools so that
opportunities may be given to other students from more remote communities. Average travel cost (one way)
declined for primary school students by 40%; no substantive change was reported for junior level.
-41 -



17.    Economic and Social Impacts: The internal efficiency of schools remain low, partly because of the
prevailing poverty, cultural behaviors, and practices that inlhibit children's participation in school. Flow rate
from Grade 1 to Grade 2 in the sampled ECDF schools was 39%, almost the same as that of the national flow
rate of 40%. Drop out rates in Grade 1 (1998/1999) were invariably high in all sampled schools, ranging from
24% (Gulie) to 4% (Ghizghiza). Female drop out rates was generally much higher than male drop out rates
especially in poor communities where returnees have settled (i.e., Hitmulo and Tekreit). Coupled with the
practice of early marriage, nomadic communities withdrew their female child from school when they moved from
their temporary place. However, once girls reached Grade 3, the chances for continuing their education appeared
to become greater.
18.    Communities are more aware about the benefits of education in general and the benefits they could
derive from "their school" in particular. Households regarded the school as a symbol of modernity in that it gave
them hope in realizing the aspirations they have for their children - aspirations and chances they themselves have
missed. The fact that the school was built in their community greatly enhanced access to schooling for most
members of the community and increased communities' awareness of the value of education.
19.    Absenteeism and tardiness were reported to be rampant. Local officials, community elders and school
personnel attributed the causes for academic failure and low retention in the school system to widespread poverty
and deprivation (i.e., use of child labor to supplement household income). Among poor households, specific
inhibiting factors included: age-related constraints, sickness, nomadic life, farm work, tending livestock,
household work, and parents' lack of knowledge or awareness of the benefits of education. Attendance of
children from such income group was erratic, resulting in poor academic achievement.
20.    Sustainability Impact: Seventy percent of households have fulfilled their 10% contribution. Of those
not able to contribute, the following reasons were cited: (i) low economic status; (ii) in cases where the
household's main income earner has been deployed to the war front line, payment of contributions were deferred
until his/her return; (iii) previously disadvantaged and marginalized communities' appreciation of the school
project as well as their ability to pay could be low, at least temporarily; (iv) communities were nomadic; and (v)
returnees who have recently settled were in the process of reintegration. School Parent Committees (SPCs) were
established in all schools built by ECDF. Although knowledge about the existence of these committees was
initially low, substantial changes have occurred as the sub-project evolved and school attendance increased.
SPCs are more engaged in the management and operation of the schools and in community mobilization efforts
aimed at promoting children's education.
IV. HEALTH SUBPROJECTS
21.    AccessibUity Impact: All community members, especially those in previously deprived and
marginalized communities, have greater access to health facilities and more health services. However, the lack of
equipment and/or manpower (Foro and Kudo Buor health centers), or absence of drugs to treat common ailments
(Metkel Abiet health station) have led to a significant number of patients visiting other higher level facilities.
22.    Average travel time (one way) to health centers and health stations decreased on average by 38% and
68%, respectively. Due to increases in transport tariffs, average travel cost to health facilities increased,
however. The number of episodes in households for nine major diseases were reported to decline by 15%.
Episodes of major diseases in children declined by 35 cases in health stations, while it increased by 21 cases in
health centers. The former may be explained by the fact that more households were taking their children in health
centers. The latter may be explained by the fact that mothers were seeking higher level of services in health
centers which are referral facilities for health stations for more complicated cases.
-42 -



23.    Economic and Social Impacts: The reported general decrease in the number of episodes for major
diseases affecting communities, if sustained, could contribute to reductions in mortality and morbidity, thus
enhanced productivity. Overall improvements in the health status of children not only promoted the well-being of
children but could also reduce the time mothers spend on household chores which, in turn, could be devoted to
more productive activities. Health education delivered in health facilities contributed to greater awareness and
knowledge and has promoted positive attitudes among communities, especially that of mothers. The construction
of health facilities enabled communities to purchase drugs and medicines at reasonable prices and generally
within easy access.
24.    Sustainability Impacts: Communities are willing to participate and contribute in whatever capacity they
can. There was a general concern, however, that communities lacked full understanding of the role and structure
of the health services delivery system, what the system can and cannot do, and what their own contributions could
be. As a result, community involvement, including women's participation, have been limited. Several
shortcomings have contributed to this dilemma.
25.    Community Health Committees (CHCs) were established to coordinate the efforts of communities to
maintain and sustain health projects, but households' knowledge of their existence have been minimal. The lack
of clear procedures and guidelines on their responsibilities undermined CHCs' capacity to effectively mobilize
communities and to promote community involvement in the management, operations and maintenance of their
health projects. In general, the responsibilities of CHCs appeared to be for ad-hoc purposes as opposed to
facilitating the resolution of recurring problems of the health facilities. These shortcomings led households to
assume that it is the Government's responsibility to provide for the general up-keep and maintenance of health
facilities.
V. RURAL WATER SUPPLY AND SANITATION SUB-PROJECTS
26.    Accessibility Impacts: All community members in the survey sites now have access to safe and reliable
water which is used mainly for household consumption. In the lowlands, communities relied on the new water
systems to provide water for their livestock the principle source of their livelihood. Many respondents believed
that the new system was adequate to provide water during the whole year. Actually, by taking into account the
average yield of the schemes supported by EDCF, communities are expected to receive adequate water for the
whole year round for the next 20 years. Distance traveled to fetch water was substantially reduced by an
average of 80% and there was virtually no waiting time to fetch water.
27.    Economic Impacts: Economic and social impacts included: (i) time saved in collecting/transporting
water, (ii) creation of employment for community members, including women; (iii) increase in household water
consumption and community's use of water for other productive activities; (iv) decrease in the cost of water; (v)
revenue generated from new water supply had (a) bolstered confidence of communities to manage their own water
system; (b) provided for minor repairs and the maintenance and purchase of spare parts; and (c) developed the
capacity of communities to manage their respective water supply systems; and (vi) promotion of better personal
hygiene and sanitation practices.
28.    Institutional Impacts. The participatory approach adopted for the water supply sector promoted
community involvement in the project cycle. Systematic efforts were made to build community capacity to
manage their sub-projects. Solutions to bottlenecks impeding implementation were for the most part identified in
a timely manner (i.e., the institution of the Transitional Management Team to provide backstopping support to
local communities). ECDF helped facilitate the transition of project implementation from the line ministry to the
Ministry of Local Government. Lessons and issues identified during the decentralization process have had
-43-



constructive impacts on the government' s overall vision of decentralization, including the institutional
requirements for effective implernentation. ECDF's requirements for rigorous planning, cost estimation, and
contracting procedures contributed to developing the capacity of private contractors. The nunber of contractors
increased from less than 20 in 1995 to over 70, partly due to ECDF's activities.
29.    Social Impacts. All community members were direct beneficiaries of the water supply sub-projects.
The very poor and very old who could not pay for water were identified by the community and given free services
through contributions of better-off community members. Women benefited from the close proximity of water
sources, reducing their travel time, physical effort exerted, and workload. Equal access to the water supply
system by institutions such as schools, health stations and private enterprises motivated institutions to provide.
better and more efficient services. For example, the water committees in Shelab decided on a preferential tariff for
the school in order to increase students' access to water.
30.   In most cases, communities contributed their share of the total sub-project cost. Although some
communities displaced by the border conflict were only able to contribute partially, a flexible mechanism was
established to allow them to fulfill their commitments in a phased manner. Communities' participation, which
was initially confined to the Project's 10% requirement and site selection, had shown significant development
since the pilot phase; communities are now active in all phases of the project cycle.
31.    Communities' awareness and sense of project ownership are quite high. Communities have been
effective in voicing their concems. This active participation was clearly manifested in (i) the allocation of
household's contribution fee; (ii) participatory selection of foundation sites; (iii) providing labor for contractors;
(iv) facilitating and overseeing implementation and monitoring progress; (v) conducting public meetings to
discuss and solve problems; and (vi) taking a pro-active role in determining water tariffs for the community.
Benefiting communities identified and contributed money for about 5 to 20 poor individuals who were either very
poor, very old, or disabled and could not pay for water.
32.    Sustainability Impacts: Most benefiting communities are ready to ensure the sustainable operation of
their new water supply systems. Communities' organizational and management capacity have been strengthened.
Water supply training manuals were translated into a number of local languages and are being used. The
majority of the population knew about the establishment of water committees and are satisfied with their
performance. Women were relatively well represented in the decision making process.
33.    Prior to ECDF's water supply sub-projects, communities paid higher rates from private water sellers
which suggests that they were ready and willing to pay higher charges. In fact, some communities raised the
water rates by 50-150% to meet maintenance and operation costs. Survey data showed that the three month
revenue generated by the sampled sub-projects could adequately cover operational costs, including routine
maintenance costs. Additional resources would need to be mobilized for future major repair and maintenance
expenses, however.
VI. FEEDER ROAD SUBPROJECTS
34.    Accessibility Impacts: The construction of feeder roads provided greater access and mobility for people
to move to/from their villages, health and education facilities, and markets easily. Use of the Maereba-Tekelabi
road (MITR) generated an average weekly traffic of about 85 motorized transport Travel per person per year in
both Keren-Geleb Road and Maereba Tekelabi road increased by 56%. The construction of roads permitted an
increase in social visits, an important part of Eritrean social life. They also decreased travel time by 50%.
-44-



35.    Greater road access contributed to improvements in the social welfare of communities. It enabled the
government to deliver social services more efficiently and in a cost-effective manner. Along the completed Gullie
and Maereba Tekelabi roads, the government built a health center in Hadida and an elementary school and a
health station in Gullie. The new health facilities contributed to positive changes in the health status of the local
population. Sick people who were being carried by stretchers or horse back on steep terrain were easily
transported by car or road with considerable improvement in travel speed and convenience. It was reported that
many people, particularly pregnant women, used to die on this journey. Attendance in health facilities
constructed in Hadida and Gullie increased dramatically. The construction of a primary school in Gullie was
reported to contribute to improvements in the overall learning environment of the benefiting community.
36.    Social impacts: The total population of the sub-project area are expected to benefit directly or indirectly
through increased access to social services, markets, travel, income, and employment created or facilitated by the
construction of the road. However, the degree of benefits derived from the roads are expected to vary from
village to village, from household to household, or among various groups. Direct beneficiaries of the road are
estimated at 14,188 people of which 51% are women. The major users of the public transport are mostly
housewives, farmers, students, and traders. More than half of the respondents believed that the road had
benefited women by creating easy access to reach the health facilities. This view was supported by the fact that
over 70% of the visits in Gullie and Hadida health facilities were from women and children. Benefits from road
construction were not limited to health services but also included benefits related to other social activities. For
example, 33% of the public transport passengers are housewives who travel for various reasons (i.e. shopping,
conduct trade, social visits, etc.). Overall, feeder roads sub-projects provided communities with opportunities to
acquire new skills for the maintenance of feeder roads - skills which they can productively utilize in future
operations.
37.    Economic impacts: Assessing the economic impacts of feeder roads during the conflict period was not
only difficult but may have led to some underestimation of the overall impacts of road construction. Although
conclusive generalizations could not be made, the expected and possible impacts were visibly overshadowed by
this phenomenon.
Local transport and travel. Average travel per person/year increased by 56%. Average travel time decreased by
50%. Before the project, 70% of goods were transported on pack animals, with most of the remainder carried on
people's backs. After the construction, 66% of goods were transported by trucks, 15% by pack animals and the
remainder used a combination of means.
Small business and commerce: The construction of roads encouraged the creation of new small businesses by
more than two-fold. However, increases in commercial enterprises have not been paralleled with increases in
staff or increases in the activities of these enterprises, partly because of the war.
Access to wider range of consumer goods: The variety of consumer goods increased by 500%.
Prices of consumer goods: The study estimated that the prices of goods increased much less than would have
been the case without the road.
Impact on agriculture: Positive impacts included: (i) increased farm production; (ii) mechanization on 170
hectares of land; (iii) efficient transportation of perishable goods which led to an increase in production of about
3000/o-500%; (iv) three-fold increase in the utilization of fertilizers; (ii) decrease in spoilage of perishable goods
transported to markets; and (v) increased income for farmers.
- 45 -



Employment and income: Thirty-eight percent of the sample households were provided employment
opportunities during the road construction, with an average income per household of Nfa. 1379. The total
employment for the sample population was 1633 man-days. The sub-project helped stimulate the development of
the private road construction industry.
38.    Sustainability Impacts. Community involvement had positive impacts on communities' perception of
the costs and benefits of maintaining roads. Involving benefiting communities in the routine maintenance of
roadwork is an effective mechanism for sustaining the feeder roads; it also has the added benefit of creating
additional income for some of the local population. However, 83% of respondents believed that maintenance was
the responsibility of the govenmuent. Communities along the feeder roads were generally very poor to make any
significant contribution. Even extended periods of labor contribution were sometimes too taxing for the
communities, requiring them to deviate from economic activities which were essential to their household's
livelihood. These factors are important to keep in mind as the equivalent of the 10% community contribution for
feeder roads sub-projects is generally much higher than other sub-projects financed by ECDF.
39.    Environment Impacts. The construction of feeder roads contributed to land degradation and clearing of
shrubs-and trees during and after construction. According to the study, the scale of destruction warranted the
provision of effective environmental rules and regulations that could mitigate negative risks.
VII. MARKET SUB-PROJECTS
40.    Accessibility Impacts. Although market places created access for the rural population within the cavity
of the towns, urban dwellers whose access increased by 159% make the most use of them. Beneficiaries of
market place sub-projects comprised of buyers both from within the town and its vicinity, traders operating from
the new market places, fruit and vegetable producers, wholesalers, and people engaged in transport activities.
Markets provided space to small traders who were unable to establish retail outlets. When operating with full
occupancy, surveyed market places provided access to about 800 traders of which 80% are women. A key
reason for the high participation of women in market place activities was the loan granted by various institutions,
including ECDF through the micro-credit and savings component. Most respondents believed that market place
sub-projects are located at appropriate places, suggesting their ease of accessibility to the population. Focus
group discussions and interviews held in Barentu, however, indicated that the market place is located far from the
town center, creating some inconvenience to shoppers.
41.    Economic Impacts: When operating with full occupancy, market places generated an aggregate income
of Nfa 323,160 (Nfa 107,720/project/annum), about 9% of the total investment cost of the three sub-projects. At
the time of the study, these markets were operating at 41% capacity. Traders operating from centralized market
places have lower operating expenses due to lower rent and shared utility bills. While the rent of shops outside the
market places in surveyed project areas ranged from Nfa 150 to Nfa 200, the maximum rate charged by town
administrations was about one third of the market rate. Annual cost savings per shop was estimated at Nfa 1500.
Cost benefits to traders operating within the new market place did not result in lower prices of goods mainly due
to inflation and the high cost of transportation. Apart from the gainful employment of about 325 traders, market
place sub-projects created job opportunities for a small number of community members employed as guards and
cleaners.
42.    One of the objectives of market place sub-projects was to stimulate small-scale horticultural activities in
project areas. The study, however, revealed that big producers remained to be the major suppliers of traders
operating from the new market places, indicating little improvement in providing market access to small farmers
from the surrounding villages.
-46 -



43.    Social Impacts. The creation of market places generated employment opportunities for women.
Compared to old market places, markets constructed by ECDF were more clean and hygienic and promoted good
health practices.
44.    Sustainability Impacts. Market places were invariably operating below their maximum capacity (41%)
mainly due to the high turnover of traders caused by the low volume of business. Mendefera's market place
which had the highest occupancy rate, was functioning at 67% of its capacity, indicating that the facilities were
under-utilized. Low occupancy rate was expected to increase once the conflict ended.
45.    Town administrations allocated shops for traders who offered basic consumer goods, while stall owners
sold vegetables and fruits. The absence of basic commodities in some of the surveyed market places was cited as
the main cause for the low volume of business, resulting in the withdrawal of an increasing number of traders.
Shopkeepers operating from the Hagaz market place, for example, decided to withdraw mainly due to delays on
the part of the town administration in allocating the market hall to vegetable and fruit vendors.
46.    Community participation during the various stages of the sub-project cycle was unsatisfactory due to the
lack of proper communication and inadequate organization on the part of those responsible (i.e., town
administrators). Community participation in the management and operations of surveyed market places was
almost nonexistent. Most respondents felt that responsibility for project management should rest with town
administrators and the responsibilities for the repair and maintenance of market places should be shouldered by
the government.
47.    Communities who contributed more during project implementation generally exhibited a greater sense of
responsibility and argued in favor of increased community involvement in project management and operations.
About 41% of the respondents from Mendefera indicated that the community needed to be encouraged to assume
greater responsibilities in project management, while it was only 7% for Hagaz where the 10% community
contribution was covered by the town administration.
VIII. VETERINARY CLINIC SUB-PROJECTS
48.    Accessibility Impacts. ECDF constructed 7 veterinary clinics, representing 21% of the total number of
veterinary clinics (34) in the country. Two-thirds of the respondents confirmed that they obtained services from
the veterinary clinics, a 64% improvement in accessibility as compared to the situation before the project.
Veterinary clinics operated throughout the year and provided emergency services during week-ends and public
holidays. Some respondents reported that they did not take sick livestock to the clinics because of lack of both
supplies and personnel. Major services rendered by the surveyed veterinary clinics such as vaccination and drug
distribution increased by 29%. Distance between the service provider outlets and livestock owners decreased.
49.    Economic Impacts. Livestock owners benefited from the construction of veterinary clinics in terms of
increased income from the sale of animals and animal products, greater production capacity, increased drought
power for transportation and production purposes, improved animal health and reduced animal mortality, and
increased income for Community Animal Health Workers (CAHWs) whose main responsibilities were to bring
veterinary services closer to communities. Women also benefited from the closer proximity of clinics. Improved
access to veterinary services contributed to a decline in animal loss resulting from disease, providing households
with an average savings of Nfa 2920. However, the majority of respondents indicated that animal health fees
were expensive. According to the focus group discussions and interviews held with community members, farmers
were at times forced to sell one or two goats to cover health fees.
-47 -



50.    Social Impacts. With the construction of veterinary clinics and improvements in access to modem
veterinary services, the use of traditional medicines by farmers was reported to decline considerably.
Improvements in the overall quality of veterinary services contributed to positive changes in households'
livelihood, namely through increased income generated from livestock. The clinics improved women's access to
veterinary services and encouraged some women to engage in animal husbandry.
51.    Sustainability Impacts. At the time of the survey, sustainability of the veterinary clinics was uncertain.
Respondents rated community participation in project management and operations to be unsatisfactory. Although
there was some evidence of communities' readiness to increase their involvement in sub-project maintenance and
repair, the mechanisms to translate such willingness was lacking. Salaries of personnel and operating costs were
fully covered by the Government, although this appeared to be a temporary solution. User fees were charged to
cover the costs of vaccines and drugs; medical advice and other services were rendered free of charge. In
important ways, CAHWs provided the continuity in the overall delivery of veterinary services at the village level.
52.    Veterinary clinics have been suffering from personnel, equipment and supply shortages, eroding some
users' confidence in the sub-projects. Veterinary clinics, located in urban or peri-urban areas, have to some
extent affected service utilization as most livestock owners live far from these urban areas. The participation of
semi-nomadic groups may have been affected by the considerable distance between where they live and the
clinics.
IX. NATURAL RESOURCES MANAGEMENT AND ENVIRONMENT SUB-PROJECTS
53.    Accessibility Impacts. Approximately 62,736 individuals (43% women) benefited from ECDF's
terracing sub-projects. Almost 67% of the sub-projects were implemented in Debub and Gash Barka regions
where the majority of the population live and where the land is degraded and deforested as a result of long years
of drought and denudation. During the construction of 130 kilometers of terraces in Habero Tsaeda and Adi
Makeda, all able bodied men and women had the chance to participate in the terracing work (more women in the
former). Tree planting sub-projects surveyed were expected to benefit 7225 people of which almost half are
female. The degree of community participation was higher in tree planting sub-projects because the sub-project
was less complex and could easily be handled by the benefiting communities.
54.    All members of the community in which terracing projects were located were direct beneficiaries of
employment opportunities generated by the sub-project However, neighboring communities/villagers on whose
land the sub-project.was not located may be deprived of grazing and browsing area for their livestock because
once the sub-project was completed, it was enclosed and the benefiting community assigned guards to keep the
livestock from entering the area. According to respondents, households' first priority was to secure grazing land
for their livestock, the primary source of their livelihood. While no cases have been reported thus far, study
findings observed the potential risk of conflict that may arise from the neighboring communities' inaccessibility to
grazing land resulting from the construction of enclosures.
55.    Social and Economic Impacts: ECDF terracing and tree-planting sub-projects have positive impacts on
the social and economic life of benefiting communities. Terracing sub-projects generated employment for the
community, expanded extra pastureland, enabled the reclamation of extra farmland, and helped raised water
levels. Regarding tree planting, three key impacts were cited: (i) economic use of trees whereby communities
were expected to benefit from the sale of trees which could be used for construction, fuel wood, other industrial
uses and as sources of small scale income generating activities. Immediate benefits could be derived from the
sale of grass grown in the enclosures; (ii) employment creation during the planting phase for 600 individuals, the
-48 -



majority of whom are women; and (iii) positive health impacts resulting from the planting of the "Mim" tree,
believed to reduce malaria episodes in the households.
56.    Sustainability Impacts: The initiation of terracing sub-projects was not always fully deliberated upon
by the communities. Initiatives were often taken by a few individuals (who do it for the common good of the
community) who make the contact, promotion, and correspondence with local and higher level officials.
Communities were advised informaly and/or after all processes were finalized. Despite these shortcomings,
however, the majority of communities participated during the construction phase. Terracing Organizing
Committees (TOCs) appeared to be well-organized; public meetings were held regularly, and communities
contributed toward the maintenance of the sub-projects.
57.    Regarding tree planting sub-projects, the establishment of TOCs and the intensive care and nurturing
provided by communities have generally resulted in a higher survival rate of trees planted. Although MOA staff
provided guidance to community members on basic techniques for planting trees, sub-project design did not
include a training component to build community capacity in this area. However, community participation during
the planting phase allowed them to acquire practical knowledge on environmental management, taking initiatives
for environmental protection, and identifying tree species that were more adapted to the locality. In the absence
of environmental rules and regulation, local administrations introduced their own rules and regulations for
protecting the sub-projects by imposing penalties.
58.    Environmental impacts: Most community members considered mitigating land degradation as an
important environmental impact. For them, trees have improved and cooled down weather, increased water
precipitation, improved the aesthetic value of the town, and provided sheds. As a manifestation of their
appreciation of the benefits of tree planting, many of the residents voluntarily started planting trees within their
own compounds. Overall, there appeared to be an increased environmental consciousness among benefiting
communities. Terracing sub-projects contributed to enhancing community awareness of mitigating basic
environmental problems (i.e, minimizing soil erosion).
X. SAVINGS AND MICRO CREDIT SUB-PROJECTS
59.    Accessibility: SMCP extended loans to over 6,000 clients, of which 50% were in rural areas where
poverty is high and access to formal banking services virtually nonexistent. Through the establishment of village
banks in the rural areas, SMCP was able to reach 50% of the surveyed communities who had no access to
alternative financial services. Prior to the establishment of SMCP, about 84% of the respondents were operating
using their own smaU funds, with 46% of them reportedly suffering from lack of working capital. SMCP was,
therefore, able to partially alleviate the financial constraints of most of the respondents who would not otherwise
have any access to credit services.
60.    The average annual income of the respondents was over Nfa 14,000 which suggests that SMCP may not
have been fully effective in targeting poorer segments of the population. Although the program was open to all
sectors of the population, the participation of poorer individuals could have been generally affected by their fear
of not being able to repay which, in turn, could partially be explained by their lack of experience in managing
income-generating activities. Although more than 50% of the respondents are female, their participation in all
SMCP village banks was low at 30%.
61.    Economic Impact: SMCP loans contributed to greater production capacity, increased output, improved
organization of the workplace, and improved benefits. Reasons cited by those who derived no benefits from the
-49 -



program included: business failure, small loan amount, high interest rate, and short repayment period. The
average monthly household income before and after SMCP was estimated at Nfa 750 and Nfa 907, respectively,
representing a 21% increase. The average monthly income for non-borrowers increased by approximately 9%.
62.   Increases in average monthly income derived from SMCP varied across clients and across different
activities. For the former, monthly income ranged from as high as 39% to as low as 0.2%. For the latter, loans
for livestock (36%) and trade (31%) provided greater impacts to households' livelihood while benefits derived
from loans for employment (3%) and other activities (8%) appeared to be minimal. One-third of the respondents
reported increases in working capital, 30% in business income; 20% increase in fixed assets, and 16% on other
aspects of the business. The percentage of respondents with cash holdings of more than Nfa 10,000 before and
after SCP was 15% and 72%, respectively. The number of enterprises and investments increased by 8.5% and
9.5%, respectively, while employment declined by 3% mainly due to the mobilization of the young population to
the war front. Data collected at the time of the survey showed that Tier I loan balance increased by 86% for the
period 1996-1999, which may be one indication that clients were able to increase their investment by successfully
repaying previous loans on time and taking larger loans. Twenty percent of the respondents, however, had
overdue loans.
63.    Social Impact: Average monthly household expenditures increased by 24%, suggesting that households
who utilized the loan funds effectively have shown some improvement in their livelihood. Moreover, SMCP
contributed to enhancing the capacity of borrowers in the areas of problem solving and decision making. The
requirement of group formation to avail of SMCP loans promoted a greater sense of communal solidarity but this
requires further strengthening to effectively address wider community issues and concerns. Women who properly
utilized loan funds managed to improve their livelihood. Some women indicated that because of their success
with previous loans, they now have greater self-confidence and economic independence. Overall, SMCP shielded
clients not only from paying exorbitant interest rates to local moneylenders, but also from diminished social
prestige.
64.    Sustainability. To promote the program's organizational sustainability, SMCP established 87 village
banks by giving village bank committee members training in loan processing, management and follow-up.
Village bank committees, 33% of which are women, have provided useful services to clients in these areas.
However, discussions with key informants revealed that village bank committees have not yet attained the desired
competence in village bank management, resulting in SMCP regional agents spending a greater portion of their
time carrying out functions that otherwise would have been handled by capable village bank committees.
65.    At the time of the survey, limited progress was made in creating strong solidarity groups. The majority
of these groups failed to hold biweekly or monthly meetings and do not have by-laws and regulations covering
their activities. Study findings showed that regional agents and village bank committees needed to further
promote group discipline so that groups meet frequently, prepare rules and regulations, and keep appropriate
records.
66.    The program had not yet reached the stage of viability. In the first two years of operation, SMCP
suffered net operating losses annually. Since 1999, the program made some important progress. Program deficit
was reduced by 800% mainly through an increase in its operational income, a reduction in its operational
expenditures, and the close program monitoring of administration costs. The generally complex nature of the
process and the consequences of the war with Ethiopia affected the implementation of SMCP activities. SMCP
was unable to scale up operations, beneficiary mobilization proved to be slow, and there was an acute shortage of
staff, including high staff turnover, resulting from low salary and lack of incentives.
- 50 -



XI. LESSONS LEARNED
Key lessons learned and study recommendations are summarized below:
PROJECT LEVEL
* Maximize development impact by providing an integrated package of basic services; infrastructure
investments should be linked with the provision of other quality enhancing inputs;
* Maintain stronger focus on gender issues and promote greater female participation;
* Strengthen institutional and financial mechanisms to ensure the sustainability of operations;
* Promote institution building to develop self-sustaining institutions;
* Strengthen and sustain community involvement in all phases of the project cycle, including maintenance;
*   Increase community involvement in decision-maling; and
* Provide well-targeted and continuous capacity building activities particularly at the local and community
levels.
SECTOR LEVEL
Education Sector:
* Expand access to schools in remote and mountainous rural areas; and
* Link school infrastructure programs with a package of income generating activities to increase enrollment,
especially for girls.
Health Sector
* Explore options for revenue sharing arrangements in order to enable facilities to retain some of the revenue to
cover their running costs; and
* Enhance community awareness about the role and structure of the health delivery system, including the types
of services they provide; on this basis, assist communities in identifying areas for their involvement.
Rural Water Supply
* Balance attention paid to communities' views with those of work contractors and supervisors;
* There is a need to engage two separate consultants (but with equal status) to carry out social activities and
technical supervision;
*   Design of future operations should accommodate the needs of both local population and livestock; and
* Water supply sub-projects should be complemented with sanitation facilities, including institutional
mechanisms to promote hygiene and sanitation.
Feeder Roads
* Road construction should be preceded by the establishment of an effective road maintenance program;
*   Simplified administrative standards and procedures for managing road maintenance; and
* Establish inter-agency linkages between those who have built the roads and those who manage and regulate.
Market Places.
* Ensure fair representation of major stakeholders in market place committees;
* Increase access to credit for prospective women traders; and
* Develop viable, cost-effective, and transparent guidelines for setting rent tariffs.
- 51 -



Veterinary Clinics
*   Build veterinary clinics closer to areas with livestock concentration.
Natural Resources Management (NRM)
* NRM sub-projects should embody local knowledge;
* Provide guarantee for communities' "usufiuct" rights in exchange for communities' efforts to protect
terracing sub-projects;
*   Develop a flexible community-based decision maldng mechanism which could allow neighboring
communities tc participate in the managemnent and utilization of resources fiom NRM sub-projects; and
* Enhance community knowledge of community-based strategies for environmental protection.
Savings and Micro Credit
* Strengthen targeting mechanisms to increase the participation of poorer individuals; and
*   Strengthen the formation of solidarity groups and build their capacity to implement savings and micro credit
activities while addressing wider comihunity issues and concerns.
-52-



Annex 9. Stakeholder Workshop Results
SUMMARY OF PROCEEDINGS OF STAKEHOLDER WORKSHOP
1.     INTRODUCTION
A Stakeholder Workshop was carried out in July 20, 2001 to obtain feedback from project stakeholders on
ECDF's performance and to exchange experiences and lessons learned. The workshop provided a forum
where stakeholders could voice their views and perspectives on how to strengthen ECDF and stakeholders'
involvement in the process of project implementation. The workshop deliberated on four themes: (i)
stakeholders' satisfaction with ECDF and benefits derived; (ii) community participation; (iii) institutional
capacity building; and (iv) sustainability.
The workshop was attended by 132 representatives from beneficiary communities, local councils (Baitos),
regional and sub-regional administrations, regional line ministry, sector ministries, private contractors and
consultants, ECDF central and regional staff, the Italian and Dutch Governments, and World Bank staff.
Of the total participants, 27 (21%) are women. The workshop was largely conducted in Tigrigna, although
participants also used Tigre, Arabic, Afar, and English languages to facilitate an open discussion.
ECDF General Manager, Ato Kidane Tsegai, opened the workshop by recounting how ECDF was created,
its milestones, objectives, and sub-projects implemented since its inception. The total budget vis-a-vis the
sub-projects implemented was elaborated by sub-project type and region. The role of various stakeholders
during the various project phases was clarified. The World Bank Mission highlighted the importance of the
Workshop as an important forum for obtaining stakeholders' feedback on the quality of their participation
during the implementation phase, including lessons and experiences gained.
2.     HIGHLIGHTS OF STAKEHOLDERS' DISCUSSIONS
Theme 1: Stakeholders' Satisfaction With ECDF and Benefits Derived
The brief highlights of the discussions under Theme I are discussed below. A participant from Northern
Red Sea Region reiterated that ECDF contributed to the enhancement of community participation, even
though there has been an uneven distribution of sub-projects across regions, which was based on
population size rather than remoteness and poverty level of communities. To this intervention, a response
was given reminding participants that ECDF's sub-projects are primarily based on communities' requests
and, as such, are demand-driven. Another concern raised by a participant from Southern Red Sea was the
fact that ECDF should give special consideration to the region because of its remoteness, prevailing
hardships as a result of the climate, shortage of technical experts, contractors and labor.
The participants were of the opinion that supervising consultants tend to disregard community opinion,
knowledge, and involvement This laxity observed by supervising consultants resulted in the cracking of
walls for some sub-projects, communities' dissatisfaction, price escalation due to undue delay of
implementing sub-projects, and eventually the high cost of maintenance and repair.
Key points raised by the stakeholders:
(i) Participants underlined and acknowledged that ECDF played a significant role in the socio-economic
development of benefiting communities.
- 53 -



(ii) All sub-projects benefited communities even though some weaknesses were observed in education,
water supply and feeder-roads - weaknesses attributed to the laxity of consulting supervisors. Participants
strongly urged ECDF to take extra care in scrutinizing past performance of consulting supervisors and
contractors before awarding new contracts.
(iii) Coordination between ECDF, line ministries, regional and sub-regional bodies was assessed as
satisfactory.
(iv) Some sub-projects were reported to be incomplete, e.g., schools without fences, health facilities
without water supply.
(v) Inadequate budget allocation was assessed as a major constraint in sub-project implementation,
particularly in Zoba Debubawi Keyih Bahri.
(vi) Identified needs of the communities of Semenawi Keyih Bahri were reported to be largely unmet, for
which equity issues and the need to address other demands of equally deprived communities were given as
possible reasons by ECDF Manager.
(vii) ECDF was encouraged to ensure that future studies and designs of water supply and market place
sub-projects be adequately detailed technically, and should consider the socio-economic reality of the
sub-project area prior to implementation. Examples cited were Hirkuk water supply and Dekemhare
market place sub-projects.
Theme 2: Community Participation
Participants expressed their view that community participation has strengthened the feeling of ownership of
sub-projects among communities. However, some participants felt that there is still room for improvement
in the areas of appraisal, implementation, and monitoring; these could be strengthened by involving Baito
members. With regard to the 10% community contribution, the overwhelming view of the participants is
that communities have shown readiness and willingness to fulfill their obligations, albeit at varying levels
given economic constraints. Therefore, ECDF needs to review the 10% contribution and accommodate
other forms of contributions. Some participants pointed out that SMCP's 16% interest rate is high in
relation to beneficiaries' ability and the interest rate charged by similar micro-credit programs operating in
the country.
Key points raised by the stakeholders:
(i) Community participation in sub-projects is a manifestation of people's dedication and commitment
towards their socio-economic development. Thus, participants reasserted that community participation
should be further enhanced and incorporated as part of their way of life.
(ii) Participants underlined the fact that there is uneven socio-economic development and a variation in
natural endowments among various communities, which calls for the reconsideration of the 10%
community contribution requirement of ECDF. Possible factors to be taken into account in determining the
10% contribution include size of population, level of poverty, size and type of sub-projects, remoteness,
number of sub-projects being implemented in one community, and the impact of the war on the
communities.
- 54 -



(iii) It was stressed that community contributions should not be only in cash, but in all appropriate forms
(i.e., labor, materials and in-kind contributions).
(iv) To enhance community participation, it is essential to inform and discuss well in advance with
beneficiary communities about their role and forms of participation. In this regard, it is important to create
a conducive environment for Baito members and local administrators to play their rightful role.
(v) Regarding community participation, the following observations were made:
*   institutionalize community participation, by defining the roles of Baitos and local administrators;
*   make effective use of community resources by availing basic information and enhancing promotion
and sensitization activities; and
*   introduce and implement training programs to enhance communities' capacity.
Theme 3: Institutional Capacity Building
An equally heated discussion was conducted regarding institutional capacity building. It was the general
feeling of participants that there is a shortage of experts and equipment in regions, which is exacerbated by
the war. The situation is reportedly more serious in Southem Red Sea Region. However, it was stressed
that no sub-projects were postponed due to lack of institutional capacity, which has been achieved by
overstretching their limited resources. In fact, some regions (Northern Red Sea) have taken initiatives to
solve some capacity problems by training sub-regional staff in basic supervision and monitoring. The
workshop reiterated that ECDF should focus its institutional capacity building at the community and
sub-region levels. Overall, implementation of training and capacity building activities must be viewed as a
continuous process. ECDF's capacity building efforts should address the specific needs of stakeholders in
all key phases of the project cycle. Among others, this calls for the development of "social management
capacity" at the sub-regional and community levels. Finally, the need to create a favorable environment for
the private sector was emphasized.
Key points raised by stakeholders:
(i) Institutional capacity varies from region to region and is exacerbated by the war. However, it was
reported that regions have over-stretched their resources to ensure that all sub-projects are implemented.
(ii) Institutional capacity building is a continuous process that should be viewed in light of future
programs. Accordingly, it is important to enhance institutional capacity by recruiting and placing qualified
personnel, as well as providing training.
(iii) Training programs should focus on communities and sub-regional levels with the objective of
ensuring effective implementation and project sustainability.
(iv) Regions should take initiatives to use internal resources to train communities and sub-regions.
Towards this endeavor, ECDF should avail needed financial support.
- 55 -



(v) It was recognized that ECDF will eventually phase out, but in the mean time, it should strive to build the
requisite capacity at the region, sub-region and community levels.
(vi) Provide training to ensure availability of technical skills for repair and maintenance at the local level.
(vii) Shortages of equipment and facilities in the regions were reported as constraining factors in
sub-project implementation, supervision, and follow-up.
Theme 4: Project Sustainabiity
It was the overwhelming view of the participants that since ECDF is demand-driven, there is a strong sense of
ownership on the part of communities, especially in rural areas. However, at the community level, some kind of
institutional arrangement needs to be framed which would give permanency to the linkage between communities
and sub-projects.
Key points raised by stakeholders:
(i) The participants acknowledged that communities have a strong sense of ownership, which is partly
reflected by the establishment of community project committees.
(ii) To ensure sub-project sustainability, undertake continuous community mobilization and promotion and
at the same time ascertain that there is a high level of community participation in all phases of the project
cycle.
(iii) Capabilities exist within communities for undertaking minor maintenance and their participation right
from the inception of sub-projects will assist in substantially reducing repair and maintenance costs.
(iv) Communities are ready and willing to ensure sub-project sustainability, albeit the prevailing poverty level.
(v) For SMCP, it was recommended that the 16% interest rate be reconsidered in the light of the lower
interest rate charged by similar and competitive micro-credit programs.
3.     CONCLUSION
Overall, the workshop was open, very lively, participatory, and brought forward pertinent issues that have
implications for the next operation. The workshop provided a good forum for airing views and opinions,
and sharing of experiences of a wide range of stakeholders. It also enabled the participants to appreciate
each others' role and responsibilities towards ECDF projects. The workshop raised important cross-cutting
issues on coordination, capacity building, community participation and contribution, and the need for
sharing infornation between national, regional, sub-regional and community level institutions. At the
community level, some kind of institutional arrangement needs to be established which would give
permanency to the linkage between communities and sub-projects.
The challenges which ECDF should address include decentralizing ECDF activities to the regions and
lower levels. This should be preceded by building capacity, especially at the region, sub-region and
- 56 -



community levels. Another importaant challenge is to enhance community participation through
continuous and well targeted sensitization, mobilization, and capacity building activities. Last but not least
is to ensure sustainability by further developing local capacity in the areas of repair, maintenance, and
management.
The opportunities identified during the workshop included the unreserved support extended by the
Govermnent at the national and regional levels, the high level of understanding in delivering multi-sectoral
projects in a coordinated manner, the appreciation of communities for ECDF sub-projects, the increasing
demand coming from communities, and the commitment of ECDF staff and the donor community.
Prepared by Stakeholder Workshop Consultants
- 57 -



Additional Annex 10. Borrower's Evaluation Report
ERITREAN COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT FUND PROJECT
BORROWER'S EVALUATION REPORT
1.    INTRODUCTION. The Eritrea Community Development Fund Project (ECDF) evolved from
the Eritrean Community Rehabilitation Fund pilot launched to support the rehabilitation and construction
of basic social and economic infrastructure with the participation of loan communities. The pilot was
implemented in nine provinces, focusing on remote and war- and drought-affected areas. Findings of the
mid-term evaluation revealed the highly successful results of the pilot, in particular, ECRF's outreach
capacity to communities in remote areas, and the quality and cost-effectiveness of the subprojects it
implemented. On this basis, the Govermnent of Eritrea and the World Bank decided to expand the pilot
phase into a full fledged development program based closely on the structure and operating modalities of
ECRF.
2.     PROJECT OBJECTIVES. The ECDF Project's objectives were to finance community-initiated
sub-projects which: (i) support the rehabilitation and development of basic social and economic
infrastructures critical to the improvement and development of the economic and social conditions of the
population, especially in the rural and war devastated areas of Eritrea; and (ii) improve the
income-generating capacity of poor people and households.
3.     PROJECT COMPONENTS. The Project included three major components:
(i) Social and Economic Infrastructure Component financed the rehabilitation and construction of basic
social and economic infrastructure (e.g. health and education facilities, water supply and NRM schemes,
market places, feeder roads, and veterinary clinics); and improvements in social services.
(ii) The Savings and Micro Credit Program Component provided poor individuals and households,
presently outside the sphere of the formal banking network, with access to savings and micro credit
services; it also financed related institutional capacity building interventions at the local level; and,
(iii) Training and Capacity Building Component financed training and capacity building activities to
strengthen the institutional capacity of ECDF (central and regional levels), including community's
capacity to identify development priorities, manage project implementation, and maintain assets.
4.    PROJECT ACHIEVEMENTS AND OUTPUTS. ECDF Project drew on the experience and
lessons learned from the ECRF Pilot. The Pilot's operational modalities were retained in the ECDF
Project with minimal changes. The Ministry of Local Government was restructured which brought the
number of Regions to six instead of nine provinces. The Chief Executive Director of the Region was
assigned as head of the ECDF Regional Sub Unit. The number of ECDF staff at Sub Region also
increased further strengthening the institutional capacity of Regions. The ECDF was highly successful in
mobilizing community participation; beneficiary contributions exceeded the required 10% contribution
although no proper quantification was made. From July 1996 to December 2000, ECDF planned to
implement 184 subprojects out of which 148 have been completed, 23 are under implementation, 4
suspended and 9 canceled. Details, by sector, are summarized below:
- 58 -



5.     SOCIAL AND ECONOMIC INFRASTRUCTURE COMPONENT.
(i) Education. A total of 44 schools were built (e.g., 22 Elementary School and 22 Junior Secondary
School, accounting for 33% of the total number of schools built in Eritrea during the period. ECDF also
constructed 1 women's training center and four make-shift classrooms. The total estimated amount
disbursed for education was Nakfa 62.1 million (17% of total ). Approximately 390,775 individuals (of
which 50% women) are expected to benefit.
(ii) Health. A total of 38 number of health facilities were built (e.g. 23 Health Station; 7 Health
Centers, 1 Health Post; and 7 Veterinary Clinics 7) for which approximately 223,216 individuals (of
which 51 % women) are expected to benefit The total amount disbursed for was Nakfa 29.3 million, or
8% of the total.
Given the shortage of skilled staff, ECDF introduced the use of private consultants to supervise projects
which contributed to improving the overall technical quality of projects. ECDF used tumkey contracts to
minimize the logistical, institutional and technical constraints inherent in implementing subprojects in very
remote areas. Standard designs issued by the Ministries of Education and Health were improved to
address the different climatic zones of the country. Similarly, improvements were made in the strategy as
well as approach in stakeholders' involvement especially beneficiary communities, local governments and
line ministries which greatly improved ECDF performance and output
(iii) Market Place. A total of 7 market places were built and for which 114,464 individuals (of which
49% women) are expected to benefit. The amount disbursed was Nakfa 14.8 million (4% of the total).
(iv) Water Supply. Design and Study were conducted in two stages. The first stage consisted of 29
sub-projects and of this only 20 reached final implementation. So far, 19 sub-projects have been handed
over to beneficiaries, 1 under implementation, and the remaiiaing 9 either omitted or cancelled for various
reasons. The second stage consisted of 17 sub-projects of which 15 are under implementation, and two
omitted for various reasons. In addition, two fast track projects (Barentu and Dekemhare) were
completed. The estimated total disbursement was Nakfa 130.5 million (35% of the total). The total
number of beneficiaries is estimated 200, 489 of which 55% are women. Compared to other social
infrastructure, water supply sub-projects involved higher level participation of communities from start to
end and there after. ECDF had to follow a pragmatic approach in this regard. A lot of time was spent in
securing water sources as well as changing the initial design as a result of it. Finally, however, ECDF
succeeded in availing water in the most difficult areas.
(v) Natural Resources Management (NRM). Thirty-three projects were completed for which 151,047
individuals (of which 43% women) are expected to benefit. The total amount disbursed was Nakfa 14.8
million or 5% of the total. All NRM projects were implemented by the communities themselves under the
supervision of the Regional Administration (Agriculture Division), a practice accepted by both the
communities and the Regional Administration and which has further encouraged the decentalization of
activities to the Regions.
(vi) Feeder Roads. A total of 14 sub-projects was planned; of these six were completed, including two
fast track operations. Survey and design activities for 4 feeder roads sub-projects (202 kms) were
completed by Carlbro International. Similar activities for another 4 sub-projects (216 kms) is being
implemented by DHV. The total disbursement was Nakfa 118.8 million or 32% of the total.
- 59 -



6.     SAVINGS AND MICRO CREDIT PROGRAM (SMCP). As of September 30, 2001 the
SMCP established 139 village banks in 120 village administrations and achieved an overall repayment
rate of 95.6%.  SMCP improved its administrative efficiency significantly, from almost 21% in 1996 to
3.96% as of September 2001. Financial services provided under SMCP included: provided financial
services to:
o Tier I: SMCP disbursed Nfa 46.6 million in Tier I loans to 9193 clients engaged in agriculture (37%),
services (4.0%), trade (57%) and manufacturing (2.0%). Of the total clients in Tier 1, 36% were women.
The regional distribution of Tier I loans is Maekel (22%), Anseba (17%), Gash Barka (16%), N/RJS
(17%) and Debub (29%).
o Tier II: SMCP disbursed Nfa 14.5 million Tier II loans to 819 clients in agriculture (47%), services
(11%), trade (37%) and manufacturing (5%). Thirty-four percent of Tier II borrowers were women.
The regional distribution of Tier H loans was as follows: Gash Barka (57%), Debub (30%), Maekel (4%),
Anseba (5%) and Northem Red Sea (3%).
7.     TA/CAPACITY BUILDING COMPONENT. This component addressed institutional
capacity building at community, regional and central levels.
(i) Community level: As part of the project, water supply projects included community mobilization
programs to increase the awareness of communities in the selection of options for level of services,
training on management of water supply projects including collection of tariffs and technical training for
selected people. Training on road maintenance was provided. Under SMCP, various training programs
were provided to staff and community members engaged in the village bank administration.
(ii) Regional level: This aimed at increasing the performance of those engaged in project planning,
management, supervision, and computer skills. Trainees included ECDF project Officers, Senior and
Junior Regional Administration staff. Several short term courses, seminars, workshops were conducted.
(iii) Central level: All staff at the central level had opportunities of attending several courses in their
areas of engagement. Some were sent abroad for short term training programs while other courses were
given in-country or in-house in different fields. Main areas included engineering, community
development, finance, procurement and micro credit. Senior World Bank Staff and consultants were
engaged to strengthen ECDF's capacity in procurement, finance, MIS, etc. Overall, our evaluation in
institutional capacity building is satisfactory. ECDF needs to do more in this area to ensure adequate
transfer of skill to the Zobas and communities.
8.     PROJECT IMPACT. Highlights of project impact (e.g. process, accessibility socio-economic
and sustainability) are described below by sector.
a) Education. (i) ECDF education and health facilities cater mostly to the previously under-privileged
and marginalized groups; (ii) schools are appropriately located and conform to the school planning
system; (iii) studies confirmed schools were communities' priority; (iv) distance traveled to facilities was
reduced, and (v) 70% of households have fulfilled their 10% contribution in cash. Chances of schools to
be sustained by communities are great because: (i) more parents are sending their children to school; (ii)
there is good understanding of the value of education in the community; and (iii) there is more involvement
of households in the managejmPn* and operation of schools. ECDF needs to recast community level and/or
-60 -



school level activities toward promoting advocacy and gender awareness efforts of education managers,
teachers, parents' school committees, and most of all, the community itself.
b) Health. More services are being given in growth monitoring, immunization program and ORT
services, family planning, health education. However, facilities need to be strengthened with more
manpower, equipment and material to enhance delivery of other types of services. Travel time to health
facilities declined by almost 50%. Some form of revenue sharing arrangement needs to be introduced
which could enable lower level health facilities to retain some of the revenue to cover running costs.
Additional efforts are needed to teach communities to fully understand the role and structure of the health
services and what type of services they can/cannot provide.
c) Water Supply. The level of community involvement showed increased trend. Community awareness
of water supply projects is over 80%. The major impacts of the project implementation process are the
creation of awareness and sense of ownership, and building the capacity of communities. Community
initiatives were bolstered by the mobilization and training support provided by ECDF through private
consultants. The average distance traveled to fetch water has drastically decreased which has saved
valuable time and effort that can be used for other productive uses. Furthermore, one aspect of
accessibility is that communities' perceived change about the safety of the water source. Other impacts
included increased use of water, and decrease in cost of water. Women's participation both during project
implementation and in management of the schemes has significantly improved. Considering the life style
of communities in the lowlands and importance of livestock to them, the need to design future water
supply projects that serve both the local population and livestock should not be overlooked. There were
also positive institutional impacts with regards to policy implementation. The planning, programming,
management system and delivery of services of ECDF have greatly developed through in-house training
and experience which would be an important asset, when activities are decentralized to the regions. As a
result of ECDF's activities, the number of contractors in this sector has increased from less than 20 in
1995 to over 70.
d) Feeder Roads. The feeder roads have, on the average, induced the creation of new businesses by-
more than two folds and as a result communities had access to wider range of commodities. Positive
impacts included: increase in access for mechanization, increased opportunities to wider markets to buy
and sell, creation of employment, increased access and ability to move to and from villages, increased
access to services and major beneficiaries are women who travel for shopping social visits, trade etc.
There is need for greater community mobilization/training and skill development to ensure a viable and
strong community institution for the sustenance of feeder roads. There is need to have a strong
maintenance department at the Regional level.
e) Natural Resource Management Projects. High community participation was observed as most
NRM projects are run by the village committee and is seen as source of employment and income.
Moreover, communities benefit from the subprojects which facilitated an expansion of additional
pastureland, reclamation of extra farmland, and raising water level. NRM projects have been successful
in promoting a major attitudinal changes in working with the local people. Major impacts included:
enhanced sense of ownership that is critical for project sustainability; increased awareness on
environment, and appreciation of the need for a permanent committee for NRM projects.
i) Saving and Micro Credit. Clients from increased employment and income opportunities which have
contributed to improvements in households' livelihood. The program spared clients not only from paying
exorbitant interest rates to local moneylenders, but also from diminished social prestige. To increase
women's involvement in credit and savings management, there is a need for more support including
- 61 -



training in basic management and bookkeeping, group management, loan evaluation, processing and
follow up. Comprehensive training program should be designed, taking into account the specific needs of
all involved groups so that their management, accounting, communication, and credit and saving skills
could be enhanced.
9.     MAJOR FACTORS AFFECTING IMPLEMENTATION AND OUTCOME
The Ethiopian invasion of Eritrea in May 1998 has affected project implementation. Despite ECDF's
efforts to cope with changing situations and address the challenges, implementation became increasingly
difficult especially after the third offensive in May 2000. Key factors which affected implementation
were: (i) shortage of skilled people, a situation exacerbated by the war due to massive deployment of
Eritreans to the front line: (ii) price escalation: the war affected practically every sector of life including
prices; (iii) the halting of works in areas that are in and around the battle ground and extreme delays in
some instances; (iv) lack of transport facilities as most of the country's resource was mobilized for
considerable amount of time; and (v) clients who took credit from the Saving and Credit Program were
called for national service or mobilized. Overall implementation was affected with the deterioration in
technical quality of some projects and decrease in community contribution despite regional governments'
efforts to make up the difference; and (ii) delays as well as price escalations were encountered.
10.    PERFORMANCE OF THE BORROWER AND THE BANK
a) Borrower Performance. The first two and half years of implementation were evaluated as very
satisfactory. ECDF followed a pragmatic approach to project implementation which resulted in the
construction of high quality infrastructure. A very good collaboration was seen between the different
stakeholders. Unfortunately, the war disrupted all operations in the country including that of the ECDF.
After the invasion, a very serious shortage of skilled manpower was encountered which affected all sectors
of the economy; this contributed to delays in implementation, including a deterioration in the quality of
projects. Furthermore, ECDF was forced to intervene in emergency programs to assist the many
thousands of Eritreans who were displaced from their villages. Comparatively, community participation
in the water supply sector was good but in the other sectors it was not deep rooted. One great
contribution which was lately realized by the ECDF was the role it played towards enhancing institutional
capacity building of the private sector. Despite the financial strain the government encountered during the
past four years, the government of Eritrea has consistently fulfilled its financial obligations to the project.
b) Bank Performance. Overall, Bank performance can be rated as excellent. There was considerable
difficulty in handling donor funds separately during the pilot ECRF program. However, unlike that of the
pilot, IDA coordination of entrusted funds greatly simplified management and coordination. This
arrangement must continue and be further simplified.
(i) Supervision. IDA's overall performance in supervision can be rated as very satisfactory.
Seven supervision, one mid-term evaluation mission and one completion mission were conducted by Bank
staff. The World Bank Team showed great flexibility, dedication, and cooperation throughout. Bank
missions were educational to project staff. The fact that the Task Team Leader handled the program since
the pilot phase helped foster very high level of trust and cooperation for both parties.
-62 -



(ii) Procurement and Disbursement. Although some initial difficulties with procurement were
,ncountered, they were overcome with the assistance and guidance of Bank staff and the Bank's Senior
3rocurement Specialist. Several procurement workshops and short term sessions were conducted that
ielped smooth the procurement process. Replenishment was being conducted smoothly and no major
lelays were faced. No-Objections were received on time. ECDF is satisfied with the arrangement
[ 1.  LESSONS LEARNED. Lessons learned include: (i) the need to have all project funds in a form
)f trust by the World Bank in order to simplify disbursement and coordination processes; (ii) with
,onsiderable experience gained, most project implementation and supervision responsibilities should be
levolved to the Regions; (iii) the establishment of a dependable MIS system; (iv) greater capacity building
:fforts at the regional and community levels; (v) establishment of effective mechanisms to fully capture
he totality of community participation in the Project; (vii) establishment of a separate Social Unit to
)romote greater community participation; and (vii) greater focus and priority for projects that could
Mleviate women's burden, including more affirmative action for women in savings and micro credit
programs.
12.   SUSTAINABILITY AND FUTURE OPERATIONS. ECDF demonstrated its potential to
pur sustainable community-based socio-economic development. The magnitude of ECDF's contribution
raries from sector to sector but overall, it was significant. ECDF's delivery mechanism has been
uccessful and cost-effective, and its strength lies on its participatory approach, and the pooling of a
nulti-disciplinary team under the Management Office which can handle multi-sectoral projects. The
iverall implication for the future is for ECDF, in the context of the follow-up operation, to provide
ocio-economic infrastructure with more intensity, as the state of the economy and level of development
re still low.
3.   In view of the limited relationship between socio-economic infrastructure development activities
nd SMCP, and given SMCP's representation in the sub-regions, it is desirable that SMCP be established
s an autonomous entity with a separate autonomous structure.
4.    Maintenance of completed feeder road projects is very critical to ensuring the sustainability of
rivestments and operations. The importance of maintenance in feeder road projects was given very
erious attention by the Bank and the ECDF as a result of which a maintenance budget was earmarked for
he first year equal to $750 per kilometer. A strong maintenance unit needs to be established in every
oba to ensure sustained maintenance of roads. For education and health, all major maintenance activities
vill be assumed by the concemed ministries; minor maintenance will be communities' responsibilities.
5.    A Transitional Management Team was established to ensure sustainability of all water supply
rojects. This includes the provision of both managerial and technical assistance for a year by competent
onsultants for the management part and a private firm for the technical part. Communities will then take
,ver after a year.
October 2001
- 63 -



Additional Annex 11. Gender
GENDER
ECDF's philosophy based on lessons learned during the independence struggle was to promote a
process of economic and social change while working through traditional community leadership and
respecting traditional culture. This contrasts with the approach of some social funds which have sought
to use social engineering to change patterns of social organization. Generally, ECDF adopted the
approach of encouraging the participation of women and girls but did not introduce rules requiring any
kinds of quota for women's participation. The exception to this is the SMCP where rules were defined
concerning the numbers of women who should be on the management committees of the village banks.
A Gender Action Plan was developed to ensure that women benefit equally from ECDF-financed
activities, and play an active role in identification, design, and management of sub-projects. The plan
gave special attention to maximizing benefits to poor women; it also identified any potential negative
consequences for women and proposed mitigating measures. While limited progress was made to
implement the Action Plan, sufficient awareness was raised among ECDF Management staff that it has
been decided to include a WID component in the follow-up operation.
The table below summarizes progress achieved in implementing the Gender Action Plan, including the
key findings of the Beneficiary Assessment (1998) and Impact Evaluation (2002).
Objectlves                Measures Taken                                      Areas requiring further attention
A. Institutional Aspects
1. Strengthen ECDF       *      ECDF Management Team included two female staff  * No staff was recruited
capacity to respond      responsible for coordinating MIS and capacity         to specifically coordinate, follow-up, and
effectively to the special  building-related activities, although the latter has left ECDF.  monitor gender-related activities of the
needs and role of                                                              project.
community women           *      ECDF collaborated with the National
Union of Eritrean Women (NUEW) in the overall      * ECDF staff on board did not receive
management and implementation of the Women's Tramining  gender-related training.
Center. Workshops organized by NUEW to support
structured training of women in specific technical areas.
2. Monitoring and         *     Monitoring and supervision procedures included a  * Analyses and reports on ECDF
supervision of impact of  focus on women's participation and benefits.        activities do not adequately and
ECDF activities on                                                            systematically contain gender
community women.          *      At the project level, broadly-defined quantitative  disaggregated information.
indicators were included in the MIS to assess project
benefits for women.                                  * ECDF staff not adequately trained in
monitoring and reporting on achievements
*      Gender-specific indicators developed separately for  and outcomes related to gender.
savings and micro credit component.
*      Qualitative assessments were carried out to
evaluate, among others, progress with regard to
gender-related activities.
- 64 -



Objecffves               Measures Taken                                       Areas requiring further attention
B. Women's Participation
in the Sub-Project Cycle
3. Increase and strengthen  *   Although limited in scope and coverage, women  * No gender-specific training program
the participation of women  benefited from some training related to the sub-project  developed.
in ECDF's activities.    implementation, monitoring, supervision and maintenance.
* Attention paid to build women's
*      Many but not all community project committees  capacity was overall inadequate; scope of
included at least one female member.                interventions varied across sectors.
*      Community proposals screened to ensure that they  * Training needs of women and results of
also respond to expressed needs by women in the     training provided not systematically
community. Appraisal criteria developed and applied to  monitored and evaluated across all sectors.
identify potential negative consequences for women and
wherever necessary, relevant mitigating actions were  * Women's participation in
designed.                                            decision-making across different types of
sub-projects varied.
*      Beneficiary impact studies and participatory
assessments carried out during the implementation phase  * In some communities, social and
included a special focus on the role of and benefits to  cultural norms inhibited women's
community women.                                     participation. Significant regional
differences reflecting different cultural
practices concerning the participation of
women in community meetings.
4. Training to support   *      Women were included among those selected and  *  Quality and effectiveness of
women's participation    trained as community facilitators.                  community facilitators'
interventions not fully evaluated.
5. Increase poor and      *     Women's access to income generating activities
disadvantaged women's    increased through loans provided under the Savings and
access to and control over  Micro Credit Component.
economic resources
*      Through the creation of the Women's Training
Center, skills training were provided to women in the areas
of handicraft, sewing, tailoring and sweater making. Special
support also provided for IDPs with participation from
various NGOs.
*      Construction of basic social & economic
infrastructure (i.e., health facilities, education facilities,
roads, veterinary clinics, markets, etc.) have contributed to
improvements in the health status of women, increased
female participation in schools, increased income
opportunities, and increased savings in opportunity costs
(i.e., travel time) to facilities.
-65 -



Key findings of assessments:
Education:
*    High level of community support for expanding access to education;
*   Access to primary schools encouraged parents to support the continuation of their children's education;
* The practice of early marriage and general characteristics of nomadic life are contributing factors to
female children's withdrawal from school;
*   The proximity of schools to the village is an important criteria for parents' decision to send their female
child to school; and
*   Lack of access to secondary schools prompted some girls to intentionally fail their primary school leaving
exams so they could remain in school.
Health:
*   Access to health facilities contributed to general improvements in the health status and well-being of
children and reduced the time mothers spent on household chores; more valuable time is saved for
productive activities;
*   Pregnant women have especially benefitted from closer proximity of health facilities;
*   Delivery of health education in the facilities promoted good health practices and positive attitudes among
communities, especially that of mothers; and
*   In Muslim communities, female attendance in health centers was affected by the lack of female doctors.
Many women preferred to deliver at home even with high risk births.
Water:
*   In some communities, social norms inhibited equal participation of women;
*   Women comprised 24% of water committees;
*   Distance traveled and waiting time to fetch water were substantially reduced, leading to reductions in
women's workload and physical effort spent in transporting water;
*   Access to water has redefined gender roles by introducing a new division of labor between the sexes;
*   Resources previously spent to purchase donkeys to carry the water are now invested in more productive
activities; and
*   For some communities, access to water led to an increase in the social status of community.
Feeder Roads:
*   High degree of community satisfaction with the construction of feeder roads;
* Reported benefits included: reduction in prices of basic commodities, increased sale of agricultural
produce, increased school attendance rates, particularly for girls, improved access to health facilities, and
the creation of employment for community members, including women; and
*   Greater road access contributed to general improvements in the social welfare of communities.
Natural Resources Management (NRM):
*   Benefits reported included: conservation of agricultural water supply, reduced land erosion, and general
improvements of the micro environment;
*    One of the unanticipated negative consequences in some areas was an increase in malaria due to increased
still water (this is a problem which is being corrected through improved drainage); and
*   NRM activities provided employment to community members, including women.
Market Places:
*   Employment opportunities created for women who comprise 80% of traders;
*   Some communities expressed dissatisfaction with not being fully consulted on location and layout of
market places, but generally agreed with decisions taken; and
*   New market places promoted better hygiene and positive health practices.
- 66 -



Veterinary Clinics:
*   Distance between service provider outlets and livestock owners reduced, thus minimizing the risk of
animal disease transmission;
*   Livestock owners benefited from increased income from the sale of animals and animal'products, greater
production capacity, increased drought power for transportation and production purposes, improved
animal health and reduced animal mortality;
*   Improved women's access to veterinary service; and
*   Greater access to veterinary services encouraged some women to engage in animal husbandry, especially
in poultry, sheep and goat rearing.
Savings and Micro-Credit:
*   36% of village bank members are women; and 32% of SMCP beneficiaries are women;.
*   A high proportion of the loans to women have been successful and have been repaid;
*   Women participated in decision-making and management;
*   Affirmative action used to ensure that women were involved in project management through use of quotas
ensuring that women were represented;
"One woman started a beer shop by borrowing utensilsfrom relatives. With the
loan, she has been able to buy her own utensils and her business is expanding.
Another women is running a tea shop. She started by borrowing moneyfrom a
relative. She now owns a refrigerator and has built a one-room house.
Another women is a returned refugeefrom Sudan. A mother offour with a
husband who was studyingfor the Church, she said that the program enabled
her to clothe andfeed her children."
*   Women who have properly utilized loan funds managed to improve their livelihood. Some women
indicated that because of their success with previous loans, they now have greater self-confidence and
economic independence. However, not all women have been successful. For example,
A women borrowed money to settle personal debts. When the due date arrived
she was unable to pay her debts and the default affected her solidarity group.
However, the group paid her loan and was able to obtain further loansfor other
members. She asked the other members of the group if they could help her pay
the debt but they refused and she is still expected tofind a way to settle the debt.
-67 -






MAP SECTION






IBRD 31065
-18        37             38            39            43             41            42                 18
SAUDI ARABIA
>KororcX<aRTE
S U D A N                                                                                       <
-MAJOR ROADS
I; >\  0  \   /       SECONDARY ROADS
N                                                                   17 .                AILROADS
17                Slo  Y '-.,.  N   T  ,17                                                           7 |                RIV RS
_ REND S                                                                                      INTERMITTENT STREAMS
'~~~~~~~~~S               6~~~~~~~~~~  SELECTED TOWNS
A~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~  ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~     ~     5  REGION CAPITALS
NATIONAL CAPITAL
I A                                                N                          S E B  AX -. Aulbub . - \ REGION BOUNDARIES
l  >  A-og;;} \I   G   S  , o ,:                       D62 4  a   X,>                -.-  INTERNATIONAL BIUNDARIES
/                                                                   \        ,Oul             -        \,                   ,.~~~~~~~~~~~-lb  ;
DohlD7 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~"16
KER                        <0                                 t~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~oh,~ ..p donI.n,.ply,-i. o6pd .0Th. W0dld B.4 G,00, 
to ~      ~      rLgy   ,            \iiitr' 
lAKos   Adb           uIgh -. N4D -                                          /                                 KJLO T  OE TR 35  '  ., -y -GS--
Lbl-l  B.  M-                                                     0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0- i
T-.6                                                 15 -~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~5(  Aiis~  P
697876 4058 77557               /PJIBOUTI~3  4
A6. S I~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~'                   SUHR               sod~           01
(~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ETHIOPIA
/         ETH    IOPIA                                                         5      \-                  /          5~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1  ac--- 
13                                                          'N,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~"RlN OER F  SUANMAdel
O.6OAOOO  W515       GANEA                          OCEA
-14                                                            ERIMEA AND I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~EN  IAn-loKE Y
SOUTHER     I.d 1gy            0      Lake 
1 3~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~UUT30









IMAGING
Report No.:        22694
Type:     ICR



