Document of
The World Bank
Report No. 14937-ER
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
STATE OF ERITREA
COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT FUND PROJECT
JANUARY 30, 1996
Population and Human Resources Division
Eastern Africa Department
Africa Region



Currency Equivalents
Currency Unit                                Ethiopian Birr
US$ 1.00                                     Birr 6.29
I Ethiopian Birr                             US$ 0.159
US$ 1.00                                     SDR 1.46505
Weights and Measures
Metric System
Abbreviations and Acronyms
AWPB                Annual Work Plan and Budget
BOD                 Burden of Disease
ECDF                Eritrea Community Development Fund
ECRF                Eritrean Community Rehabilitation Fund
EFMP                Economic and Financial Management Program
EPLF                Eritrean People's Liberation Front
ERIWESP             Rural Water Supply & Environmental Sanitation Program
FA                  Force Account
GAAS                Generally Accepted Accounting Standards
GDP                 Gross Domestic Product
ICB                 International Competitive Bidding
ICR                 Implementation Completion Report
IMT                 Intermediate Means of Transportation
LCB                 Local Competitive Bidding
MCH                 Maternal/Child Health
MIS                 Management Information System
MO                  Management Office
MOC                 Ministry of Construction
MOE                 Ministry of Education
MOH                 Ministry of Health
MOLG                Ministry of Local Government
NBF                 Non-Bank Financing
NEMP-E              National Environmental Management Plan for Eritrea
NGO                 Non-governmental Organization
NS                  National Shopping
PHC                 Primary Health Care
RRPE                Recovery and Rehabilitation Program for Eritrea
RRT                 Rural Road Transportation
S&C                 Savings and Credit
SSA                 Sub-Saharan Africa
TA                  Technical Assistance
UNDP                United Nations Development Program
UNESCO              United Nation's Education, Scientific & Cultural Organization
UNICEF              United Nations Children's Education Fund
WRD                 Water Resources Department
Government Fiscal Year
January I - December 31



TABLE OF CONTENTS
1. OVERVIEW  ..........................................................1
A. Background                                 .................................................1
B. Recent Economic Performance .............................................................2
C. Recent Social Performance ..............................................................3
2. POLICY  FRAMEWORK AND  LESSONS  LEARNED .............................................                   .      4
A. Development and Sector Strategies for Eritrea ......................................................... .   4
B. World Bank Country Assistance Strategy for Eritrea ...................................................... . 9
C. Lessons from  Other Social Funds ............................................................              10
D. The Experience of the Pilot Community Rehabilitation Fund                                 ...  I 1
3. THE  PROJECT .........................................................       .                                15
A. Origins of the Project ............................................................                        15
B. Project Objectives ............................................................ .                          15
C. Project Description ............................................................ .                         16
1. Organizational Structure of ECDF ............................................................           16
2. Project Approach .............................................................                          18
3. Project Cycle ............................................................                              19
D. Project Components ............................................................                            21
1. Social and Economic Infrastructure and Services ........................................................ 21
2. Pilot Savings and Credit Program ............................................................           25
3. Capacity Building, Training, and Research ............................................................    27
E. Recurrent Costs Generated by Social and Economic Infrastructure Sub-projects  ..... 30
F. Management Information System  (MIS) and Reporting .                       ................................................ 33
G. Legal Arrangements ............................................................                            35
H. Environmental Analysis ............................................................                        36
I. Project Costs and Financing ............................................................                   37
J. Procurement ............................................................                                   38
K. Disbursement .............................................................                                 41
L. Accounting, Auditing and Financial Reporting .                     ........................................................... 43
M. Poverty Category ............................................................ .                            44
N. Impact on Women ............................................................ .                             44
0. Project Sustainability .............................................................                       44
P. Rationale for IDA  Involvement ............................................................                45
Q. Benefits and Risks ............................................................. .                         46
R. Agreements to be Reached and Recommendation .                         ......................................................... 47
The report has been prepared by a joint-Eritrea-IDA team. The Eritrea team includes ECRF staff and representatives
from the Ministry of Finance and other relevant line ministries. IDA staff include: Laura Frigenti (task manager); L.
Roberts, G. Swamy, T. Marchant, S. Boubacar (Lawyer), S. Al Habsy (Lawyer), J. Riverson, M. Kariuki, C. Lyle, J.
Coolidge, G. Gopal, J.J. Deschamps, R. Castro, J. Bojo. Lead Advisor: S. Jorgensen. Peer reviewers: H. Ribe, C.
Cuevas, M. Bamnberger, A. Marc. Department Director: James W. Adams. Division Chief: Jacob van Lutsenburg Maas



Tables
Table I  Eritrea Social Fund - Completed Projects Under the Pilot ......................................... 14
Table 2  Investments in Education Sub-Projects ...............................................                                 3 1
Table 3  Cumulative Recurrent Costs in Education Sub-Projects ............................................. 3 1
Table 4  Investment Costs in Health Sub-Projects ...............................................                               3 1
Table 5  Cumulative Recurrent Costs in Health Sub-Projects ...............................................  32
Table 6  Projection of Road Sub-Projects ...............................................                                       32
Table 7  Maintenance Costs of Road Sub-Projects ...............................................                                32
Table 8  Budgetary Impact ................................................                                                     33
Table 9 Financing Plan ...............................................                                                         37
Table 10  Annual Project Costs ................................................                                                37
Table 11  Procurement Arrangements ................................................                                            40
Table 12  IDA  Disbursement Schedule .................................................                                         41
Table 13  Annual Disbursement Plan ................................................                                            41
Table 14  Allocation and Distribution of IDA  Credit                              ....................................... 42
Annexes
Annex A             Poverty and Social Development Indicators
Annex B             Summary of the Evaluation of the Pilot Project
Annex C             Management Information System (MIS) and Monitoring Indicators
Annex D             Directives To Provide for the Establishment of ECDF and its Management Unit
Annex E             ECDF Organization Structure
Annex F             Summary Cost Tables
Annex G             Implementation Plan
Annex H             Outline of the Operational Manual
Annex I             Environmental Analysis
Annex J             Education and Health Sector Related Projects
Annex K             Rural Water Supply
Annex L             Rural Roads and Transport Component
Annex M             The Pilot Savings and Credit Program
Annex N             Gender Action Plan
Annex 0             Economic Analysis
Annex P             List of Documents in the Project File
Map                 IBRD No. 27299



CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:                 The State of Eritrea
Implementing Agency:      Eritrea Community Development Fund (ECDF)
Beneficiary:              Poor communities located in the most deprived areas of the country
Poverty:                  Program of Targeted Interventions.
Amount:                   SDR 11.8 million (US$ 17.50 million equivalent)
(Total project size: US$ 49.68 million)
Terms:                    Standard IDA terms with a maturity of 40 years
Commitment Fee:           0.50% on undisbursed credit balances, beginning 60 days after
signing, less any waiver
On Lending Terms:         Govemment will pass the credit to ECDF as grant. ECDF will on-lend
up to US $ 0.5 million to village administrations or other financial
intermediaries at an interest rate sufficient to compensate for inflation,
administrative costs, and loan loss provision. The village
administrations or other Fls will on-lend to final beneficiaries at
commercial rates.
Financing Plan:           See para. 3.79
Net Present Value:        US$ 61.5 million at 12% discount rate
Economic Rate of Return:  123%
Staff Appraisal Report:    14937-ER
Map:                     IBRD No. 27299
Project ID:               ERPA39264






1. OVERVIEW
A. BACKGROUND
1.1   Eritrea is located in the northeastern part of Africa. The overall size of the
country is about 125,000 square km, with a coast line of 1,000 km, and a population
estimated in the range of 3.0 and 3.5 million, including nearly half a million refugees in
Sudan. Eritrea is one of the poorest countries in the world, with a GDP per capita in the
range of US$ 160 to US$ 190 (less than half of the average per capita income of sub-
Saharan countries). While there are no firm estimates of the incidence of poverty, it is
believed that about two thirds of the population is poor (more than 50% calculating the
impact of food aid). The country's social indicators are consistent with its low per capita
income. Life expectancy at birth is estimated to be low at about 46 years, compared to 50
years for Sub-Saharan Africa. Infant mortality is 135 per thousand live births, the under-
five child mortality rate is 203 per thousand live births, and maternal mortality is over
700 per one hundred thousand live births. Also in the education sector the indicators are
lower than in most African countries. The illiteracy rate stands at 80% for men and 90%
for women, and the gross enrollment rate at the primary level is among the lowest in
Africa (47% in 1994).
1.2    Historically, Eritrea was a nation of skilled people with a wealth of experience in
entrepreneurship, commerce, and international trade. At the time of its liberation, in
1991, Eritrea inherited a devastated economy: enterprises were not operational; the
agricultural sector was severely damaged by the war; major infrastructure was damaged
or destroyed; and basic social service facilities had suffered from war damage or serious
neglect. The disruption of family life due to war, displacement and drought, has left
thousands of children as destitutes and orphans. It is estimated that there are nearly
100,000 internally displaced people, and some 50,000 ex-fighters have been demobilized
for reintegration into civilian life.
1.3   Enormous pressures have been placed on Eritrea's forest and land resources. It
has been estimated that around one hundred years ago, as much as 30 percent of the
country may have been under closed forests and woodland types. Currently, agricultural
land clearance continues to place the heaviest pressures on forested areas, and this has
been exacerbated by customary notions of land and resource tenure which limited the
incentive to cultivate and manage trees. Though no recent inventories have been carried
out, the FAO estimated, in 1994 that total forest and woodland cover accounts for around
12 percent of the land area.
1.4    With liberation, Eritrea is returning to its traditions of resourcefulness, shared
endeavor, and entrepreneurship. Despite its shattered economy, the country has rapidly
re-established the main functions of government, and embarked on an impressive process
of reconstruction. The country has many strengths which support this process: a strong
sense of nationhood strengthened through the liberation struggle, and a well-organized
and active community structure; strong ownership of national development programs;
and a flexible approach to economic development. Both the reconstruction efforts and



2
the more recent development strategies and programs demonstrate a blend of orientations:
building solutions that respond to and take advantage of the special characteristics of the
country; clear public leadership imbued with a strong commitment to social justice;
openness to and encouragement of private sector initiative, both domestic and foreign;
utilization of the talents and resources of Eritrea's well educated and successful diaspora;
and outreach to visions, methods, and technologies beyond the African context. The
sections below summarize the most significant results achieved in the four years after
liberation.
B. RECENT ECONOMIC PERFORMANCE
1.5   Since liberation, Eritrea has laid policy foundations for a liberal market economy
operating alongside a unitary governmental structure that reaches down to and represents
the interests of the lowest community levels. In a relatively short period the country has
made significant progress in restructuring key institutions, establishing governmental
functions in all key sectors, and eliminating a number of restrictive policies inherited
from the past. In May 1991, the Government of Eritrea launched a Recovery and
Rehabilitation Program, aimed at jump-starting the economy. However the economy
improved strongly in 1994 and it is estimated to have grown by 14.1 percent in real
terms. Industrial production, as well as service sector activities have continued to expand
due to an increase in exports, a growing private small-scale sector, the partial
rehabilitation of a few larger enterprises, a strong resurgence of construction activities,
and recent good harvests.
1.6   Policy Reforms. The Government has introduced a number of important policy
reforms aimed at stimulating investment and economic growth, and reducing
protectionism and controls. Trade policies have been revised and simplified import
licensing procedures introduced. Export taxes have been eliminated. A new Investment
Law has been prepared to replace the 1991 Investment Code, opening all sectors to
private investments. The former Labor Code, which prohibited hiring of labor by the
private sector is being revised and private hiring of labor being permitted. Centralized
marketing and planning systems have been disbanded so that most public and private
enterprises are free of price and marketing restrictions. A land proclamation has been
issued, providing every farmer with life-time usufruct rights, giving women equal access
to land, making provision for usufructs to remain within the family on the death of the
land-holder; permitting rental and mortgaging of land-use rights; permitting the sale of
capital improvements; and reconfirming the right to enter into share-cropping
arrangements.
1.7   Institutional Strengthening Under a comprehensive public sector strengthening
program, the Government has implemented a large number of measures to rationalize
institutions and has completed the process of streamlining of the civil service, comprising
about 15,000 employees. Efforts are also being made to address the shortage of skilled
staff in key positions, and the mandate of the University of Asmara has been focused to
support the effort to build local capacity in key technical and managerial areas.



3
C. RECENT SOCIAL PERFORMANCE
1.8   Health Status. For the large majority of Eritreans, available health status
indicators suggest low life expectancy and high infant, child and maternal mortality.
Besides the high average levels of these rates, there is substantial variation among the
regions. The main health problems are primarily ones which are amenable to PHC
interventions. According to a recently conducted Burden of Diseases study (BOD, 1994),
the top five diseases in terms of discounted years lost are perinatal/maternal; diarrhea;
acute respiratory infections; tuberculosis; and malaria, accounting for over 62 percent of
the BOD in Eritrea. While this pattern of disease has lead to low life expectancy to date,
it also means that with steady increase in PHC service coverage this burden of disease
can be transformed rather quickly. Finally, since food supplies depend on good rains and
related harvests, the nutritional status of the population can exacerbate much of the key
health problems, including the BOD.
1.9   The State of Health Care Delivery. Since independence the Government has
been expanding the provision of PHC with the objective of reducing deaths from easily
controllable diseases and enhancing awareness of good health practices to improve the
productivity of the work force. The health expenditures as a percent of total Government
expenditures show a consistent incremental trend after independence, with a consequent
improvement in the extension of primary health services. The MOH estimates 46 percent
of the population have access to basic health services. Though this estimate is based on
approximate information, nevertheless it is undoubtful that the share of population with
access to PHC services is constantly increasing. Data gathered during a recent Initial
Health Sector Review (1995), show a significant increase in the number of children from
0-5 years of age whose weight and height were monitored at health facilities from 1993 to
1994. The share increased from about 6.9% in 1993, to over 22.4% in 1994. The same
review also recorded nearly a doubling of the share of pregnant women having at least
one ante-natal visit from 1993 (14.5%) to 1994 (28.2%). The share of births delivered at
a health facility increased from about 2.7% (1993) to 9% (1994). From 1991 to 1994 a
total of 181 health facilities at various level have been constructed or rehabilitated,
facilitating the provision of PHC in the rural and most remote areas of the country.
Regarding the immunization coverage, information for 1993 and 1994 is not available in
comparable form at this time to compare improvements that are undoubtedly occurring,
but there is evidence that the number of facilities providing imnmunization have increased
and the solar power storage refrigerators for vaccine have been installed in many facilities
during 1994. Finally, increase has been registered in the use of contraceptive (from 1.7%
in 1993 to 2.3% of women between the age of 15 and 45 years in 1994), even if the
contraceptive prevalence is still very low in the country.
1.10  Education Status. Since 1991, the Government policy had the main objective of
increasing access, improving the quality, and guaranteeing equity in the distribution of
primary education services. The budget for the education sector increased almost
threefold and the results have been impressive. When compared to the 1992/93 academic
year enrollment in pre-school, primary, middle and secondary education increased by
almost 10, 12, 15 and 4% respectively (reaching 47.4% in 1993/94 at the primary level;



4
22.4% at the junior secondary level; and 13.7% at the senior secondary level). In more
than 25 centers literacy programs were provided to 4,000 adults, while the evening
programs enrolled more than 12,500 adults. The government identified two major
constraints in primary education: lack of infrastructure, and shortage of teachers.
Between 1992 and 1994, 80 primary schools were constructed and 52 rehabilitated,
mostly with direct involvement of local communities. In 1990/91 there were 4,500
teachers in Eritrea. About half of these were Ethiopians, and following liberation they
went back to their homeland, which resulted in severe teacher shortages. In 1993/94 the
number had risen to 7,265. As a result of this intensive training campaign, the average
pupil teacher ratios fell between 1991/92 and 1993/94 from 41 to 39 at the primary level;
37 to 34 at the lower secondary level; and 38 to 32 at the senior secondary level.
2. POLICY FRAMEWORK AND LESSONS LEARNED
A. DEVELOPMENT AND SECTOR STRATEGIES FOR ERITREA
2.1   Eritrea's Development Strategy. The national development objective is to
create a modem, technologically advanced and internationally competitive economy in
the context of a free, democratic and decentralized political system, where private
enterprise is the driving economic force. To achieve these objectives the Government has
adopted a broad-based growth strategy that has aspects of rehabilitation, reconstruction
and development covering all sectors of the economy. Major components of this strategy
are human capital formation, with education and health as key inputs, export-oriented
development both in industry and agriculture, infrastructural development to remove
critical bottlenecks, environmental restoration and protection, and the promotion of the
private sector.
2.2   The center-piece of this strategy is the establishment of an efficient, outward
looking private sector-led market economy, with the Government playing a proactive role
to stimulate private economic activities. The economic role of the public sector would
normally be restricted to those areas which the private sector may tend to avoid because
of the externalities.
2.3   Sector Policies and Development Programs. In the context of the overall
development policy framework, sectoral strategies and programs have been prepared.
They provide the basis for public and/or private sector programs and activities to address
the various social problems of the country and to realize its development potential.
2.4   Basic Education. The Government is developing a national policy for the
education sector, which builds upon and develops the initiatives taken by the EPLF
during the period of the struggle. The policy aims to: (i) promote basic education in a
way that takes into account the specific characteristics and conditions of each region; (ii)
establish a seven-year basic education system; (iii) promote the use of local languages as
a medium of instruction at the primary level; (iv) progressively eradicate illiteracy; (v)
develop curricula for secondary education responsive to the needs and opportunities of



S
labor market; (vi) promote the use of English as a medium of instruction at the secondary
level; (vii) promote and improve the quality of technical and vocational education and
training; (viii) encourage and promote female education; (ix) provide special education
services for the disabled; (x) guarantee a balanced mix of centralized and decentralized
education management structures; (xi) facilitate the opening of private schools at all
levels; and (xii) encourage communities to play a stronger role in the management of
education services.
2.5    The Ministry of Education (MOE) has drafted a five year development plan for
the education sector. The strategies focus on improvement of the quality of the education
services through development of new and more updated curricula; improved access to
educational services through the construction of new schools especially at the basic level;
recruitment and training of new teachers; retraining of teachers already in-service; a
policy of cost-recovery through the direct involvement of communities and parents in the
provision, management, and financing of the education services; and, the reduction of
gender imbalances through the implementation of intensive campaigns to promote girls'
education. Other cornerstones of the MOE strategy are the emphasis on adult literacy and
post-literacy programs, particularly for women; the development of a variety of
approaches to technical and vocational training; improved incentives for teachers and
education personnel, in the framework of a wider restructuring of the civil service; and,
capacity building for all levels of the education sector.
2.6   The most urgent short-term priorities focus on basic education, non-formal
education, and technical and vocational training. This will involve the construction or
rehabilitation of 350 equipped elementary schools in the next five years, in order to
provide each village or territory (an area serving nomadic or scattered population) with a
school, with particular attention given to the previously neglected areas of the country. In
addition this will require the training or retraining of a sufficient number of teachers to
operate the newly constructed or rehabilitated facilities; the implementation of a
nationwide awareness campaign to improve girls' attendance and performance in basic
education; the improvement of teacher training; and, the preparation of new curricula
based on the history. traditions, and socio-economic situation of the country, sensitive to
regional, ethnic, and linguistic differences.
2.7    Basic Health. Since independence, the Government has been developing and
implementing a health sector policy designed to: (i) reduce the burden of disease; and (ii)
educate the public to engage in good health practice leading to improved productivity.
The strategies to achieve these objectives are: (i) making available to the public basic
health services, and especially primary health care (PHC); (ii) containing and controlling
the spread of major health hazards; (iii) enabling the private sector to participate in the
delivery of health services within the regulatory framework of the Ministry of Health
(MOH); (iv) promoting community and beneficiary participation in financing health care;
(v) introducing National Health Insurance; and (vi) promoting the dissemination of
information about good health practices.
2.8    MOH's draft Basic Health Strategic Implementation plan is currently being
reviewed by the Government. The key priority is the strengthening of primary health care



6
services, in line with the broad national goals of equity, service accessibility,
affordability, community involvement (especially in financing), intersectoral
collaboration, and decentralization of management. Emphasis will be given to the
sustainability of health systems at all levels. To strengthen the quality and accessibility of
primary health care, improvements in the development, organization, and management of
health care infrastructure are vital. In addition, the plan aims to create an enabling
environment to ensure an adequate supply of essential resources: human, financial and
materials, such as drugs and equipment. Finally, the strategy promotes intersectoral
collaboration, vital for primary health care goals, especially regarding nutrition,
environmental sanitation, and clean water.
2.9   Rural Water Supply. Improved access to water for social and economic
development is one of the top priorities of the Government. Access to safe drinking water
supply in rural areas is a particular concern. Rural water supply coverage is estimated at
7%; and 48% of the population rely on hand dug wells which are often unsafe and
unreliable (71% of all hand dug wells are less than 5 meters in depth).
2.10  As an input to the Government's Macroeconomic Policy, the Water Resources
Department (WRD) within the Ministry of Energy, Mines, and Water Resources has
drafted a policy that states the Government's intention to: (i) reduce its current role in the
"provision" of water and focus on, or "promote" water resources management; (ii)
encourage private sector participation in the sector, including privatizing drilling and
other implementation functions; (iii) treat water as an economic good, requiring users to
pay for what they consume; (iv) conserve water and reduce pollution; (v) take a balanced
approach to the distribution of water among social and economic sectors; (vi) ensure the
active participation of the population, particularly women, in water works; and (vii)
facilitate the equitable distribution of water in all sectors.
2.11  The Government is planning a Rural Water Supply and Environmental Sanitation
Program (ERIWESP) in consultation with key sector agencies, which will review
Government policies, strategies, and plans; evaluate current programs and projects; carry
out a water resources assessment; and develop a comprehensive framework for the sector.
Key issues to be addressed include: community participation, gender, standardization,
sustainability, health and hygiene education and coordination. The outputs from the
formulation phase will help shape Government policy for the sector and lay the
foundations for sector development.
2.12  In addition to the above, the Government is currently reviewing several policy
decisions concerning community participation in sector development, and intends to hold
a National Meeting on Operation and Maintenance of Water Supply and Sanitation to
discuss and confirm these recommendations. It is intended that communities bear the full
recurrent costs (operation and maintaining) of their schemes. In addition it is proposed
that they establish user charges that allow them to meet the replacement cost of pumping
technology. In the long term they are expected to be responsible for the full replacement
costs of their schemes. These criteria (recurrent and replacement costs) will help to guide
the selection of technology that is appropriate both in terms of per capita costs and
sustainability.



7
2.13  Soil, Water and Forestry Conservation. The Government accords a high
priority to the preservation of the environment, as long-term growth depends on the
sustainable use of the country's natural resources and assets. Based on an extensive
process of consultation with community organizations and all major ministries, the
Government recently produced a National Environmental Management Plan for Eritrea
(NEMP-E), which was officially adopted in 1995. In accordance with a recommendation
of the NEMP-E, work on drafting of an environmental law has begun in May 1995, and is
expected to be completed in a few months. The Eritrean Agency for the Environment
(EAE) has been established as an interim secretariat within the Ministry of Local
Government, but with a large degree of autonomy.
2.14  The main objective of the NEMP-E is to provide a framework for coordinating the
protection and enhancement of Eritrea's natural resource base. It identifies a wide range
of actions for improvements in environmental health, management of human settlements,
the sustainable development and preservation of the coastal and marine environment,
containment of industrial pollution, improved water management, curtailment of land
degradation and deforestation, and the preservation of bio-diversity. The NEMP-E
highlights two important themes underlying the government's overall approach to
environmental management. The first is that the environment should be treated not as a
separate issue, but as an integral component of all sectors. Consequently NEMP-E's main
emphasis is on building up the skills and awareness of staff in the line ministries, and on
the capacity of ministries to oversee the implementation of environmental assessments for
projects within their areas of responsibility. A second theme underlying the NEMP-E, is
the importance of community participation in all aspect of environmental management.
Many of the suggested measures are based on collaborative efforts by communities and
government, and on a continuing dialogue that respects the traditional knowledge of
communities and raises public awareness of the implications of various forms of human
activities on the environment.
2.15  Another important instrument of the environmental policy is the land policy,
included in the Government's Macro-Policy document. It states that the objectives of the
new land policy are to establish a revised tenure system that: (i) encourages long-term
investments in agriculture and prudent environmental management; (ii) assures women's
rights to land on equal basis with men; and, (iii) promotes commercial agriculture.
2.16  Presently, conservation programs are carried out with an emphasis on structural
measures: terracing, bunding, contour ditches, and check dams have all been used to
reduce run-off, enhance water infiltration, and retain soil particles. In physical terms, the
achievements have been impressive, but maintenance remains dependent on additional
injections of food or cash for work. Afforestation is another major component of the
conservation efforts. While millions of seedlings have been planted under communal
responsibility, much of the plantations have died because of lack of maintenance. To the
extent that soil and nutrients are retained on cropland through conservation measures,
there will be a relative improvement in productivity, which however must be weighted
against the loss of agricultural land, taken up by the structure. The net result is not
always positive. In terms of hydrogeological benefits, catchment conservation will
probably produce mixed results. Because Eritrea has low rainfall and high evapo-



8
transpiration, terracing may substantially reduce the run-off available for conservation in
reservoirs. On the other hand, it is believed to increase infiltration into the groundwater
aquifers where they exist. Terracing also reduces the amount of sediment transport and
particularly the coarse sediment which forms a bed load in watercourses.
2.17  Feeder Roads. The state of disrepair of roads and other infrastructure in Eritrea
has resulted largely from damage during the protracted war and the consequent neglect of
maintenance. The Government has, since independence, embarked on a program to
rehabilitate essential roads and bridges, and maintain its road network. The
Government's Macro-Policy is to develop trunk roads for domestic and regional services
and the comprehensive domestic network in stages. Efforts will also be made to
strengthen the institutional structures and establish the operational framework for the
continued maintenance of the improved network. In line with the overall process of
decentralization, the national administrative structure for the sector has been revised.
Rural roads will be improved and maintained through a partnership involving the
provincial Administrations, Districts, and local communities through their various
councils (Baitos), with some support from the Center.
2.18   The road network comprises three main classes of roads: Primary or Trunk,
Secondary, and Feeder roads (as well as community access road). A framework
agreement has been signed between the Ministry of Construction (MOC) and the
Ministry of Local Government (MOLG) which, inter alia, delineates responsibilities for
the various classes of roads. Under the new agreement, the responsibility for the
management and maintenance of feeder roads, as well as the maintenance only of
secondary roads will be assigned to the Regional Administrations. Technical design
standards will be established and approved by the Roads Department of the MOC. The
MOLG will coordinate the activities of the various regions and will not assume direct
responsibility for feeder roadworks. Community councils will organize the maintenance
of feeder roads with technical support from the Regional Administration.
2.19   Micro-finance. The Government's development strategy aims at a growth in
individual, family, and community economic self-reliance to free the country from
dependency on relief assistance and subsidies. The key to this goal is to promote
employment. In part, this will be accomplished by the expansion of the formal private
sector. However, this will need to be accompanied by a parallel development of the
informal sector, both urban and in the area of rural non-farming activities; and by a
strengthening of subsistence and surplus yielding traditional cultivation and pastoralism.
2.20  Broadening access to financial services is an essential step towards encouraging
individual and group initiative and thus reducing people's dependence on subsidized
public programs. Eritrea inherited from the previous regime a poorly diversified, narrow,
largely urban-based, government-owned financial sector. Lack of competition in the
system has contributed to low efficiency and poor services, adding to the lack of outreach
and lack of flexibility of formal financial institutions. It is now a Government's priority
to develop and diversify the financial sector, and, as part of this process, to encourage the
growth of micro-finance institutions, particularly in rural areas. While Government may
act as a catalyst in this endeavor, the aim is to rely on private group or community



9
initiatives. Eritrea's well established community structure (which have been accorded a
legal identity) and their familiarity with handling financial transactions, provides a basis
for the development of local micro-credit and savings groups. Improved access to credit
is an essential plank in the Government's efforts to promote the social and economic
status of women, and to facilitate the reintegration of displaced people and former
combatants. The improved provision of micro-credit will be accompanied by a vigorous
prograrn of technical training implemented in collaboration with the private sector.
2.21  In addition to improving access to financial services by both rural and urban
dwellers, the Government will support the growth of small, already established business
operating in areas beyond the outreach of formal financial institutions. These business
can make a strong contribution to employment creation and income generation
throughout the country, hence the need to ensure their access to credit and other services
they may require.
B. WORLD BANK COUNTRY ASSISTANCE STRATEGY FOR ERITREA
2.22  The Government's overall development strategy is accelerated and sustainable
broad-based economic growth, human resources development, and well targeted social
programs, all aimed at improving the living standards and reducing poverty. In line with
this policy, the Bank's program of assistance over the next three years will focus on
supporting the country's efforts towards rehabilitation and recovery, investment in
infrastructure and priority productive sectors, and the development of human resources,
all with the over-riding goal of reducing poverty. Since a large proportion of Eritrea's
population continues to suffer from lack of basic social services and doesn't have the
educational skills and access to capital that will enable it to fully participate in and benefit
from the recovery and growth process, the Bank's strategy aims to enhance the access to
and quality of basic social services for the poor and to support well targeted community-
based programs that will address the needs of the most vulnerable people in the society.
2.23  The Bank's strategy emphasizes: (i) supporting the participation of communities
in the development process, including the provision, management, and maintenance of
basic social services, and building community managerial and implementation capacity;
(ii) strengthening the role of local communities and other private sector institutions in the
financing of social services; (iii) the importance of improving cost-efficiency, and the
development of a national policy aiming at maximizing cost-recovery in the provision of
services; and (iv) a focus on women, including improving the participation of girls in
primary education, maternal health care, family planning services, increased literacy
among women, the use of labor-saving methods, and improving women' s income-earning
opportunities. The ECDF project will be an important contribution to achieving these
objectives by providing essential basic assets and services to poor communities,
improving the health and education status of large portions of the population, and
providing target groups, particularly women, with opportunities to increase incomes,
reduce vulnerability, and strengthen self-reliance.



10
C. LESSONS FROM OTHER SOCIAL FUNDS
2.24 Main Characteristics of Social Funds. The World Bank is financing social
funds and social programs in Latin America, Africa, Asia, and more recently Eastern
Europe, often with the support of other bilateral and multilateral donors. Although social
funds vary in design, they share some common basic features, that made them
particularly attractive to governments undertaking economic and political reforms aimed
at poverty reduction and the strengthening of local self-reliance. These include
simplicity, flexibility, low cost, and ability to generate visible benefits rapidly. Social
funds are essentially demand-driven programs, which involve the active and substantial
participation of the beneficiaries (usually community groups of one kind or another).
These funds generally operate through autonomous or semi-autonomous financial and
administrative structures, and use procedures for appraisal, procurement, and
disbursement designed to be simple, flexible, and rapidly responsive to community
demand, and which allow communities to participate in the management of the project
cycle. Social funds finance small sub-projects to improve basic infrastructure and
services, and it is customary for each category of sub-project to have funding ceilings to
ensure that the resources are directed at essential community needs.
2.25   Social funds generally differ from public sector implemented programs in two
important ways. Firstly, the social fund itself is not an implementing agency but relies on
beneficiaries, local community organizations, intermediaries, and contracted specialists to
implement projects. Secondly, social funds are often given certain levels of autonomy,
such as the right to employ their own staff on special salary scales, a system of financial
allocation and replenishment separate from the civil service budget, and their own set of
operating rules and procedures that may differ from the requirements of sector ministries.
Although some social funds have an organizational structure embedded within a
government agency, it is almost always the case that this structure has a separate identity.
Many social funds are established entirely outside the civil service as semi-autonomous
public agencies, and in a few cases, they have a semi-private or NGO status.
2.26  Findings of Recent Analyses. Several analyses and research studies have been
carried out on social funds, their strength, limitations, and conditions for success. These
include three World Bank studies: a study by the Africa Technical Department on "Social
Actions Programs and Social Funds, A Review of Design and Implementation in Sub-
Sahara Africa" (1993); a discussion paper prepared by the Education and Social Policy
Department on "Social Funds: Strengths, Weaknesses, and Conditions for Success"
(1995); and a technical note prepared by The Africa Human Resources and Poverty
Division entitled "Study of Procurement and Disbursement Issues in Projects with
Community Participation" (1994). A common finding of these studies is that social funds
are successful when they: (i) have support and commitment from highest political level
to preserve the integrity of the fund, its objectives and mandate; (ii) are able to operate
with sufficient autonomy to respond rapidly and directly to community demands, while at
the same time having clear accountability and transparency of operation; (iii) promote the
participation of beneficiary communities in sub-project identification and implementation
to ensure that proposals are genuinely beneficiary-initiated; (iv) have a qualified, and



11
committed motivated staff and a system of incentives based on merit; (v) have a rigorous
management and MIS system and a streamlined organizational structure; (vi) have
flexible financing mechanisms subject to a rigorous appraisal process; (vii) have an
effective coordinating mechanism with line ministries; (viii) have an intensive and
thorough process of supervision and audit; and, (ix) operate in an action-research mode to
learn from experience through mechanisms such as beneficiary assessments, research on
patterns of implementation, and exchange of views with sector and community experts.
2.27 Major Issues and Limitations. The following have been identified as the major
issues, challenges, and limitations social funds may experience. They may face a trade-
off between rapid implementation of quality projects, and building indigenous
institutional and technical capacity. They have shown limited success in implementing
credit programs, especially where the fund attempts to operate as a retailer of credit.
Because they have limited resources, to be effective they must be an integral part of a
larger program to reduce poverty. Finally, to generate genuine and reliable community
demand for social fund support, they must be able to directly reach out to poor
beneficiaries and communities, rather than rely on indirect methods of assessing local
needs.
2.28  Major Strengths and Potential. Small infrastructure projects have generally
been the most successful type of social fund initiative in terms of quality, sustainability,
and beneficial impact, providing communities with assets that directly increase incomes
and production. Small projects concerned with social assistance and income-generating
are usually more complex and labor-intensive, and their success depends on the capacity
of local support organizations. However, if designed in a way that maximizes their
special potential, social funds can provide a parallel track to the conventional public-
sector planning cycle, allowing a community with energy and commitment to launch
initiatives within its own time-frame. Social funds are an effective way of encouraging
private efforts which can often deliver more cost-effective results than the public sector
can achieve alone. A number of social funds (including the ECRF pilot) have shown that
community-initiated infrastructure projects can be implemented at a lower cost than
equivalent publicly managed projects. The social fund mechanism can be an effective
way of obtaining community investments, which reduces the cost to public funds and
establishes a basis of ownership around which maintenance arrangements can be built.
Finally, the experience of social fund participation can make a valuable contribution to
community development, by helping to build managerial competencies, encouraging
community decision-making on shared assets, and developing a sense of achievement and
self-reliance.
D. THE EXPERIENCE OF THE PILOT COMMUNITY REHABILITATION FUND
2.29  Main Characteristics of the Pilot Project. The Eritrean Community
Rehabilitation Fund (ECRF) was launched as a pilot operation in April 1993, as part of
the Recovery and Rehabilitation Program for Eritrea (RRPE) with financing from IDA
(US$ 1 million), Italy (US$ 4.6 million), the Netherlands (US$ 0.78 million), and
Australia (US$ 1 million). UNDP provided technical assistance and management support



12
for project implementation. The Government's financial contribution was US$ 3 million
equivalent, bringing the financial resources to a total of US$ 10.38 million. ECRF's main
objective was to support the rehabilitation and construction of basic social and economic
infrastructure (basic health facilities, primary schools, micro-dams, water schemes, flood
control structures, feeder roads and bridges). The pilot ECRF was implemented in all 9
provinces of the country, with particular focus on the very remote areas and those most
damaged by the effects of the war. More than 90% of sub-projects were implemented in
rural areas. All phases of the ECRF project cycle have involved significant community
participation, with communities contributing at least the mandatory 10% of project costs
(but in many cases more). The pilot phase, which is due to close in February 1996, has
provided the basis for testing the feasibility and viability of community-initiated
development activities, and for determining whether this experience would justify a
continuation and expansion of the ECRF. Based on the successful evaluation of the pilot,
the Government has decided to continue and expand the operation of the ECRF as a fully-
fledged program. The expansion (which the proposed project will support) is based
closely on the structure and modalities of the pilot. Therefore the paragraphs below
provide details of the most important features of the pilot operation.
2.30  Organization and Structure of the Pilot Fund. The ECRF pilot has been
managed by an autonomous group within the Ministry of Local Government. The
structure of this group consists of a Central Unit in Asmara, and nine Sub-Units located
in the offices of the Local Government Provincial Administrations. The role of the Sub-
Units is to screen and appraise sub-project proposals submitted by communities, and
submit those that are judged as viable to the Central Unit. There the appraisals are
reviewed, final financing decisions taken, contractual arrangements set up with the
beneficiary communities, and the implementation program established. The Central
Office has carried the major responsibility for procurement and disbursement, and for
close liaison with sector ministries. The Sub-Units have carried responsibility for the
community promotion and outreach and assisting communities to develop sub-project
proposals, and for supervising and assisting the implementation process. The Central
Unit has consisted of a General Manager, and 7 professionals, and each Sub-Unit had a
Project Officer (usually a qualified engineer), and was managed by the Head of the
Provincial Development and Reconstruction Office who is employed and paid under the
local government structure.
2.31  The Project Cycle. The project cycle begins with outreach activities to explain to
communities what type of project can be funded by ECRF and the terms of community
participation/contribution. On receipt of community sub-project proposals, the Project
Officer visits the site and appraises the project. The Local Government Provincial
Administration checks that the proposed sub-project is in line with sectoral development
policies and priorities, and that funds will be allocated by the provincial sector agency to
cover recurrent expenditures. Line ministries provide standard designs or guidelines for
project implementation. Appraised proposals are then sent to the Central Unit for review
and final approval (or deferral or rejection). For those proposals approved, agreements
with local community, giving particular attention to arrangements for maintenance and
sustainability of the infrastructure to be built are signed.



13
2.32  Projects are implemented by local contractors selected through a process of
competitive bidding. Where there are no private contractors available, implementation
has been carried by NGOs or Local Governments together with local communities.
Community committees and the ECRF Project Officers supervise project implementation,
monitoring quality control, and compliance with works schedule. The ECRF project cycle
has typically lasted approximately 6 months: 2 months for preparation, and 4 months for
implementation, although these periods vary by type of infrastructure and area.
2.33   Community Participation and Contribution. Eritrea has a long tradition of
community participation and the investment of community resources in the provision of
local infrastructure and services. This has been a special feature of community life where
councils of elders (known as Baitos) are responsible for decisions concerning the
collective welfare of the community. During the liberation struggle, the EPLF promoted
the establishment of locally elected councils, and after independence these bodies (which
kept the traditional name of Baitos) were formally allocated a wide range of powers and
responsibilities. Village and district Baibos prioritize community needs for development
support, and transmit their priorities to the Provincial Administration. During the Pilot,
Committees of these Baitos have acted as the main liaison between the communities and
the ECRF.
2.34  Communities have made a contribution of at least 10 percent to implementation
costs of a sub-project either in cash, kind, labor, or in a blend of these, depending on the
resources available within the community. It has been the goal of the ECRF to maximize
the level of community contribution, while being sensitive to the limits of especially poor
communities. Besides supervising contractors, community committees are responsible for
storing the construction materials; and when it is specified in the project contract,
communities contribute free labor (for example, carrying water, and unloading trucks)
and some materials (generally, stones, gravel, and sand). It is also responsibility of the
community committees to draw up schedules for the work of local people at the sites.
When a number of communities have contributed to a project (for example, for feeder
road rehabilitation), they have been responsible for managing coordination among
themselves.
2.35  Achievements of the Pilot ECRF. The operational timetable of the pilot ECRF
has been divided into three phases. During the first phase, ECRF implemented projects
mainly in basic health and education - rehabilitation and construction of elementary
schools, health centers, and health stations. In phases two and three, ECRF broadened its
portfolio, including sub-projects supporting small-scale irrigation, water supply, and
feeder roads. In February 1995, the ECRF had implemented 75 sub-projects, consisting of
34 elementary schools, 17 health stations, 9 health centers, 3 bridge reconstructions, I
flood control program, I feeder road, and 8 water supply projects. In addition, using
Government funds, the ECRF reconstructed I senior secondary school , and I regional
hospital. At the same date, ECRF had received and appraised more than 250 proposals.
The third phase, presently under implementation, has a pipeline of about 80 projects,
mostly in basic social sectors, water supply, and small-scale irrigation. It is expected that
by the end of the pilot phase ECRF will have implemented more than 150 sub-projects.



14
Table 1 Eritrea Social Fund - Completed Projects Under the Pilot
No. of     No. of Pilots  Avg. Cost to   Community    Avg. Ministry
Beneficiaries               the Fund     Contribution       Cost
('000)                   ("000 Birr)  (% of total costs)   (000 Birr)
Health Stations        94.8           17         316.3"         10.5            284.7
Health Centers          59.1           9         959.2           9.8          2,016.3
Elementary Schools     116.5          34         291.8          10.3            430.1
Hospital 21            180.0            1        448.0          12.7            N/A
High School            120.0           1         440.0           8.5           N/A
Micro-Dam               4.0            2         175.0          84.4 3          N/A
Bridge                 71.5            2         167.0           -             N/A
Water Supply           48.0            8         200.0          16.0             27
Flood Control           7.2             1         68.0          16.0            N/A
Total                 701.1           75
The average cost is higher than the average ministry cost, because three health stations were built in the
remote province of Dankel, with very high transportation costs.
2' Partial rehabilitation of existing hospital
3/ Mainly labor
2.36   In Table I are given some data on the financial parameters of the pilot fund.
About 700,000 beneficiaries were helped by the projects funded by ECRF. Given the
poor social indicators discussed above this pattern of expenditures seems appropriate. For
elementary schools and health centers the average cost to the Fund was lower than for
comparable projects executed by the relevant ministries by 30%. For health stations it
was slightly higher (10%) mainly because of three health stations set up in the remote
province of Dankalia. Community contribution in the form of cash, materials and labor
made up about 10% of total costs for these social infrastructure sub-projects. The
community contribution was higher, 84% (mainly in the form of labor) for the micro-
dams, and about 16% for other physical infrastructure sub-projects, for which the social
rate of return could be considered to be lower.
2.37   Result of the Mid-Term Evaluation. A mid-term evaluation was carried out in
September 1994, by a team composed of local and international independent consultants.
The objectives of the evaluation were to: (i) assess the quality of sub-project
implementation and community participation; (ii) analyze the balance of ECRF's project
portfolio; (iii) determine the relevance of ECRF-financed sub-projects to community
needs; (iv) assess the management of sub-project operations; and (v) assess the scope for
an expansion of ECRF activities, including the identification of capacity building needs.
ECRF's overall performance was assessed as satisfactory, especially given the difficulties
due to the country situation in the immediate aftermath of the war, and the severe
constraints (in terms of staffing and equipment) under which the Fund had to operate
during its initial stage of operations. The evaluation identified the ECRF's greatest asset
as its dedicated staff, and their problem-solving capacity and determination to succeed
against substantial obstacles. The evaluation judged the most important achievements of
the ECRF to be its outreach capacity to communities, specially in remote areas; and the
quality and cost-effectiveness of the sub-projects implemented. The evaluation also made
recommendations concerning four major areas: (i) capacity building, staff training and
recruitment; (ii) expansion of ECRF activities; (iii) ECRF operations; and (iv) social



15
infrastructure projects. Annex B gives a detailed summary of the evaluation of the pilot
project, and the evaluation document is available in the Project file.
3.   THE PROJECT
A. ORIGINS OF THE PROJECT
3.1   The Eritrea Community Rehabilitation Fund (ECRF) was established as a pilot
(within the Recovery and Rehabilitation Program for Eritrea) to test a community-based
mechanism aimed at improving the economic and social conditions of the rural poor
especially in very remote and devastated areas of the country. The pilot phase was
intended to pave the way for a future expanded community-based program. The
evaluation and mid-term review demonstrated that the pilot ECRF accomplished its
objectives, and the Government concluded that its satisfactory performance justifies the
expansion of the fund's activities in terns of both volume of project investments and
sectors covered. In October 1994, the ECRF management team started the preparatory
activities for the expanded phase, and in January 1995, the Government requested Bank
assistance. The follow-up program will be implemented under the name "Eritrea
Community Development Fund" (ECDF), to emphasize that the fund will focus on
sustainable development interventions, shifting from the emphasis on recovery and
rehabilitation of the pilot phase.
B. PROJECT OBJECTIVES
3.2   The Project's objectives are to finance community-based sub-projects which will:
(i) support the rehabilitation and development of basic social and economic infrastructure
critical to the improvement and development of the economic and social conditions of the
population, especially in the remote and war devastated areas of Eritrea; and (ii) improve
the income-generating capacity of poor people and households. These will include: (i)
social sector projects, including the rehabilitation and construction of basic social
infrastructure and provision of social services using labor-intensive techniques and
community participation (construction or rehabilitation of primary schools, junior
secondary schools, health stations, health centers and clinics; water pumps and other
water supply sources; sanitation and the supply of basic equipment; as well as the
provision of basic social services); (ii) activities that will be beneficial to environment
conservation and rehabilitation in areas severely affected by soil erosion, excessive run-
off and high levels of deforestation (including check dams and hillside terraces, tree
planting and other related activities that have a positive impact on the environment); (iii)
implementation of pilot micro savings and credit schemes; (iv) economic resources
management projects which will be simple in design and implemented using labor-
intensive techniques (including reconstruction and extensive rehabilitation of feeder
roads, market storage facilities and other similar infrastructure); and. (v) capacity
building to increase the ability of communities to identify development priorities, manage
project implementation, and maintain assets (including those built with the ECDF
support), and to strengthen regional and local government institutions.



16
3.3   The project supports several imperatives in the need of improving the socio-
economic environment, particularly the Government's Macro-Policy which establishes
the framework for Eritrea's development. The ECDF will make an important contribution
to the Government's human resource development priority, by assisting communities to
construct or rehabilitate basic social infrastructure, and improve the quality of basic
social services. It will also respond to the need of reducing poverty and dependency on
relief assistance by providing poor members of local communities, that cannot survive
on traditional agricultural activities, with alternative income-generation options. Finally,
the ECDF is a representative model of the thrust of the Government's development
strategy, which emphasizes decentralized responsibility; community self-help; private
initiative and cost-sharing; the redress of the inequalities among regions, and social
groups, especially women; and, care for the environment and local responsibility for
conservation.
C. PROJECT DESCRIPTION
3.4   The ECDF will be a demand-driven program. It will finance sub-projects that
have been identified and requested by local communities, and in whose design,
implementation, monitoring, maintenance and sustainability local communities will play
a key role. On an exceptional basis, ECDF in collaboration with regional and local
government institutions will also assist local communities which do not have strong
organizational capacity in assessing their priorities, promote sub-projects' proposals and
implement them. Sub-projects will be appraised to ensure that: (i) they are
developmental rather than relief in nature; (ii) they are sustainable, because the assets
created with ECDF support will be well maintained and recurrent costs covered by the
relevant line Ministry in partnership with local communities; (iii) they respond to
priorities of poor communities; (iv) the investment is justified in terms of economic, and
social returns; (v) they support the Government's environmental conservation and
rehabilitation objectives; and (vi) they are consistent with the Government's sector
development strategies. For each sub-project it is mandatory that the benefiting
community form a Community Project Committee, which will be party to contractual
arrangements with the ECDF. The ECDF will operate a capacity building program of
promotion, education and training to assist communities to participate actively in the sub-
project cycle.
3.5   The ECDF does not implement projects, but supports and facilitates the efforts of
local communities, and ensures the provision of technical expertise in project
implementation and management wherever the community needs. The implementation of
the rehabilitation works will be carried out in a decentralized, pragmatic and flexible way,
and will give a large responsibility to the community for preparation and supervision.
1. Organizational Structure of ECDF
3.6   The ECDF will operate as an autonomous structure within the Ministry of Local
Government. It will have a Management Office (MO) which will be responsible for the
overall project implementation, and oversee 6 Regional Branches, one in each region of



17
the country, responsible for community outreach, and for receiving, screening,
appraising, and recommending conmmunity proposals for ECDF support. Agreement on
the structure of ECDF, including the size of the staff, has been reached at Appraisal. The
proposed organization chart for the ECDF is shown in Annex E; and the map indicates the
location of the Regional Branches.
3.7   Management Office. The Management Office will be headed by a General
Manager (assisted by a Deputy General Manager), who will be responsible for: (i) the
overall coordination of ECDF's activities and ensuring that the ECDF operates according
to the procedures set up in the Operational Manual; (ii) ensure consistency of ECDF's
operations with GOE policy; (iii) exercising quality and financial control, and supervising
and monitoring the activities of the regional branches; (iv) consulting with line ministries
on issues of sector strategy, technical standards, and provision for recurrent costs and
services related to ECDF-financed infrastructure; (v) consolidating the pipeline of sub-
project proposals received from the Regional Branches into an Annual Work Program
and Budget, and submit it to the Ministry of Finance; (vi) carrying out all international
procurement and most of the local procurement (this function will be gradually phased
out, consistently with the development of local markets and increased managerial
capacity in the Regional Branches); (vii) preparing an annual progress and financial
report; (viii) managing a central Monitoring and Information System providing details of
achievements and progress in ECDF activities; (ix) managing the capacity building
program and research and study fund; providing technical support to the Regional
Branches and assist them in gradually enhancing their capability in sub-project appraisal,
implementation, monitoring and evaluation; (x) acting as the main operational contact
point with financing donor agencies; and, (xi) representing the ECDF in all legal matters.
3.8   Structure of the Management Office. The Management Office will consist of 4
functional Divisions with specialized staff working under the supervision of a division
manager. The first is an Engineering Division with 6 engineers (I head of the imit and 5
Project Officers) responsible for carrying out the final review of sub-project appraisals
submitted by the Regional Branches, and making financing recommendations to the
General Manager. For approved sub-projects, the division supervises the establishment
of implementation arrangements, ensuring the involvement of community committees,
line ministry representatives, and in some cases implementing agencies acting on behalf
of the community. The division also contains two survey crews responsible for technical
preparation and project design. The second is a Logistics Division responsible for
procurement, storage and transportation of centrally held construction materials to the
project sites. The Finance and Accounting Division is responsible for disbursement,
accounting, and preparation of the Annual Work Program and Budget, and the Annual
Progress and Financial Report. The Savings and Credit Division will be responsible for
the management of the pilot savings and credit program. There will also be supporting
staff in the areas of Management Coordination and Administration, and MIS. A
Promotion and Training Officer will be located in the MO, to manage and coordinate all
training and capacity building activities.
3.9   Evaluation Committee. The General Manager will establish in the MO an
Evaluation Committee composed of heads of the concerned divisions, with the



18
responsibility of recommending the approval or rejection of sub-project proposals
received and pre-screened from the Regional Branches; the awarding of contracts and
other tasks related to sub-projects implementation as described in the Operational
Manual.
3.10 Regional Branches. There will be an ECDF Regional Branch in each region of
the country. The head of the Regional Branch will be the Chief Managing Director in the
Regional Office of the MOLG, accountable to the ECDF General Manager in matters
related to ECDF activities. The Manager of the Regional Branch will have the following
duties: (i) conducting procurement at local level to the extent authorized by the MO; (ii)
monitoring the appraisal and implementation of sub-projects; and (iii) authorizing
payment certificates as required by the Operational Manual. Each Regional Branch will
have Project Officers in areas of ECDF activity including Engineering, Savings and
Credit, and Finance and Accounting, the number and type depending on the workload.
The main activities of the Regional Branches will include: (i) promotion of ECDF
activities among local communities; (ii)assisting local communities in sub-project
proposal preparation, and appraisal, and supervision of sub-projects; (iii) ensuring close
working relationship with target communities, supporting them during implementation,
and assuring close coordination among on-going ECDF activities; and, (iv) undertaking
procurement activities, when authorized by the MO, and entering into contracts on behalf
of ECDF in conformity with the guidelines described in the Operational Manual. The
Regional Branch will also be responsible for contracting local manpower.
3.11  ECDF will have its own salary structure, based on market levels and designed to
attract, motivate, and retain high caliber staff. The salary structure will include a system
of hardship and other allowances.
2. Project Approach
3.12  Operational Manual. A detailed Operational Manual has been developed, which
satisfies both Government and IDA requirements, and all ECDF activities will be
regulated by the Operational Manual. Necessary modifications to the Operational Manual
can be made with the agreement of IDA. The Operational Manual contains the policy
framework, aims and objectives of the Fund; its organization and functions; the roles,
responsibilities and authority of ECDF staff and other participating parties; the criteria
and procedures for identification, appraisal, implementation, supervision, monitoring, and
evaluation of sub-projects; the implementation, procurement, and disbursement
arrangements; and the monitoring, reporting, accounting and auditing requirements.
Annexes to the Manual provide sample contracting documents and standard forms for use
in processing sub-projects; general sub-project selection criteria; specific check-lists for
rural water supply, feeder roads, social and economic infrastructure sub-projects;
environmental assessment; and, job descriptions and professional profiles for all
professionals to be hired by ECDF in the MO and Regional Branches. A summary of the
contents of the Manual is provided in Annex H, and the full Manual is part of the Project
File. The Manual also covers the Savings and Credit sub-projects. The Manual has been



19
finalized and agreed upon at Negotiation, and adopted by ECDF before Board
Presentation.
3.13 Technical Handbooks. The Operational Manual will be supplemented by
Technical Handbooks on Rural Water Supply, Environment, Rural Feeder Roads and
MIS. The implementation of capacity building and training activity will be supported by
a Capacity Building Support Document. Handbooks will include project design,
appraisal, and implementation guidelines; technical standards and specifications; training
materials for communities and other agents involved in implementation. The Handbooks
will be prepared by the Management Office in collaboration with local or international
consultants (if needed), on the basis of terms of reference agreed upon during Appraisal
(TORs are available in the project file). It has also been agreed that work on the
Handbooks will start before the beginning of the expanded phase, and that it will be
completed before the end of the first year of project implementation.
3. Project Cycle
3.14  Promotional Phase. The pilot ECRF carried out an intensive promotional
activity, at the national and local level, gathering information about community needs,
and disseminating information about the Fund's opportunities and procedures. The
expanded ECDF will build upon the experience gained during the pilot project,
organizing the promotion activities at two levels. At the local level, the objectives will be:
(i) to promote the objectives of ECDF among local communities, explain its operating
mechanisms and benefits, and place ECDF in the context of other on-going or planned
developmental initiatives that involve the community; and, (ii) to assess the capacity of
the community to identify needs, prepare and submit proposals, implement and manage
sub-projects. ECDF Regional Branches staff will participate in Baito meetings and other
community events, and organize presentations of ECDF activities for community groups
and committees.
3.15  Promotion at the nationial level will be carried out under the leadership of the
General Manager, and will consist of an intensive campaign to increase awareness and
gain support for the Fund's activities among government officials, national associations
and organizations concerned with poverty reduction, community leaders and
representatives, and a variety of facilitating agencies. This campaign will be conducted
through the media, distribution of brochures and ECDF's publications, and the
organization of meetings, seminars, workshops and orientation sessions.
3.16  Screening and Appraisal Procedures. Following the promotion phase,
communities may develop and submit proposals for Fund support through their
representatives to the ECDF Regional Branch. A "community" can be a village, a group
of villages, a district area, a cluster of communities in the case of infrastructure covering
more than one community (such as feeder road rehabilitation), a neighborhood in urban
areas, or (in the case of micro-credit), a group of individuals collaborating in a business
venture. Communities will be represented by properly constituted Community Project
Committees. Once a proposal is received: the Regional Branch screens it to assess



20
whether it falls within the ECD)F mandate; reflects the needs and priorities of the
community and its commitment to sustain the facility financed by ECDF; is presented in
a complete enough form; and appears feasible and sound in terms of technical details,
cost and likely benefits, and implementability. Each proposal is recorded in the ECDF
MIS system, and those positively screened are submitted to the Regional Branch for
clearance to appraise. The appraisal, which includes a field visit, assesses the
acceptability of the proposal on the basis of the sub-project's location, its sector/sub-
sector, its likely benefits to beneficiaries, and the commitment of the relevant sectoral
ministry or community group to cover recurrent costs associated with the sub-project.
During the field visit, the Project Officer gives special attention to the broader impact of
the sub-project on the community and special groups within the community (especially
poor women); the likely returns on investment; factors determining both effective
utilization and sustainability; the extent to which the project satisfies technical standards
for the sector and is sensitive to environmental goals; the realism of project costings; the
arrangements for implementation and supervision; and the commitment of beneficiaries
to maintenance. A crucial factor is the cornmunity's own investment, which will be at
least 10 percent of the project costs, in the form of cash, materials, labor or other services.
In exceptional cases, the ECDF will agree that particularly poor communities be allowed
to contribute to the sub-projects' costs with less than 10 percent. During appraisal, the
Project Officer coordinates with the regional department of the relevant sector ministry,
to assess that the sub-project is: (i) in line with the technical standards approved by the
ministry; (ii) consistent with the sector development strategy for the region; and (iii)
covered in terms of its recurrent costs by an allocation in the regional government
approved budget, or by a cost-sharing arrangement with the interested community. Only
those sub-projects that satisfy these requirements can be considered for ECDF support.
3.17  After the appraisal of each sub-project the project Officer drafts an Appraisal
Report which includes a tentative Implementation Schedule, developed in collaboration
with the community; a Monitoring Schedule specifying the role of community and
ECDF; and an estimate on supervision needs. The Project Officer's Appraisal Report is
reviewed by the Head of the Regional Branch to determine whether it is suitable for
transmission to the Management Office, and what recommendation should be made.
There are three possible recommendations: approval, rejection, or request for further
study (such as a technical feasibility assessment). The Regional Branch records its
recommendations, and in each case transmits the recommendation to the Management
Office, accompanied by the project file which includes the project request form; a copy of
the appraisal report with attached a Community Involvement Form and Implementation
Schedule; a copy of the project indicative budget; in the case of standard construction
projects, a copy of the plans; and the record of the Regional Branch recommendation.
When the infrastructure is not based on a standard design the MO in consultation with the
Regional Branch may request the services of the technical crew within the ECDF, or of
an external consultant.
3.18 Sub-Project Appraisal Review and Approval. The Engineering Unit in the
Management Office is responsible for reviewing all Regional Branch appraisal
submissions, and proposing action to the General Manager, who then communicates the



21
final decision to the Regional Branch. When sub-projects are approved, the Management
Office prepares a disbursement schedule, bidding documents, arrangements for
procurement, and contracts, and reviews the cost-estimates. The Regional Branch
arranges for the ECDF and the Community Project Committee to sign a Financing
Agreement which describes the goals, nature and cost of the sub-project, accountability
and liability, the amount and nature of the community's contribution to project costs,
arrangements for implementation and supervision, disbursement arrangements, special
actions that will be needed to mitigate negative environmental effects, and follow up
arrangements for maintenance of assets and recurrent costs. Examples of Financing
Agreements are included as annexes to the Operational Manual.
3.19  Implementation Arrangements. Implementation arrangements will be kept
flexible to reflect different conditions in different areas of the country in terms of
availability of contractors, services, materials. The general principles that will guide
implementation will be to: (i) maximize community involvement and responsibility; (ii)
ensure adequate quality; and, (iii) ensure the most cost-effective methods through a
competitive bidding process. A number of implementing arrangements are possible,
including: (i) implementation by or on behalf of community; (ii) implementation by
Local Government Construction Units; and (iii) self-help projects. In the first case, if the
benefiting community has the institutional capacity to implement the project, the village
council or its Community Committee may act as the implementing agency; where the
Community Committees do not have implementation capacity, they may require the
ECDF to act on their behalf in matters of procurement and contracting, and on their part
supervise and monitor project implementation and manage aspects related to community
contribution. In exceptional cases, where private independent contractors are not
available, the Local Government Units will be closely involved in the implementation of
the project. In such cases, regional line government agencies will provide technical
support as their contribution to the project. However, in all such cases, the Financing
Agreement will be signed with the Community Committee, who will be responsible for
handling funds and contracting necessary labor and materials for the proposed activity.
Finally, in the case of self-help projects ECDF would provide the materials and the
Community Committee would organize and provide the labor. More details on different
implementation and procurement arrangements are given in section I below.
D. PROJECT COMPONENTS
1. Social and Economic Infrastructure and Services
3.20  The ECDF will operate within the framework of overall national development
priorities, and will not preclude any specific sector from consideration. Based on
extensive needs assessments and the experience of the pilot project which has already
provided a pipeline of community requests for the expanded phase, it is anticipated that
the bulk of ECDF-financed economic and social infrastructure sub-projects will fall into
the following categories: primary health; basic education; rural water supply; soil, water
and forestry conservation; and rural feeder roads.



22
3.21   Social Sector Infrastructure and Services. In the social sectors, ECDF support
would help communities willing to invest to increase their access to basic health and
education, and would assist communities to increase the efficiency of basic social
services delivery (including the utilization of facilities provided through ECRF
financing). This should help to maximize the return on both public as well as private
investments by the communities themselves, and encourage a shift to greater community
participation and accountability. Social sector infrastructure projects would aim to
integrate with relevant aspects of other sector sub-projects, such as rural water supply and
sanitation, with health and education.
3.22  Primary Health. The rehabilitation, expansion, and construction of primary
health care facilities (health stations and health centers) in areas where these facilities are
unavailable, would be a core part of this aspect of ECDF support. The provision of this
infrastructure would be carefully coordinated with the Ministry of Health and their local
offices, and would be based on Government standards and regulations for these facilities.
Annex J provides details of these standards, and of the cost assumptions. In this way,
there would be a direct link between the provision of infrastructure, and the services and
maintenance necessary for these to operate. Recurrent costs would be shared by the
Government and local communities. The Ministry and regional administrations would be
responsible for the training and salaries of health workers, and the provision of essential
supplies; the ECDF, as agreed with the Ministry of Health would provide furniture and
refrigeration equipment, wherever possible making purchases of these supplies on the
local market where these are reasonably priced. The communities would make a wide
variety of in-kind contributions related to the maintenance of the facilities, and their
everyday operation. In addition, the Government is designing a system of cost-recovery
through user charges that will be used to defray some portion of recurrent expenses
currently borne by the Government budget.
3.23  The primary health component would emphasize health aspects of environmental
sanitation and water supply. In addition, the construction of primary health infrastructure
may be complemented by activities, such as training and the provision of improved local
services, that can be managed on a community basis. These activities would respond to
local needs, such as improvements in family health and nutrition practices, family
planning, improved sanitation, and pre and post-natal health counseling. In all of these
activities, the ECDF would work closely with local health officials to complement and
assist, and not duplicate health programs planned or in operation. These training and
services activities will pay special attention to women beneficiaries, and other groups in
special need, such as the disabled and aged. An important aspect of ECDF activity would
be the piloting of labor-saving methods to help alleviate the burden of women's work to
encourage attention to health and nutrition problems.
3.24  Basic Education. ECDF's activities in this sector would include the
rehabilitation, expansion, or construction, and equipping of primary schools, and junior
secondary schools in areas where communities lack, request and are willing to invest in
these basic facilities. All schools would be provided according to Government standards,
and efforts would be made to adopt a flexible approach, providing smaller schools to



23
isolated communities that are far away from larger village clusters. Annex J provides
details of the Government standards and the costing of this component. Recurrent costs
associated with the maintenance of the facilities and the provision of educational services,
as well as of other types of sub-projects are dealt with in the following section. The
responsibility for recurrent costs would be shared by the Government, and local
communities. The division of responsibility is likely to evolve over time as the
Government prepares a detailed sector investment plan and implements cost recovery
mechanisms. Currently, the general policy is that the Ministry of Education covers the
cost of teacher training and salaries, and because of shortages, textbooks are lent to pupils
(who often have to share them) and recovered for subsequent use. Communities
customarily make contributions in the form of maintenance of facilities, provision of
services (such as food), in some cases housing for teachers, and other forms of
participation in the running of the schools. However, there are areas where communities
have been contributing to teacher salaries, and one or two provinces have already been
experimenting with school fees and sale of textbooks.
3.25   As in the case of primary health facilities, the ECDF would work closely with the
responsible Ministry (of Education) and its local representatives, guided by Government
construction standards. The ECDF would encourage community participation in basic
education management through parents' committees, and support efforts to improve the
educational participation and performance of girls. The ECDF would also support
community efforts to make the school facility a center for other community activities,
such as basic skills training and pre-school child care centers.
3.26 Rural Water Supply. The water supply component would improve access to
safe drinking water in under-served areas by supporting projects which rehabilitate and/or
augment existing supplies, and develop new sources. All requests for new projects would
therefore be reviewed to determine whether or not the rehabilitation of an existing source
is a viable alternative. Rehabilitation would focus on protecting existing sources,
improving access to safe water by repairing, fitting or replacing failed equipment (e.g.
handpumps), and building distribution networks from existing point sources for large
communities. The development of new sources would be focused on three schemes
typologies: hand dug wells, bore holes, and piped water systems to allow ECDF to
accommodate requests from communities of different sizes (250 - 8,000 persons) and
characteristics (nomadic and sedentary). On an exceptional basis, and only where none of
these alternative is technically feasible, other alternatives would be considered.
3.27  To the extent possible, drinking water supply sub-projects would be integrated
with health and education sub-projects. All health and education sub-projects would
include water and sanitation facilities. Drinking water supply sub-projects would also
take into consideration other economic water supply requirements - such as livestock
watering and kitchen gardening, and, where possible, these will be provided for. The
practice of collecting user charges for both drinking water supply and livestock watering
is already established in some parts of Eritrea, and the project would support and build on
this.



24
3.28  Beneficiary communities would be fully responsible for the operation and
maintenance (recurrent costs) of their water supplies. This is a requirement of the ECDF,
and an agreement between the Fund and the community would be drawn up to reflect this
commitment. ECDF would discuss alternative technologies with communities to ensure
that they are aware of the operation and maintenance requirements and recurrent costs
implications of the schemes they select. ECDF would also assist the communities to
establish appropriate user charges, and establish sound financial practices.
3.29  A key element for the success of this component is capacity building support for
communities. This would help to ensure that communities not only participate in
identification of sub-projects, but also have the required skills to operate, maintain and
manage their water supply in the long term. Technical capacity within the Government
would also need to be strengthened to facilitate technical assistance, training, and the
implementation of community awareness creation programs. Efforts would be made to
ensure that gender concerns are adequately addressed by the capacity building program.
Private sector capacity would be strengthened through a series of seminars and courses.
3.30  Feeder Road Rehabilitation. The overall aim of this component is to assist the
Government to improve access to and from rural communities, markets and social
services. The proposed improvements will contribute to meet the local transport needs of
rural communities (including within village needs). The proposed activities would
include: (i) survey and design of feeder roads, bridges and river crossings; (ii)
rehabilitation and spot improvements of up to 1270 km of feeder roads; (iii) construction
of small bridges, culverts and fords or river crossings (an estimated 1 10 box culverts, and
120 ford or river crossings); (iv) construction of retaining walls and other types of
environmental protection measures for all types of RRT (Rural Road Transport)
improvements; (v) strengthening of ECDF Management Office and Regional Branches,
and of regional administrations through recruitment and training of staff for
programming, survey and design of feeder roads, and supervision of works; and, (vi)
training for representatives from beneficiary communities to use guidelines and systems
to plan, manage, maintain, and make proper use of RRT improvements.
3.31   The ECDF would provide support to the following types of rural road transport
improvements: (i) seasonal vehicular access tracks (through spot improvements), e.g. for
agricultural purposes; (ii) local all-weather vehicular access roads and tracks (including
within villages roads, and associated drainage and safety measures), which may or may
not meet rural roads standards; (iii) rural roads of district significance (e.g., major rural
roads serving groups of communities and important district/woreda administrative
centers); (iv) a few selected rural roads of regional significance (roads which are links in
the regional rural road networks); (v) environmentally sound and safe community
footpaths and pack animal trails; and, (vi) low-cost tracks for appropriate intermediate
means of transport (IMTs), such as animal-drawn carts, hand carts, and bicycle-based
transporters. In addition, the ECDF's support to the creation of local micro-credit
institutions would make resources available for the introduction of IMTs, and local
transport services. The support would go to entrepreneurs wishing to engage in the local
manufacture, marketing and operation of affordable IMTs and other local transport.



25
3.32  Existing engineering capability in the MOLG resides with the Engineering Unit of
the ECDF Management Office. The Unit therefore provides a main nucleus for feeder
roads program coordination in association with the Planning Department of the Ministry.
The ECDF therefore provides an important vehicle for the MOLG to develop its future
feeder roads strategy in association with the Regional Administrations and Community
Baitos and Development Committees. An engineer will be assigned full time to manage
the program within the ECDF Management Office. The ECDF will then assist in
establishing the engineering capacity in the regional administrations for the supervision
and management of future feeder road rehabilitation and maintenance programs
3.33   Surveys and design of all the roads and structures would be carried out in the first
two years of activity. Some road rehabilitation, culvert and river construction would start
in the first year. The project team would review the annual program of roadworks at the
end of each year to establish the scope of works for the next financial year. Ad hoc cost
recovery arrangements are already on-going in some regions, including the charging of
tolls for the use of the roads, and they provide experiences to build upon in ECDF
financed projects.
3.34  Soil, Water and Forestry Conservation. ECDF would adopt an integrated
approach to soil, water and forestry conservation, in line with the on-going Government
policy. This extended menu of options would include hillside closure and natural
revegetation, the construction of simple stone or soil bunds, planting of grass strips (e.g.
with vetiver glass) along the contour, trash lines, retention of crop residues to improve
ground cover, retention of dung to enhance fertility, minimum tillage, etc. Similarly, the
frequent prescription of eucalyptus planting to combat deforestation would be enriched
with the provision of indigenous species, fruit trees which can play an important
nutritional role, and generally receive a high level of protection by villagers, fodder trees
that can enhance livestock feeding, and leguminous trees.
2. Pilot Savings and Credit Program
3.35  Objective. The Project will also support the launching of a pilot Savings and
Credit (S&C) program aimed at supporting investment in economic activities at the
village (or town) level. The program's objective will be to demonstrate the effectiveness
of institution-building efforts aimed at creating new income and employment
opportunities in targeted communities, and at contributing to the improvement of living
standards and to increased overall prosperity of these communities.
3.36 Approach and Methodology. This objective will be pursued through the
provision of savings and credit services to substantial numbers of Eritreans in pilot areas.
Credit will be provided incrementally to individuals who have first demonstrated a
minimum capacity to save for at least three months. These individuals will then become
eligible for credit to finance various economic activities in the community. However,
they will be asked to get together into groups that will operate according to the solidarity
group concept which has proven successful in other programs around the world (each
group member is responsible for the repayment of loans extended to other members of the



26
group--all group members will be denied access to further credit until all loans to group
members have been repaid). These groups will then be supported and supervised by
village-level community-based organizations, as described below (see Annex M for a
detailed description of the basic village banking model adopted by the program).
3.37   Group members will be eligible, subject to approval of loan purpose by other
group members and by the Baito S&C Sub-Committee responsible for program activities,
to small loans initially of up to Birr 750 (approximately US $100) typically repayable
over six months. The loan amounts could be increased to Birr 6,000 repayable over two
years, depending on a successful repayment record. In order to take full opportunity of
income-generating and employment-creation opportunities in program areas, the program
will also fund a limited number of larger small enterprises either individually- or
collectively-owned operating in these areas. These second-tier loans, which will range
from Birr 10,000 to Birr 100,000, will require completion of a formal feasibility study
and also require approval by ECDF's centrally-based S&C Unit. They will finance sub-
projects providing benefits to the entire community (irrigation pumps, oil extraction
presses, grain mills, food processing installation), or businesses able to generate
employment at the community level (carpentry shops, tailoring operations). These loans
will provide added flexibility to the S&C program, by filling gaps in availability of
financing for larger somewhat more formalized ventures which would still have no access
to commercial bank credit.
3.38   Management of Program at Village Level. The program will cover, during its
first two years, three village clusters situated in separate regions of the country, to be
extended to three additional clusters starting in Year 3. At first level of management, the
program will rely on village Administrations or other institutions (selected on the basis of
eligibility criteria included in the Operational Manual) that would offer adequate capacity
to oversee the creation and operation of borrower groups and manage savings and credit
activities--including savings deposits and withdrawals, and loan disbursements and
collection.. For program purposes, village Administrations will establish three-person
Savings and Credit (S&C) Sub-Committees (to include the village Administration
Chairman) directly responsible for program implementation. At least one member of the
Sub-Committee will be a woman.'
3.39 Regional-Level Management. ECDF will assign one S&C officer to each
regional cluster during the first year of operation in that cluster, plus, as required, an S&C
agent during the second year, as well as a second S&C agent during the third year. S&C
officers and agents will be responsible for overall program activities in their region,
working hand-in-hand with village Administration Sub-Committees to establish, train and
supervise borrower groups. They will also closely monitor the administrative and
financial functions performed by these Sub-Committees (particularly with respect to loan
collection), while acting as liaison with head office. These field staff will play a critical
role in preserving the program's operational and financial integrity, and will be subject to
Other measures to ensure strong participation of women will include the taking into account of a field
officer's success in reaching women as part of his/her evaluation criteria.



27
strict performance evaluations based on expansion and performance of the program in
their area (key evaluation criteria will include collection performance, as well as number
of village banks created, number of new members, number of loans extended, and share
of loans benefiting women).
3.40   Central-Level Management. The program will rely at the central level on a
Savings and Credit Unit to be established within ECDF. The Unit will provide overall
guidance for the program, carry out program-wide activities such as establishment of a
management information system (the detailed outline of which was agreed upon during
appraisal) and selection and training of field staff. It will also supervise and monitor
field-based activities. The Government is fully aware of the importance of maintaining
from the very start of the program the highest standards of administrative and financial
performance, and of selecting a top-quality program manager to help enforce such
standards. An overall program outline and a detailed operational manual were developed
during project appraisal and agreed upon at that time with ECDF management.
3.41   Contribution to Financial Markets Development. Eritrea's financial system is
still in its infancy. Although the country's National Bank is organizing itself to play
some of the core functions of a central bank, Eritrea still uses the Ethiopian Birr as its
currenicy, and, since it does not issue its own currency, has little control over its monetary
policy. The state-owned Commercial Bank of Eritrea remains the only commercial bank
in operation, reaching only a fraction of the country's population. Only a few scattered
NGO-sponsored savings and credit programs are presently offering financial services to a
few thousand amongst the vast majority of the population with little or no access to
formal banking services.
3.42  In this context, the pilot S&C program can gradually contribute to the broadening
of Eritrea's financial system. Although its initial outreach will be limited (270 rural and
urban sites and 13,500 beneficiaries reached after Year 5), it will, if successful, constitute
the basis for a viable institutional framework for the extension of savings and credit
services to economic agents heretofore totally excluded from participation in formalized
financial transactions. Also, the program will rely on an institutional mechanism (the
Village Administration Sub-Committee) which offers strong potential for the
establishment and growth of a community-based system oriented towards the rural- and
urban-based micro-entrepreneur. Finally, the program will adopt a structure of interest
rates fully consistent with long-term development of Eritrea's financial markets,
sufficient to compensate for: (a) erosion of the fund through inflation; (b) cost of
administration at the level of ECDF; and, (c) anticipated losses tied to bad debts. The
village administrations or other FIs will on-lend to final beneficiaries at commercial rates.
ECDF and IDA will review anmually the interest rate applied from ECDF to the financial
intermediaries, and the plan for the next year of activity.
3. Capacity Building, Training, and Research
3.43   During the pilot phase, the Fund had limited resources for capacity building.
Given the increased volume of activity in the expanded ECDF, the Project would include



28
a practical and targeted training program designed to ensure effective implementation of
Fund activities. Capacity building would help ensure that the Fund is appropriately
decentralized, community based, and that the communities would play a primary role not
only in the identification of sub-projects, but also in their implementation and monitoring,
and the subsequent maintenance of facilities. Capacity building would target professional
personnel in the Fund at the Central and Regional level; personnel in line ministries
supporting Fund activities; facilitators assisting the ECDF in project promotion and
implementation; and beneficiary communities and community leaders who would both
have to contribute to the development of the project and utilize and maintain the assets
built with ECDF financing. A promotion and Training Officer will be located in the MO
to manage and coordinate all training and capacity building activities.
3.44  Capacity building activities for the expanded ECDF would be financed by a
parallel program sponsored by a consortium of donors, which would start before the
beginning of the expanded ECDF. The capacity building program would include among
the activities necessary to prepare the expanded ECDF, the drawing up of a roster of
national resources (government agencies, NGOs, individual consultants, or consulting
firms) which can be used to provide the necessary training or technical assistance. The
capacity building program would rely on Eritrean organizations and experts (selected
through a process of competitive bidding), supplemented, where needed, by international
specialists working under the supervision of ECDF. The approach would reflect the goal
of strengthening local capacity, and emphasis would be given to training of trainers. Final
agreement on the approach, content, and strategy for the capacity building programn has
been reached at Appraisal, and is reflected in the Capacity Building Support Program
document, available in the Project file.
3.45 The capacity building program would also include a research fund that would be
used primarily to assess the real benefits of the ECDF from a community point-of view,
and to ensure the necessary levels of quality in sub-project design and maintenance.
3.46  The pilot experience has identified some broad parameters and some specific
areas to which the capacity building program would need to respond, although a needs
analysis has been planned to identify the details of the program for the five year period of
the Project. Three broad areas have been prioritized. Firstly, organizational strengthening
and training activities would be provided to the management and professional personnel
of the ECDF in the Management Office and Regional Branches. A second target for
training would be the various facilitators assisting the ECDF and communities with sub-
project design and implementation. These include local sector specialists and
development officers located at regional and district level in the Reconstruction and
Development Divisions (RDD) of Local Government. A third target would be
community committees and beneficiary groups, with training focused on project design,
implementation, and supervision, and the maintenance of infrastructure.
3.47  Approaches to Capacity Building. The capacity building component would
give emphasis to team building, to enable the ECDF to accomplish its goals with a small
number of staff and facilitators. Training methods would focus on group problem solving
and group decision making, and strengthening the links among the ECDF Management



29
Office and Regional Branches, local government, and the communities. The training
would aim for a blend of building upon the realities of Eritrean conditions, and learning
from the best of outside experience and specialized techniques. In areas of technical
complexity, especially in the early years of the Project, training would be supplemented
by technical assistance from experienced experts, who would provide a combination of
training on-the-job, and consulting supervision at the actual construction sites. To widen
the experience of ECDF staff, selective use would be made of out-of-country study tours
and courses.
3.48  The program would support the identification and training of community
facilitators that can maintain a link between the communities and ECDF. Training
activities would be flexible and integrated and consist of a combinations of workshops,
and seminars, on the job and on site support, formal training, and overseas courses and
study tours. To strengthen its management approach training would be combined with
organizational development methods. Capacity building at the community level, would
make use of traditional village meetings and committee structures, supported by special
workshops, the distribution of promotional materials, and use of mass media.
3.49  Capacity Building for the ECDF Staff Based on the pilot experience, the major
capacity building priority for the ECDF itself will be the training of new project officers
in the Fund's sub-project cycle: identification, preparation and appraisal, and
implementation and supervision. At both Management Office and Regional Branches
levels, the ECDF would strengthen its organizational capacity to handle the increased
volume of activity the expanded program would generate, and to assist the gradual and
incremental process of decentralization of responsibilities to Regional Branches. Specific
measures include the use of a Monitoring and Information System (MIS), the use of
strategic planning methods in developing the Fund's program, and a rigorous financial
management and reporting system. Special training would also be required to support the
program of promotion and community development.
3.50  Technical Assistance and Technical Training. Most of the capacity building
efforts would focus on technical support for both Fund staff, facilitators, and local
communities. This would involve both training activities, the development of a system of
monitoring and physical inspection, and on site visitation by technical experts. Particular
attention would be paid to the areas of water supply and rural road rehabilitation, where
maintenance is a major responsibility of communities and local authorities. A complete
set of training and capacity building activities has been designed to make possible the
implementation of the pilot Savings and Credit component, and is included in the
Capacity Building Support Document.
3.51  Capacity Building for Facilitators of Sub-Project Implementation. Local
experts and administration officials would play an important role in supporting ECDF
activities, by helping ensure that ECDF sub-projects meet sectoral standards, by
providing technical support in design and supervision, and by assisting the ECDF staff in
promotion and community development activities. Where needed, the capacity building
component would train these facilitators in the Fund's procedures and processes, and in
the management of community-based projects. Special tailor-made programs would also



30
be organized for district and regional officials in sector-specific aspects of ECDF
financed activities.
3.52   Capacity Building at the Community Level. The overall goal of the capacity-
building program at the community level, is to assist communities to take the lead in
utilizing the opportunities offered by the ECDF, through a realistic blend of strengthened
self-reliance, and the ability to assess the need for expertise to be contracted outside. The
first level of capacity building for communities would focus on training community
beneficiaries in the approaches and procedures of the Fund, methods of identifying sub-
projects of benefit to the community, methods of monitoring implementation progress
and evaluating outcomes, and the skills to ensure effective community maintenance of
assets. The second level would be training for community leaders and community project
committees in managing the community's interests in the project cycle, including
negotiating with Fund staff and facilitators, and contracting implementation services.
Training would also cover basic skills in managing finances and supervising work in
progress. The third level would be specialized programs that cover a particular theme
(such as environmental conservation, the needs of poor women or other special groups,
the use of community labor, the essential linkages among sectoral activities); or provide a
specialized skill (for example, training in the use of a particular type of technology or
equipment).
E. RECURRENT COSTs GENERATED BY SOCIAL AND ECONOMIC INFRASTRUCTURE
SUB-PROJECTS
3.53   The following tables provide estimates of the recurrent costs implications of the
proposed project on the Government's budget. It is important to note that the projections
are made on an assumed pattern of expansion of different facilities; in fact the community
may demand a different mix of projects. Calculating the recurrent cost is done by sector.
The assumption is that the project activities in each of the three sectors are of an
investment nature, recurrent costs are calculated starting the first year of completion of
investment in each of the sectors. The budgetary impact is likely to be lower than
estimated here because communities are expected to make contributions to the
maintenance and recurrent costs of projects. In primary education, although no tuition
fees are charged, parents bear the costs of maintenance of schools; in future, they may be
expected to finance a larger share of recurrent costs, for example by paying a charge for
textbooks. In the health sector there is presently a symbolic fee charged for services
delivered at the health stations and centers, but there is an active dialogue in the
Government about a significant increase in the user charge fee structure. For the rural
water supply component, recurrent costs will be fully covered by the beneficiary
communities; and no recurrent costs are anticipated for the pilot savings and credit
program.
3.54   Education. The project envisages an investment outlay totaling US$ 8.92 million
over five years, distributed as follows:



31
Table 2 Investments in Education Sub-Projects ('000 US$)
Year 1    Year 2    Year 3    Year 4    Year 5
Total Sector Investment   1,118      2,820      2,410     1,440     1,070
Primary                  526       1,683     1,273     1,225      1,070
Secondary                650       1,137     1,137      215          0
3.55   To calculate the recurrent expenditure associated with the investments above, we
use government estimates. For a primary school, it estimated that the capital cost per
class room including furniture is 79,396 Birr. Assuming 41 students per class room and
double shift, the capital cost per pupil is 945 Birr. It is also estimated that the recurrent
cost (desirable, not actual) per pupil would be 117 Birr. This implies that the ratio of
recurrent to capital cost is 117/945 = 12.4%. Similarly, the ratio for a secondary school is
to be estimated at 142/906 = 15.7%.
3.56   The investment outlays in Table 2 above produce the following cumulative
recurrent costs in constant dollars:
Table 3 Cumulative Recurrent Costs in Education Sub-Projects ('000 US$)
Year 1   Year 2   Year 3   Year 4   Year 5 & Beyond
Primary                         65      414       712       972          1,104
Secondary                      102      281       364       556           556
Total                          167      695      1,076    1,528          1,660
Total in Birr (6.3 = US$ 1.00)   1,054    4,378  6,778    9,626         10,458
3.57   Thus, at the completion of this project component, after 5 years, 10.4 million Birr
(at current exchange rate) would need to be allocated, or partially raised and the rest
allocated in the budget to ensure sustainability of the above investment.
3.58   Health. A similar exercise is carried out for the health component. The project
outlays for the health sector are as follows:
Table 4 Investment Costs in Health Sub-Projects (000 US$)
Year 1    Year 2    Year 3    Year 4    Year 5
Total Project Outlay    1,000     1,834     1,438     1,036       500
Health Station           508      1,206      954        537       424
Health Center            366       285       299        314         0
Veterinary Clinic        126       343        185       185        76
3.59   Assuming a standard capital cost per health station of US $60,000 or 378,000 Birr
at current exchange rate, and a recurrent cost per HS of 104,040 Birr; the recurrent/capital
cost ratio is 27.5% Similarly, for Health centers, the respective numbers are US $250,000
or 1,575,000 Birr at current exchange rate, and 217,050 Birr. The ratio of recurrent to
capital is 13.8%. There are no estimates available for Vet Clinics, and thus a ratio of



32
13.8% is also used here. On such basis, the cumulative recurrent costs associated with the
investment outlays for the sectors are projected below:
Table 5 Cumulative Recurrent Costs in Health Sub-Projects
US$ (000)          Year I   Year 2    Year 3    Year 4    Year 5
Health Station                 140      472      734       882      999
Health Center                  51        90      131       174       174
Veterinary Clinic              17       64        90       116       126
Total (000 US$)               208       626      955      1,172    1,299
Total (000 Birr) @ 6.3       1,310    3,943     6,017    7,384     8,184
Total includ. markup for drugs  1,507    4,534  5,232    8,492     9,412
3.60   Upon the completion of this component of the project, therefore, 8.2 million Birr
(at current exchange rate) would need to be budgeted to ensure the sustainability of the
investment. Including the cost of drugs provided, 9.4 million Birr would have to be
budgeted.
3.61   Rural Feeder Roads. The assumption here is that the project is financing the
construction of rural roads, using mainly labor-based technology. The component
allocates US $16.5 million including spot improvements, rehabilitation and survey and
design of 1052 km of roads, over the 5 years as follows:
Table 6 Projection of Road Sub-Projects (US$ '000)
Year 1   Year 2    Year 3    Year 4    Year 5
Project Outlay     3,113    3,892     3,365    4,019     2,146
KM                  206       281      260      305       220
3.62   The average rehabilitation cost is estimated at US $13,000 per kilometer of rural
roads including survey and design. The project would finance the improvement and
construction of 1272 km of roads as shown in Table 6 above. Also, assuming a cost for
routine maintenance (mainly by labor-based methods) of US $600 per km and an
equivalent cost from periodic maintenance (once every 5 years), the total cumulative
maintenance cost associated with the project would be:
Table 7 Maintenance Costs of Road Sub-Projects
Yrl      Yr2       Yr3      Yr4       Yr5    Yr6&Beyond
KM                      0       206      487       747      1052        1272
Routine                 0       124      292       448       631         763
Periodic                0         0        0         0         0         422
Total cost (000 US$)    0       124      292       448       631         763
Total Cost Birr @ 6.3   0       779     1841      2824      3977        4808



33
3.63  Thus, by the time of project completion, 4.8 million Birr needs to be allocated or
raised to ensure sustainability of the road component.
3.64 Budgetary Impact. Assuming that there is no community contribution nor donor
financing for the recurrent costs associated with the three project components above, the
budgetary impact after project completion will total 23.4 million Birr (10.4m + 8.2m
+4.8m). The annual budgetary impact would be:
Table 8 Budgetary Impact
Year 1   Year 2   Year 3   Year 4  Year 5 & Beyond
Budgetary Impact      2.3     9.1       14.5    19.7        23.4
(million birr)
as a% Recurrent Budget   0.16  0.48     0.74     1.05        1.2
3.65  Thus, the annual budgetary impact compared to the FY94 budget, reportedly at
1,867 million Birr, would be insignificant. Even if the budget remains constant at the
FY94 level, the highest budgetary impact in year 5 and beyond will still amount to only
1.2% of annual recurrent expenditure.
F. MANAGEMENT INFORMATION SYSTEM (MIS) AND REPORTING
3.66  The ECDF Management Information System will track the physical and financial
progress of sub-project activities and the financial commitments and expenditure of the
Fund, and provide the information for monthly, quarterly, and annual reports. The MIS
will also store information to respond to ad-hoc queries, and to carry out periodic
assessments of the impact of ECDF activities on beneficiaries. During the pilot phase,
the ECDF moved from a manual accounting system to a computerized system, which is
being further upgraded to a Windows-based package. In parallel with the accounting
system, the Project is also establishing a fully computerized Management Information
System (MIS) to report on sub-project implementation progress. The system is
centralized with networked microcomputers for each of the Management Office
functions. Some MIS functions, including sub-project data entry and monitoring, will be
progressively transferred to the Regional branches as they build their own computing and
staff capabilities. The final phase of MIS development is currently being implemented,
and the full automated and integrated MIS and accounting systems will be operational by
Project Effectiveness. In the period before the project becomes effective, the accounting
and MIS procedures (as described in Annex C), will be fully tested, and sample formal
outputs, including reporting formats and monitoring indicators, will be generated,
reviewed and finalized. Approval by IDA of the output formats will be a condition of
project effectiveness.
3.67 Regular Reporting System. Monthly and Quarterly Progress and Financial
Reports will be the main tools for monitoring progress of the ECDF activities. The
essential components of these reports will be: (i) progress with reference to the Annual
Plan; (ii) summary of the progress of sub-projects under preparation since the previous



34
report; (iii) summary of sub-projects under implementation, identifying time and cost
performance and encountered problems; (iv) summary of sub-projects completed since
the previous report, analyzing time and cost performance and reporting on encountered
problems; (v) financial and administration reports, which will include monthly operating
statements comparing real costs to those budgeted on a monthly and a cumulative basis,
overall, by region and by project, giving reasons for any material over-runs or savings;
and (vi) a running report on capital and recurrent costs for each type of infrastructure and
service introduced through the ECDF, and an analysis of the sources of financing for each
(the ECDF, Ministries and provincial departments, and communities). At the end of each
year an Annual Progress Report will be prepared which will be used as the basis for
formulating the Annual Work Program for the forthcoming year. In addition to providing
a review of financial and fiscal performance, the report will also include a summary of
impact assessments completed since the previous report with a synopsis of the findings,
including special attention to environmental impact. A detailed description of the design
of the MIS, including the MIS for the pilot Savings and Credit program is provided in
Annex C. In addition to regular monitoring activities, the ECDF will carry out periodic
topic-specific evaluations of its operations, including beneficiary assessments.
3.68  Sub-Project Completion Reports. Whenever an ECDF sub-project has been
completed, the Project Officer responsible will carry out an assessment and produce a
Sub-Project Completion Report. This will include: (i) a summary of the physical
achievements and outcomes based on the agreed sub-project goals; (ii) a statement of the
benefits as seen at this stage; (iii) a statement of specific problems encountered and
actions taken to remedy them; (iv) a summary of project accounts; and, (v) a description
of follow-up steps, including maintenance arrangements and responsibilities. Six months
after project completion, projects will be revisited and project performance will be rated
on the basis of technical performance, extent of utilization by intended beneficiaries, and
by commitment by community and by cooperating agency to their obligations.
3.69  Mid-Term Evaluation. A mid-term evaluation of the ECDF, carried out by
independent specialists, will take place after 30 months of implementation to: (i)
determine whether satisfactory progress is being made towards meeting the Project
objectives; (ii) evaluate the impact of the sub-projects on beneficiaries; (iii) assess the
technical quality of construction; (iv) assess whether arrangements for recurrent costs and
the maintenance of assets built with Fund support are being honored, and analyze the
sources for the financing of recurrent costs ; and, (v) determine whether there is a need to
modify any practices. The mid-term evaluators will review a representative sample of
sub-projects, and interview community committee members/ beneficiaries, local
government officials, and Fund staff. Beneficiaries will participate in impact studies to
assess the change in their economic and social welfare as a result of the facilities and
services provided through ECDF financing. Special emphasis will be given to issues
relating to gender, environment, and sustainability.
3.70 Implementation Completion Report. An Implementation Completion Report
(ICR) will be prepared jointly by the Government and IDA within six months of the end
of the ECDF.



35
3.71  Annual Work Plan and Budget. The Regional Branches will be responsible for
maintaining a pipeline of sub-project proposals submitted by communities and screened
as eligible. This pipeline will be reviewed with the regional administration and sector
departments. The pipeline will then be used to develop the Annual Work Plan and
Budget (AWPB) for ECDF's activities in the region. The rationale for the volume of
activities included in the AWPB will be based on a number of factors as reflected in the
Annual Progress Report, and these will be specifically analyzed in the AWPB which will
contain: (i) the project processing achievements of the previous year; (ii) the average
implementation time taken for each category of project; (iii) the ECDF work-load
requirements for each category of project; (iv) disbursement performance; and (v) the
satisfactory provision of financing to cover recurrent costs. Where the AWPB proposes a
higher volume of activity than would be justified on the basis of the previous year's
performance, the reasons will need to be stated. The AWPB will also include an analysis
of the rationale for the content of the activities proposed, including: (i) responsiveness to
priority community needs; (ii) level of community commitment and anticipated
investment; (iii) level of priority in sector terms, and consistency with sector policy for
the region; (iv) distribution over communities in the region; and, (v) responsiveness to
needs of poor and vulnerable groups, especially women. In addition to these analyses,
the AWPB will include a summary presentation of all pipeline proposals, the expected
costs to the ECDF, the recurrent cost implications (worked out with the counterpart sector
ministries and based on information gathered through the Community Contribution
Monitoring System on the level of community contributions to recurrent costs), the
anticipated disbursement schedule, and the overhead staffing/administrative/operational
costs linked to the volume of activities proposed. The AWPB will be submitted for
review and approval by the Ministry of Finance, the Budget and Management Office in
the Office of the President, and IDA and other participating donors. The adoption of the
consolidated and regional budgetfor the first year of ECDF operations acceptable to
IDA will be a condition for project effectiveness.
G. LEGAL ARRANGEMENTS
3.72  ECDF has been established by a government directive as an autonomous entity
functioning within the Ministry of Local Government, headed by a General Manager
appointed by the Government. This will permit ECDF to function autonomously with
direct access to IDA funds and operate according to procedural guidelines stated in its
Operational Manual. At the same time, this arrangement will encourage a sense of
ownership and commitment in the regions by placing the ECDF within the local
government system. The draft directive to establish ECDF was agreed upon during
Negotiations; and the ECDF has been officially established in January 1996.
3.73  An Operational Manual has been prepared based on the experience gained in the
pilot phase to guide ECDF activities at the central and regional levels. It has been
finalized and agreed upon during Negotiations and adopted in January 1996. This
Manual provides criteria for appraisal and selection of sub-projects, including the pilot
Savings and Credit component, establishes reporting and monitoring obligations at the



36
central and regional levels, and details procurement and disbursement procedures, and
once finalized, will be amended only in consultation with IDA.
3.74  ECDF will enter into financing and implementation agreements with the
community or village level entities. The practice followed during the pilot will be
continued during the expanded program: ECDF will sign "Financing Agreements" with
Village Administrations, which are established at the village and district levels by
Regulation of the Ministry of Local Government to ensure people's participation in the
development process through the encouragement of local initiatives. The Regulation
confers authority on these committees to enter into contracts and receive public funds. In
the pilot Savings and Credit program ECDF will sign with Village Administrations or
other financial intermediaries a Financing Agreement before opening any line of credit.
H. ENVIRONMENTAL ANALYSIS
3.75  The Government aims to ensure that no sub-project will have a negative impact
on the environment. The appraisal process for each sub-project is designed to ensure that
any potential negative environmental impact will be identified at an early stage and
discussed with the community to reach an agreement on appropriate mitigating actions.
Where no solution can be found, the sub-project will not be further processed.
3.76  It is anticipated that most ECDF sub-projects are unlikely to have any adverse
impact on the environment. As the roads component of the project will consist almost
exclusively of the rehabilitation or upgrading of existing feeder roads and footpaths, no
major environmental issues are envisaged for this component. However, attention will
need to be paid to preventing potential erosion of slopes bordering rural roads financed
under the project. As most of the potential environmental problems that are likely to
occur can be dealt with through special features of project design, close monitoring and
technical support to communities, the project has a limited potential for environmental
harm. Thus the project has been rated category B.
3.77  The Fund also anticipates receiving requests for a number of proposals with
potentially positive environmental impacts, such as the establishment of tree nurseries
and woodlots for communal and individual use, the provision of tree seedlings for
fuelwood, fruit and construction material, the planting of fodder grasses, fertilizer and
seed to enhance hillside closures, construction of grasstrips, bunding, terracing, drainage
ditches, check-dams to control run-off, and measures for gully stabilization. A guiding
principle will be that such measures should be based on a clear commitment by the
community and individuals concerned, to maintain such investment without further
incentives through food or cash.
3.78  ECDF staff will receive training in order to enable them to identify potential
environmental issues and to take appropriate action to ensure that these can be avoided or
minimized. The Project Officers will be assisted in their sub-project design, appraisal and
supervision by a series of sector-specific environmental check-lists as part of an
environmental assessment handbook. Agreement on the terms of reference for the



37
handbook, including content of the environmental checklists for each sub-sector, has been
reached at Appraisal. Further details of environmental issues and analysis are contained
in Annex I
1. PROJECT COSTS AND FINANCING
3.79   The total cost for the five year project period is US $49.68 million equivalent with
a foreign exchange cost of US $13.57. The cost projections are based on the pilot
experience, a review of sector-specific unit costs and projections of the implementation
load that can be carried by the proposed ECDF staffing levels (ifull details of these
projections are contained in the project files). Table 9 shows the indicative financing
plan. The IDA credit of US $17.5 million equivalent will cover about 35 % of the total
project cost. The Govermment will cover approximately US $7.50 million (15% of the
total cost) and the communities are expected to cover about US $4.50 million (9% of the
total project costs). Other donors are expected to finance US $20.12 million (41%).
Table 9 Financing Plan (US $ million)
Financing Plan        Foreign Costs  Local Costs      Total          %
IDA                              7.88          9.63         17.50           35
Government of Eritrea                          7.50          7.50           15
Community Contribution                         4.56          4.56            9
Other Donors                     5.69         14.43         20.12           41
Total                           13.57         36.12         49.68          100
Table 10 Annual Project Costs (US$ million)
Total Project Costs     FY97      FY98       FY99      FY00       FY01      Total
Micro-projects
Rural Water Supply        0.43       1.61       1.58      1.45      0.46       5.53
Education                  1.18      2.82      2.41       1.44       1.07      8.92
Health                     1.00      1.83       1.44      1.04      0.50       5.81
Roads                      3.11      3.89      3.36       4.02      2.15      16.53
Market                    0.66       0.66                                      1.32
NRM                        0.25      0.35      0.71       0.70       0.35      2.36
Subtotal                    6.63      11.16      9.5        8.65      4.53      40.47
Micro-creditofwhich:        0.31       0.47      0.76       0.86      0.71       3.11
Lines of Credit           0.12       0.38      0.68       0.78      0.63       2.60
Administrative Expenses   0.19       0.09      0.08       0.08      0.08       0.51
TA/Training                 0.65       0.34      0.42       0.24      0.07       1.75
Office Equipment/Vehicles   0.70       -         0.30       -          -         1.00
Operational Costs           0.63       0.65      0.67       0.69      0.71       3.35
Total Project Costs         8.93      12.62     11.65      10.44      6.02      49.68



38
3.80  In addition to covering a large part of the operational costs, the Government's
contribution will finance: (a) recruitment of ECDF staff; and (b) operation and
maintenance of ECDF offices.
J. PROCUREMENT
3.81   ECDF will operate in accordance with detailed procurement procedures specified
in the Operational Manual which have taken into account the unavailability of contractors
or construction materials in most of the rural areas and the relatively weak capacity of the
Regional Branches. Project arrangements for procurement are, therefore, designed to
enable ECDF to progressively and incrementally delegate procurement responsibility to
Regional Branches and community groups proportionally with the increase in contracting
capacity and availability of construction materials. For example, it is anticipated that
before the end of the first project year, it may be possible to delegate limited procurement
and contracting responsibilities to the Region I Branch (Asmara), provided necessary
institutional building activities have been successfully completed.
3.82  Procurement Management. Procurement will be the responsibility of the
Logistics Unit in the Management Office, headed by a Logistics Officer. In the regional
offices, financial officers will be in charge of handling procurement, preparing documents
for review by the Management Office, and monitoring and supervising procurement
within their regions. Procurement training for all staff is an important component of the
capacity building program.
3.83  The Financing Agreement signed between the Community Project Committee and
ECDF will specify procurement arrangements for each sub-project. Where Community
Project Committees do not have institutional capacity to conduct procurement, it will
either select a suitable intermediary like a voluntary association to act on its behalf or
authorize the ECDF to do so. In all cases, however, the Community Council will be
responsible for monitoring and following up procurement of goods, the storage and
release of goods and materials, supervision of the contractors on a daily basis, and
management of community contribution.
3.84  Unit-Costs Data Base. ECDF will maintain both at the central and at the
regional levels, a data base of unit costs, which will be updated on a quarterly basis, as
part of the cost control system and to assure that contract selection is transparent and
economic. The Engineering Unit will establish costs and rates for at least 40 of the most
commonly required items based on project costs during the previous three months or
from a random sample of suppliers and employers. Such unit prices will be updated at
least on a quarterly basis. Unit prices for other required items will be updated on a
rotational basis so as to be updated at least two times a year. For purposes of collection
and updating of unit costs, ECDF will make a data base of employers and suppliers from
whom such unit prices will be collected on a rotational basis. The MIS will use the unit
prices to calculate compound prices for commonly required items of work. The data base
will be used in appraisal and monitoring, as a tool to review the project budget in the



39
Financing Agreement and as a guide when procurement is through direct contracting.
The establishment of such databases will be a condition for Credit Effectiveness.
3.85  Civil Works. Civil works contracts are small, ranging mainly from US $ 7,000 to
US $ 300,000. They are scattered around the country and unlikely to attract international
contractors. ICB for works is, therefore, not anticipated. Procurement will be done in the
following way: (i ) civil works contracts, not to exceed US $ 300,000 each, amounting to
US $15.63 million (IDA: US $ 6.5 m) in aggregate, will be procured through National
Competitive Bidding (NCB). Bidding documents used for the pilot phase have been
revised in conformity with Bank Guidelines, (ii) in remote areas, where NCB is not
practical, works or labor up to an aggregate of US $ 2.79 (IDA: US $ 1.75) . each
individual contract not to exceed US $ 75,000, will be procured through limited
competition with contractors selected from a shortlist. Such shortlist will be prepared for
areas where the ECDF will operate in and the list will be updated on a regular basis; (iii)
in order to encourage community participation and increase project sustainability, an
estimated US$ I million in IDA financed contracts (individual contracts not to exceed
US$ 75,000) will be implemented through self-help projects contracted out to
community-based agencies such as Community Project Committees. Criteria for
selection of such implementing agencies will be established in the Operational Manual
and procurement arrangements will be defined in the financing agreements. The unit cost
data base will guide the negotiation of the labor components; (iv) given the experience in
the pilot, in a number of areas, it is difficult to find more than one contractor to execute
the works. In such cases, direct contracting for works or labor will be permitted up to a
total of US $2.17 million (IDA: US $ Im), each contract not to exceed US $ 50.000.
Prices for such contracts will be negotiated on the basis of the unit rates database, and (v)
the Government has stressed the need to use Force Account to implement sub-projects in
remote areas where neither contractors nor communities are capable of undertaking
implementation. This will mostly be in the case of sub-projects in the road sector, and is
estimated to amount to US $3.61 million, with IDA financing a total of US $0.75 million.
In such cases, it is expected that the Fund will request the local government bureau in the
locality to provide the labor and technical assistance, while the community or ECDF will
provide the construction materials. Each individual contract will not exceed US
$200,000. The Government and IDA have agreed on a list of areas and regions were
Force Account will be allowed during Negotiations.



40
Table 11 Procurement Arrangements
Category         ICB      NCB        NS       FA      Other    NBF       Total
Civil Works/Labor                15.63              3.61     5.96 l/           25.20
(6.50)            (0.75)   (3.75) '          (11.00)
Goods/Services                            12.23              3.05              15.28
(4.00)           (0.50)              (4.50)
Office Vehicles/Equip.  1.00                                                     1.00
(1.00)                                                  (1.00)
Consultancy Services
Training/TA                                                  1.75               1.75
(0.50)             (0.50)
Micro-credit                                                 3.11               3.11
(0.50)             (0.50)
Operational Costs                                                     3.35      3.35
()       ()
Total                   1.00     15.63    12.23     3.61    13.87     3.35     49.68
of which IDA            (1.00)    (6.50)   (4.00)   (0.75)   (5.25)    (-)     (17.50)
* Note: Numbers in parentheses are IDA-Financed. N.B.F: Not Bank-financed
Includes US$ I million through self-help projects contracted out to community based agencies such as
private voluntary organizations or Community Project Committees.
3.86   Goods and Materials will be procured according to the following procedures: (i)
vehicles and office equipment, totaling up to US $1 million (IDA US$ 1.00 million), will
be procured through International Competitive Bidding; (ii) given the nature of the ECDF
activities, other contracts for goods are small and scattered, and are not expected to
exceed US $50,000 per contract. This procurement will therefore be conducted through a
formalized form of National Shopping up to an aggregate of US $ 12.23 million (IDA:
US$ 4.00 million). A computerized data base of all suppliers of goods and construction
materials commonly used by the ECDF will be maintained both at the central and sub-
unit levels. Price quotations will be solicited from all suppliers listed, and in no case from
less than three suppliers. The Evaluation Committee will review the price quotations
received from the suppliers and issue the final award; and (iii) where it is not possible to
get a minimum of three quotations or where small amounts of materials or goods are
required, goods or materials will be procured through direct contracting procedures up to
an aggregate of US $3.05 million (IDA: US $ 0.5 million), with each individual contract
not to exceed US $ 15,000.
3.87   Consultant Services. Consultant service contracts will be awarded in accordance
with World Bank Guidelines, "Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and the
World Bank as Executing Agency" (Washington D.C., August 1981) which has been
included in the Operational Manual. These will be mainly small contracts for the training
of ECDF staff, community participants, and the staff of other agencies involved in
implementation of sub-projects. These contracts are expected to total US $1.75 million,
spread over a period of five years and a substantial proportion of this will be procured
locally. It is estimated that US$ 0.5 million will be financed by IDA.
3.88   Prior review combined with financial audits and technical reviews will ensure that
procurement is in compliance with agreed procedures. All ICB contracts and all contracts
above US$ 200,000 will be subject to the Bank's prior review procedures. Other



41
contracts and bids will be subject to selective ex-post review by Bank staff during regular
supervision missions. All contracts for consultancy and training services estimated to
cost above the equivalent of US $50,000 in the case of consulting firms, and US$ 25,000
in the case of individuals, will require prior review by IDA. All single source
consultancy or training contracts, regardless of their value, will be subject to prior
review. A technical review of all procurement will be condlucted 12 months after
effectiveness to evaluate the economy and efficiency of procurement arrangements and
the suitability of the procurement arrangements will be reviewed. A draft terms of
reference has been agreed upon between the Government and IDA during Negotiations.
3.89   All contracts will be available for Bank review on request and for supervision
missions. In addition, the Management Office will also maintain and have available for
IDA supervision missions, copies of appraisal reports for all sub-projects. A Procurement
Plan has been finalized and agreed upon during Negotiations. The procurement
arrangements for the project is provided in Table 11 above.
3.90   Pilot Savings & Credit Program. Micro-credit sub-projects will involve
procurement of small goods and services each estimated not to cost more than (US$
15,000). They will be procured in accordance with established private sector-commercial
practices. The micro-credit component is estimated to be US $ 3.11 (IDA US $ 0.50).
3.91   Retroactive Financing. In order to keep the momentum of project
implementation started under the pilot ESRF, retroactive financing will be made available
for expenditures incurred after December 1, 1995 up to US$ 1.75 million ( 10 percent of
the IDA credit) for social and economic infrastructure and services sub-projects, and
capacity building and training activities.
K. DISBURSEMENT
3.92   The project is estimated to be disbursed over a period of five years. Annual IDA
disbursements are shown in Table 12. Estimates are based on credit effectiveness by
June 1996, and satisfactory implementation experience under the pilot phase. Allocation
and disbursement of the IDA Credit are provided in Table 12.
Table 12 IDA Disbursement Schedule
FY97    FY98    FY99    FY00    FY01
Annual Disbursement    4.35     4.22     3.78     3.36     1.80
Total Disbursement     4.35     8.56    12.34    15.70    17.50
Table 13 Annual Disbursement Plan
Source of Finance     FY97     FY98      FY99      FY00      FY01     Total
IDA                       4.35      4.22      3.78     3.36      1.80     17.50
Govemment of Eritrea      1.60      1.80      1.64      1.54     0.92      7.50
Community Contribution    0.91      1.13      1.00     0.95      0.57      4.56
Other Donors              2.07      5.47      5.24     4.59      2.73     20.12
Total                     8.93     12.62     11.65     10.44     6.02     49.68



42
3.93   Several special accounts, as may be required under the co-financing arrangements,
will be opened in a freely convertible currency with a commercial bank acceptable to
IDA. The authorized allocation to the special account(s) will be set at a level sufficient to
cover about four months of estimated expenditures eligible for financing by IDA and any
other donors funds managed by IDA. In the case of the IDA Special Account, the
authorized allocation will be US $1.5 million. However, until cumulative disbursements
reach US $5.0 million equivalent, the initial deposit to the Special Account will be
limited to 50% of the authorized allocation. For local currency expenditures and
operational costs not financed by the Bank, the Central Office of the ECDF will open a
second account in local currency into which the Government contribution will be deposited.
Table 14 Allocation and Distribution of IDA Credit
Category of Expenditure   Proposed IDA Allocation    % of Expenditure
US$ (milliotn)
Sub-projects:   Civil Works and       13.0          100% of foreign expenditires
Goods                                 and 90% of local expenditures
Micro-credit Sub-projects             0.50          100% of amounts paid by Fls
Consultancy Services (incl. TA)       0.50          100%
Office Equip. and Vehicles            1.00          100% of foreign expenditures
and 90% of local expenditures
PPF Advance                           0.30          100% of foreign expenditures
and 90% of local expenditures
Unallocated                           2.20
Total Costs                          17.50
3.94   The Management Office will be responsible for preparing disbursement
applications for submission to IDA. Applications for (a) direct payments, and (b)
issuance of special commitments in guarantee of letters of credit for payments in excess
of the equivalent of US$ 100,000 will be submitted directly to IDA. Expenditures for
contracts for individual consultant services not exceeding US$ 25,000 and for all other
contracts not exceeding US$ 50,000 will be claimed on the basis of statements of
expenditures. All other expenditures in excess of these amounts will be fully documented
when submitted to IDA for disbursement. Replenishment applications for the special
account(s) will be submitted at monthly intervals, irrespective of the volume of
transactions during each month, together with the required documentation. All
documentation supporting SOEs, both consolidated and regional, will be available at the
Management Office to facilitate inspection by Bank supervision missions.
3.95   The special account(s) and the project account will be under the financial
management of the Management Office. Each Regional Branch will open one account to
fund the sub-projects, and another account to fund its operating expenses. Funding
requirements for the first quarter will be submitted by each sub-office to the Management
Office which will make an initial advance to each of the two accounts sufficient to cover
the estimated outlays for the period. Thereafter each sub-office will submit
replenishment applications in accordance to the Operational Manual.



43
3.96  Disbursement arrangements for sub-projects are detailed in the Operational
Manual. Advance payments up to 20% of the total project costs will be permitted,
without any bank guarantee, in the case of self-help projects and in civil works contracts
below US$ 50,000 in order to encourage the development of grassroots contracting
industry. All subsequent disbursements will be made on the verification of work having
been satisfactorily performed and disbursements will be proportionate to the works
completed. Administrative or overhead expenses of implementing agencies will be
permitted as stated in the Financing Agreement but will in no case exceed 3% of the total
project costs. Such costs will be itemized and identified in the Financing Agreement.
3.97  Project Preparation Facility. An advance from the Project Preparation Facility
equal to the amount of US S 300.000 has been approved to finance expenditures related to
the institutional strengthening of ECDF, including the MIS.
3.98  Depositing of the Government's share of project financing for the first three
months of project implementation (equal to US $ 0.4 million), will be a condition for
credit effectiveness.
L. ACCOUNTING, AUDITING AND FINANCIAL REPORTING
3.99  In the expanded phase of the Project, the accounting system will accommodate the
significantly expanded size of the program. Those Regional Branches located in towns
with banking facilities will be provided with advances to allow the purchase of locally
available materials and labor. These advances will be on an imprest basis and local
accounting responsibilities will be limited to summarizing payments and receipts, and
submitting such records with all supporting documents to the Management Office in
Asmara. All accounts will be maintained by the Management Office.
3.100 Fund accounts are presently being maintained in accordance with Generally
Accepted Accounting Standards (GAAS) on a PC-based accounting program designed by
the Fund. In order to facilitate production of financial information in a manner which
will allow it to be linked to technical and operational data, a new Windows-based
accounting program will be acquired to permit full integration of accounting information
into the Windows-based Management Information System. This program will also have
a module integrating the preparation of withdrawal applications into the accounting and
MIS. Existing accounting staff in the Management Office are thought to be sufficient to
cope with the accounting requirements of the expanded program, once the existing
manual accounts (which have been maintained on a parallel basis to check the validity of
the PC-based program) are no longer maintained. An accountant will be employed for
each Regional Branch with its own advance float. Training will be provided under the
capacity building program to familiarize staff with the new accounting and MIS
programs.
3.101 The annual financial statements ofthe ECDF will be audited in accordance with
International Standards of Auditing by independent auditors acceptable to the
Association. The audited financial statements with the auditor's report thereon and the
auditor's management letter covering internal control and accounting procedures



44
weaknesses discovered as a result of the audit, will be sent to IDA within six months of
the end of the period audited.
M. POVERTY CATEGORY
3.102 The project is mainly targeted at rural communities, particularly those living in
the poorest, most neglected, and war affected areas of the country. While the
infrastructure and services provided by ECDF will benefit the community as a whole,
special attention will be given to maximize the benefits for particularly vulnerable
groups, such as returning refugees, demobilized soldiers, poor women. Also the pilot
Savings and Credit component, while not restricted to any specific target group, will
provide special benefit to disadvantaged groups.
3.103 The project will contribute to poverty reduction by providing poor communities
with basic infrastructure and services to improve productive outputs and incomes, and
improving the quality of basic health care, education, nutrition, and access to water.
N. IMPACT ON WOMEN
3.104 In line with the Government's strong emphasis on the economic and social
development of women, the ECDF has developed a full set of actions to increase and
assess the benefits of sub-projects on poor women. These actions include: (i) the
commitment to give special priority to proposals with women as major beneficiaries, or
which are prompted by women; (ii) a special focus on women in community
participation, and training to encourage the active role of women in Community Project
Committees; (iii) efforts to hire women as staff, and as local facilitators, particularly for
the implementation of the pilot Savings & Credit component, in order to maximize
benefits to women and encourage their participation; and finally (iv) the inclusion in the
MIS of specific indicators to measure gender impact. More details about these activities
are given in the Gender Action Plan, provided in Annex N.
0. PROJECT SUSTAINABILITY
3.105 Already during the pilot phase, sustainability has been a major concern for the
Fund, and training and capacity building for local communities, mainly aiming at
improving the quality of the maintenance of the infrastructure, has been built in the sub-
projects. In the expanded phase these issues will be dealt with in a more systematic way,
through the Capacity Building Program, whose major component is related to building
within local communities the capacity necessary to adequately build and maintain the
assets and services created with the ECDF's support.
3.106 The capacity building process will start with the assessment of the community
ownership during the sub-project appraisal, by ensuring that only sub-projects that
respond to the needs expressed by the community, and that the community has identified
will be financed. It will continue by ensuring a strong community involvement during all
phases ofproject implementation, with special attention to maintenance arrangements.



45
(care to maintenance arrangement has also been a good practice during the pilot phase).
Finally, in line with the Government policy, ECDF will promote and facilitate community
involvement in the-management of the assets and services financed.
3.107 The steps taken to support the sustainability of ECDF-financed sub-projects will
also include: (i) an assessment of community commitment and capacity during the sub-
project appraisal, which will ensure local ownership and motivation to maintain assets
created with ECDF support; (ii) capacity building and participative processes to
strengthen the involvement of local communities in all phases of project implementation,
with special attention to maintenance arrangements; (iii) community investments in sub-
project costs, and contracts on their maintenance responsibility; (iv) prior to sub-project
financing decisions, clear commitment from sector agencies to budget recurrent costs for
utilization and maintenance of ECDF-financed infrastructure; (v) selection of
technologies that lend themselves to community-based maintenance; and (vi) training of
sector experts and community specialists in technical aspects related to maintenance. The
size and cost of each component have been reviewed during Appraisal on the basis of
need assessments and of the estimated implementing capacity of the country. Recurrent
costs implications have been calculated (see section 3. E), and found insignificant.
P. RATIONALE FOR IDA INVOLVEMENT
3.108 With the single exception of the RRPE, the ECDF is the first operation that the
Bank is financing in Eritrea. The Bank's strategy, in line with the Government's policy,
has a major target the alleviation of poverty. The results of the analytical activities
carried out define four major sets of activities to achieve these objectives: (i) supporting
the participation of communities in the development process, including the provision,
management, and maintenance of basic social services, and building community
managerial and implementation capacity; (ii) strengthening the role of private sector in
local development efforts; (iii) improving cost-efficiency and maximizing cost-recovery
in the provision of services; and (iv) focusing on the social and economic advancement of
women, and on environmental conservation. The ECDF would provide an important
vehicle to implement this strategy.
3.109 Moreover, the Bank has supported social funds in almost every region of the
world. Like the pilot ECRF they have shown that community-initiated infrastructure
projects can be implemented at a lower cost than equivalent publicly managed projects
(see section on experience of the pilot ECRF). The social fund mechanism can be an
effective way of attracting community investments for development, which reduces the
costs to public funds and establishes a basis of ownership around which maintenance
arrangements can be built. Successful social funds have made a valuable contribution to
community development, by building managerial competencies, encouraging community
decision making on shared assets, and developing a sense of achievement and self-
reliance.



46
Q. BENEFITS AND RISKS
3.110 Benefits. The ECDF will contribute to the much needed rebuilding of social and
physical infrastructure in Eritrea. Since it is a demand-based project and will finance
only those sub-projects that are requested by the communities, it is not possible to predict
in advance the composition of the project. However, based on data gathered from the
pilot phase, the following results are expected. It is expected that 22 primary and junior
secondary schools will be built per year, increasing their total number from 575 now to
687 by the end of the decade. Based on the current norm of about 500 students per
school, the new schools would provide enrollment opportunities for about 55,000
additional students, or an increase of over 20%. These schools would be built in villages
and communities which do not have any facility at all, and it expected that they would be
fully utilized since communities will have asked for them. There is not enough data yet
in Eritrea to calculate the rate of return to this investment, but estimates for other
countries show an average private rate of return of 41% to basic education in sub-Saharan
Africa (higher than in any other part of the world) and a social rate of return of 24%.
Additionally, there are other social benefits through the impact of education on health and
fertility. It is also expected that about 20 health stations/centers will be built per year,
increasing by two/thirds the number currently existing (160). Data on outpatient visits
nationwide show that about 15,000 visits occur per year per health facility, translating to
an average of less than one visit per person. This is exceptionally low; in other Sub-
Saharan countries the number of visits is 1.5-2, and in more affluent countries it is 7-8. it
is reasonably expected that with the project the utilization rate will increase closer to the
regional average, with current improvement in health status. The ECDF would provide
drinking water facilities to 230 communities covering 5% of the rural population. While
there is no data on the availability of safe water in rural areas, it is known that most
Eritreans have access only to unprotected wells and rivers. A study of 244 villages
estimated that per capita consumption of clean water was only 2.5 liters per capita per
day. For this meager amount women and children may travel up to 2 hours each way,
contributing substantially to a long working day lasting 14-16 hours. School-age
children, particularly girls may be held back from school (a study of distance to water
facilities and school attendance in Nigeria has shown a strong correlation). The health
consequences of polluted water are well-known; for example the percentage of deaths of
children under five in Eritrea due to diarrhea is as high as 13% (double the rate in Uganda
and Tanzania), and diarrhea is one of the leading causes of death for this group.
3.1 11 The project is also expected to rehabilitate and improve about 1,200 km of rural
roads (about 50% of the feeder/local/minor roads network). In a country where nearly
100% of these roads are classified to be in poor or very poor condition, this component
can be expected to provide a major impetus to increased economic activity, as well as
better access to the social infrastructure being built. The micro-credit component will be
tested on a pilot basis. Preliminary analysis of data on poverty collected in a Rapid
Appraisal Survey (1993-94) shows that self-employment and trade is critical for growing
out of poverty. The share of income from these activities, generally in the informal
sector, is 21% for the non-poor, compared to about 10.5 for the poor. Experience
elsewhere suggests that the provision of small amounts of capital can make a substantial



47
difference. Experience with the pilot project demonstrates and enhances the cost-
effectiveness and feasibility of realizing these benefits.
3.1 12 Risks. The main risk to the success of the project concerns the weakness of local
implementation capacity in some of the poorest and most isolated regions of the country,
most in need of ECDF support. Therefore the identification of capacity building and
training needs for all parts involved in sub-projects' implementation --ECDF staff,
provincial offices staff, communities, facilitators-- as well as the design of the relevant
capacity building and training activities will be of particular importance in project's
preparation.
3.113 A second risk relates to the quality of some types of infrastructure to be developed
with ECDF support. To respond to this risk, the ECDF has established a collaborative
program with the relevant sector agencies to build capacity, produce rigorous standards,
and improve the design and monitoring of the construction. This will be supported by
outside experts that will promote technical and supervision assistance. Another risk
relates to the sustainability and effective utilization of the assets created with ECDF
support. High priority is being given to measures that will enhance sustainability,
including careful planning of maintenance programs, training of communities in
maintenance routines, and assurances that recurrent costs will be allocated to support both
utilization and maintenance.
R. AGREEMENTS TO BE REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION
3.114 Conditions for Credit Effectiveness. The Government will have:
(a) established a Local Account in the name of ECDF and deposited counterpart
funds equivalent to the Government's share for the first three months of project
costs (equivalent to US $ 0.4 million) (para 3.93);
(b) made operational a Project Accounting and Management Information Systems
acceptable to IDA and reached agreement with IDA on sample standardized MIS
outputs (monthly/quarterly/annual reporting formats) (para 3.67);
(c) adopted the consolidated and regional budgets and work program for the first
year of ECDF operations acceptable to IDA (para 3. 71); and
(d) established a unit data base of costs for commonly procured items. (para 3.84).
3.115 Assurances have been obtained during Negotiations on the following:
(a) the project will be implemented in accordance with the Operational Manual; and
that any proposed changes to the Operational Manual would be subject to
agreement by IDA;
(b) twelve months after effectiveness, the Government of Eritrea will require an
independent entity to conduct a procurement assessment, on terms of reference to
be developed in consultation with IDA, to evaluate the economy and efficiency
of procurement and identify the need for any modifications to procurement
arrangements;



48
(c) the Government of Eritrea and IDA will conduct a mid-term review of project
implementation and impact;
(d) ECDF, both at the central and regional level, will maintain a unit costs data base
to monitor costs of goods, works and services under the project;
(e) the General Manager, the Deputy General Manager and the Regional Managers
of the ECDF will at all times have qualifications commensurate to their duties;
(f) the Government of Eritrea will make quarterly deposits of amounts representing
its share of project costs in to the account established for that purpose;
(g) the Government and IDA will review annually the interest rate applied from
ECDF to Village Administrations or other financial intermediaries for the Pilot
Savings and Credit Program; and
(h) ECDF will annually submit to IDA for review an assessment of the progress
made in the work program and planned for the following year, including the
activities for the Pilot Savings and Credit Component.
3.116 Subject to the above conditions and assurances, the proposed project constitutes a
basis for an IDA credit of SDR 11.8 million (US$ 17.5 million equivalent) to Eritrea at
standard terms with 40 years maturity.



Annex A
ERITREA
POVERTY AND SOCIAL DEVELOPMENT INDICATORS
General
Area, land                                  sq km                         125,000
Share covered by forests                percent                             1
Coastline                                   kms                             1,000
Continental Shelf                           sq kms                         52,000
Population                                                    3,000,000 to 3,500,000
Growth rate                             % per annum                  2.7 to 3.0
Share of population rural               percent                       70 to 80
Density                                     per sq km                     24 to 28
Per Capita GDP 1/                           US$                          160 to 190
Social Indicators
Population Characteristics
Crude birth rate                        per 1,000                         47
Crude death rate                        per 1,000                         18
Life expectancy at birth                years                             46
Total fertility rate                                                      6.8
Contraceptive prevalence rate           percent                           < 1
Health
Infant mortality                        per 1,000 live births            135
Under-five mortality                    per 1,000 live births            203
Under-fives underweight                 percent                          >41
Access to immunization                  percent of population             27
Maternal mortality rate                 per 100,000 births               710
Population per physician                                               28,000
Population per hospital bed                                            10,000
Access to Safe Water                        percent                             8
Access to Sanitation Services               percent                            14
% of Urban population                   percent                           44
% of Rural population                   percent                           <1
Nutrition
Daily calories per capita                                               1,750
Education
Female literacy rate                    percent                           10
Adult literacy rate                     percent                           20
Primary school enrollment               % of relevant population         47.4
Junior secondary school enrollment      % of relevant population         22.4
Secondary school enrollment             % of relevant population         13.7
Pupils per teacher, primary schools                                       37
Pupils per textbook                                                       68
Telephone Lines                             per 100 inhabitants              0.37
1/     Calcilaed by using Atlas Methodology. 1995



Annex B
Page I of 2
Summary of the Evaluation of the Pilot Project
1.    Background of the Mid-term Evaluation. A mid-term evaluation of the Pilot
Community Rehabilitation Fund was carried out in September 1994 by a team composed
by local and international independent consultants, and its finding were discussed with
the Government during a supervision mission carried out in February 1995. The
objectives of the evaluation were to (i) assess the quality of sub-projects implementation
and community participation; (ii) analyze the balance of ECRF's project portfolio; (iii)
determine the relevance of ECRF-financed sub-projects to community needs; (iv) assess
the management of sub-project operations; and (v) assess the scope for an expansion of
ECRF activities, including the identification of capacity building needs. ECRF's overall
performance was assessed as satisfactory, especially given the uncertainties due to the
country situation in the immediate aftermath of the war, and the severe constraints (in
terms of staffing and equipment) under which the Fund had to operate during its initial
stage of operations. The evaluation identified the ECRF's greatest asset as its dedicated
staff and their problem solving capacity and determination to succeed against substantial
obstacles. At a greater level of specificity, the evaluation judged the most important
achievements of the ECRF to be: (i) its outreach capacity to communities, specially in
remote areas; and (ii) the quality and cost-effectiveness of the sub-projects implemented.
2.    Content of the Evaluation. The evaluation focused on the following areas: (i)
characteristics and structure of the ECRF; (ii) the project cycle; (iii) community
participation and contribution; (iv) major achievements of ECRF; and (v)
recommendations for an expanded phase. Section (i); (ii); and (iii) have been
summarized in the main SAR. Section (iv) is summarized in the following paragraphs.
3.    Recommendations for an Expanded Phase. The evaluation made
recommendations concerning four major areas relating to: (i) capacity building, staff
training and recruitment; (ii) expansion of ECRF activities; (iii) ECRF operations; and
(iv) social infrastructure projects. Regarding capacity building, staff training, and
recruitment the evaluation suggested that ECRF: (a) strengthen its outreach capacity
through training for ECRF staff, (b) develop an improved salary scale and system of
incentives to retain experienced staff, and attract the new staff necessary for the expanded
phase; and (c) consider a phased program of decentralized responsibility to ECRF Sub-
Units in the provinces, to improve the efficiency and responsiveness of ECRF's services
to the communities.
4.    Regarding the expansion of ECRF activities, the evaluation recommended that
ECRF: (a) develop a strategy to strengthen community participation, through the
provision of training in the design, management, implementation, and evaluation of sub-
projects to baito members, development committees, community facilitators, and other
local groups involved in assisting ECRF activities; (b) conduct a rapid assessment of the
needs and implementing capacity in all the provinces of the country, as basis for planning
the staffing of ECRF Sub-Units and the provision of training for local facilitators of
implementation; and (c) develop a strategy to transfer technical skills at the community



Annex B
Page 2 of 2
level to increase their participation in project design and to improve their capacity to
maintain and service assets built with ECRF financing.
5.     Regarding ECRF operations, the mid-term evaluation emphasized the need to: (a)
build upon the present level of collaboration with local technical specialists to assist the
implementation of more sophisticated types of sub-projects during the expanded phase
(such as small-scale irrigation, feeder roads, income-generation ventures); (b) evaluate
and improve the appraisal methodologies used by the ECRF, especially with regard to
rural feeder roads, rural water supply, and micro-credit sub-projects; (c) improve the
facilities of the ECRF Sub-Units to ensure effective community outreach and frequent
supervision of implementation; and (d) revise the Operational Manual to reflect the nature
of the expanded project, with particular attention to monitoring project impact on
beneficiaries.
6.    Finally, regarding social infrastructure the evaluation emphasized the need to: (a)
improve the design of health stations to fit climatic variations; (b) include the
construction of junior secondary schools in the types of projects eligible for ECRF
financing, because of their vital significance in the structure of basic education in Eritrea;
(c) build on the present close collaboration with the line ministries, at the central and
provincial level; and (d) take measures (such as training for local communities) to ensure
the sustainability and maintenance of social infrastructure built with ECRF financing.



Annex C
Page I of 4
Management Information System (MIS) and Monitoring Indicators
1.    Monitoring and evaluation are the two purposes of the ECDF Management Information
System, which will provide managers of the Fund with access to physical and financial
information about the progress of project activities and the financial commitments and
expenditure of the Fund. It will provide the necessary information to generate monthly, quarterly,
and annual reports. It will also store information to respond to ad-hoc queries, and to carry out
periodic assessments of the impact of ECDF activities on beneficiaries. The system is essentially
a centralized one with networked microcomputers all maintained in the various offices of the MO
(finance, logistics, engineering etc.). Certain MIS functions, including project data entry and
project monitoring, will however be progressively transferred to the regional Sub-Offices as the
capabilities of these are strengthened. The system allows password access and updating of the
centralized project files by each section. Information will be gathered from each stage in the
project cycle, and reported in one or more of the fonnal project reports.
MIS and the Stages in the Project Cycle
Stage 1: Project request, appraisal and approval.
Input         Project Request Form, Field Visit Report, Appraisal Report and
documents:   Budget prepared by the Project Officer (PO) entered into ledger in the Sub-
Office, and then transferred to the Management Office and entered in MIS by
the Engineering Unit. Additionally, the Engineering Unit will enter the outcome
of the evaluation committees assessment.
Outputs:     Quarterly status report about progress in processing new project applications:
analysis of new applications by sector, beneficiaries (including gender) and cost;
analysis of contracted projects by type, beneficiaries (number, gender etc.), costs,
community contribution, technical features, and environmental aspects; and
analysis of requests by outcome (rejection, further study, deferral, or acceptance).
Stage 2: Implementation Monitoring Through to Project Completion & Handover
Inputs:       Monthly reports will be prepared for each sub-project, up until completion by the
POs in the regional Sub-Office, and forwarded to the Management Office for
entry into the MIS. The PO will also prepare Handover Certificates and
Completion Reports for each sub-project at the end of the implementation phase,
after discussion with representatives of the beneficiaries and Community Project
Committees as well as, where applicable, the local govemment authority.
Outputs:      The data will be forwarded monthly to the Management Office where it will be
entered into the MIS. It will be used to generate monthly analysis of projects
under implementation by work done, and by funds disbursed. In addition,
analysis of projects completed will be produced quarterly.



Annex C
Page 2 of 4
Stage 3: Post completion monitoring and follow-up.
Inputs:       All projects will be visited by the PO at least once after sufficient time has
elapsed to enable a settled pattern of utilization to have become established, and
for important features of sustainability such as maintenance and participatory
management to have started. (The period between completion and the post-
completion follow-up review will initially be set at six months but may, in the
light of experience, be extended to twelve months). Information will be collected
using the technical checklist developed for the relevant sector. The PO will then
be responsible for producing a Post-Completion Monitoring Report. From the
information in the post-completion report, the PO will make an assessment of
project performance using the following system of ratings.
Project Officer's Assessment
Technical Performance             Code             Comments
Utilization
Beneficiaries
Community Obligation
Cooperating Agency Obligation
Codes:
A - Satisfactory compared with appraisal expectation.
B - Not satisfactory, but Committee taking appropriate action to resolve the problem(s).
C - Not satisfactory. Action needed but not being taken. ECDF may need to intervene.
Z - Not relevant.
Outputs:      The ratings, together with some quantitative data would be computerized and
would be one of the criteria used to analyze performance, to select sub-projects
for subsequent visits and for impact assessment.
MIS for the Pilot Savings and Credit Program
2.     The MIS system will focus on the collection by the Savings and Credit Committee (SCC)
bookkeeper of all information on savings transactions (deposits and withdrawals) and loan
transactions (loan disbursements, and principal and interest collection) by individual program
participants. Each transaction should require only two entries, one on an individual account card,
and one on the consolidated cash ledgers. At the end of each month, the ECDF zonal credit
officer will help reconcile the consolidated cash ledgers with cash balances held by the SCC.
He/she will also, together with the SCC bookkeeper, prepare a monthly list of all loans delinquent
for over 30 days in the village. Finally, at the end of each quarter, the zonal credit officer will,
with the assistance of the SCC bookkeeper, calculate repayment and delinquency rates for the
village. At the end of each quarter the zonal credit officer will also compile the simple
information contained on individual credit applications for the village, including borrower
gender, age and the size of loans - such information to be used by ECDF to help evaluate the
socio-economic impact of the program.
3.     Zonal credit officers will consolidate on a monthly basis the information contained in the
forms submitted by individual SCC in the zone. That will allow him to produce summaries of



Annex C
Page 3 of 4
loan and savings activity, and a reconciliation of cash balances for the zone. At the end of each
quarter, he will also calculate consolidated collection rates and delinquency rates for the zone.
4.     Forms summarizing the loan activities and cash transactions will be sent monthly, and
forms summarizing collection and delinquency rates will be sent on a quarterly basis to central
level and imputed into the computerized MIS. The MIS will produce: (i) monthly summaries of
loan and savings activities for the entire program; (ii) monthly cash reconciliation statements;
and, (iii) quarterly calculations of collection and delinquency rates per zone.
5.    Finally, a performance summary will be produced, consolidating key performance
indicators for each zonal officer. These indicators, which will comprise the number of village
banks constituted, total number of members of these banks, savings collected, loans made, and
collection and delinquency rates, will serve as a basis for the evaluation of the performance of
each zonal officer. As soon as produced, the monthly MIS output will also be discussed between
the manager of the micro-credit program and the ECDF project manager. On the basis of MIS
data and other information, progress towards the achievement of program goals will be discussed
and problems identified and addressed.
ECDF Reviews and Reports
6.     Monthly Reports. Short monthly disbursement reports and summaries of sub-
projects in the pipeline will be produced by the ECDF. These reports will include:
- Monthly sub-project processing summaries (covering the numbers of sub-projects
appraised, under implementation and completed, by type of sub-project for the relevant
month and the year to date);
- Summary of funds committed and disbursed by sub-project;
- Current analysis of time and cost performance.
7.     Quarterly Reports. The Quarterly Report will be submitted to within 6 weeks of
completion of the quarter in question. The essential components of this report will be:
- Manager's progress report for the quarter with reference to annual plan;
- summary, by regional Sub-Office, of sub-projects under preparation since the previous
report, with date request received and amount requested;
- summary of sub-projects under implementation, with date contracts signed, expected
duration, and comments on any problems incurred;
- summary of sub-projects completed since the previous report, dates contracts signed,
expected duration, actual duration, amount requested, actual expenditure, problems
incurred;
- summary of sub-projects screened, under implementation and completed by:
- sector
- extent of community involvement
- environmental category
- beneficiaries (incl. special benefit to women)
- cost and time performance.



Annex C
Page 4 of 4
- Finance Officer's report for the quarter with reference to annual budget, including
comments on over - or under - expenditure, and analyzed in terms of sub-project funds and
administrative overhead.
8.     Annual Report. The ECDF shall prepare a final report for submission to donors, and
other concerned groups. The report will be prepared when the end of year accounts are available,
and will be submitted no later that four months after the end of the financial year. It will include:
-Annual accounts of the overall ECDF;
-Analysis of overall ECDF budget performance, disbursement performance, and
implementation performance compared to approved work program and budget;
-Project processing reports showing the number of sub-projects by sector, and expenditure
at each stage of the sub-project cycle;
-Overall financial reports showing sector patterns and balances;
-Overall performance indicators; cost overruns or savings; analysis of completion reports
covering performance factors such as technical quality, size of community investment,
maintenance and recurrent expenditure arrangements, environmental impact;
-Procurement Report showing different forms of procurement utilized by financial amount
and type of action;
-Summary of sub-project post-implementation reports showing assessment of beneficiary
impact, and including number and categories of beneficiaries (with special emphasis on
women), nature of benefits, the degree to which communities, and implementing and
supporting agencies, are meeting their obligations;
-Office effectiveness report including staff turnover, vacancy ratios, and staff costs related to
office performance; and
-Summary of latest audit report.



Annex D
Page I of 4
Directives to Provide for the Establishment of the Eritrean Community
Development Fund (ECDF) and its Management Unit
Whereas, the Government of Eritrea has committed itself to improve the socioeconomic
conditions of the population at the grassroots level, focusing primarily on the rural areas of the
country;
Whereas, in order to achieve this objectives, it is necessary to establish a Community
Development Fund, basically working on a demand-driven approach in project and beneficiary
selection;
Whereas, in order to manage this Fund, it is necessary to create an organ for the management of
project identification, formulation and implementation;
Now, therefore, the Government of Eritrea issues the following directives:
1.    Short Title. These directives shall be referred as. "Directives to provide for the
establishment of the Eritrean Community Development Funld and its Management Unit".
2.     Establishment. There is hereby established an autonomous body within the Ministry of
Local Government "The Eritrean Community Development Fund" herein after called the "Fund"
and its Management Unit.
3.     Objectives. The Fund shall have the following objectives-
(a)   to provide support to community based projects designed to respond to the
immediate rehabilitation and development needs of communities;
(b)   to promote the full participation of the communities in planning, implementing,
monitoring and evaluating projects;
(c)   to ensure that communities take full responsibility for the sustainability of
implemented projects;
(d)   to promote increased cooperation and involvement on all steps of
implementation of development projects, with communities, local governments,
non-governmental organizations and the private sector;
(e)   to -implement a pilot program designed to provide improved access to micro-
credit and training in business skills for communities.
4.     Organization. The Management Unit of the Fund shall have its Head Office in Asmara
and Branches in the six regions.
5.    Procedure. All activities of the Fund shall be in conformity with the Operational
Manual which is accepted and adopted by the Manager.
6)    Powers and Duties. The Fund shall have the powers and duties to:
(a)    screen projects presented by the communities through the Regional Branches;
(b)    assist in project appraisals upon request of the Regional Branches;
(c)    prepare a consolidated budget and a performance and financial report,



Annex D
Page 2 of 4
(d)   prepare a pipeline of projects of each year of activity;
(e)   approve or defer sub-project proposals;
(f)   review bid evaluations- award contracts ; and delegates its authority to Branches
as and whenever necessary
(g)   prepare project documents, bidding documents and contracts with communities
and implementing agencies;
(h)   procure the inputs or the services funded by the ECDF and ensure the delivery
of materials to site upon the delegation by the communities;
(i)    monitor projects implementation and procurement carried out by Branch
Officers;
(I)   effect expenditure in accordance with the conditions of the Operational Manual;
6.    Structure. The Fund's Management Unit shall have-
(a)   a Manager
(b)   a Deputy Manager
(c)   the necessary Staff, and
(d)   Regional Branches.
7.    The Manager.
(a)   The Manager of the Fund shall be appointed by the Government;
(b)   The Manager shall be the Chief Executive Officer of the Fund and shall be
responsible for the proper carrying out of its activities. He shall be assisted by
the Management Unit, and the Evaluation Committee whose powers and duties
are provided in the Operational Manual.
(c)   The Manager shall have the following powers and duties:
(i)   to employ and manage the Fund's personnel.
(ii)  to prepare and submit the Fund's annual work program and budget to the
concerned government authority,
(iii)  to authorize expenditure in accordance with the approved annual budget
and work program of the Fund;
(iv)  to ensure that the Find's activities follow the operational manual;
(v)   to coordinate and supervise the field activities of the Fund;
(vi)  to negotiate and sign all contracts related to the Fund's activities;
(vii)  to prepare and submit the internal regulations of the Management Unit to
the government and implement same upon approval;
(viii) to prepare and submit to the Proper government authority detailed
quarterly reports on the activities and financial situation of the Fund



Annex D
Page 3 of 4
(ix)   to conduct dialogue with potential donors and those capable of providing
complementary technical and administrative skills and financial
resources;
(x)   to decide on all project proposals on the basis of the recommendations of
the Evaluation Committee; provided that should he deviate from the
recommendations of the committee, the reasons for such a decision shall
be in writing and documented;
(xi)  to represent the Fund in all legal matters,
(xii)  delegate his authority to the staff of the Management Unit and Regional
Branches to the extent necessary for the efficient performance of the
activities of the Fund;
(xiii)  perform such other duties as may be required.
8.     The Deputy Manager
a) assists the Manager and acts on his behalf in his absence;
b) performs such other activities of the Fund in accordance with the directives given to him
by the Manager.
9.     The Branches
a) Branches shall be established in the Regional Office through agreement between the
Manager and the Governor of the Region;
b) Each Branch shall be headed by the D/Regional Governor-or and he shall have the
necessary staff,
c) All Branch heads shall be accountable to the Manager pertaining to the activities of the
Fund.
10.    The Role and Function of Branches are
a) to take charge of project promotion, appraisal supervision of their implementation, as
well as facilitation of the approval of local community initiatives in time with the agreed
project criteria;
b) to ensure close working relationships with the target communities, support the ways and
means of project implementation and assure close coordination with on going projects,
c) Where authorized by the Management Unit, to undertake procurement activities and
enter into contracts on behalf of the Fund's conformity with the guidelines stated in the
operational manual.
11.    Finance
Budget
a) The budget of the Fund shall be drawn from financial contributions by the World Bank,
the Government of Eritrea, and from bilateral and multilateral donors.



Annex D
Page 4 of 4
b) additional resources may be made available to the Fund in the form of office space and
equipment, by the government and donors;
c) the Fund shall keep a financial record of all incomes and expenditures with their
supporting documents-
Bank Accounts
a) The Management will open one or several special account(s) for projects in the name of
the Fund; other accounts may also be opened in every Region (Branch) as may be
required.
b) The Manager, his Deputy and the Finance Officer are the authorized signatories. The
signatories for major expenses being the Manager and the Finance Officer, and for minor
local expenditures the Deputy Manager and the Finance Officer.
c) The authorized signatories at the Regional level shall be the D/Governor and the
Accountant of the Branch
d) An account shall be opened in an appropriate Commercial Bank operating in Eritrea;
e) Other additional accounts may be opened for the deposit of funds from other donors at
the request of the donors in question.
Audit
Fund shall be annually audited by independent and qualified auditors.
12.    Cooperation. The Management Office shall encourage Government offices, non
governmental bodies and individuals to cooperate with it as regards the implementation of the
Fund's objectives.
13.   Taxes. The Government will take care of all taxes of goods imported for the use of the
FUND in order to fulfill its objectives.
14.    Amendment. The directives of February 2, 1993 is hereby amended and replaced.
15.    Effective Date. This directives shall come into force as of    1995.



Annex E
Page I of I
ECDF Organization Structure
D      General Manager
|Deputy Gen eral M7ana7ger|
Managing Coordinator           MIS
F                               ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I
|Finance & Accounts I                              Engineering
Lg  Cs                                         Pilot Credit & Savings]
Regional Bace
Benef   I
| eneficiary Commnte|



Annex F
Page I of 2
Summary Costs Tables
(US$ million)
Table 1 Financing Plan
Financing Plan       Foreign Costs  Local Costs      Total           %
IDA                             7.88          9.63         17.50           35
Government of Eritrea                         7.50          7.50           15
Community Contribution                        4.56          4.56            9
Other Donors                    5.69         14.43         20.12           41
Total                          13.57         36.12         49.68          100
Table 2 Annual Disbursement Plan
Source of Finance     FY97    FY98    FY99    FY00    FY01    Total
IDA                      4.35     4.22     3.78    3.36      1.80    17.50
Government of Eritrea    1.60     1.80     1.64     1.54    0.92      7.50
Community Contribution   0.91     1.13     1.00    0.95     0.57      4.56
Other Donors             2.07     5.47     5.24    4.59     2.73    20.12
Total                    8.93    12.62    11.65    10.44    6.02    49.68
Table 3 IDA Disbursement Schedule
FY97     FY98      FY99     FYOO      FYOI
Annual Disbursement     4.35      4.22     3.78      3.36      1.80
Total Disbursement      4.35      8.56    12.34     15.70     17.50
Table 4 Procurement Schedule
Category             FY97      FY98      FY99       FYOO      FYO1      Total
Goods/Works/Svcs Sub-projects   6.63    11.16       9.50      8.65      4.53       40.47
Office Equipment/Vehicles      0.70      -          0.30       -        -           1.00
Service Contracts
Micro-credit                   .31       0.47       0.76      0.86      0.71        3.11
TA/Training                    0.65      0.34       0.42      0.24      0.07        1.75
Operational Costs              0.63      0.65       0.67      0.69      0.71        3.35
Total Project Costs            8.93     12.62      11.65      10.44     6.02       49.68



Annex F
Page 2 of 2
Table 5 Detailed Sub-Project Cost Estimates
Total Project Costs     FY97      FY98      FY99       FY00      FY01      Total
Micro-projects
Rural Water Supply        0.43       1.61      1.58      1.45      0.46       5.53
Education                 1.18      2.82       2.41      1.44       1.07      8.92
Health                    1.00       1.83      1.44      1.04      0.50       5.81
Roads                     3.11      3.89       3.36      4.02      2.15      16.53
Market                    0.66      0.66                                      1.32
NRM                       0.25       0.35      0.71      0.70       0.35      2.36
Subtotal                    6.63     11.16       9.50      8.65      4.53      40.47
Micro-credit of which:      0.31      0.47       0.76      0.86      0.71       3.11
Lines of Credit           0.12      0.38       0.68      0.78      0.63       2.60
Administrative Expenses   0.19      0.09       0.08      0.08      0.08       0.51
TA/Training                 0.65      0.34       0.42      0.24      0.07       1.75
Office EquipmentlVehicles   0.70       -         0.30      -          -         1.00
Operational Costs           0.63      0.65       0.67      0.69      0.71       3.35
Total Project Costs         8.93     12.62      11.65     10.44      6.02      49.68
Table 6 Procurement Arrangements
Category         ICBAS    NCB         NS       FA       Other    NBF       Total
Civil Works/Labor                 15.63               3.61     5.96     25.20     22.19
(6.50)            (0.75)   (3.75)             (11.50)
Goods/Services                             12.23               3.05               15.28
(4.00)            (0.50)              (4.50)
Office Vehicles/Equip.   1.00                                                      1.00
(1.00)                                                    (1.00)
Consultancy Services
Training/TA                                                    1.75                1.75
(0.50)              (0.50)"
Micro-credit                                                   3.11                3.11
(0.50)              (0.50)
Operational Costs                                                        3.35      3.35
()       (-)
Total                    1.00     15.63    12.23      3.61    13.87      3.35     49.68
of which IDA            (1.00)     (6.50)   (4.00)    (0.75)   (5.25)    (-)      (17.50)
* Note: Numbers in parentheses are IDA-Financed.
N.B.F: Not Bank-financed
" Includes contingency



Annex G
Page 1 of3
Implementation Plan
1.    The Eritrean Community Rehabilitation Fund was established to support the
rehabilitation of the basic social and economic infrastructure of the country, specially in
those areas most affected by the war and recurrent droughts, and to respond to the needs of
particularly vulnerable groups such as returning refugees, women head of household,
demobilized soldiers, and orphans. Since ECRF activities during the pilot phase have
demonstrated the success of its community-based approach, the Government has decided to
expand ECRF into one of its most important instruments for poverty alleviation.
2.    The Eritrean Community Development Fund (ECDF) has been established pursuant a
Government Directive dated January 2, 1996, as an autonomous institution within the
Ministry of Local Government. It has suitable procurement and disbursement procedures
and a transparent management and financial system, and operates on the basis of an
Operational Manuals prepared by the borrower and accepted by the Bank.
3.    The Operational Manual. The Operational Manual consists of five sections. The
first one describes the ECDF's role and mandate in the framework of the overall Government
development policy, and strategy for poverty alleviation. The second section covers the
structure of the Fund, its organization and functions, the operating procedures, and the
administrative and staffing guidelines and rules. The third section deals with the rules and
procedures of the sub-project cycle, including the standards that must be respected at
different parts of the cycle within each sub-sector. The fourth section covers the
administrative and financial procedures regarding disbursement and procurement; as well as
the administrative and financial procedures regarding accounting, financial reporting and
auditing, the ECDF budget, and the selection and management of staff. Much of the material
of the four sections was already included in the Operational Manual used during the pilot
phase. The fifth section deals with the pilot Savings and Credit component. The Manual has
been officially adopted by ECDF.
4.    Handbooks. The Operational Manual will be supplemented by technical Handbooks
on Rural Water Supply, Environment, Rural Feeder Roads and MIS. The implementation of
capacity building and training activity will be supported by a Capacity Building Support
Document. The Handbooks will include project design, appraisal, and implementation
guidelines; technical standards and specifications; training materials for communities and
other agents involved in implementation. The Handbooks will be prepared by the
Management Office in collaboration with local or international consultants (if needed), on
the basis of terms of reference agreed upon during Appraisal (TOR are available in the
project file). It has also been agreed that work on the Handbooks will start before the
beginning of the expanded phase, and that it will be completed before the end of the first
year of project implementation.
5.    The Role of the World Bank during Project Implementation. During the start-up
phase the Bank and the ECDF will organize a "project launch workshop" which would focus
on: (i) introducing the Fund's objectives, approaches, project appraisal and approval
procedures and implementation arrangements; (ii) project monitoring and implementation
arrangements, including reporting to the Bank; and (iii) procurement and disbursement
requirements.



Annex G
Page 2 of 3
6.    During the implementation phase the Bank's main concern woald be the supervision
of the project. The Bank's supervision, mid-term review, and mid-term evaluation missions
would examine the following: (i) the effectiveness of the Fund in attaining its objectives; (ii)
the compliance of the Fund's financial management, accounting and disbursement operations
and procurement practices with the Operational Manual; and (iii) the utilization of the results
of the monitoring activities for project management decisions.
7.    Supervision Plan. Intensive supervision will be carried out during the first 30
months of the project, until the mid-term evaluation. Supervision missions will be carried out
in collaboration with other involved donors and ECDF staff, and will consist of extensive
field visits to the sub-project sites, as well as visits to the Regional Branches to verify their
implementing capacity and the opportunities for major decentralization. Supervision will
start before the beginning of the expanded phase, to review the preparatory steps agreed
upon, and due to be undertaken in the framework of the capacity building project (this phase
will start immediately after negotiation). These steps will include: (i) recruitment of high
level staff for the Management Office and the Regional Branches; (ii) preparation of the
Technical handbooks on the basis of the TORs agreed upon; (iii) intensifying the promotion
activities with local communities; (iv) completing the design of the MIS.
8.    During the first 30 months, there will be three supervision missions each year (one
every four months). After the mid-term review, and if its results are positive, the supervision
pace might be reduced to two missions per year. Intensive supervision will be undertaken for
the pilot Savings and Credit program during the whole life of the project, due to the
experimental nature of this component. An important component of the supervision
activities will be the organization of consultation meetings with the beneficiaries, in which
the impact of the activities financed by ECDF will be discussed. Impact analyses will also
be carried out through the research fund, managed by the ECDF Management Office, and
included in the Capacity Building Support Program.
9.    The Role of the Capacity Building Support Program. The role of the Capacity
Building Support Project will be crucial to ensure that: (i) there is an effective and adequate
promotion activity, which guarantees a wide and diversified outreach; (ii) capacity is built in
the local communities to play an effective role in all the different phases of project
implementation, as well as in the maintenance and sustainability of the assets and services
created with the Fund's support; (iii) capacity is built in the Fund's Management Office and
Regional Branches to appraise, prepare, implement, supervise, monitor, and evaluate sub-
projects in each sector; and (iv) adequate technical capacity is built in the Fund, as well as in
the line ministries, and other public and private institutions involved in sub-project
implementation.
10.   Financing Plan. The expected Bank financing, donors inputs, government and
community contributions of the project have been agreed upon. It is expected that some
donors may made available financial resources to start the preparation for the expanded
phase before effectiveness.
11.   Specific Steps to Attain Development Objectives. The following steps would be
taken before and during the start-up phase of the ECDF expanded phase:



Annex G
Page 3 of 3
(a) recruitment of professional staff for the Management Office and Regional Branches
(the process to recruit all the additional staff for the Management Office, and at least
one additional project officer, and the micro-finance specialist for those regions
where this activity will be started on a pilot basis will start after negotiation and will
be completed before effectiveness);
(b) securing of adequate office space (the Fund has already an operating Branch in each
region, but in a few cases the structure may not be sufficient for the increased staff);
(c) orientation programs would be carried out for the ECDF staff of the Management
Office and Regional Branches starting after negotiation;
(d) promotional activities would be intensified;
(e) existing staff would share the experience of other social funds through study tours
and participate in short term specialized courses.
10.   Project Accounting and Monitoring. Agreement on the additional requirements
necessary for the present Accounting and Monitoring Management Information System have
been reached during Appraisal. The Accounting and Monitoring Management Information
System will be operational before effectiveness.



Annex H
Page I of I
The Eritrean Community Development Fund
Outline of the Operational Manual
SECTION- I   DESCRIPTION OF THE ERITREAN COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT FUND (ECDF)
CHAPTER - I  SOCIAL AND ECONOMIC CONTEXT ..............................................................................1I
CHAPTER -2  CHARACTERISTICS OF THE ECDF ............................................................................... 4
CHAPTER -3  OBJECTIVES AND PROGRAM  CONTENT ..........................................................................4
SECTION - H  ORGANIZATION AND FUNCTIONS
CHAPTER -4  STRUCTURE AND ORGANIZATION OF THE ECDF ......................                      ...................................7
SECTION- III THE PROJECT CYCLE
CHAPTER - 5 PROJECT PROMOTION AND IDENTIFICATION                                               .9
CHAPTER - 6 PROJECT IDENTIFICATION AND PRELIMINARY APPRAISAL .10
CHAPTER- 7 APPRAISAL PROCEDURE .12
CHAPTER - 8 CONTRACTING ARRANGEMENTS AND IMPLEMENTATION .13
CHAPTER -9 PROJECT MONITORING AND EVALUATION .17
SECTION- IV  PROJECT ADMINISTRATIVE AND FINANCIAL PROCEDURES
CHAPTER - 10  PROJECT DISBURSEMENT ..............................................................................   26
CHAPTER - 11  PROCUREMENT ..............................................................................            30
CHAPTER - 12  ECDF ANNUAL PLAN AND BUDGET .............................................................................. 36
CHAPTER - 13  ACCOUNTING PROCEDURES ..............................................................................  37
CHAPTER - 14  FINANCIAL REPORTING AND AUDITING ....................................................................... 38
CHAPTER - 15  STAFF SELECTION AND MANAGEMENT ...................................................................... 38
SECTION - V  SAVINGS AND CREDIT COMPONENT
CHAPTER- 16  THE ECDF SAVINGS AND CREDIT PROGRAM ...............................................................I
CHAPTER - 17 THE GENERAL CHARACTERISTICS OF SUCCESSFUL
AND UNSUCCESSFUL MICRO-CREDIT PROGRAMS ..................................................... 12
CHAPTER - 18 A STEP TO STEP GUIDE FOR TRAINING AND SUPPORTING VILLAGE BANKS ...... 17
CHAPTER - 19  PROCEDURES GOVERNING SECOND-TIER LOANS ...................................................... 26
CHAPTER - 20  GENERAL GUIDELINES FOR STAFFING AND MANAGEMENT .................................. 32
CHAPTER -21  MONITORING AND EVALUATION PROGRAM  PERFORMANCE ................................. 36
ANNEXES
I.  PROJECT SELECTION CRITERIA ................................................................................     40
II.  RURAL   W ATER     SUPPLY    ................................................................................  48
III. RURAL ROADS AND TRANSPORT COMPONENT ................................................................................ 53
IV. ENVIRONMENTAL ASSESSMENT ................................................................................       61
V.  HEALTH AND EDUCATION ................................................................................           69
TOR FOR ECDFU PROFESSIONAL STAFF
I PROJECT OFFICERS (ENGINEERS) .78
II FINANCE & ACCOUNTS OFFICER .80
III LOGISTICS OFFICER .81
IV MANAGEMENT CO-ORDINATOR (ADMIN. OFFICER) .82
V REGIONAL PROJECT OFFICERS .83
VI MANAGEMENT INFORMATION SYSTEM OFFICER .84
VII MICRO-FINANCE SPECIALIST ............................                                                       85



Annex I
Page I of 6
Environmental Analysis
I.     Background. The purpose of this analysis is to assess whether: (i) the activities to be
implemented under the project can be undertaken in a sound and sustainable manner; (ii) what
scope there is to mitigate or minimize any potentially negative impacts or to promote
environmentally positive actions; and (iii) whether the overall policy and institutional context as
well as the technical capacity of the project staff are adequate for the purpose of ensuring that
environmental issues can be given due weight and treated effectively during Project
implementation.
2.     The Policy Context: the National Environmental Management Plan for Eritrea
(NEMP-E). In Eritrea, environmental issues have been assigned a high priority by the
Government. This stems from a recognition that the sustainable use of the country's natural capital
will be essential if the country's overall strategy for long-term growth is to be realized. This
commitment, endorsed at the highest level of government, provides the backdrop to all major
development programs being initiated and implemented in Eritrea and supplies an important
impetus for the incorporation of environmental objectives into the activities of the ECDF.
3.     In terms of the impact on income, productivity and human welfare, land degradation and
the associated problem of deforestation are two areas of great concern in Eritrea. The other broad
area of concern is the scarcity and poor quality of water resources. In the rural areas, year round
access to drinking water is problematic while bacteriological contamination of water contributes to
high morbidity rates among children. Lack of reliable water supply also affects agricultural and
livestock productivity. The poor in Eritrea are the most vulnerable in situations of environmental
degradation given their extensive reliance on the natural resource base around them. Consultations
with communities during the preparation of the Government's National Environmental
Management Plan for Eritrea (NEMP-E) revealed an acute awareness on the part of communities of
the declining quality of their environment, yet little leeway to effectively address the problems.
Lack of financial resources, limited knowledge of viable solutions or alternatives to harmful
practices, and short-term planning horizons by farmers and households have all contributed to the
perpetuation of environmental problems.
4.     The Government of Eritrea has recently adopted a National Environmental Management
Plan for Eritrea (NEMP-E). This document, which has been the result of a process of extensive
consultation with and between both community organizations and all major ministries of the
Government, was presented for review, comment and discussion at a National Conference on the
Environment in February 1995. The main objective of the NEMP-E is to provide a framework for
coordinating the protection and enhancement of Eritrea's natural resource base so that optimal
social and economic development can be achieved. To this end the plan examines the
interconnections between population, resources and environment within the Eritrean context, the
relationship between NEMP-E and other national initiatives such as development planning and
macroeconomic policies, and lays out a number of guiding principles for the integration of
environmental objectives into the national planning process. The plan also highlights the main areas
of environmental concern in the country. These cover issues relating to environmental health,
natural resource management, including land, water, forests and the preservation of coastal areas
and bio-diversity, and transboundary environmental issues. The plan also outlines the
recommended institutional arrangements necessary to implement the plan and includes a
compilation of programs and projects to support the objectives of the NEMP-E.



Annex I
Page 2 of 6
5.     Implementation of the NEMP-E. The NEMP-E must be considered a starting point for
the development of programs of action to address specific environmental issues and to lay the basis
for evolving environmental standards and regulation. The real challenge now facing the country is
to put the vision of the NEMP-E in practice. While the overall political will is high at the central
level, implementation capacity remains weak and it could be several years before effective
mechanisms are developed to enable the integration of environmental concerns into the mainstream
development processes of the country. Institutional arrangements are yet to be finalized and
recommended structures will take time to establish on a fornal basis. Most legislation relating to
different aspects of resource management and environmental standards is at a very preliminary
stage of development. The exception is the recent 'Land Proclamation' which effectively replaces
all preceding forms of land tenure in the country with lifetimes usufruct rights to land. The
proposed land reforns are initially to be implemented on a pilot basis and nationwide adoption will
happen at a later date. Meanwhile there is a lack of information on the natural resource base,
essential for sound environmental planning and management.
6.     Although the general institutional and legislative context for environmental management in
which the ECDF would operate will be sketchy, there is nevertheless scope for ensuring that the
Project can pursue the environmental objectives outlined in the NEMP-E. First, there would be a
concerted effort to develop ECDF's own capacity for environmental assessment and monitoring.
Indeed one of the underlying themes of the NEMP-E is that the environment should be treated not
as a separate sector requiring specialist inputs, but as an integral component of all sectors. The
Eritrean Agency for the Environment (EAE), established as an interim secretariat within the
Ministry of Local Government, but with a high degree of autonomy, will act as catalyst and
coordinator of environmental activities in the country with corresponding environmental councils to
be located at the regional level. It will also work at building up the skills and awareness of existing
Government staff in the line ministries and strengthening the capacity of individual ministries to
oversee the implementation of environmental assessments for projects within their respective areas
of responsibility.
7.     Second, through its close working associations with other Government departments, it is
expected that the Project would be able to benefit from on-going efforts at building up and
strengthening the data and information base on natural resources, particularly in the Ministry of
Agriculture and the Department of Water Resources.
8.     Third, with its close working relationship with community groups and organizations, it is
envisaged that ECDF could make a considerable impact on environmental issues by interacting
directly at the local level. In fact, the NEMP-E envisages that better environmental practices can be
encouraged through a collaborative partnership between communities and the government, based
on an ongoing dialogue that would respect the traditional knowledge of communities while in turn
raising public awareness and supporting communities in finding more sustainable ways of
interacting with their environment. This is a process that need not depend on the existence of
formal government mechanisms for implementation. Instead it is expected to rely on the
traditionally strong organizational and mediating capacities of local village baitos to educate,
mobilize and enforce local level regulations in pursuit of environmental objectives.
9.     Environmental Issues Relating to Sub-Projects. Any program of poverty alleviation
such as the ECDF, and particularly if targeted at the rural areas, will inevitably entail activities
which impinge in some way on the local natural resource base. In a country such as Eritrea, where
a high degree of economic vulnerability prevails, a major concern is to ensure that efforts at
alleviating poverty should not result in the degradation of the natural resource base or in



Annex I
Page 3 of 6
environmental health hazards that exacerbate this vulnerability. The objective of the Government
of Eritrea under the ECDF is to achieve a fine balance between encouraging the productive use of
the natural resource base and ensuring the protection and conservation of these same resources. In
most cases the negative environmental impact of the individual micro-project to be funded under
the ECDF is expected to be localized and limited. However, a number of environmental issues can
be highlighted under each sub-sector as follows:
10.    Water Supply. Water supply projects under the ECDF could generally be expected to
yield positive environmental outcomes for the communities concerned. Two main issues deserve
attention:
(i) Use of water points for watering livestock. In the lowland areas in particular, there may
be the risk of increased livestock concentrations around new water points with adverse
effects on surrounding grazing land. However, it is anticipated that most of the requests for
water points would emanate from sedentary farming communities who would be expected
to assume responsibility for regulating the use of such water points primarily for domestic
consumption.
(ii) Contamination of water source through poor maintenance of the wvater point
surroundings. The risk of such contamination can generally be offset by proper design of
the water point and training of community members in appropriate maintenance practices.
11.    Road Construction, As the road-works envisaged under this project would consist mostly
of the upgrading of existing footpaths and rehabilitation of existing small-scale feeder roads, the
adverse environmental impact is not anticipated to be significant. The following points may need
particular consideration, however:
(i) Erosion and slope stability. Local erosion problems can be exacerbated and slope
stability disturbed by road construction. These can be the result of deficient drainage or
modification of water flows. In most instances, potential problems can be avoided or
mitigated through appropriate design or by taking measures such as the prompt replanting
of vegetation on road embankments.
(ii) Impact on the local water system. Construction of a road could contribute to changes in
the flow and quality of surface water and groundwater, sometimes resulting in increased
flooding, siltation, or drying up of natural groundwater reserves/supplies. Most of the roads
envisaged under the ECDF are likely to be too small to have any major impact on water
flows.
12.    Social Infrastructure Projects. The environmental impact of these structures is likely to
be minimal. The only potential area of concern, would be to ensure the safe disposal of hazardous
materials from health centers. This can be achieved through the separation of degradable and non-
degradable materials and the construction of protected disposal pits for the more hazardous
materials. Meanwhile there would be scope to encourage environmentally positive measures under
this category of sub-projects. For instance the construction of pit latrines that can also serve as
demonstration sites could have a positive impact on hygiene practices, particularly amongst school
children, while the inclusion of properly designed roof catchments could help to improve the
availability of water.
13.    Pilot Savings and Credit Program. The Government anticipates that a wide range of
micro-enterprise and income-generating proposals would be received. Given the small-scale of the
activities envisaged, relatively few are expected to raise issues of any real consequence to the



Annex I
Page 4 of 6
environment. Typically the proposals are expected to include such activities as bee-keeping,
garnent making, establishing of grinding mills, etc., all of which are reasonably benign activities as
far as their impact on the environment is concerned. Obvious exception would be proposals
involving intensive use of raw materials such as wood for fuel or construction (e.g. brick-making
kilns), or activities generating potentially hazardous wastes (e.g. metal works, or skin and hides
production). Such proposals would be specifically reviewed with the community concerned in order
to find appropriate alternative materials or solutions for waste management.
14.    Soil, Water, and Forestry Conservation.. The government is also envisaging the
implementation of a number of "natural resources management" projects. These projects would
generally consist of hillside terracing, tree-planting and construction of check dams in catchment
areas or on road embankments. While these kinds of activity are aimed at environmental
improvements, a number of points will need to be kept in mind:
(i) Terracing. The beneficial effects of terracing are likely to be increased water infiltration
and hence recharging of local aquifers, as well as increased agriculture productivity.
However, in some catcliment areas, given low rainfall levels and high evapo-transpiration
rates, extensive terracing can also have the effect of reducing the amount of water that
drains into the catchment ar;a. It would thus be important at the design stage of the project
to obtain at least a basic picture of the main hydrological characteristics of the catchment
area so as to give a reasonably informed estimate of the extent of terracing required to yield
positive environmental effects. It would be also important to assess whether any
productivity and hydrological benefit can be achieved.
(ii) Tree planting. Tree planting has been widely encouraged in Eritrea because of the acute
shortage of wood and tree products in most areas of the country. It is also thought to have
the added benefit of helping to stabilize slopes and reducing surface run-off and soil loss.
Some of these benefits can be expected to accrue under the present project. However,
attention will need to be paid to the siting of tree plantation and to the kind of species
promoted. Given low rainfall and high evapo-transpiration rates, tree planting, in some
locations, may have the unintended effect of reducing groundwater availability and of
depriving surrounding vegetation of moisture. The effect can be particularly serious if fast
growing but water-hungry species such as eucalyptus are planted in areas which are already
water scarce. It would be important for the Project staff to have a sound understanding of
the local ecology of areas to be planted and to ensure that appropriate species are used if
planting is to proceed. Enforced enclosures that encourage the regeneration of natural
vegetation on hillsides imnay often be a more effective form of environmental conservation
than tree plantations.
(iii) Ensuring maintenance of terrace.: A problem reported by many agencies that have
sponsored large-scale terracing programs in Eritrea, is that of maintenance of the structures
once in place. The problem has often been that community members do not see any direct
benefit to themselves in undertaking such work and are hence reluctant to devote time to
maintenance unless compensated by food or cash. Poor maintenance of terraces can
sometimes cause greater problems than they were originally designed to address as the
collapse of any one part of a terrace can lead to the formation of deep gullies that only
exacerbate soil loss and run-off. The ECDF would experiment various community
approaches and incentive measures to ensure the long-term commitment of communities to
the maintenance of terraces or, where appropriate, tree plantations. For example, one
approach would be to introduce low-cost measures such as grass-strips, using vetiver grass,
soil and stone bunds, and encouraging retention of dung and crop residues on cropland to
improve ground cover, enhance soil fertility, and ultimately improve yield. The low-cost



Annex I
Page 5 of 6
provision of fuelwood as an energy alternative to dung, fuel saving stoves, and improved
cut-and carry fodder as a substitute for crop residues are important elements of this
strategy.
15.    Environmental Categorization. The above analysis highlights that while it is anticipated
that there will be a number of environmental issues requiring particular attention during the
implementation of the project, most potential problems can be resolved through dialogue and
negotiation with communities, technical advise and by incorporating special features into the design
of specific sub-projects. It can be seen that the Project also presents possibilities for promoting sub-
projects or sub-project components that could in fact have a positive impact on the environment. In
this case, care would be taken not to impose activities or solutions on communities, but rather to
present them with a range of options and information on what other communities have already tried
and succeeded at.
16.    Because the Project may have specific environmental impacts of a limited nature, it is
judged that the appropriate environmental categoryfor the project is category "B", in accordance
with the World Bank's Operation Directive number 4.01 on Environmental Assessment. In the
context of a project of this nature, however, where the specific activities of the ECDF cannot be
determined with any accuracy before the start of operations, there is limited scope to define the
measures to be taken on the ground to mitigate potentially negative environmental impacts. This
analysis is thus limited to: (a) flagging potential problem areas; and (b) ensuring that appraisal and
monitoring functions of the ECDF are designed in such a way to ensure that each sub-project is
properly assessed and monitored for potential environmental effects and dealt with on a case
specific basis.
17.    Capacity Building. The key to ensuring that sub-projects will be environmentally sound
and that positive actions can be taken, where appropriate, to promote better environmental
management, is the building up of capacity of ECDF staff and of village level representatives
responsible for project implementation. A number of measures will be necessary to this end. First,
there would be a need to establish systematic procedures to adequately screen, appraise and monitor
micro-projects. Secondly there would be the need to train ECDF staff to apply these procedures
effectively. Although staff of the ECDF are already technically competent and aware of potential
environmental effects of various development activities, they have little experience in applying
rigorous environmental assessment procedures to project appraisal processes. The Capacity
Building program would include targeted training for ECDF staff in the Management Office and in
the Regional Branches. Thirdly, community members would need to be part of the process of
translating environmental objectives into actions through practical training and provision of
technical advice.
18.    An environment focal point would be appointed in the Management Office to: (i) maintain
responsibility for environmental training and up-dating of the Environment Handbook; and (b)
serve as contact point for the Eritrean Agency for Environment.. Moreover, the existing ECDF staff
would be trained to integrate appropriate environmental approaches into their mainstream activities.
19.    Screening and AppraisaL The process by which sub-projects would be screened,
appraised and approved, would be designed in such a way that potential negative environmental
impacts or other environmental issues could be identified at an early stage and adequate measures
taken to modify the project design or undertake other mitigating actions in consultation with the
communities concerned. Primary responsibility for assessing the environmental impact of micro-
projects would rest with the Regional Branches Project Officers. In cases where a project is



Annex I
Page 6 of 6
thought to have a number of environmental issues to resolve, it would be the responsibility of the
Project Officer to discuss these issues with the community and arrive at a satisfactory conclusion
before the project is transmitted to the Management Office for review. If necessary the Project
Officer could flag issues of a technically complex nature to be followed up by the Management
Office.
20.   Environmental Assessment Handbook In order to assist Project Officers in the
screening and appraisal process, a concise environmental assessment handbook would be prepared
including checklists that would help Project Officers to identify potential environmental issues and
propose appropriate mitigating actions. The handbook would be prepared by consultants at the
earliest stages of the Project and be used initially for the training of ECDF staff. It is estimated that
four weeks of a team of national and international consultants would be necessary to complete the
handbook.
21.   Training of ECDF Staff. The training to be provided to ECDF staff would be broad based
and would have the purpose of providing staff, particularly at the regional level, with a general
understanding of the purpose and process of environmental assessment across the various
categories of activities being undertaken by the ECDF and to equip them with the skills to identify
potential environmental problems and propose appropriate mitigating actions. It is anticipated that
one initial basic training session of two to three days would be required with possibly one refresher
training session to be held at a later stage of the project cycle. The participants would be technical
staff of the Management Office and Regional Branches of ECDF. Its duration would be 2/3 days.
22.   Training at the Community LeveL Training at the community level would be aimed at
members of the village development committees and village baitos. The training would be
undertaken by staff of ECDF who would use specific sub-projects as the entry point for their
interventions. Such training would be very pragmatic and focused on presenting community
members with practical advice on ways of coping with environmental issues that impinge on their
daily life. Training would be of a short-term nature and spread over the lifetime of the project.
Care would be taken to avoid lecturing communities on bad environmental practices, concentrating
instead on identifying options and solutions for everyday problems.
23.   Monitoring and Evaluation. It would be important that an appropriate monitoring system
be established to ensure that environmental concerns are appropriately incorporated into the sub-
projects. During the initial stages of sub-project appraisal and design, there would need to be a
strong reliance on the skill and commitment of Project Officers to identify relevant environmental
issues and to monitor that those responsible for designing and implementing the different sub-
projects undertake the necessary studies or other technical activities necessary to deal with the
issues identified. The ECDF MIS system would support the task by including a provision for the
classification of each sub-project according to its environmental impact (e.g. category A - negative
impact; category B - negative but able to be mitigated; category C - environmentally benign;
category D - environmentally positive), together with of a brief description of the issues of concern.
Although care would be taken not to overburden the ECDF staff or community representatives
with too many functions or responsibilities, a number of basic indicators would be identified to
enable staff to keep track of whether the environmental issues identified are being appropriately
pursued and to evaluate whether or not the appraisal process as a whole is resulting in
environmentally sound projects on the ground. These indicators would also be incorporated into
the MIS system.



Annex J
Page I of 4
Education and Health Sector Related Projects
I.    Premises. The following factors have been taken into account to determine the volume
of activities that ECDF would implement in the education and health sector: (i) anticipated
number of community-initiated proposals and related cost; (ii) preparation and monitoring
capacity a the Regional Branches level; (iii) local construction capacity; and, (iv) acceptable
share of the available annual ECDF Budget based on sectoral priorities for the country and the
regions. During the past two years, the pilot Fund has completed 34 elementary schools. Sixteen
elementary schools are in the 1995 project pipeline and included in the preliminary planning and
budgeting. It is expected that accepted proposals in the period 1996-2001 would number about
20 per year, a figure that is considered in line with the implementing capacity of the construction
sector. In the health sector the pilot Fund has completed in the past two years 17 health stations
and 9 health centres. It is expected that the annual number of qualifying requests for the period
1996-2001 exceed the 1995 work volume. It is not expected that local construction capacity be a
limiting factor. The projections proposed in this annex are based on the standard models (for
both health and education infrastructure) for convenience purpose, but the size and structure of
each facility would be individually decided on the basis of the catchment-population, and other
relevant factors.
2.    Education Infrastructure: Elementary School. A standard elementary school
comprises 6 classrooms, I staff/meeting room, I office, I store room, I six-unit teachers'
residence, I eight-unit dry latrine block. Based on the price levels experienced during the pilot
phase, the average cost per standard 6-classroom elementary school (total area 505 m ),
including latrines, staff accommodation, and furniture, amounts to US$ 82,500 for the highlands
and US$ 90,000 for the lowlands. Assuming a highland-lowland ratio of 1:4 as in the pilot
phase, the overall average cost would amount to US$ 88,500 (average 1995 price level). If the
standard dry pit latrine is exchanged (as recommended) for 2 number 5-cubicle VIP latrines, the
cost is expected to increase by US$ 500. The inclusion of a sizeable (30 mi3) underground rain
water collection tank, including gutters and pipe work, adds US$ 3,500 to the cost of a school.
Therefore, the total costfor one improved standard school should be US$ 92,500. For budget
purposes, this price is increased by US$ 1,500 a year to cover inflation.
3.    Junior Secondary School. A junior secondary school is estimated to cost
approximately 11% per square metre more than the elementary school. The total cost of a
standard junior secondary school is estimated at US $ 280,500 (average 1995 price level),
including furniture. The building includes 20 classrooms, 1 library plus laboratory block, 1
administration block, 2 six-unit teachers' residences and 3 pit latrine blocks (total area 1455 m2
and modifications in the plans to include VIP-latrines (3 times 2 blocks) and 2 rain water
reservoirs, gutters and pipe work, are estimated to cost US $ 8,500 extra. The total cost of one
improvedjunior secondary school would be US$ 289,000. For budgeting purposes, this price is
increased by US$ 4,500 a year to cover inflation..
4.    The budget for the education sub-project is based on a work volume equivalent to more
than 70 standard elementary schools with ancillary facilities, such as staff quarters and improved
sanitation, water storage and furniture. Since the MOE has flexible construction standards,
which take into account the catchment student population and other variable factors, it is
expected that the final number of infrastructure will be about 100, among school buildings of
different size and construction techniques.



Annex J
Page 2 of 4
Table 1 Projections for the Education Sector
Year               Budget Allocation            Number of Facilities
1997                 1,118,000                         12
1998                2,820,000                          30
1999                2,410,000                          26
2000                 1,440,000                         16
2001                 1,070,000                         1 2
Total                8,920,000                         96
S.     Health Infrastructure: Health Station. The standard health station consists of the
clinic building, a dry latrine block, a health staff residence, an elevated water tank, and an
underground water reservoir. Based on the pilot phase, the average cost per standard health
station (total built-up area 251 m2), comprising I four-unit health staff residence, I six-unit dry
latrine block, an elevated water tank, and an underground water reservoir, but not including
furniture, is US$ 67,000 for the highlands and US$ 77,000 for the lowlands. Assuming a
highland-lowland ratio of 1:4 as in the pilot phase, the overall average cost amounts to US$
75,000 (average 1995 price levels). If the water supply/catchment reservoir and the sanitation
systems can be rationalised, it is estimated that the extra cost incurred for construction of a larger
rain water catchment reservoir is equivalent to the omission of the elevated water tank. The
small additional cost for providing 2 three-unit VIP latrine blocks (male/female, each with 2
units for patients and I unit for staff) and for a medical waste/placenta pit with cover is
equivalent to the omission of internal flush toilets. The cost of the furniture and the solar-
powered refrigerator, which so far was never included in the project cost, is estimated to be 10%
of the construction cost. The total cost for one improved standard health station would be US$
82,500 (1995 price level). For budget purposes an annual increase of US$ 1,250 is foreseen to
cover inflation.
6.     Health Centre. The standard health centre, consisting of the centre building, I six-unit
dry latrine block, and I four-unit staff residence, costs US$ 245,000 in the highlands and US$
341,000 in the lowlands. Population densities in the highlands more easily justify the
establishment of a health centre than in the more sparsely populated lowlands. For budget
reasons, the ratio highland-lowland is assumed to be 1:1. The average cost per health centre is
US$ 293,000 not including furniture. As for the health station, it is estimated that rationalisation
of the water, sanitation and waste disposal systems can take place in a cost-neutral way. The
cost of furniture and solar powered refrigerator is estimated to be 10% of the construction cost,
or US$ 29,300. The total costfor one improved health centre would be US$ 322,300 (1995 price
level). For budget reasons, this price is increased by US$ 5,000 per year to cover inflation.
7.     The budget for the health sector is based on a work volume of more than 70 among
standard health stations and centers with ancillary facilities, such as staff quarters and improved
sanitation, water storage, furniture and solar power refrigerator. Since the standards of MOH are
flexible, and take into account variables such as the catchment population to determine the size
of the facilities, it is expected that ECDF will finance a larger number of facilities (about 100).



Annex J
Page 3 of 4
Table 2 Projections for the Health Sector
Year                Budget Allocation          Number of Facilities
1997                   1,000,000                        12
1998                   1,830,000                        23
1999                   1,440,000                        18
2000                   1,040,000                        13
2001                    500,000                          6
Total                  5,810,000                        72
8.    Implementation Arrangements.. ECDF's experience with implementation has mainly
been with labour-only contracts with local contractors, community participation in cash, labour
and/or materials, procurement of materials by the Fund, and hired transport for delivery of
materials. The involvement in the procurement and the responsibility for the delivery of
materials has become a heavy burden for the ECDF. To reduce the work load in this field, it is
foreseen that in the expanded phase a substantial amount of the civil works contracts would be
turn-key contracts. The contractors would not only provide labour, but also purchase, transport
and store materials, and be responsible for site organisation and construction management.
9.     Project Management and Supervision In the pilot phase, the Provincial ECRF Sub-
unit, often in close collaboration with the Reconstruction and Development Division and the
Provincial Engineer, carried out the regular supervision, evaluation and handing-over visits to
the construction sites. As soon as the number of turn-key contracts increases, the need will grow
to supervise closely and undertake timely evaluations. This is due to the nature of the contracting
business, where cash liquidity to buy materials and pay wages is important. The increasing work
load for Regional Branches Project Officers, supervisors and quantity surveyors may necessitate
the involvement (or hiring) of additional expertise. This expertise might be found at district
level for daily supervision, or at regional or national level for evaluations and progress
monitoring, and quality control.
10.   Community Involvement. During the pilot, the community's involvement has been
mainly in terms of contributions towards the construction (labour, materials and cash), but
sometimes the community took an active part in the management of project materials and the site
organisation. If supervising capacity can be found locally, the community would be able to play
a role in the daily supervision. It is also possible that, in addition to the community's
contribution, local labour (and/or craftsmen) is hired by the contractor of a turn-key project.
I.    There is a large range of implementation options. The following box summarises
potential roles and responsibilities for each implementing agent:



Annex J
Page 4 of 4
Box 1 Implementation Arrangements
Contractor's job:
- supplies all labor only
- supplies most labor and community some
- supplies labor, materials, transport and site management (turn-key)
Community's job:
- contributes cash
- contributes labor
- contributes materials
- contributes a combination of the three
- is responsible for site management (material storage, handing out, stock and delivery control,
availability of water, security)
- provides regular site supervision (quality, progress, presence, problem identification)
- carries out part/complete works as labor only contract (including piece-work sub-contracts)
ECDF Regional Branch's job:
- is responsible for project administration, supervision, evaluation, payment advice, progress and
financial reporting (in case of turn-key project)
- apart from the above mentioned tasks, also undertakes local procurement, advises on central
procurement and organizes transport (in case of labor only contract)
- is responsible for project administration, payment advice, progress and financial reporting, local
procurement, advice on central procurement and organization of transport, but has assigned an external
supervisor/valuator (in case of labor-only contracts in remote locations, or if there is insufficient
capacity at the ECDF Sub-Office)
- is responsible for project administration, payment advice, progress and financial reporting, but has
assigned an external supervisor/valuator (in case of turn-key contracts in remote location or if there is
insufficient capacity at the ECDF Sub-Office)
Consultant's job:
- daily site supervision, but 6-8 weekly monitoring visits are done by ECDF's Sub-Office Project Officer
- weekly/fortnightly site inspections and 6-8 weekly valuations, but daily site supervision done by
community
- monitoring only, all supervision by community
12.    Education and Health Training Activities. The Fund would facilitate non-
infrastructure initiatives related to education and health. Elementary or middle school facilities,
as well as health stations and health centres, can cater to additional social functions. Adult
education, literacy classes, environmental health, conservation, public sanitation, community
mobilisation are amongst possible community interests. The Fund would also consider financing
training costs, relevant documentation, reference and training literature, instruction aids, and
other activities and items aimed at building knowledge and skills in the community (for example
in the fields of marketable basic crafts, first aid, homestead cultivation and husbandry, business
skills, and the like). For basic social non-infrastructure training projects, it is assumed that there
would be a gradual increase in requests, as the possibilities to use the Fund for this purpose
become known and the benefits visible.



Annex K
Page I of 4
Rural Water Supply
I.     Background. On the basis of proposals received during the pilot phase, and needs
assessments carried out during the preparation of the expanded project, it is estimated that ECDF
would provide improved drinking water supply to more than 230 communities representing
about 5% of the rural population. The total cost of the rural water supply component is
estimated at US $ 4.15 million. The water supply component of ECDF would (i) rehabilitate
and/or augment existing supplies, and (ii) develop new supplies. Rehabilitation is an important
element of the component as a large number of existing systems (40-50%) are inoperative due to
inadequate maintenance. Most water supplies are currently unprotected. The construction of
new supplies would primarily consist of three major typologies (Table 1) - hand dug wells
(49%), drilled wells (40%) and piped water supplies (5%). These represent the most common
technological solutions, however, in exceptional cases and only where these schemes would not
be technically feasible, other alternatives (6%) sub-project typologies would be considered.
Table I Scheme Typologies by Number and Unit Cost (US$)
Type of scheme     Population    No. of schemes   Cost of scheme    Total Cost
Served
Hand dug well         28,750            115            7,000          805,000
Drilled well          47,500             95           14,500         1,377,500
Piped supply          36,000             12           91,500         1,098,000
Rainwater catchment    7,000              7           82,000          574,000
Others                 7,000              7           42,000          294,000
Totals               126,250            236                          4,148,500
Table 2 Rural Water Supply Component Costs
Type of Scheme      FY97      FY98      FY99      FY00       FY01      Totals
Hand dug well         0.140     0.175     0.175      0.175     0.140      0.805
Borehole              0.290     0.290     0.290      0.290     0.218      1.379
Piped Scheme           -        0.366     0.366      0.274     0.091      1.097
Rainwater catchment    -        0.246     0.164      0.164     -          0.574
Sub-surface Dams      -         0.084     0.126      0.084     -          0.294
Totals                0.430     1.161     1.121      0.987     0.449      4.148
Table 3 Distribution of Projects by Year of Implementation
Type of Scheme      FY97      FY98       FY99      FY00      FY01      Totals
Hand dug well            20       25         25        25         20       115
Drilled wells            20       20         20        20         15       95
Piped supply              -        4          4         3          1        12
Rainwater catchment       -        3          2         2          -         7
Sub-surface Dams          -         2         3         2          -         7
Totals                   40        54        54        52         36      236
2.     Actual costs of each proposed typology would vary from one scheme to another
depending on topographical and hydrogeological characteristics, population size, and settlement
patterns. It is intended that the Government will standardize handpumps in the near future.
Mark II handpumps will be phased out and Mark III handpumps will become the standard
VLOM (Village Level Operation and Maintenance) pump. Mono-handpumps and motorized
pumps will also be used.



Annex K
Page 2 of 4
3.     Hand Dug Wells. Traditional hand dug wells in Eritrea are generally quite shallow.
Over 71% are estimated to be less than 5 meters deep. It is proposed that hand dug wells of up to
25 meters be considered by ECDF. Hand dug wells are typically constructed by communities.
Technical assistance may only be required for headworks and installation of handpumps. Bucket
lifts could also be installed where yields are not adequate. Costs of fitting handpumps on
existing hand dug wells are estimated to be about 60% of the full cost of a hand dug well.
Table 4 Unit Cost for Hand-Dug Well
Hand Dug Well:              Unit Costs (Birr)
Labor and materials                   31,000
Equipment handpump                    10,000
Supervision/software                   2,500
Total Cost                            42,500
4.     The calculation of this unit cost is based on the following assumptions:
- depth (average)                                15 meters
- population served                              250
- skills available within proximity of community  Yes
- estimated implementation time                  7 months
- handpump                                       Mark III
- per capita investment                          170
5.   Drilled Wells. Drilled wells of between 40 and 70 meters would be fitted with hand
pumps. Community participation in siting is essential and could also involve construction of
headworks and fencing. Inadequate hydrogeological information could result in a high failure
rate (dry wells). -There are presently 10 drilling rigs in the country (6 within Government)
capable of drilling an estimated 450 boreholes per year. The average annual drilling requirement
of the ECDF is about 20 boreholes per year.
Table 5 Unit Cost for Drilled Well
Drilled Well                        Unit Costs (Birr)
- Labor and materials (including drilling)  55,000
- equipment
hand pump                             10,000
- supervision/software                   25,000
Total Cost                               90,000
6.     The calculation of this unit cost is based on the following assumptions:
- depth (average)                                55 meters
- population                                     500*
- estimated implementation time                  6 months
- handpump                                       Mark III
- per capita cost                                180 Birr
7.     Piped Water Supplies. On a per capita cost basis, piped water supplies would be most
suitable for communities of 3000 and above. Construction costs for a scheme consisting of a
hand dug (15-25) or drilled well (40-70m), motorized pump, 50m3 reservoir, distribution
network of 2000 meters, 4 distribution points and 2 livestock watering points is estimated to cost
190 Birr per capita for a community of 3000 persons. Distribution points would be located



Annex K
Page 3 of 4
within proximity of social infrastructure (clinics and education facilities) and troughs for
livestock watering at the outskirts of the community. Costs of augmenting existing supplies by
constructing distribution networks are about 14% less than new piped supplies.
Table 6 Unit Cost for Piped Water Supply
Piped Water Supply             Unit Cost (Birr)
- design and supervision (6%)                27,000
- materials (included below)
- Labor - trench excavation and pipe fitting  200,000
- equipment  motorized pump                 106,000
pipes and fittings              100,000
- reservoir (50m3)                           85,000
- 4 distribution points and 2 cattle troughs  22,000
- pumphouse                                  31,000
Total Cost                                  571,000
8.     This unit cost is based on the following assumptions:
- population                              3000
- estimated implementation time           17 months
- length of distribution network (average)  2000 meters
- per capita cost                         190 Birr
- motorized pump                          mono-pump with lister engine
9.     Operation and Maintenance Arrangements. In considering the development of new
sources, as well as in the appraisal of rehabilitation of existing schemes, previous initiatives
taken by communities to operate, maintain and improve the management of their schemes would
be taken into consideration. In particular, efforts to collect revenue for operation and
maintenance would be reviewed and built upon. Where operation and maintenance funds are not
customarily collected, communities would be required to establish an operation and maintenance
fund and collect a minimum 10% of the annual O&M cost of the ECDF financed sub-project as a
pre-condition before sub-project appraisal.
10.    The role of the Government in providing technical support to communities for operation
and maintenance would decline over the project period. The Water Resources Department which
currently has full responsibility for operation and maintenance of piped water supplies and
handpumps would be phasing out this support over several years as and when adequate capacity
for operation and maintenance is built up. The establishment of Technical Teams at the sub-
zonal level comprised of 5 trained individuals (possibly from the private sector) has been
proposed by the Government. Communities would pay for intermediate or major repairs to be
carried out by these teams whenever necessary. The Government will finalize its strategy on this
and other key operation and maintenance issues at a National Meeting on Operation and
Maintenance of Water Supply and Sanitation to be held in late 1995/early 1996.
11.   Implementation Capacity. Lack of information on water resources, particularly
hydrogeological data is likely to cause some difficulties in developing groundwater sources in
the short term. Reliance on groundwater sources is further complicated by pastoral activities in
the lowlands, and settlement patterns in the highlands - Villages are commonly situated on
hilltops above farming areas. A hydrogeological study to be carried out by with EU support will
substantially improve the availability of information on groundwater, and difficulties caused by
inadequate geophysical siting and ariilling capacity will decrease as private sector capacity



Annex K
Page 4 of 4
grows. There are currently 10 drilling rigs in Eritrea of which 6 are in the Ministry of Energy,
Mines and Water Resources. All rigs are based in Asmara. As part of its reform program, WRD
has transferred its drilling equipment to a newly formed drilling parastatal company which will
provide drilling services on a competitive basis. The capacity of the private sector to undertake
civil works has been demonstrated in the pilot ECRF. However due to difficulties in procuring
necessary materials and equipment, it is anticipated that there may be some implementation
difficulties. To help alleviate these constraints, it is proposed that procurement assistance and
training be provided to the private sector.
12.    Capacity Building. A key element of the water component of ECDF would be capacity
building support for communities, institutions such ECDF staff, MOLG, and WRD, and private
sector institutions involved in the implementation of the sub-projects. Technical assistance to
supporting agencies would ensure that communities have the capacity to participate in sub-
projects during project implementation and after project completion. The establishment of
effective District Technical Teams, to provide backup maintenance support to communities,
would also contribute to this objective. Capacity building would be provided at four different
levels: (i) national; (ii) provincial and district; (iii) community/village water committee; and (iv)
private sector.
13.   Implementation Arrangements. Implementation arrangements for water sub-projects
will be somewhat different from those in other sectors. As communities are expected to be
responsible for the full recurrent costs of their schemes, they must be involved in project
planning, design, supervision, and operation and maintenance. This will necessitate adequate
capacity for consultation and involvement of the community, and for providing training in
operation and maintenance of facilities, including financial and general management to water
committees. Key steps in the preparation of water sub-projects include community mobilization
and awareness creation; assessment of community capacity to raise adequate funds to cover
capital contribution and recurrent costs; involvement of communities in technology selection
including discussion of operation and maintenance requirements of different technology options;
reaching agreement on cost-sharing arrangements - including the option of increasing the
community contribution if a higher level of service is selected; reviewing options for
institutional support to the community - including the role of NGOs, local government, the
private sector, and others.



Annex L
Page I of 7
Rural Roads And Transport Component
1.    The Road Network. The road network of Eritrea has been estimated in various reports to
measure more than 6,000 km in length including about 4500 km of seasonal, or dry weather rural feeder
roads distributed throughout the six regions. The Road Transport and Construction Department (RTD)
of the Ministry of Construction (MOC) is currently preparing a road inventory summary showing road
length by class, surface type and condition. Preliminary summaries covering a total of about 4,250 km
of what may be termed the classified road network. have been prepared in November 1994. The roads
are functionally classified into primary, secondary, local and minor, and described by four road
(surface) types, namely, paved, gravel, earth and roads essentially considered "tracks". It is significant
to note that about 14% of Secondary roads and about 86 percent of the Local roads may now be
considered tracks.
Table 1 Length of Classified Roads by Surface Type (Kmi)
Road Class      Paved         Gravel        Earth         Track          Total
Primary           541           304            690                         1535
Secondary          40            68            625           121            854
Feeder/Local                                   238          1409           1647
Minor                                           89           125            214
Total             581           372           1642          1655           4250
2      Road Network Condition. The condition of the overall road network is generally poor or very
poor, and it is expected to be worse than the summary of classified roads condition presented in Table
2. Only 5 percent may be described as being in good condition, while about 80 percent are in poor or
very poor condition.
Table 2 Condition of the Classified Roads (Km)
Class     V. Good      Good       Fair       Poor      V. Poor     Total
Primary                   231         499       115        690         1535
(15%)      (33%)      (7%)       (45%)
Secondary                             121       541         192         854
(14%)     (63%)      (22%)
FeederALocal                                    226        1427        1653
(14%)      (86%)
Minor                                                      214          214
(100%)
Total                     231         620       882       2523         4256
(5%)      (15%)     (21%)       (59%)      (100%)
3.     Lessons from the Pilot Community Rehabilitation Fund. During the Pilot phase, the ECRF
implemented the following sub-projects in the road rehabilitation sector: (i) rehabilitation of a 5 km
section of the 42-km IndaGeorgis-Maimne feeder road; (ii) a bridge on the road to Adi Hawisha off a
junction about 13 km along the Asmara-Decemere road; (iii) a bridge near Tsada Christian; and (iv) two
fords or river crossings at Adi Neamn (45 km from Asmara). The road was constructed by using labor,
tools and some material inputs from the beneficiary communities. The Provincial Road Transport
Construction Branch (PRTCB) provided technical assistance and limited equipment support. The road
serves about 40 communities with an estimated beneficiary population of 48,000. Though feeder roads
rehabilitation has been a relatively minor activity for the Pilot ECRF, it has demonstrated that it is
feasible to carry out feeder roads and bridge improvement by using domestic private contractors, and
involving communities, and local administrations. The expanded ECDF would complete road
improvement initiatives (which focus on the classified rural road network) by supporting improvements
to levels of transport service below that provided by all-weather roads and motor vehicles. ECDF



Annex L
Page 2 of 7
would be used for testing (i) community participation processes, as well as (ii) environmental protection
measures for RRT infrastructure including traditional tracks and trails used by donkeys, camels,
bicycles, and animal drawn carts.
4.     The Pilot phase has also shown that the implementation of rural road interventions will require
technical support for design and supervision from MOLG or ECDF, the Regional Administrations, and
the Roads and Transportation Department (RTD). Low technical capacity for design and supervision,
however, remains an important issue to address for the whole road sector. Capacity of the RTD and its
branches are being built up and strengthened for the management, supervision and execution of road
sector programs. There is also a need to build up capacity at the regional and local levels. The
grassroots institutional basis for developing and implementing an expanded community supported rural
roads and transport program already exists. The expanded ECDF program, therefore, would provide a
good vehicle for testing various implementation modalities. Evaluation of these modalities would
provide information for preparing a rural road and transport mid-term strategy.
5.    Implementation Modalities. The ECDF would employ private contractors to execute the
feeder road improvement works except in remote locations where the capacity may be low or non-
existent. In such locations, the ECDF would contract the roadworks out to Construction Units in the
regional administrations. At present, only Denkel province has a Construction Unit. There are up to
133 contractors registered with the Ministry of Construction. Most contractors are registered as
building contractors, and some masons and other artisans are available, and they can be contracted for
the construction of the box culverts and river crossings. With training, most of the contractors can
execute the road works using labor-based techniques. The ECDF would carry out a contractor survey to
determine the numbers and availability of contractors for the works in the various regions, as well as
their training and capacity building needs, before the beginning of the expanded phase. This exercise
would be part of initial capacity building activities.
6.     A register for consultants, professional engineers and architects, graduate engineers and
architects, engineering aides and associate engineering aides has been established for construction
works, structural engineering, surveying and drafting. ECDF would advertise its proposed program in
order to record and register potential consultants for interview and recruitment for the program.
Consultants, especially for roads and bridges survey and design, would be recruited to support ECDF
staff.
7.     RRT improvements providing levels of service below that provided by all-weather roads and
motor vehicles could be implemented by the beneficiary communities themselves, usually (but not
necessarily) with the assistance of intermediaries (such as NGOs). The same applies to all-weather
local access roads and tracks which do not meet national standards. Rural road improvements which are
intended to meet national standards would be implemented by, in order of preference, (i) labor-based
contractors; (ii) labor-based force account units of the PRTCB (Provincial Road Transport
Construction Branch); (iii) equipment-based contractors; and (iv) equipment-based units of PRTCB.
Where beneficiary communities are contributing to the sub-project cost by providing free labor,
implementation may be done by labor-based units of PRTCB in order to avoid possible exploitation by
contractors. In the case of spot improvements and staged-development of rural transport routes which
are expected to be eventually taken over and upgraded to national rural road standards by the PRTCB,
the alignments selected and structures built should meet the requirements of the responsible PRTCB.
Possible packages of institutional responsibilities for the implementation of the six types of RRT
improvements are given in Attachment A.
8.     Maintenance Modalities: Pre-conditions. The maintenance of rural roads improved by the
project would not be carried out unless it is: (i) adequately funded; (ii) properly organized and



Annex L
Page 3 of 7
programmed; (iii) properly supervised; and (iv) the responsibilities of the various parties are clearly set
out and agreed. ECDF Project Officers would ensure that all of these pre-conditions for effective
maintenance are met before the road proposal is appraised. Wherever possible, improved rural roads
should be maintained by labor-intensive methods employing labor from the communities along the
road. It is unreasonable to expect people to work regularly on road maintenance (albeit part-time)
without payment, and maintenance workers should receive fair compensation for their efforts, either as
contractors or as employees.
9.     Methods: The following common methods of labor-intensive routine maintenance of roads
would be implemented: (i) by single-man contractors or lengthmen, each of whom is responsible for
keeping a short section of road (usually 1-2 km) up to a certain standard and is paid by results; (ii)
length-gangs, as in (i) but, with groups of 4 or 5 people, under gang leaders, maintaining 6-10 km
sections of road; (iii) section contracts, where clearly defined maintenance responsibilities for
substantial lengths of road are put out to contract, preferably on a lump sum basis but possibly on the
basis of unit rates for various tasks; (iv) village contracts, as above but where maintenance contracts
are given to village administrations; (v)functional contracts, whereby contractors carry out specific
tasks, according to need or season (e.g. grass cutting, drain and culvert clearing, carriageway repairs,
etc.) and are paid on a lump sum basis; (vi)force account road maintenance by gangs operating out of
road camps or depots, but this is the least effective or desirable option.
10.    Most of the above-mentioned maintenance methods are applicable, to a greater or lesser extent,
to community roads and can be adapted to suit local circumstances. For example, village contracts can
be tumed into inter-village agreements. The maintenance method adopted for particular sections of
road would be determined after considering: (i) the availability of labor along the road; (ii) local
preferences for working as individuals or in groups; (iii) the availability of competent contractors; and
(iv) the willingness and competence of village administrations to take on road maintenance contracts.
Possible packages of institutional responsibilities for maintenance of the assets created under the six
types of RRT improvements are given in Attachment A.
11.    Environmental Protection. The proposed rural road improvements satisfy conditions under
Environmental Category B by virtue of their concentration on spot improvements, rehabilitation and
maintenance of existing rural roads, their exclusion of rural road improvements which involve
significant amounts of realignment or new construction, as well as the emphasis given to appropriate
environmental protection measures. A detailed checklist for mitigating the adverse effects on the
environment would be included in the Operational Manual, on the basis of the following principles:
(i)    The ECDF RRT component should serve as a testing ground and as a training/demonstration
facility for environmental protection measures for RRT improvements. This would entail not
only carrying out normal environmental protection measures within the road/track reserve but
also rectifying (or at least halting) previous environmental damage and extending
environmental protection measures beyond the road/track reserve to ensure that the RRT
improvements do not cause environmental problems elsewhere, especially downstream of
rivers.
(ii)    Every effort should be made to minimize adverse environmental impact from RRT
improvements in villages by providing adequate drainage and safety for pedestrians.
12.    Technical Assistance, Training and Capacity Building. The RRT component would require
a substantial amount of capacity building and training (especially as regards labor-based works) which
should focus on the following players and activities:-



Annex L
Page 4 of 7
(i)    ECDF:
-     project preparation and appraisal;
-      administration and supervision of small contracts;
-      project monitoring and reporting;
-      labor-intensive construction and maintenance methods for community implemented
works;
-     appropriate environmental protection measures; and
-     selection of appropriate maintenance management.
(ii)   PRTCB, Other Implementing Agencies and Intermediaries;
-     preparation of major rural improvement projects;
-     project implementation, supervision, monitoring and reporting;
-     labor-based implementation and maintenance methods;
setting up appropriate maintenance arrangements and supervising maintenance
activities;
-     planning, programming and budgeting;
-     community participation procedures; and
-     appropriate environmental protection measures.
(iii)   RTD:
-     general technical assistance; and training
(iv)   Beneficiary Communities
-      basic management training for project committee members;
-     labor-based implementation and maintenance methods for local works supervisors;
-     on-the-job training in labor-based implementation and maintenance methods for gang
leaders/headmen and workers.
13.   The training in labor-intensive/labor-based methods would comprise classroom and on-the-job
training for selected works supervisors/foremen and engineers from ECDF, PRTCB and other
implementing agencies.
14.   Technical assistance for a total of 18 man-months would also be provided through support
(comprising intermittent visits of three months on average, but not exceeding six months per tour by
experts recruited through the ILO/ASIST (based in Harare and Nairobi) to train a mobile team of
trainers to provide the various forms of training needed by beneficiary. The aim would be to build on
the experience already available in the country and the training could be provided by the ECDF itself
after the engineer has received training as above, or through a competent NGO, or consultant with
similar experience.



Attachment A
Page 5 of 7
Institutional Options for Technical Appraisal Implementation & RRT Maintenance
Responsibilities
Steps in Sub-Project Cycle       |                         Improvement Type
Community Trails and Foot paths         Low-Cost IMT Tracks
Technical Appraisal
Request Initiation:               Individual Communities or groups of   Individual Communities or groups of
communities through Baitos        communities
Request transmitted to ECDF       Directly or via District or sub-   Directly or via District or sub-
Provincial Sub-Unit via:          Province administrations           Province administrations
Technical screening:              ECDF/PO                            ECDF/PO, PRTCB or PRE
Technical PRTCB or Preparation:   ECDF/PO (pilot schemes) or NGO,    ECDF/PO (pilot schemes) or
consultant                        consultant or NGO & PRTCB or PRE
Technical approval:               ECDF/PO, PRTCB or PRE              ECDF/PO, PRTCB or PRE
Community Training and Capacity   ECDF/PO (pilot schemes) or NGO,    ECDF/PO (pilot schemes) or NGO or
Building                          consultant or                      consultant & PRTCB or PRE
Level and form of community       up to 80% of cost usually in form of    up to 60% of cost usually in form of
contribution                      unskilled labor, materials         unskilled labor & materials
Implementation method             labor-intensive                    labor-intensive
Implementation Agency             Local Development Committee        Local Development Committee
(LDC)                             (LDC)
Intermediary                      NGO or consultant                  NGO or consultant
Technical supervision             ECDF/PO (pilot schemes) or NGO,    ECDF/PO (pilot schemes) or
consultant                        consultant or NGO & PRTCB or
PRE
Equipment inputs by:              Intermediary, but should be minimal   Intermediary, but should be minimal
and simple                        and simple
Manen
Types of Agreement:               Inter-community agreements         Inter-community agreements
Possible methods                  monthly inspections and maintenance   monthly inspections and maintenance
programs                          programs
Community Training and Capacity   ECDF/PO (pilot schemes) or NGO or   ECDF/PO (pilot schemes) or NGO or
Building                          consultant or                      consultant & PRTCB or PRE
Who pays for it?                  Benefiting communities             Benefiting communities
Who does it?                       Part-time paid workers from       Part-time paid workers from
benefiting communities            benefiting community
Who supervises?                    LDC                               LDC



Attachment A
Page 6 of 7
Institutional Options for Technical Appraisal, Implementation & Maintenance Responsibilities
Steps in Sub-Project Cycle                                  Improvement Type
Spot Improved Seasonal            Local Community Access
Vehicular Access Tracks               Roads and Tracks
Technical Appraisal
Requcst Initiation:                Individual Communities or groups of   Individual Communities or groups of
communities                        communities
Request transmitted to ECDF        Directly or via District or sub-   Directly or via District or sub-
Provincial Sub-Unit via:           Province administrations           Province administrations
Technical screening:               ECDF/PO, PRTCBI or PRE             ECDF/PO. PRTCB or PRE
Technical preparation:             consultant or PRTCB or PRE or      consultant or PRTCB or PRE or
possibly NGO                       possibly NGO
Technical approval:                ECDF/PO, PRTCB or PRE              ECDF/PO, PRTCB or PRE
Implementation
Community Training and Capacity   consultant or PRTCB or PRE or       consultant or PRTCB or PRE or
Building                           possibly NGO                       possibly NGO
Level and form of community        up to 50% of cost usually in form of    up to 30% of cost usually in form of
contribution                       cash, materials +/- unskilled labor  unskilled labor and materials
Implementation method              labor-intensive                    labor-based or labor-intensive
Implementation Agency              Contractor or PRTCB or PRE or LDC   Contractor or PRTCB or PRE or LDC
consultant or NGO (if implemented  consultant or NGO (if implemented
Intermediary                       by LDC)                            by LDC)
consultant or PRTCB or PRE         consultant or PRTCB or PRE
lTechnical supervision
Implementing Agency (but minimal)   Implementing Agency (and by hire)
lEquipment inputs by:
Maintenance
Types of Agreement:                Inter-community agreements         Inter-community agreements
Possible methods                   monthly inspections and maintenance  lengthmen or length gangs
programs
Community Training and Capacity   consultant or PRTCB or PRE or       consultant or PRTCB or PRE or
Building                           possibly NGO                       possibly NGO
Who pays for it?                   Benefiting communities             Benefiting communities
Who does it?                       Part-time paid workers from        Part-time paid workers from
benefiting communities             benefiting communities
Who supervises?                    LDC                                LDC



Attachment A
Page 7 of 7
Steps in Sub-Project Cycle                _mprovement Type
Classified Rural Roads            Classified Rural Roads
of District Significance         of Provincial Significance
Technical Appraisal
Request Initiation:                groups of communities              groups of communities
Request transmitted to ECDF        District or sub-Province           District or sub-Province
Provincial Sub-Unit via:           administrations                    administrations
Technical screening:               ECDF/PO, PRTCB or PRE              ECDF/PO, PRTCB or PRE
Technical preparation:             consultant or PRTCB, or PRE        consultant or PRTCB or PRE
Technical approval:                ECDF/PO, PRTCB, or PRE             ECDF/PO, PRTCB or PRE
lmplementation
Community Training and Capacity   consultant or PRTCB or PRE          consultant or PRTCB or PRE
Building
Level and form of community        up to 20% of cost, usually in form of   up to 10% of cost, usually in form of
contribution                       cash, +/- materials                cash, +/- materials
Implementation method              labor-based or equipment based     labor-based or equipment based
Implementation Agency              Contractor or PRTCB or PRE         Contractor or PRTCB or PRE
Intermediary                       N/A                                N/A
Technical supervision              consultant or PRTCB or PRE         consultant or PRTCB or PRE
Equipment inputs by:               Implementing Agency (and by hire)    Implementing Agency (and by hire)
Maintenance
Types of Agreement:                cost sharing agreements between    PRTCB or PRE responsibility
PRTCB or PRE and communities
along road
section contracts, functional
Possible methods                   community contracts, length gangs or  contracts, gangs or lengthmen
lengthmen
N/A
Community Training and Capacity   consultant or PRTCB or PRE
Building
PRTCB or PREs (90-100%) &
Who pays for it?                   PRTCB or PRE (80%) & Benefiting    Benefiting communities (0-10%/6)
communities (20%)
Paid workers/contractors from
Who does it?                       Paid Part-time workers from        communities
communities
PRTCB or PRE or consultant
Who supervises?                    PRTCB or PRE or consultant
PRTCB = Provincial Road Transport and Construction Branch; PRE = Provincial (Roads) Engineer;
ECDF/PO = ECDF Project Officer






Annex M
Page I of 7
The Pilot Savings and Credit Program
1.    Background. There are an estimated 247,000 people working in informal sector
activities in Eritreat, many of which belong to the 80% of households that are involved in small-
scale agriculture. These micro-entrepreneurs lack access to the needed resources to invest in
their enterprises. To assess their needs, the Income Generating Committee set up within the pilot
Community Rehabilitation Fund completed a comprehensive nation-wide survey of income-
generating activities, using a questionnaire at the household, community, district, and zonal
levels. A separate study was undertaken of Ekubs, a traditional, informal village savings
mechanism found mainly in the highlands and which operates similarly to the group-based
lending system proposed in the program. The study indicates that while the major source of
livelihood in the interior is tied to agriculture and pastoralism, a large number of agriculture-
related and off-farm economic activities were identified in each region.
2.   Objectives and Priorities. The goal of ECDF's pilot Savings and Credit Program will be
to demonstrate the effectiveness of institution-building efforts aimed at creating new income and
employment in poor communities and at contributing to the improvement of living standards and
to increased overall prosperity of these communities. This goal will be achieved through:
(a)   Developing the capacity of Village Administrations to manage a village-based
Savings and Credit Program that will deliver needed financial services to target
beneficiaries.
(b)  Developing the capacity of ECDF to manage a large-scale, cost-effective,
financially rigorous micro-credit program.
(c)   Providing credit to the income-generating activities of substantial numbers of
Eritreans.
(d)  Reaching women, the poor, and those living in isolated towns and villages, making
use of both their entrepreneurial capacity and their sense of responsibility.
(e)   Creating the basis for a permanent, self-sustaining Savings and Credit institution
that will serve an expanding number of communities after the completion of the
ECDF program.
3.   The Program Model. One of the most interesting innovations of the last two decades has
been the emergence of programs that have assisted the informal businesses of some of the
poorest residents of a country, by the thousands, hundreds of thousands, and even millions (in the
case of the Grameen Bank), while covering most of their operating costs through the interest and
fees charged on loans. These programs are based on the creation of autonomously functioning
"village banks," typically with 30 to 50 members. The "banks", which elect their own officers,
create their bylaws, manage their loan funds, and review and approve loan requests, have proved
to be virtually the only types of business assistance programs that:
(a)   Reached truly substantial numbers of the rural and urban poor, especially women.
Loans are uncollateralized and do not require co-signers, or land titles or other
securities, which insures that the poor participate.
1 A report prepared by the Ministry of Trade and Industry in May, 1995 estimates that these 247,000 people
working as owners and employees support 1. 1 million people. These figures exclude unestimated handicrafts
in the urban and rural areas, construction and transport, which would make these estimates much higher.



Annex M
Page 2 of 7
(b)  Provided a step-by-step approach to enterprise development, starting with very
small loans, issued quickly so that a business can start making a productive
investment, and progressing in steps to loans of several hundred dollars.
(c)  Produced impressive results in terms of generating new income, which then
translated into improved nutrition and better housing, education and health care,
especially when assistance was directed to women.
(d)  Proved to be an excellent organizational platform for introducing simple notions of
business literacy, and other services such as basic health education for women,
where the messages are reinforced by the cohesive structure that emerges in the
group. These services can often be provided by other agencies at no additional cost
to the program.
(e)  Encouraged the formation of village-run collective businesses, such as grain storage
facilities, financed by the savings and interest income mobilized from the members.
(f)   Achieved a consistently high loan repayment rate of at least 95%, and more
typically of 98%. One of the basic tenants of this model is that continued access to
credit depends on the village bank canceling its entire debt to the intermediary, so
group support and pressure insures high loan repayment.
(g)  Have proved to be an effective mechanism of mobilizing local savings that can
gradually supplant the need for the injection of outside capital into the loan fund.
(h)  Proved they can pay for the costs of the intermediary promoting the program within
a few years, if an adequate interest charge is paid on capital made available by the
intermediary.
(i)   Have proved to be a powerful tool to free the poorest from the high interest rates
charged by money lenders.
4.   Village Banking and the Baitos. Applying lessons learnt from the above models, it is
proposed that the pilot Savings and Credit Program operate through Village Administration
Committees or other institution such as NGOs and community development institutions which
may in the future offer an established capacity to implement program activities. The Village
Administration Committees are democratically elected and, although there are doubtless great
variations in capacity, have been found to share a common concern for the development of the
community, and especially of its more disadvantaged members. It is proposed that the program
be administered at the village level through a Savings and Credit Unit established by the Village
Administration and consisting of three members, including: the Village Administration
Chairperson, a manager responsible for accounts and record keeping, and one other member. At
least one of the three Unit members will be a woman, in order to insure that women receive a
representative share of available loan capital. The woman representative will be elected by all
women in the village.
5.   The Village Administration Unit will be responsible for: promoting the program within
the community. They will also be responsible for: (a) orienting and supervising "solidarity
groups" of five to eight borrowers within the village, who would band together to approve and
guarantee each other's loans; (b) keeping records on savings and loan payments; and, (c) deal
with payment problems. Each group would choose its own members and elect its officers. To
insure that women receive credit early on in the program in each village, at least one of the initial
groups would be comprised of women. A majority of the first cycle of loans would also go to
poorer, yet entrepreneurial and responsible, community residents. Further access to credit for
any member in the group would depend on all members being current with their loans. In
addition to serving as a guarantee for the loans, the groups would promote mutual support and



Annex M
Page 3 of 7
encouragement as well as develop leadership and management skills. They would also foster
joint marketing and production in the village.
6.   If a group missed a payment, the Village Administration Unit would encourage the group
to pay. If the group could not or would not pay, the Village Administration Unit would be liable
for the payment, so ECDF could be paid in full. This requirement will ensure that the Village
Administration Units take seriously their responsibility for prudently managing the program.
The Unit would review the loan decisions of the groups, keep complete records on loan
transactions and savings accounts, collect payments and savings from the groups, and deal with
payment problems that the group couldn't resolve. The Unit would also be the link between the
local groups and the ECDF Savings and Credit Officer. The Village Administration Unit would
receive extensive training on program operation, including group formation and training, project
assessment, and record keeping. This training would also include development by each Village
Administration Unit of a set of bylaws. The bylaws would establish criteria for selecting village
members to join the program, along with rules for approving loans, and the actions the Unit
would take in case of late or non-payment. Solidarity group chairpersons and other community
leaders would also receive training as the groups emerged. The ECDF Savings and Credit
Officer would visit village programs on a monthly basis. In addition, the books of each Unit
would be reviewed by a traveling ECDF auditor twice a year.
7.   Lending and Savings Activities: Micro-loans. Group members would become eligible
for loans after having successfully accumulated savings for a period of three months. Initial
loans could amount to up to Birr 750 per borrowing group member, and would be repaid in 3
months. Subsequent loan amounts would be increased in steps to, possibly, a maximum of Birr
1,500, repayable in 6 months; Birr 3,000, repayable in up to one year, and Birr 6,000, repayable
in up to two years. Receiving the next size loan would be contingent on the group paying the
previous loans in full.
8.   Second Tier Loans. While the major thrust of the program would be the micro-loans
described above, a "second tier" of the program would finance larger (Birr 10,000 to 100,000)
small business loans that would provide benefits to the entire community for the financing of, for
example, irrigation pumps, oil extraction presses, grain mills, and small food processing
installations, as well as other businesses able to generate new employment, such as carpentry
shops, or tailoring operations. These second-tier loans will provide added flexibility to the S&C
program by filling gaps in availability of financing for larger, somewhat more formalized
ventures which would still have no access to commercial bank credit, because of the absence of
formal banking sector in rural areas. These businesses could be owned individually or
collectively, but, in contrast to the micro-loans that will be processed through the solidarity
groups and the Unit, these projects would be only screened initially in the field by the Unit
together with the regional S&C specialist. They would then be subject to a formal feasibility
study by the ECDF Management Office, with the involvement of credit specialists from the
commercial Bank of Eritrea. In order to ensure repayment, equipment and other assets would be
pledged against the loan. Second-tier loans would be approved only after assessing the strength
of the program in the applicant's village. To minimize the risk of default, only Village
Administration Units that have demonstrated good management and repayment in the S&C
program would be allowed to sponsor second-tier loans.
9.   Interest Rates. The program's long-term financial sustainability can only be insured if
borrowers are charged an interest rate which: (a) covers operational costs (including the cost of
loan defaults); and (b) compensates for the Fund's erosion through inflation. ECDF will make



Annex M
Page 4 of 7
funds available to Village Administration Units and other institutions at an interest rate sufficient
to cover the above. At the retail level, Village Administration Units will be free to determine the
interest rate charged to individual borrowers. Such rate would in any case cover the true cost of
lending to an economic group with no normal access to commercial credit and which does not fit
lending conditions applied by formal lending institutions (absence of collateral, high cost of
lending to very small, widely-dispersed borrowers).2 The above policies are fully consistent with
policies and regulations applicable to the functioning of financial markets, as confirmed by the
State Bank of Eritrea.
10.  Those interested in borrowing would begin by saving through their group for at least six
months, to demonstrate group solidarity and their commitment to the S&C Program. Potential
borrowers would be required to save at least 10% of the loan amount before a loan was granted.
Savers would receive a 5% interest on their deposits (which is competitive with the interest rate
paid by the Commercial Bank of Eritrea on deposits). The savings of a borrower would be at
risk in case of default, and would constitute a loan loss reserve on each loan for the Village
Administration Unit. Those not borrowing would also be encouraged to save, in order to build
up the local fund and thus lessen, through internally-generated savings, the need for external
capital provided by ECDF through the loan fund.
11.  Administration of the Program: Management Office Level. The Savings and Credit
Central Unit will: (a) develop and perfect the program methodology; (b) be responsible for
overall management of the loan fund; (c) hire, train and supervise the regional-level staff; (d)
track program performance at the regional level; and, (e) give final approval of second-tier loans.
The unit will also contract program advisors, undertake program evaluations, and manage the
program overall.
12.  Regional Level. ECDF will staff the program in each region with a Savings and Credit
Specialist At the beginning of the second year, one Savings and Credit Agent would be hired, if
necessary, to expand the program within the region. At the beginning of the third year, another
Agent would be hired. Each Specialist and Agent will serve an average of 15 village banks with
a total of 750 members. Their chief responsibilities will be to select the Village Administration
Units that will participate in the program, train and supervise the village banks, and carefully
monitor the entire program. The Savings and Credit Specialists will be responsible for
supervising the agents, and making the initial assessment of the second-tier loans in the region.
13.  Village banks will be ranked on a five-point scale each six months by the ECDF staff and
by a roving auditor. This ranking will include such variables as the amount lent, the proportion
of the loans that went to poor women and other poor and vulnerable groups, and loan repayment
record. Communities that receive the highest rating during the six-month reviews will be
permitted to expand their loan portfolios rapidly with additional advances from the ECDF Fund.
Those that receive a very poor rating will be phased out of the program, while those with
2  The interest rate would be calculated on the basis of the following assumptions: (i) ECDF to village banks
or other financial intermediaries: 12 percent (intended to cover an estimated inflation rate of 10 percent, plus a
modest administrative fee of 2 percent); and (ii) Village Bank to final borrower: at a rate to be determined by
the village bank, but sufficient to fully cover: (a) the cost of the funds (12 percent as above); (b) cost of
administration of the loan portfolio (taking into account experience with similar programs worldwide); and (c)
loan loss provision.



Annex M
Page 5 of 7
intermediate ratings will receive either a reduced advance from ECDF, or will see further
advances suspended until internal management problems are resolved. Each month, Village
Administration Units will be advanced funds to meet their projected cash needs, within the limits
reflecting their rating. The amounts advanced will be determined during monthly visits to each
Village Administration Unit by ECDF staff. Monthly advances will minimize the risk of storing
large amounts of unlent cash in areas where banks are not available.
14.  Program Implementation. The implemenitation projections below reflect an approach to
expansion of this pilot program that avoids the dual pitfalls of a program growing too rapidly--
with the strong possibility of the program failing in some areas--, and a program growing so
cautiously that little of the demand for loans is actually addressed. the following steps are
foreseen:
(a)   Starting immediately after Negotiation, ECDF staff will receive intensive training in
managemenit of the program. At the end of the formal training, detailed program
procedures and manuals will be tested in select villages, preferably in one or two
areas near Asmara. The program will only expand modestly in these areas until full
project financing is available.
(b)   Once full funding is secured. the pilot program will begin in earnest in three village
clusters for a two-year period, usin1g the S&C specialists.
(c)   By the middle of the first year of operations, an additional three regional managers
will be hired. T hey will be assigned to a six-month apprenticeship in the areas
where the program is already underway, so that they can fully familiarize
tihemselves with the program before they are assigned to their own program areas.
(d)   By the start of the second year, and after the trainees have completed their four-
month apprenticeship, they will be assigned to three new areas. This will bring the
total of village clusters served to six.
(e)   In the second and again in the third year that a region has an operational program, a
Savings and Credit Agent will be hired to expand the program in the area. Each
region will thus have a team of three to promote the program, with each one
responsible for traininig and supervising an average of 15 village banks. Agents
may be hired from village Administration UJnits members who have demonstrated
an exceptional level of capacity and commitment to the program.
15.  Performance Projections. It will take four years. then, for the program to be fully staffed
with Savings and Credit Specialists and S&C Agents in all six village clusters. The same go-
slow, purposeful expansion approach will be reflected in the projected expansion of the program
in a given cluster:
(a)   S&C activities will be concentrated in a fairly densely populated zone within each
cluster, in order to minimize logistical problems. It may be necessary to station
Specialists and Agents in different areas within a regioni to maximize coverage.
(b)  It is assumed that each Specialist or Agent will select, train and supervise five
village banks, averaging 50 members each, during their first year of service. They
will expand the number of village banks they work with to 15 by the end of their
third year of service.
16.  By the end of the fifth year of operation in a region, the team of one Specialists and two
Agents would then be supporting and supervising 45 village banks with approximately 2,250
members. As the program expands to all six regions, the program would be reaching 270 village
banks with 13,500 members. In addition to the grouip member loans, the program should have
funded 90 Tier-2 loans by the end of the fifth year, an average of one per three village banks.



Annex M
Page 6 of 7
Table 1: Loan Activity and Field Expenses - ECDF Only (amounts in Birr 000)
Year I    Year 2    Year 3    Year 4    Year 5
New Loans Extended
One Program Area:
A. Tier I Loans: (Short Term Loans):
1. New Village Clusters                   5         10        15         10         5
2. Cumulative No. of Clusters              5        15        30         40        45
3. Avg. no. of borrowers per cluster     50         50        50         50        50
4. No. of Tier I Loans (A2 x A3)        250        750      1.500     2,000      2,250
5. Avg. loan per borrower                 0.75       1.00       1.10      1.30       1.50
6. Loans Extended (A4 x A5)              187.50    750.00   1,650.00   2,600.00   3,375.00
7. Avg. Outstanding Balance              93.80    375.00   1,200.00   2,125.00   2,987.50
B. Tier 2 Loans (5-Yr loans):
1. New Tier2 Loans                        I          1         3          4         5
2. Cumulative No. of Tier 2 Loans          1         2         5          9         14
3. Avg. Loan per borrower                60.00      65.00     70.00      75.00     80.00
4. New Loans Extended                    60.00      65.00    210.00    300.00    400.00
5. Cumulative Total of Tier 2 Loans      60.00     125.00    335.00    635.00    1035.00
6. Avg. Tier 2 Loans Outstanding         30.00      92.50    260.00     577.50    1095.00
C. Avg. Annual Savings (A7 x 10%)            9.38     37.50     120.00    212.50    298.75
D. Avg. Outstanding Tier I Loans          281.40   1,406.40   4,725.00   9,975.00  15,337.50
1. Program Areas I - 3                  281.40   1,125.00   3,600.00   6,375.00   8,962.50
2. Program Areas 4 - 6                             281.40   1,125.00   3,600.00   6,375.00
E. Avg. Outstanding Tier 2 Loans           90.00    387.50   1,057.00   2,512.50   5,017.50
1. Program Areas I - 3                   90.00    277.50    780.00   1,732.50   3,285.00
2. Program Areas 4 - 6                              90.00    277.50    780.00   1,732.50
F. Avg. Outstanding Loans for Entire Prog.   371.40   1,733.90   5,782.50  12,487.00  20,355.00
G. Total Operational Costs for Field Offices:
I. Program Areas I - 3
(a) Salaries & Allowances             201.00    196.75    256.18    280.98    304.48
(b) Per Diem & Others                  61.49     99.37     148.20    160.06     172.85
(c) Office Supplies & Facilities       45.15     56.95      81.56    117.12     128.84
(d) Equipment/Furniture                27.07     12.31      13.27      3.80       4.10
(e) Vehicle/Motorcycles                63.00     68.04       0.00      0.00       0.00
2. Program Areas 4 - 6
(a) Salaries & Allowances                       220.10    256.18    280.98    304.48
(b) Per Diem & Others                            63.59    121.21     162.57     165.86
(c) Office Supplies & Facilities                 53.34      67.18    116.34    126.36
(d) Equipment/Furniture                          27.27      13.27      3.80       4.10
(e) Vehicle/Motorcycles                          68.04      72.45      0.00       0.00
3. Total for Program Areas I - 6
(a) Salaries & Allowances             201.00    416.85     512.36    561.96    608.96
(b) Per Diem & Others                  61.49    162.96    269.41     322.64    338.71
(c) Office Supplies & Facilities       45.15    110.29     148.74    233.46    255.19
(d) Equipment/Furniture                27.07     39.58      26.54      7.60       8.19
(e) Vehicle/Motorcycles                63.00    136.08      72.45      0.00       0.00
Total Operational Costs (Field Offices)  397.71    865.76   1,029.50   1,125.65   1,211.05
This figure is calculated on the lines of credit of US$ 2 million and reflows on capital and interest.



Annex M
Page 7 of 7
Table 2: External Funds Requirement for the Savings & Credit Program
Year I    Year 2    Year 3    Year 4    Year 5       Total
L. New Loans Extended:                742.50   2,437.50   4,800.00   5,955.00   5,175.00  19,110.00
of which:
1. Tier I Loans (Program Areas 1 - 3)    562.50    1,500.00   2,475.00   1,950.00   1,125.00   7,612.50
2. Tier I Loans (Program Areas4 - 6)           562.50   1,500.00   2,475.00   1,950.00   6,487.50
3. Tier 2 Loans (Program Areas I -3)    180.00  195.00    630.00    900.00   1,200.00   3,105.00
4. Tier 2 Loans (Program Areas 4 - 6)          180.00    195.00    630.00    900.00    1,905.00
M. Administrative Expenses           1,119.72    569.38    560.06    579.20    628.78   3,457.14
of which:
Field Office Expenses:
1. Miscellaneous Allowances 1/      20.10      41.69     51.24      56.20     60.90      230.11
2. Office Supplies & Facilities     45.15     110.29    148.74    233.46    255.19       792.83
3. Equipment/Furniture              27.07      39.58      26.54      7.60       8.19     108.98
4. Vehicle/Motorcycles              63.00     136.08      72.45      0.00       0.00     271.53
Central Offices Admin Expenses 2/ 3/
1. Miscellaneous Allowances 1/      29.40      31.75     34.29      37.04     40.00      172.48
2. Office Supplies & Facilities    200.00     210.00    226.80    244.90    264.50    1,146.20
3. Equipment/Furniture             350.00                                                350.00
4. Vehicle/Motorcycles             385.00                                                385.00
Cumulative External Funds            1,862.22   3,006.88   5,360.06   6,534.20   5,803.78  22,567.14
Requirement (ET Birr '000)
Cumulative External Funds             310.37     464.03    765.90    864.51      710.99   3,115.79
Requirement (US$ '000)
Annual Birr Depreciation Rate           8%         8%         8%        8%/o       8%
US$1.00 = ET Birr Equivalent            6.00       6.48       7.00      7.56       8.16
1/ 10% of salaries & allowances
2/ 5 Specialists full time.
3/ Per diem: 5 persons x 10 days per month x 50 Birr in Year 1 (not covered by external funding).



Annex N
Page 1 of 2
Gender Action Plan
I.     Background. Eighty percent of Eritrean women live in rural areas. Many of them have
limited access to education and healthi services, and even lower employment and income-
generating opportunities. Although the present civil code, approved by the Provisional
Government immediately after liberation, guarantees them basic rights, especially concerning
land ownership, marriage, and divorce, it will take time to bring about changes at the level of the
communities, most of which continue to follow patriarchal customary laws and traditions. The
Government has recently ratified a Convention on the Elimination of All Forms of
Discrimination against Women (CEDAW), which aims to establish the framework to accelerate
progress in strengthening the legal and social status of women. A key element in the
Government development strategy is to improve the access of girls and wvomen to education and
MCfI services, and to support women's participation in credit and income-generating programs.
2.     Objectives of the Gender Action Plan. In line with the objectives of the Government's
policy and the Fund's mandate, the ECDF has developed a Gender Action Plan to ensure that
women benefit equally from ECDF-financed activities, and play an active role in identification,
design, and management of sub-projects. The plan not only gives special attention to
maximizing benefits to poor women, but also identifies any potential negative consequences for
women and proposes mitigatory measures.
3.     Key Elements of the Gender Action Plan. The key elements of the Gender Action
Plan, are summarized in the following tables:
A. Institutional Aspects
Objectives                          Measures                        Comments
Strengthening the capacity of  Staff in Central and Sub-Offices will be trained   Workshops can be
the ECDF to respond        in analytical methods that ensure special   organized in
effectively to the special  attention to the role of women in sub-project  collaboration with
needs and role of community  implementation and to assess the impact of sub-   NUEW.
women.                     projects on women beneficiaries. The ECDF will
collaborate with local women's groups and
agencies concerned with issues relating to poor
women (including the National Women of
Eritrean Women).
Monitoring and supervision    The monitoring and supervision procedures will  Indicators to assess the
of impact of ECDF activities  include a focus on womens participation and  impact of Fund's
on community women         benefits, and measures to avoid negative impact  activities on women
of on women. Analyses and reports on ECDF  have been included in
activities will contain gender disaggregated  the MIS.
information.



Annex N
Page 2 of 2
B. Women's Participation in the Sub-Project Cycle
Objectives                        Activities                        Coinments
To increase and strengthen    (i) ECDF will ensure that women are   Measures to promote the
the participation of women in  adequately represented in the community    involvement of community
ECDF's activities           sub-project committees, and that each   women will be a major
specialized community sub-committee     component of the ECDF's
(including the micro-credit committees)  outreach, promotion, and
contain at least one woman representative;   community training
(ii) ECDF will ensure that women are    programs. Special criteria
among the direct beneficiaries of the sub-    and indicators to identify
project activities, with particular attention to  potential negative
women-heads of households; (iii) ECDF will consequences for women
ensure during the sub-project appraisal, that  will be included in sub-
the sub-project proposals will respond to    project appraisal. Beneficiary
expressed needs by women in the         impact studies and
community, and that any potentially negative participative assessments will
consequences for women have been        include a special focus on the
identified and mitigatory actions designed;  role of and benefits to
and (iv) ECDF will ensure that women    community women.
participate as part of the community's
involvement in sub-project implementation,
monitoring, supervision, and maintenance.
Training to support women's  (i) Training will be provided for women to   The selection of women for
participation               give them the skills and confidence to  training and community
participate in community sub-project    facilitator roles will not
activities; (ii) Attention will be given to  depend on formal
include women among those selected and    qualifications, but rather a
trained as community facilitators.      high profile in the
community, and practical
experience (for example, in
would be kept in running
home-based micro-
enterprises). Where needed,
skills training can be
supplemented by literacy
training.
To increase poor or         Encourage income-generating activities for  The ECDF contains a micro-
disadvantaged women's       women, offer training in the basic skills  credit component to support
access to and control over  needed to succeed in these activities, and    income-generation; skills
economic assets.            promote labor-saving technologies and   training for women has been
methods.                                included in Project design;
the Research Fund will be
used to identify labor-saving
technologies.



Annex 0
Page I of 2
Economic Analysis
(1995 US$ millions)
Present Value of Flows          Fiscal Impact
(Economic Analysis)             (Subsidies)
Benefits
Health Component                            60.0
Education Component                         17.9
Rural Water Supply Component                11.8
Rural Feeder Roads Component                 3.8
Cost
Health Component                            15.4                        12.40
Education Component                         12.5                        49.00
Rural Water Supply Component                 2.7                     (negligible)
Rural Feeder Roads Component                 3.3
Net Present Value
Health Component                            44.6
Education Component                          5.3
Rural Feeder Roads Component                 0.5
Rural Water Supply Component                 9.1
ECDF Fund Package                           61.5
Internal Rate of Return
Health Component                           156.0
Education Component                         20.1
Rural Feeder Roads Component                16.0
Rural Water Supply Component                69.0
ECDF Fund Package                          123.15
The credit and savings component has not been included in this economic analysis due to its pilot nature.



Annex 0
Page 2 of 2
Main Assumptions
Discount Rate                  12%
Real Exchange Rate            Constant 1995 prices
Time Horizon                  health, education, rural water supply, rural feeder roads (25 years)
Project Composition              Based on experience with the pilot, it is expected that the
composition of this demand-driven project will be as follows:
Health, Education, Rural Water, Feeder Roads, Natural Resources
Management and Pilot Savings and Credit
Nature of Benefits
Health Component              Reduction in (a) incidence of illness due to preventive care -
Expanded Program for Immunization, Maternal and Child Health,
Family Planning and (b) duration of illness due to curative care.
Benefits calculated from Health Survey 1994. Productivity gains
from fewer sick days valued at opportunity cost-shadow wage
Education Component           Incremental lifetime earnings net of opportunity cost of children's
time
Rural Water Supply Component  Reduction in water-borne infectious diseases. Benefits: (a) lower
medical care cost; (b) productivity gains from fewer sick days; (c)
productivity gains from release of women's time valued at
opportunity cost.
Rural Feeder Roads            Reduction in transportation costs
Risk:                           The project is not without some risk (mainly for institutional
reasons) but the potential benefits are so very high that the risks are
well worth taking. Also, with such high net benefits, the project
could perform significantly worse than expected and still be
economically justified
Main Beneficiaries
Health Component              800,000 people served by 100 primary health facilities
Education Component           55,000 children every year - more girls than boys
Rural Water Supply Component  11,250 people served by 236 water supply facilities, women
preferentially benefited.
Rural Feeder Roads            500,000 Farmers approximately



Annex P
Page I of I
Lists of Documents in the Project File
1. Draft Operational Manual and Annexes.
2. TOR for Technical Handbooks (Environment, Rural Water Supply; Rural Feeder
Road Rehabilitation; Savings and Credit program).
3. Report on Rural Water Supply Component for ECDF, Kariuki, Mukami, Consultant,
Preparation Mission, March 1995.
4. Report on Basic Health and Education Components for ECDF. Sinke, Leo,
Consultant. Preparation Mission, March 1995.
5. Report on Pilot Savings and Credit Program for ECDF, Ashe, Jeff, Consultant,
Preparation Mission, March 1995.
6. Report on Rural Feeder Roads Component for ECDF. Riverson, John, Preparation
Mission, March 1995.
7. Capacity Building Program for ECDF, Picard. Louis, Consultant, October 1995.
8. Evaluation of Pilot ECDF, Ciardi, Paola, Consultant, September 1994.



_133   373          33s     q   /           3w                      ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~40-       4}-4r                                                  1318.                                              /9
\ i                                                                    ~~~~~~~~~~~                ~~                 ~~~~~~~~~~~~SAUDI ARABIA  E R I T R E A
aKorolo                                                                                  ,  ~~~~~~~~~~ECDF ERITREA COMMUNITY
S U D A N                    u>-                A<9                                                                                                                            DEVELOPMENT FUND
t|   9CMolicl                                                                                  W                        ~~~~~~~~~~~~~PROJECT
t  S a . H 5 E L  1    0                                                                               21                       - ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~SEC ONDARY ROADS
9  I StCFA tn (;)  0                                                                                     @                   -      ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~RAILROADS
8 R E G I o N \ O 2 r 1 RIVERS~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~IVR
t  tnog#|tv   l                                                                                     >                            S~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~(  REGION CAPITALS
ffi   _@   <   Asmot<Q   golt Al6a{, tffiobes \>t02l \                                                            m                     *~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~;  NATIONAt CAPITAL
g  o5W1e1e    .> \Be_S~~~~~~~~~Ds;=d  gZrom    m orol                                                                           - ~~~~~~~~~~ lSTERNATIONAL 30UNNTERATIOAL ROUNDR E
, ! ~~BARKA  Otb Mj9lbr; irO 
!   6 E    Akold2G    9        W     5   MAQ>S~~~~~~~~~~ASSAWt   l                                                                         _
V - f ~~~~N5                                                                                                                                                M                            KlOSg  >2EO  ILOMETERSi
oAb                                  ro;.lAd. Av    roigorDNEL-b 5.                                                                                                                SUIARBA        5
'@~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~d A/b                                                                  DEKE              A1-.16.1i                                                             \,,. 
i                                                                                       \        t         >~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~A  SUDAN   r,"          YEmENLOU
,                                           ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~E T H I O P I A                                              \AS                                  r-ETHIOPIA                             -;7
D@b- b  ? W E  g |   ~~~  ~  \    r   /   SOMALIA
37   33        3y                        e                       |                              /' ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~DJIBOUTI              s       O             S-         5
37  38.  39-                                                                                        A3~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 35'  A5'~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~El'3q









IMAGING
Report No:       14937 ER
Type: SAR



