Page  1
CONFORMED COPY 
DUTCH GRANT RELATED TO CREDIT NUMBER 2823 ER 
TF NUMBER 024246
Dutch Grant Agreement
(Community Development Fund Project)
between
STATE OF ERITREA
and 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
as Administrator of Dutch Funds provided by the
MINISTER FOR DEVELOPMENT COOPERATION OF THE NETHERLANDS
Dated August 23, 1996
DUTCH GRANT RELATED TO CREDIT NUMBER 2823 ER 
TF NUMBER 024246
DUTCH GRANT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated August 23, 1996, between STATE OF ERITREA (the Grantee) and 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION acting as Administrator (the Administrator) of 
the Dutch Grant (as hereinafter defined) provided by the Minister for Development 
Cooperation of the Netherlands (the Minister).
WHEREAS the Grantee has requested the assistance of the International 
Development Association and of the Minister in the financing of activities under the 
Project described in Schedule 2 to the Development Credit Agreement No. 2823 ER dated 
March 26, 1996 between the Grantee and the Administrator (the Development Credit 
Agreement);
WHEREAS the Administrator has granted a credit for this purpose on the terms and 
conditions set forth in the Development Credit Agreement;
WHEREAS the Minister wishes to make available to the Grantee a grant in the 
amount of fifteen million Dutch Guilders (NLG 15,000,000) (the Dutch Grant) to assist 
the Grantee in carrying out the Project on the terms and conditions hereinafter set 
forth;
Page  2
WHEREAS by an exchange of letters (the Arrangements) dated June 14, 1996, 
between the Minister and the Administrator, the Minister has requested the 
Administrator, and the Administrator has accepted to administer, inter alia, the Dutch 
Grant in accordance with the provisions of the Arrangements and the General 
Arrangements of May 24, 1995, between the Minister and the Administrator; and
WHEREAS the Grantee acknowledges that the financial assistance extended to the 
Grantee under this Dutch Grant Agreement shall be considered as part of the bilateral 
development aid extended by the Government of the Netherlands to the Grantee;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The General Conditions Applicable to Develop\1fment Credit 
Agreements of the Association, dated January 1, 1985 (the General Conditions) 
constitute an integral part of this Agreement, subject, however, to the following 
modifications thereof:
(a)
the term "Association," wherever used in the General Conditions, means 
the International Development Association, acting as Administrator of the Dutch Grant 
pursuant to the Arran\1fgements, except in the phrase "member of the Association" in 
Section 2.01 (5), 4.02 (b) and Section 6.02 (e);
(b)
the term "Development Credit Agreement," wherever used in the General 
Conditions, means this Agreement;
(c)
the term "Credit," wherever used in the General Conditions, means the 
Dutch Grant extended to the Grantee under this Agreement;
(d)
the term "Credit Account," wherever used in the General Conditions, means 
the Dutch Grant Account, the account opened by the Administrator in its books in the 
name of the Grantee to which the amount of the Dutch Grant is credited;
(e)
in Section 6.02 the term "Association" shall also include the Association 
acting in its own capacity;
(f)
Section 9.06 (c) shall be modified to read:
"(c)
Not later than six months after the Closing Date or such later 
date as may be 
agreed for this purpose between the Grantee and the Administrator, 
the Grantee shall prepare  and furnish to the Administrator a report, of such scope and 
in such detail as the 
Administrator shall reasonably request, on the execu\1f
tion of the Project referred to in the 
Preamble to the Dutch Grant Agreement, the 
performance by the Grantee and the Administrator 
of their respective obligations 
under the Dutch Grant Agreement, and the accomplish\1fment of 
the purposes of the 
Dutch Grant";
(g)
Sections 3.02 through 3.05, 4.01 through 4.06, 6.05, 7.01, 8.01 (a), and 
Article XII are deleted; and
(h)
the term "Borrower," wherever used in the General Conditions, means the 
Grantee.
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the context otherwise 
requires, the several terms defined in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to 
this Agreement and in the Development Credit Agreement have the respective meanings 
therein set forth, and the terms "Dutch Guilders" and "NLG" mean the currency of the 
Netherlands.
ARTICLE II
The Grant
Section 2.01. The Administrator agrees to extend to the Grantee, on the terms 
Page  3
and conditions set forth or referred to, a grant in an amount of fifteen million Dutch 
Guilders (NLG 15, 000,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The proceeds of the Dutch Grant may be withdrawn from the 
Dutch Grant Account for expenditures made (or, if the Administrator shall so agree, to 
be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of services, training and early retirement 
benefits, in accordance with the provisions of the Schedule 1 to this Agreement.
(b)
The Grantee shall, for the purpose of the Project, open and maintain in 
dollars a special deposit account in a commercial bank on terms and conditions 
satisfactory to the Administrator, including appropriate protection against set-off 
seizure or attachment.  Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Account shall 
be made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
Section 2.03. (a) Except as the Administrator shall otherwise agree, contracts 
for works, goods and consultant services to be financed out of the proceeds of the 
Dutch Grant shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 3 to the 
Development Credit  Agreement.
(b)
If the Administrator shall have reasonably determined that the 
procurement of any item is inconsistent with the procedures set forth or referred to 
in paragraph (a) above, no expenditures for such item shall be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Dutch Grant, and the Administrator may, without in any way restricting 
or limiting any other right, power or remedy of the Administrator under this 
Agreement, by notice to the Grantee, cancel such amount of the Dutch Grant as, in the 
Administrator's reasonable opinion, represents the amount of such expenditures which 
would otherwise have been eligible for financing out of the proceeds of the Dutch 
Grant.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1998, or such later date as the 
Administrator shall establish. The Administrator shall promptly notify the Grantee of 
such later date.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. Except as otherwise expressly provided herein, Articles III and IV 
of the  Development Credit Agreement are hereby incorporated into this Agreement with 
the same force and effect as if they were fully set forth herein, it being understood 
that all references in said Articles III and IV to "Association" shall be deemed to be 
references to the Administrator of the Dutch Grant under this Agreement, and all 
references to the "Credit" and the "Credit Account" shall be deemed to be references 
to the Dutch Grant and the Dutch Grant Account, respectively, and all references to 
the "Borrower" shall be deemed to be references to the Grantee.
ARTICLE IV
Representation; Transfer of Rights and Obligations
Section 4.01. The Minister in charge of finance of the Grantee shall be the 
representative of the Grantee for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General 
Conditions.
Section 4.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Grantee:
Ministry of Finance
P. O. Box 895
Asmara
Eritrea
Telex:
583 492421150
Page  4
For the Administrator:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
INDEVAS
197688 (TRT)
Washington, D.C.
248423 (RCA)
 64145 (WUI) or
 82987 (FTCC)
Section 4.03. In accordance with the Arrangements, the rights and obligations of 
the Administrator under this Agreement may be transferred to the Minister. The Grantee 
accepts and agrees that, upon notice by the Administrator to the Grantee to that 
effect, the Minister shall, ipso facto, from the date specified in such notice, be 
substituted in all rights and obligations of the Administrator under this Agreement as 
if the Minister had been an original party to this Agreement, without any further 
action or formality required on the part of any party, and from such date, the 
Administrator shall cease to have any rights or obligations as a party under this 
Agreement.
ARTICLE V
Effectiveness
Section 5.01. This Agreement shall become effective as of the date first above 
written and shall continue in effect until the Dutch Grant has been fully disbursed 
and the parties to this Agreement have fulfilled their obligations under this 
Agreement.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their representatives 
thereunto duly authorized, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective 
names in the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year 
first above written.
STATE OF ERITREA
By /s/ Andemicael Kahsai
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
  as Administrator of the Dutch Grant
By /s/ Praful Patel
Acting Regional Vice President
Africa
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds
of the Dutch Grant
Page  5
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Dutch Grant, the allocation of the amounts of the Dutch Grant to each 
Category and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each 
Category:
Amount of the
  Credit
   % of
Allocated
Expenditures
(Expressed in
   to be
Category
NLG Equivalent)
  Financed
(1)
Civil Works
 10,000,000
100%
(2)
Equipment and 
  4,000,000
100%
materials
(3)
Consultants’ services
and training
  1,000,000
100%
 __________
TOTAL
 15,000,000
 ==========
2.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement.
SCHEDULE 2
Special Account
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1) through (3) set forth 
in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(b)
the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for  the Project and to be financed out 
of the amount of the Grant allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
(c)
the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equivalent to 
NLG 1,000,000 to be withdrawn from the Grant Account and deposited into the Special 
Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule.
2.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible 
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.
After the Administrator has received evidence satisfactory to it that the 
Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and 
subsequent withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Grantee shall furnish 
to the Administrator a request or requests for deposit into the Special Account of an 
amount or amounts which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized 
Allocation. On the basis of such request or requests, the Administrator shall, on 
behalf of the Grantee, withdraw from the Grant Account and deposit into the Special 
Account such amount or amounts as the Grantee shall have requested.
(b)
(i)
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Grantee shall 
furnish to the 
Administrator requests for deposits into the 
Special Account at such intervals 
as the Administrator shall 
specify.
(ii)
Prior to, or at the time of each such request, the Grantee shall 
furnish to 
the Administrator the documents and other evidence required 
pursuant to 
paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment or 
payments in respect of which 
replenishment is requested. On the basis 
Page  6
of each such request, the 
Administrator shall, on behalf of 
the Grantee, withdraw from the Grant Account 
and deposit into the 
Special Account such amount as the Grantee shall have 
requested and as shall have been shown by said documents and other evidence to 
have been paid out of the Special Account for eligible expenditures. All such 
deposits shall be withdrawn by the Administrator from the Grant Account 
under 
the respective eligible Categories, and in the respective 
equivalent amounts, 
as shall have been justified by said documents 
and other evidence.
4.
For each payment made by the Grantee out of the Special Account, the Grantee 
shall, at such time as the Administrator shall reasonably request, furnish to the 
Administrator such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made 
exclusively for eligible expenditures.
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the 
Administrator shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account:
(a)
if, at any time, the Administrator shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Grantee directly from the Grant Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph 
(a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement;
(b)
if the Grantee shall have failed to furnish to the Administrator within 
the period of time specified in Section 3.03 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of the 
audit reports required to be furnished to the Administrator pursuant to said Section 
in respect of the audit of the records and accounts for the Special Account;
(c)
if, at any time, the Administrator shall have notified the Grantee of its 
intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Grantee to make withdrawals 
from the Grant Account pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the General 
Conditions; or
(d)
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Grant allocated to the eligible 
Categories, minus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into 
by the Administrator pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect 
to the Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized 
Allocation. Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining unwithdrawn 
amount of the Grant allocated to the eligible Categories shall follow such procedures 
as the Administrator shall specify by notice to the Grantee. Such further withdrawals 
shall be made only after and to the extent that the Administrator shall have been 
satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the 
date of such notice will be utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.
(a)
If the Administrator shall have determined at any time that any payment 
out of the Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not 
eligible pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the 
evidence furnished to the Administrator, the Grantee shall, promptly upon notice from 
the Administrator: (A) provide such additional evidence as the Administrator may 
request; or (B) deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Administrator shall so 
request, refund to the Administrator) an amount equal to the amount of such payment or 
the portion thereof not so eligible or justified.  Unless the Administrator shall 
otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Administrator into the Special Account 
shall be made until the Grantee has provided such evidence or made such deposit or 
refund, as the case may be.
(b)
If the Administrator shall have determined at any time that any amount 
outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for 
eligible expenditures, the Grantee shall, promptly upon notice from the Administrator, 
refund to the Administrator such outstanding amount.
(c)
The Grantee may, upon notice to the Administrator, refund to the 
Administrator all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.
(d)
Refunds to the Administrator made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and 
(c) of this Schedule shall be credited to the Grant Account for subsequent withdrawal 
or for cancellation in accordance with the relevant  provisions of this Agreement, 
Page  7
including the General Conditions.
