                                              Document of
                                          The World Bank

                                    FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY

                                                                                   Report No: 73500-BR




                                    RESTRUCTURING PAPER

                                                  ON A

                 PROPOSED PROJECT RESTRUCTURING
                                OF
     BAHIA POOR URBAN AREAS INTEGRATED DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
                          (IBRD 7344-BR)

                                        DECEMBER 06, 2005


                                                TO THE

                                         STATE OF BAHIA

      WITH THE GUARANTEE OF THE FEDERATIVE REPUBLIC OF BRAZIL

                                          November 21, 2012




Sustainable Development Department
Brazil Country Management Unit
Latin America and Caribbean Region


This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.
        Regional Vice President:    Hasan A. Tuluy
              Country Director:     Deborah L. Wetzel
Sector Manager / Sector Director:   Anna Wellenstein / Ede Jorge Ijjasz-Vasquez
             Task Team Leader:      Sameh Naguib Wahba
              BRAZIL – BAHIA POOR URBAN AREAS INTEGRATED
                      DEVELOPMENT PROJECT (P081436)
                              (IBRD 7344-BR)

                                   Restructuring Paper

1.      The objective of the proposed restructuring is to extend by 11 months the closing
date of the Brazil, Bahia Urban Poor Areas Integrated Development Project, IBRD Loan
7344-BR, P081436, from November 30, 2012 until October 31, 2013. This would be the
third extension of the closing date for a cumulative period of 33 months. The first
extension of 12 months was from January 31, 2011 to January 31, 2012, while the second
extension of 10 months was from January 31, 2012 until November 30, 2012.

2.      Of the total loan amount of USD 49.3 million, 83% (USD 41.04 million) has been
disbursed to date. In light of the significant increase in project implementation pace, a
large proportion of the remaining loan amount – equivalent to USD 8.26 million (17%) –
is expected to be disbursed by the end of 2012. Yet, despite the implementation progress,
some important project activities related to urban upgrading works and the resettlement
of affected households are not expected to be completed by the current closing date.
These activities are critical to meet the Project’s safeguards obligations and to achieve the
Project Development Objective – to reduce urban poverty in a sustainable manner in the
poorest and most vulnerable sections of Salvador and other cities of the state of Bahia by
providing access to basic services and improved housing and social support services.

3.      To date, there are six main works contracts (of which four involve construction of
housing units) whose execution will extend beyond the current closing date of November
30, 2012. The Borrower and the Bank have agreed on a detailed action plan to ensure that
the implementation of ongoing/pending activities is concluded by the proposed closing
date extension. The conclusion of ongoing works activities is critical to the achievement
of the outcome indicators related to the increase in access to improved infrastructure and
social services by beneficiary households and their increased satisfaction with living
conditions. Some indicators are advanced such as the resettlement of households living in
at risk areas, while others such as the number of households with improved housing and
secure tenure require completion of project activities, which are significantly advanced.

4.      In terms of the resettlement of affected households, the Borrower has completed
the compensation of 43% of Project affected families via the two options of monetary
indemnity and assisted purchase of replacement housing. For another 56% of the affected
households, a resettlement solution has been agreed and implementation is already
underway. This includes: (a) new housing construction, with affected families already
receiving a monthly rental allowance until the receipt of their new units and (b) the
assisted purchase option (affected families in the process of identifying existing suitable
units on the market and/or payments are being processed by the implementing agency to
enable transfer of the units from their owners to the affected families). There are still 22
cases pending – equivalent to one percent of the total, for which negotiations are still
ongoing. Of these, there are 11 cases of commercial properties for which a tailor-made
solution is being developed. The implementation of resettlement activities is satisfactory

                                             3
and in alignment with the provisions of the Resettlement Action Plans, developed under
the Project and approved by the Bank.

5.      The proposed extension is, therefore, necessary to ensure that the remaining
works and resettlement activities are concluded with effective implementation support
provided by the Bank. The extension would make up for the delays in implementing the
resettlement activities, and allow the time needed to agree with each affected household
on a customized solution and to implement it. It will also time for the development of a
legally-approved administrative procedure within the implementing agency to enable the
implementation the assisted purchase option.

6.      The Borrower remains committed to the Project, as evidenced through the
allocation of USD 36.4 million in its 2013 annual budget to ensure the implementation of
counterpart-funded activities. Progress with implementation and towards the achievement
of the Project Development Objective are considered satisfactory, and financial reporting
requirements have to date been met satisfactorily.




                                           4
