,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~. .  .



CURRENCY EqUIvAIENTS
Calendar 1982                              March 1983
Currency Unit - Yemeni rial (YRI)                           YR1
$1 - Ms 4.54                                   4.54
YR1 I - US$0.22 1/                                0.22
WEIGTS ADD NEASURES
1 centimeter (cm)          =      0.4 inches
1 meter (m)                       3.2808 feet (ft)
1 kilometer (km)                  0.6214 miles (m)
1 hectare (ha)             -      2.47 acres
1 square kilometer (kcm)          0.3894 square miles (sq. mi.)
1 metric ton               -      0.9842 long ton (1g. ton)
ABBREVIAhI ONS
CANA           Civil Aviation and Meteorology Authority
CPO            Central Plauning Organization
CYDA           Confederation of Yemeni Development Associations
DOT            Department of Transportation
EA             Highvay Authority
LDAs           Local Development Associations
NAF            Ministry of Agriculture and Fisheries
MCT            Ministry of Comunications and Transport
14W            Ministry of Public Works
'NTPU          Mechanical Training Production Unit
PMAC           Ports and Marine Affairs Corporation
RTPU           Road Training Production Unit
SF             Saudi Fund
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 to December 31
1/ No par value for the Yemeni rial has yet been declared to the IXF. All
exchange transactions are effected at the Central Bank rate which has
been pegged to the US dollar since February 1973.



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
Fifth Highway Project
Credit and Project Summary
Borrower:               Yemen Arab Republic (YAR)
Amount;                 Special Drawing Rights 12.0 million (approximately
*                                   US$13.0 million equivalent).
Terms;                  Standard
Project Description:    The proposed project is designed to assist the
Government in improving communications in rural
areas, especially those with dense population, and
to strengthen the Highway Authority (HA), particu-
larly in its road maintenance activities. Towards
this objective, the project would assist in the up-
grading and partial reconstruction of a priority
secondary road, and in the improvement of road main-
tenance. It would include: (a) the realignment and
upgrading of a toad of approximately 32 km. from Ibb
to Al Udayn; (b) construction supervision; (c) tech-
nical assistance for imurovement of road maintenance
and training; and (d) training of over 400 road
maintenance personnel. The project would help to
reduce the vehicle operating costs of existing and
future traffic. It would benefit about 120,000 rural
inhabitants and help raise their farm incomes by
improving access to agricultural inputs and extension
services, markets for their produce, schools, hos-
pitals and other facilitieb. The benefits from the
technical assistance component, though difficult to
quantify, wou_d be substant'Lal. The project ris'-q
relate to possible delays in implementation due to
lack of adequate manpower.  These risks have been
minimized by the provision of technical assistance.
This documnct has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance or
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
Project Costs;
(including $0.7 million in local taxes)
--    -$ Kllion-      - 
Local      Foreign      Total
I.  Road Construction                   5.4         16.6        22.0
II. Technical Assistance
(a) for contruction supervision    0.2           1.0         1.2
(b) institutional support to HA    0.2           1.7         1.9
(c) for training                   0.2           0.7         0.9
Sub-total                           0.6          3.4         4.0
III.  Training                            0.6          0.6         1.2
Base Cost                           6.6         20.6        27.2
Physical Contingencies           0.6           1.8         2.4
Price Contingencies               1.7          4.2         5.9
Sub-Total                        2.3           6.0         8.3
Total Project Cost                  8.9         26.6        35.5
Financing Plan
Government                             8.9         13.6        22.5
IDA                                    -           13.0        13.0
Total                               8.9         26.6        35.5
Estimated IDA Disbursements
IDA/FY     1984   1985   1986   1987   1988
Annual                               0.5    3.5    5.2    2.9    0.9
Cumulative                           0.5    4.0    9.2   12.1   13.0
Rate of Return; 22 percent for 86 percent of project costs.
Staff Appraisal Report: Report No. 4437-YAR, dated August 19, 1983



INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECONMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT OF IDA
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED CREDIT
TO THE YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC FOR
A FIFTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
development credit to the Yemen Arab Republic (YAR) for Special Drawing
Rights (SDRs) 12.0 million (approximately US$13.0 million equivalent), on
standard IDA terms, to help finance a Fifth Highway project.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.        A basic economic report entitled "Yemen Arab Republic:  Development
of a Traditional Economy," (No. 2057a-YAR), dated December 14, 1978; a
Country Economic Memorandum (No. 2856-YAR), dated October 23, 1980, and a
report on domestic resource mobilization (:lo. 3554-YAR) dated January 6, 1982
have been distributed to the Executive Directors. A mission visited YAR in
May/June 1983, for a review of its public investment program. Country data
are attached in Annex I.
Introduction
3.        Over the last decade YAR has experienced far-reaching changes in
its socioeconomic structure and the material welfare of its citizens. The
republican government which came to power following the 1962 Revolution suc-
ceeded in establishing within a surprisingly short period of time the foun-
dations of a modern state.
4.        Political integration and the free market orientation of succes-
sive governments have provided the basis for rapid development of the public
and private sectors. Under the Three-Year Development Program (1974-76) and
the First Five-Year Plan (1977-81), the foundations of the country's physical
and social infrastructure were laid and expanded, and first attempts were
made at lifting agriculture, the mainstay of the economy, out of its medieval
setting; industrialization was also started, albeit on a small-scale.
5.        Rapid domestic economic growth has been accompanied and enhanced
by the large inflow of remittances and transfers by Yemenis abroad, parti-
cularly workers in Saudi Arabia and the Gulf States. These are estimated to
have increased from around $65 million in 1971/72 to a level that has fluct-
uated around $1.2 billion on an annual basis between 1977 and 1982. Since
1980, remittances have levelled off. Largely as a result of these cash
inflows, YAR's real per capita GNP has increased significantly over the last
ten years, reaching an estimated $500 in 1982 (World Bank Atlas methodology).
6.        Although there are no reliable data on income and consumption dis-
tribution in YAR, there are reasons to believe that the benefits from recent
growth have been widely distributed; migration and the absence of minimum



- 2 -
wage regulations have led to little unemployment. Migration affected cities
as well as the rural areas. Strong family ties ensure that many people
benefit from the increase in incomes. Public social expenditures, especially
in education and health, increased substantially, and the associated benefits
accrue directly to an increasing segment of the population.
Major Development Is sues
7.        Overall economic performance during the First Plan period (1977-81)
has been satisfactory. Real GDP grew at around 6 percent p.a. Investment
effort was impressive averaging around one-third of GNP. Recent achievements
in development, remarkable as they are, should not, however, detract from
the fact that YAR continues to be one of the world's least developed coun-
tries. Productivity levels are still extremely low, especially in agricul-
ture. Over 90 percent of the population resides in rural areas, a large part
in remote villages without access to modern transportation, schools, elec-
tricity or health services.  Agricultural land and water are scarce and few
mineral deposits have been discovered so far. YAR's commodity exports are
still extremely low, reflecting the country's limited resources and the
underdeveloped state of its economy. The shortage of skilled manpower is an
overriding constraint to YAR's development and limits the capacity of the
public administration to manage and implement a growing and increasingly
complex development program. The most critical shortages are in the skilled
and semi-skilled occupations.
8.        The budget deficit has emerged as a major issue in recent years
despite the quick growth of government revenue. In 1982, revenue represented
only one third of expenditures and the budget deficit amounted to 36 percent
of GDP. External loans financed only 16 percent of the budget deficit in
1982, unlike in the past when they financed a substantial part. As a result,
the money supply grew rapidly (by more than one quarter in 1982), and
government borrowing from the banking system (mainly the Central Bank)
accounted for more than two thirds of the money supply at the end of 1982.
Despite the rapid growth of the money supply, inflation, measured by the
Sanaa Consumer Index Price or by the GDP deflator, hardly exceeded 6 percent
in recent years. The growth of money supply did result, however, in a con-
tinuous increase in imports which led to a decline in foreign reserves, from
16 months of imports of goods and services in 1977/78 to 3.5 months by end
1982 (and to less than 3 months in March 1983).  The continuation of such a
huge budget deficit would reduce the reserves to a level -,here an increase
in money supply would result in inflation.
9.        Reducing the budget deficit calls for:  (a) in the short-run, cut-
ting public investment expenditures; and (b) in the medium-run, bringing
current expenditures under control, mobilizing more taxes and establishing
adequate users' fees. The Government is increasingly aware of the serious-
ness of the situation and has taken a number of measures to keep expenditures
within the levels authorized by the 1983 budget. These include selective
freeze on new hiring, restrictions on purchases of cars and furniture, crea-
tions of new authorities etc. The effect of these measures, however, still



remains to be seen. A Bank mission visited YAR recently to review the
Government's public investment progran of the Second Five Year Plan
(1982-86). Senior government officials agreed with the mission that sub-
stantial cuts in the public investment program are needed. The mission's
report is expected to help the Government in scaling down its investment in
line with anticipated resources. As to resource mobilization, a Bank re-
port 1/ addressed the issue. The Government has already imp±emented some of
the recommendations, and is in the process of implementing a few others.
But a far greater tax effort is needed to finance public expenditures.
Government Objectives
10.       As of the early seventies, the country has been trying to develop
human resources and build new institutions, to strengthen the physical and
social infrastructure, to raise the productivity of the commodity-producing
sectors, and to improve the standard of living of the people, giving priority
to their basic needs. Most of the First Plan's targets which were in line
with these objectives have been met except in the agriculture sector. Agri-
cultural output has stagnated and actual growth fell considerably below tar-
geted levels primarily because of the abandonment of marginal rain-fed areas
where income opportunities could not compete with the opportunities of
migration. The production of qat (a mild stimulant) has been on the increase
and has competed for agricultural land. Its production is only partially
reflected in the national accounts.
11.       A draft Second Five-Year Plan (1982-86) was presented to an Inter-
national Development Conference in April 1982, and was subsequently approved
by the People's Assembly. The Bank was the executing agency for a UNDP-
financed project overseeing some inputs used by the Central Planning Organi-
zation for the plan. The plan's aim is a 7 percent GDP growth target calling
for a total investment of around $6.5 billion (1981 prices) over the plan
period. The sectoral distribution of investment underlies a continued broad-
fronted strategy with a relative emphasis on agriculture and manpower
development. The plan's financing depends heavily on external sources with
around 70 percent of investment expected to be covered by grants and loan
disbursements and direct foreign private investment. The Bank has cautioned
the Government against setting unrealistically ambitious targets and advised
it to maintain flexibility in plan implementation should the level of ex-
pected external resources prove untenable.
Capital Flows and External Debt
12.       Since independence, YAR has received large amounts of foreign
assistance. Given the country's low per capita income and its UN classifi-
cation as a "least-developed country," most of the aid was provided in the
1/ Mobilization of Domestic Financial Resources in the YAR, January 6, 1982.
l



- 4 -
form of grants and concessionary loans. Cumulative aid disbursements, in-
cluding grants, came to around $2 billion by the end of 1981. The principal
donors have been Saudi Arabia, Kuwait, United Arab Emirates, Iraq, USA and
West Germany as well as IDA and the Arab development funds.
13.       About one-half of the total assistance given so far was provided
as grants, mostly for food aid, technical assistance and, more recently, for
budget support primarily from Saudi Arabia. Food aid has been providei
through the World Food Program and by a number of bilateral donors. A sig-
nificant part of official grants has been made available in the form of
technical assistance. Given the extreme shortage of skilled manpower in YAR,
this type of aid has high priority and will be needed by the country for many
years to come. Besides the grants, YAR received sizeable amounts of official
loans. Drawings on these loans have increased in recent years, reaching $262
million in 1981 and $246 million in 1982. Most of the official loans -and
credits have been committed for the financinz of specific projects, with the
main emphasis on roads, agriculture, including irrigation, and utilities.
14.       The terms on which YAR has obtained official loan assistance have
been very favorable. Loans from the USSR and the People's Republic of China
are, for the most part, free of interest. Western European countries have
generally charged between 3/4 percent and 2-1/2 percent. Interest rates
charged by Arab countries have varied from 0 to 4 percent. Loan maturities
range from 5-50 years, with an average of 20 years.
15.        &'" s external public debt outstanding on December 31, 1982 was
estimated at $2244 million, of which $1312 million was disbursed. IDA cre-
dits accounted for $136 million or about 10 percent of the total disbursed
and outstanding debt reported. Because of their very favorable terms of
borrowing, the debt service payments amounted to $55 million for 1982, equi-
valent to around 3.6 percent of gross foreign exchange earnings (including
workers' remittances and private transfers). Service payments are expected
to rise significantly to about 10 percent of the gross foreign exchange
earnings by the end of the 1980s.
PART II - WORLD BANK OPERATIONS I/
16.       The proposed credit would be the thirty-fifth to YAR, bringing
total IDA commitments to $344.8 million.2/ The World Bank strategy in YAR
has been threefold: to concentrate on developing the basic institutions,
1/ Substantially the same as Part II of the President's Report for the
Third Power credit (Report No. P-3527-YAR dated April 19, 1983) approved
by the Executive Directors on May 10, 1983.
2/ This includes the supplementary credit of $10.3 million for the First
Tihama project, No. 376-1 YAR, and excludes the $7.0 million credit for
the Textile Rehabilitation project, No. 832-YAR of 1978, which was
cancelled at the Govermaent's request in October 1979 (see Annex II).



- 5 -
skills and physical infrastructure which are prerequisites for development,
to develop production and income in the dominant productive sector, agricul-
ture, and to support the Government in its programs to meet basic needs in
rural and urban areas. To achieve these objectives, IDA has extended eleven
credits, totaling t120.4 million, for agriculture, fisheries and rural in-
frastructure; thirteen credits, totaling $133.6 million, for infrastructure
including nighways, ports, water supply and sewerage, power distribution,
and urban development; five credits, totaling $51.0 million, for education
and training; two credits, totaling $14.3 million, for industry; a $2.0 mil-
lion credit to promote the exploration of the petroleum and geothermal
resources to private companies; and a $10.5 million credit to strengthen and
expand the capability of the Ministry of Health to plan, staff and manage
the country's health care system. In FY78, an investment of $2.4 million by
the International Finance Corporation was approved to help finance a Jairy
and juice project. An investment of $4.0 million by IFC was approved in May
1983 to help finance a dry cell battery project. Further opportunities for
IFC involvement are being explored.
17.       The main constraint to YAR's social and economic development has
been, and will remain for some time, the critical shortage of manpower,
especially skilled and professional, and the newness and weakness of its
institutions. World Bank strategy in YAR has placed emphasis on helping to
strengthen Yemeni institutions and manpower capabilities, through increased
training of local staff and continued technical assistance, as well as
through direct financing for education. Thus all IDA projects in YAR con-
tain substantial components for technical assistance towards institution
building. Two particularly important examples of the World Bank's support
for institution building have been in the Central Planning Organization (CPO)
and the Ministry of Agriculture and Fisheries (MAF). In CPO, the World Bank
(through three grants totaling $520,000) and the Kuwait Fund have financed a
team of planning and economic advisers so as to create a planning machinery.
The Bank has been the executing agency for a UNDP-financed project to assist
the CPO in the preparation of the Second Five-Year Plan, 1982-86 (see
para. 11). In MAF, the Bank supplies the services of seven advisers
initially financed by UNDP with the Bank as executing agency, a.d now
financed jointly by IDA, the EEC Special Action Fund (under the Second Tihama
project) and UNDP. The Agricultural Research Station at Taiz, which has the
responsibility for carrying out applied agricultural research for the country
as a whole, is also financed as part of this institutional support.
18.       YAR's disbursement performance (disbursements as a percentage of
total commitments) lagged somewhat lately largely due to the delay in the
recruitment of staff for project implementation and the shortage of countet-
part funds arising from budgetary constraints.  Following a number of imple-
mentation reviews of the whole portfolio, performance started to improve and
implementation of ongoing IDA-assisted projects is now progressing satisfac-
torily. YAR's performance now compares favorably with the regional average
and is considerably above that of countries at a similar level of develop-



- 6 -
ment. Annex II contains a summary statement of IDA credits, Bank grants, and
IFC investments, as well as notes on the execution of the ongoing projects,
as of March 31, 1983.
19.       Future World Bank operations will concentrate on reinforcing the
institutional progress made in infrastructure, agriculture, rural development
and education and training, and will seek to spread the benefits of develop-
ment more widely throughout YAR. Particular attention will be given to YAR's
ability to implement projects, by ensuring the availability of key staff and
technical assistance needed for successful implementation. A sixth education
project, a second urban development project and a central highlands agricul-
tural development project have been appraised. Several agricultural develop-
ment projects are in the preparation stage. Future projects are expected to
include water supply and sewerage, energy, and transport and may also include
health, minerals exploration and industrial finance.
20.       While YAR has contributed a large part of local currency financing,
it remains among the least-developed countries and requires special assistance
through financing of a large part of project costs, including local expendi-
tures when necessary. As in the past, the costs of future projects are
expected to be substantially higher than the amounts that IDA can provide,
and we shall continue to cooperate closely with other donors so as to maximize
IDA's catalytic role in stimulating co-financing. IDA-supported projects have
led to about $340 million equivalent of co-financing from other aid donors.
PART III - THE TRANSPORT SECTOR
21.       YAR had virtually no modern transport infrastructure until the
1960s, when the initial efforts were made to build a main road network. These
efforts were intensified after 1972 to develop a transport system and to set
up the needed institutions. IDA was associated with these efforts from the
start in promoting sound institutions and the development of the physical in-
frastructure through four highway projects and a port project (see para. 34).
From the beginning, the Government's efforts were hampered by shortages of
managerial and technical talent. These difficulties were further aggravated
by the 1973/74 oil price increases, when unskilled labor also became scarce
as Yemenis were attracted to lucrative employment opportunities in neighboring
oil-producing countries. Thus, while basic transport facilities and institu-
tions were still being developed and the agencies in charge were still in
embryo, transport demand soared at unprecedented growth rates as a result of
a booming economy fueled by the remittances of Yemenis working abroad and
increased migration of the rural population to the cities which maintained
strong ties o their villages. Only recently, with overall economic activity
stabilizing aue to a levelling off of remittances, the growth in transport
demand is returning to normal levels.
The Transport System
22.       Despite the impressive progress made by YAR so far in building up
its transport system after a late start, much more still remains to be done.



YAR now has a main road system of about 2,900 km (62 percent paved), three
international airports and seven airstrips and one major sea port and two
secondary ones. Although the length of the main road system quadrupled over
the last decade, the main road system is still inadequate and secondary roads
in particular are still lacking. The main links in the road network require
reconstruction and strengthening as traffic has outgrown their carrying
capacity. YAR's road density is still very low (about 15 km/lO00 sq. km),
but compares well (117 km per 1000 sq. km) with other countries if the low
quality tracks built by local development associations (LDAs) in rural areas
are considered a part of the network (para. 30). A highway master plan study
being prepared will identify the more important LDA roads, i.e., those with
inter-regional significance and those serving larger communities, etc., for
upgrading and subsequent incorporation in the national network to be main-
tained by the Highway Authority (HA). Further port expansion might be needed
to accommodate traffic growth, and investments are required to adapt the
airport facilities for larger and heavier aircrafts and to extend air ser-
vices to the outlying parts of the country.
23.       The major constraints affecting the development of the transport
sector are the lack of an adequate institutional framework for formulating
coordinated policies and programs, finance, adequate qualified personnel,
both in the public and private sectors, and the high costs of construction,
caused by the lack of construction materials, skilled and unskilled manpower
and a reasonably developed local contracting industry. IDA has assisted the
Government in overcoming some of these constraints, by developing not only
the physical infrastructure, but also the institutions, policies and manpower
(see paras. 17 and 34). At the Government's request, it carried out a survey
of the construction industry in YAR. It is also discussing with the Govern-
ment possible ways in which it could help promote the development of a sound
and competitive domestic contracting industry.
Transport Policies and Institutions
24.       The Government's policy objectives in the transport sector are to
build a sound infrastructural base to integrate the country, reduce YAR's
isolation from the rest of the world, and in general, to cater to the needs
of a developing economy. The transport sector objectives under the Second
Five-Year Development Plan (Second Plan) (1982-86) include the development of
roads, ports and air transport with special emphasis on improved main-
tenance of existing roads and development of secondary roads to serve better
the interior areas. The Second Plan also emphasizes investments and other
measures to reduce costs of passenger and freight transport so as to promote
better utilization of the country's resources. The Second Plan has allocated
17 percent of total investment to the transport sector. Of a total public
investment of YRis 4.0 billion (about $0.9 billion) for transport and com-
munications, nearly 60 percent is allocated to main (40 percent) and rural
(20 percent) roads in view of their importance in YAR's transport system.
Although the size of the Second Plan, and the proposed level of transport
investments will have to be reduced to fit available resources, the overall
allocations and priorities are rational.



- 8 -
25.       The transport sector is administered mainly by two ministries.
The Ministry of Public Works (MPW) supervises the activities of the autono-
mous Highway Authority (HA) and the operations of the Yemen Port and Marine
Affairs Corporation (PMAC). HA is responsible for technical planning, con-
struction and maintenance of the main road system. The Ministry of Communi-
cations and Transport (MCT) oversees the Civil Aviation and Meteorology
Authority (CAMA), and the land transport companies. LDAs build, among other
things, low-cost rural roads with Government's financial support supplement-
ing private contributions mobilised by them (para. 30).
26.       The Government has recently established in the MCT a Department of
Transportation (DOT) under a deputy minister. DOT could eventually play a
crucial role in providing the needed coordination among agencies involved in
this sector. As it is still not equipped to play such a coordinating role,
the operating agencies responsible for ports, shipping, road transport, air-
ports and civil aviation continue to deal directlv with the Central Planning
Organization (CPO) and the Ministry of Finance. The fourth highway project
includes technical assistance to help develop this newly established depart-
ment. To streamline the organizational arrangements, the Government is
undertaking a study under the IDA-assisted fourth highway project, with the
assistance of consultants, to recommend organizational and policy reforms in
the sector.
Transport Planning
27.       There is a clear need to improve transport sector planning.
Transport planning is done predominantly with the help of outside consultants
engaged by subsectoral agencies. Decisions on investment allocation and
project selection are made by the subsector agencies (such as PMAC, HA and
CAMA) and by concerned ministries, and are coordinated by CPO. Although many
of the investment decisions have been influenced by the availability of
foreign aid for specific projects, most of the investments have been based
on a rational approach to the priority needs of the economy. The proposed
strengthening of the DOT would assist in improving transport sector planning.
In the meantime, to enable the CPO to perform more effectively its planning
function in relation to the transport sector, understandings were reached
during negotiations that CPO will improve its existing coverage of transport
statistics. HA is preparing, with the assistance of consultants, a highway
master plan study for the period up to 1996 (end-year of the Fourth Five Year
Plan). The preparation of this master plan is financed under the IDA-
assisted third highway project. This study will provide the basis for a
balanced development of the road system, establi- priorities based on a
comprehensive review of needs and detailed trafi,c forecasts, and propose
improvements in various road-related management and policy matters. It will
further review investment projects scheduled to start in the latter part of
the Second Plan and suggest necessary changes. The study, expected to be
completed by end 1984, would also include recommpndations on design
standards, maintenance policy, the level and structure of road user charges,
the role of LDAs, setting up a data bank in YAR and in addition provide
guidelines for axle-load legislation.



-9-
Road Transport
28.       Road transport, both passenger and general haulage, is essentially
left to the private sector, but is subject to regulations prepared by
drivers' associations which are enforced vith Government assistance. The
regulations require drivers to register for the route they wis  t-o operate
on and tc wait for their turn at the Association's freight and pass-nger
stations existing in all major towns. Contracting transport from sources
other than the association offices is not permitted, but entry into the
industry is free and many migrant Yemenis, returning with capital to invest
in small business, have opted to be transport operators. As a result, the
size of the transport fleet is large, vehicle utilization low and transport
cost to the economy high. Tariffs are proposed by the associations and nor-
mally approved by the Government without change.  The Government has recently
set up two public sector enterprises; Ci) the General Transport Corporation
(51 percent of its capital is owned by the YAR Government), which organizes
inter-city and in-city bus services; and (ii) the Yemen General Transport
Corporation, joirtly owned by YAR and the People's Democratic Republic of
Yemen Governments, to provide goods transport between the two countries.
The technical assistance provided under the fourth highway project woe' d help
the DGT to deal with the issues of regulation and the proper roles of Oue
driver associations and also help implement the necessary policy changes with
a view to stimulate greater competition, as has been successfully done in
other sectors of the economy.
Transport User Charges
29.       It is the Government's general objective to recover the full costs
of services rendered by transport agencies. Road users meet fully the costs
of road maintenance and contributed about 85 percent of the annual invest-
ments in 1982 through customs duties and excise taxes on fuel, transpor'
equipment, spare parts and tires, annual vehicle taxes and other fees. In
the rural areas, the LDAs contribute voluntarily a portion of the investment
costs. However, the present system is not efficient and equitable, as the
incidence of user chargers is not related to the damages inflicted on the
roads by diffezent categories of road users. The Association has discussed
with the Government the need for introducing a more rational user charge
system. To facilitate a meaningful dialogue between the Association and the
Government, this subject is also bei;ag studied by the consultants preparing
the highway master plan (para. 27'. The study is expected to be completed
by July 1984. The Government has agreed to review the recommendations of
-he study with the Association within nine months of its completion. It will
thereafter formulate a system of road user charges based on the recommenda-
tions and implement it in accordance with a program satisfactory to the
Association (Development Credit Agreement, Section 4.02). As regards cost
recovery in other subsectors, the port subsector represents a very sound
picture. PMAC finances nearly half of its investments from self-generated
funds and earned an 8 percent return on its net revalued assets in 1982. In
the case of airports, there has been no study of the adequacy of airport



- 10 -
charges. In order to evaluate present praccices, and to initiate improve-
meuts, understandings were reached during negotiations that the Government
will cause CANA to undertake a study on the adequacy of airport user charges
to be completed before December 31, 1984, and review the findings of the
study with the Association.
The Road Subsector
30.       HA is responsible for the main road system. The paved roads pro-
vide essential links between the main population centers, the seaports, and
neighboring countries. However  the main links of the system are now
deteriorating rapidly because of rapid traffic growth in recent years,
operation of vehicles heavier than those for which the roads were designed
and inadequate maintenance efforts, which are constrained by staff shortages.
The 1,100 'Am of unpaved main roads are located mostly in the Hodeidah, Ibb
and Taiz Governorates. The large local road network which has been mostly
built through the efforts of LDAs, with local contributions and Goverment
financial support, has not been built to any specific standard designs.
These roads are often negotiable only by four-wheel-drive vehicles. The
extent of this local road network is not known with any certainty but is
estimated to be of the order of 20,000 km. The highway master plan under
preparation would help to establish adequate design standards for these local
roads (para. 27).
Administration, Maintenance and Training
31.       Established in 1972, HA operates as an autonomous Government agency
with its own capital, budget, income and salary scales, under a board of
directors comprising Government officials and chaired by the Minister of
Public Works. It has regional offices in Sanaa, Ibb, Taiz, Hodeidah and
Saadah to supervise road construction and maintenance. Construction is nor-
mally carried out by contract, but HA. acts as the builder of last resort in
cases where no acceptable bids are received. Its construction division is
relatively well-organized, has adequate equipment and staff, including
expatriate experts. It has successfully executed some road construction
projects, for which there were no responsive bids.
32.       HA is aware of the need for adequate maintenance. However, it has
faced problems because of earlier shortages of budget, equipment, manpower,
and the rapid development of the road network. A principal objective of the
IDA-assisted third highway project (Cr. 794-YAR) is the implementation of an
adequate maintenance program, baned on a detailed inventory of HA's network
and an appraisal of the equipmen_, manpower, and annual budget allocations
needed for the recurrent and periodic maintenance of all roads. The main
bottleneck in adequate maintenance currently is the lack of sufficiently
trained personnel to operate and maintain the available equipment, man the
newly equipped workshops and supervise and monitor the work of the mainten-
ance teams. Besides providing for programs to train sufficient personnel,
the technical assistance program under the third highway project provides



- I1 -
for essential expatriate personnel to meet HA's manpower needs until end
1984. HA will continue to need such assistance until 1986. The proposed
project includes the technical assistance needed until 1986 (para. 42).
33.       Based on economic and engineering studies, the Government has
adopted a national axle loading limit of 13 tons. Under the third highway
project the Government has undertaken to enact necessary legislation by
September 30, 1984 and to pronulgate the regulations to enforce the
standards. In the meanwhile, to facilitate their enforcement, the Govern-
ment has already built three, and is building two more, vehicle weighing
stations at strategic points in the network to monitor and check overloading.
*         IDA Involvement in YAR's Transport Sector
34.       IDA's contribution in the transport sector has been substantial.
Apart from the minimal state of its physical infrastructure, YAR had no
institutions and policy framework for the sector's development when IDA began
its operations in YAR in 1972. In line with the Government's emphasis, IDA's
major contribution has been in institution-building. Besides providing
financial support to the physical infrastructure included under the projects,
IDA's participation has been instrumental in promoting a sound organizational
and policy framework in the sector. This work is still in progress. It has
helped to create and strengthen the Highway Authority, train the skilled
manpower needed to maintain the road facilities, formulate designs and main-
tenance standards, improve transport planning and quality of investments,
develop an appropriate policy for vehicle axle loads and user charges. It
has assisted the Government in mobilizing substantial co-financing from other
donors for transport investments, especially from Kuwait and OPEC Funds. It
has also helped in removing the constraints affecting port operations and
improving the ports' management.
35.       IDA has so far assisted four highways projects and a ports project.
The first two highway projects and the port project have been completed.
The first highway project (Credit 315-YAR, 1973) consisted of technical
assistance to set up and organize the HA, feasibility and engineering
studies, construction of the Taiz-Turba road, and supply of road equipment.
The second highway project (Credit 558-YAR, 1975) financed the continuation
of the technical assistance and the construction of the Taiz-Al Mafraq road.
The port project (Credit 714-YAR, 1977) included technical assistance to the
PHAC, dredging and berth construction works as well as equipment for the port
of Hodeidah. The third highway credit (Cr. 794-YAR, 1979), financed jointly
with the OPEC Fund, caters for technical assistance to HA, but focuses more
closely on the road maintenance problem by including provision for appro-
priate equipment for maintenance, mechanical workshops and buildings for new
maintenance depots, training of road maintenance personnel and fellowships
for senior Yemeni staff, five vehicle weighing stations, an overlay of 3 km
of main road, and the preparation of a highway master plan. It has been
delayed by about 18 months due to the time taken in completing the co-finan-
cing arrangements and securing technical assistance. It is expected to be
completed in December 1984. The fourth highway credit (Credit 1267-YAR)



- 12 -
co-financed with the Arab Fund for Economic Development (Arab Fund), was
signed in August 1982. This credit will finance Ci) the asphaltic overlay
and flood protection works for the primary road Taiz-Al Mafraq (61 km)
including supervision by consultants; and (ii) technical assistance to
improve the management and administratio'x of the transport sector through
strengthening the newly established DOT in the MCT by organization and policy
studies, provision of experts for key positions, and staff training. It has
become effective only in August 1983 due to delays in finalizing co-financing
arrangements and in appointing consultants for construction supervision.
Steps are already under way to initiate project implementation; bids for
civil works have been received and are being evaluated.  The Project Per-
formance Audit Report for the first and second highway projects (Report
No. 2737 of November 12, 1979) noted that, despite cost overruns and delays
in execution, these projects had made important contributions towards
strengthening HA organization and expanding the country's road network. It
noted that project implementation delays were caused by personnel difficul-
ties within the Highway Authority, both for project implementation and
training. To overcome HA's staffing difficulties, technical assistance for
institutional support, and construction supervision was included under the
third and the fourth highway projects, and is continued under the proposed
project. The Government has agreed to institute suitable incentives under
the proposed project to attract sufficient qualified personnel for training
(para. 45).
Development Priorities in the Road Subsector
36.       The road subsector will continue to require an adequate level of
investment in the coming years to serve the needs of YAR's rapidly developing
economy. The carrying capacity of many existing main roads needs to be
adapted to the requirements of increased traffic loads. Parallel to the
physical development of the road system, institutions and policies connected
with the subsector need to be strengthened further. These needs justify the
continued involvement of the Association in this subsector, which is the
rationale for the proposed project.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
Background
37.       The proposed project has evolved from on-going IDA-assisted pro-
jects.  It was prepared by the YAR Government with the assistance of consul-
tants financed under the third highway project (Credit 794-YAR). It was
appraised in January/February 1983. Negotiations were held in Washington
from May 16 to May 20, 1983. The YAR delegation was headed by His Excellency
Abdallah Al-Kurshumi, Minister of Public Works, and included representatives
of the Central Planning Organization (CPO) and of the Ministry of Finance.
A staff appraisal report entitled "Yemen Arab Republic: Fifth Highway Pro-
ject" (No. 4437-YAR), dated August 19 1983, is being distributed separately.



- 13 -
The main features of the credit and the project are mentioned in the Credit
and Project Summary and in Annex III. A map showing the project road and
the transport network is attached (Map IBRD 17074).
Project OLjectives and Description
38.        .he proposed project is designed to assist the YAR Government in
its program for improving constructing priority secondary roads. Other
important objectives of the project are to: (i) continue institutional sup-
port to HA, particularly for its road maintenance efforts; Cii) atteipt to
reduce the high road construction costs prevailing in YAR through new con-
tracting procedures; and (iii) improve the quality of construction and main-
tenance of rural roads built by LDAS. It will in part run concurrently with
the ongoing third and fourth highway projects.  The project supplements the
efforts under the fourth highway project to expand the main road network.
It also seeks to strengthen HA by providing technical support and training
its personuel, thus continuing the efforts undertaken under the third high-
way project. The project will be implemented over the period 1984-87. It
includes: (i) upgrading to paved standards, including realignments in moun-
tainous sections, of the Tbb-Al Udayn (31.7 km) road, selected from 2,300 km
of secondary roads based on considerations related to traffic density,
development potential of the area served, besides integration of the popula-
tion into the mainstream of national political and economic life; (ii) con-
sultants for construction supervision; (iii) technical assistance and insti-
tutional support to JIr to improve nation-wide road maintenance through pro-
vision of experts to fill key positions in HA and to assist in training; and
(iv) training programs covering all aspects of road maintenance. These are
described below.
Road Upgrading
39.       The Ibb-Al Udayn Road (Map IBRD 17074) is a gravel road located in
the central southern uplands of the country. It passes through a densely
populated corridor in one of the most fertile areas of YAR, and links the
capital of the Governorate, Ibb, the fourth largest city of the country and
a main regional market and consumption center, to Al Udayn, the center of an
importanit agricultural area for temperate produce. It will serve the area
included under IDA's Second Southern Uplands Rural Development project
(Credit 1067-YAR of November 1980 for $17.0 million). The road is in a
mountainous terrain with steep gradients and sharp curves which together with
the bad pavement conditions make transport difficult and expensive.  After
periods of heavy rainfall,%.some sections are rendered impassable due to
inadequate drainage and landslides.
40.       The road is heavily used, average traffic being presently about
1,300 vehicles per day (vpd) in the 0-10 km section, and 600 vpd in the more
difficult 10-31 km section. About 60 percer.t of freight vehicles are of less
than 6 tons, since the larger part of the r3ad is hardly passable by heavy
trucks. Based on current traffic and its estimated future growth, the
physical conditions of the terrain and a design standard of 13 tons axle-



- 14 -
loading, the project provides for the road to be upgraded and paved with a 7
meter wide carriage-way and a 5 centimeter thick wearing course of asphalt
concrete, along with the provision of retaining walls, and drainage struc-
tures. As HA is short of experienced staff, the project includes the provi-
sion of consultants' services to assist HA in the supervision of road con-
8 truction.
Technical Assistance
41.       Under the credit for the third highway project (Credit 794-YAR)
the Bank is financing a technical assistance component to overcome the con-
straints in highway development and maintenance. It will cover such techni-
cal assistance until the end of 1984. The proposed project continues this
technical assistance program during tne years 1985-86.  The program includes
two sub-components: (i) institutional support to HA for its operations, and
(ii) training program for road maintenance, covering both HA and LDA per-
sonnel.
(i) Institutional Support
42.       In view of its lack of adequate qualified personnel, the HA will
continue to require assistance for some of its most critical staffing needs.
It is expected that this need will trail off by end-1986, when the technical
assistance program, including training of counterparts attached to expatriate
experts, is expected to be completed. Accordingly, the proposed project
includes the provision of technical assistance for HA's continued employment
of foreign experts for many of HA's senior technical and professional posts
during 1985-86. Of 18 key on-line positions for a total of 432 man/months
proposed, 12 have already been filled and 6 more will be filled soon under
the on-going third highway project covering the period up to December 1984.
The Govermnent has agreed to employ by January 1, 1985 technical and manage-
ment consultants, with qualifications, experience, and terms and conditions
of employment satisfactory to the Association (Development Credit Agreement,
Section 3.02(a) and (b)). It is expected that the consultants appointed
earlier under the third highway project would be continued until end-1986.
The Government will also assign suitably qualified staff in adequate nmmbers
to work with the consultants for the duration of their employment, so that
Yemeni nationals could take over the work when the expatriate consultants
leave at the end of 1986 (Development Credit Agreement, Section 3.02(c).
(ii)   Train-'nz PrT,grame
43.       Under the on-going projects, programs to train qualified Yemenis
have been included to meet HA's manpower needs. The two-year program (1985-
1986) for training of highway maintenance personnel included in the proposed
project will follow up and expand the three-year program (1982-1984) being
implemented under the third highway project. It is especially addressed to
operating personnel, such as road supervisors, equipment operators, drivers,
mechanical personnel, storekeepers and accountants. The program includes:



- 15 -
(i) training of HA required manpower through strengthening of the existing
Training Division; (ii) selection and training of HA staff as instructors;
(iii) procurement of training equipment and materials; and (iv) fellowships
for 150 man-months for selected staff for training abroad.
44.       About 430 staff, including the 64 staff required by the Confedera-
tion of Yemeni Development Associations (CYDA) for the LDA's feeder road
network, will be trained under the proposed program. The training program
will be carried out at the Vocational Training Center (VTC) at Taiz and
partly at selected workshops denominated as Mechanical Training Pro"uction
Unit (MTPU) and the Road Training Production Unit (RTPU), enabling them to
gain experience under actual working conditions.
.
45.       To assist in the execution of the proposed training program, the
Goveruent will employ, by January 1, 1985, training consultants, with
qualifications, experience and terms of employment satisfactory to the
Association (Development Credit Agreement, Section 3.02(a)(ii) and (b)). It
will also appoint suitable counterparts to work with the consultants on a
full-time basis for the duration of their employment (Development Credit
Agreement, Section 3.02(c)). In order to derive maxcimum benefits from the
technical assistance, and as HA has been short of qualified staff, it has
agreed to provide adequate incentives, including guarantees of employment,
to ensure the recruitment of a sufficient number of qualified trainees, and
candidates to be trained as instructors. It will monitor and evaluate the
training program and ensure the employment by HA of such candidates upon
completion of their training other than those trained for the Confederation
of Yemeni Development Associations (Development Credit Agreement, Section
3.04).
Cost Estimates
46.       The total cost of the project including physical and price contin-
gencies is estimated at $35.5 million equivalent, including $26.6 million in
foreign exchange (about 75 percent). The base costs are estimated in May
1983 prices. The cost estimates are based on quantities from final ergi-
neering designs and on unit rates derived from recent contract awards in YAR
for individual works. The foreign costs are estimated from a breakdown of
component cost elements. Imported equipment needed for the project is exempt
from taxes. The local costs include taxes (such as petroleum monopoly tax)
*         to be paid by the contractor, amounting to about 2 percent of total costs.
47.       The cost estimates include a physical contingency of ten percent
for civil works and construction supervision. Price contingencies for local
costs have been estimated at 9 percent for 1983, 8 percent for 1984-85 and
7 percent for 1986. Price contingencies for the foreign component have been
calculated at 8 percent for 1983, 7.5 percent for 1984, 7 percent for 1985
and 6 percent for 1986. The project costs include consultancy/technical
services of about 800 man-months, 120 man-months for construction supervision
at an average cost of t10,000 per man-month, about 430 man-months for insti-
tutional support at an average cost of $4,600, and about 250 man-months for



- 16 -
training at an average cost of $3,000 npr nuna-month. The average cost of
all technical/consultancy services, a large part of which is likely to be
met from developing countries, is about $,00O0 rer man-mwnth, including
salary, fees, overhead, international cravel and subsistence. These esti-
mates are based on recent experience in YAR.
Financing
48.       The proposed IDA credit of $13 million equivalent will finance
about 35 percent of total project cost, and about 50 percent of foreigh
costs.  The remaining $13.6 million in foreign costs and the local costs of
$8.9 million will be financed by thi Government. The burden on the Govern-
ment, especially for foreign expenditures, will be reduced, if the Govern-
ment's efforts to mobilize financing from other donors are successful.  Even
if these efforts do not suceed, the burden would still be acceptable.
Project Implementation
49.       The HA will be responsible for implementing the project in
accordai-ce with a schedule agreed during negotiations. To assist in the
execution of the project, HA will employ consultants with terms of reference,
qualifications and conditions of employment satisfactory to the Association
(Development Credit Agreement, Section 3.02(a) and (b)). The employment of
engineering consultants for construction supervision is a condition of
effectiveness of the proposed credit (Development Credit Agreement, Sections
3.02(a)(i) and 6.01).
50.       The detailed design and engineering of the Ibb-Al Udayn road have
been completed and bids have been invited for the civil works, following Bank
guidelines. HA has invited proposals from engineering consultants to assist
it in the evaluation of bids for civil works and in construction supervision.
51.       Only a relatively small extent of land (27 hectares) has to be
acquired. Of this, only 11 hectares have some agricultural value. Land
acquisition has not presented any significant problems in past road projects.
Though the Government has the legal right to the use of the land needed for
construction, it has agreed to complete by June 30, 1984, the formal acqui-
sition of title to all land needed for the project (Development Credit
Agreement, Section 3.06).
Procurement                                                                           e
52.       The civil works will be procured as a single contract through
international competitive bidding (ICB) in accordance with the Bank Group
guidelines.
53.       Procurement of training equipment, materials and supplies, esti-
mated to cost about $550,000 would be in accordance with Government proce-
dures. which require the invitation of at least three bids. These procedures
are satisfactory. As their procurement would be in small quantities, and



- 17 -
spread over the project period, international competitive bidding procedures
would not be appropriate. The recruitment of consultants for construction
supervision and technical assistance would be in accordance with the Bank's
"Guidelines foi the Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers."
New Contracting Procedures for Civil Works
54.       The costs of highway construction in YAR have been high, due to
lack of domestic construction materials, skilled and unskilled manpower and
cimbersome procedures. In order to address the problem of high road con-
struction costs, the proposed project would introduce, for the civil works
procurement, an innovative target cost contract (TCC) procedure on an exper-
imental basis, which would help to reduce considerably the contractor's
risks and costs.
55.       Under the proposed TCC procedure the bidder quotes a target price
for the contract. Specific risks and other occurrences are excluded from
the tendered target cost which is adjusted periodically for changes in the
work, acceptable delays and for price variations. Any difference between
the actual and target costs will be shared by the employer and contractor in
a specified way. This method is expected to reduce project risks consider-
ably and would enable contractors to bid prices without high mark-ups. It
would also provide incentives to both the employer and cont:.actor to avoid
delays and uncertainties in project execution, thus reducing costs. The TCC
method, if accepted and proved successful in this project, could become a
model for future construction projects in YAR.
56.       Bidders have been asked to submit bids, under both the traditional
method with a price escalation formula and the TCC method described above,
the latter on an optional basis. The lowest evaluated bidder under the tra-
ditional method will be selected for contract award. While awarding the
contract, HA will have tbh option to choose either the bid under the tradi-
tional method or the bid under the TCC method, whichever it considers to be
more favorable.
Disbursement
57.       The proceeds of the proposed Credit will finance;
(a) 30 percent of total expenditures for civil works;
(b) 100 percent of expenditures in foreign exchange for consultant
services for supervision of civil works;
(c) 100 percent of the expenditures in foreign exchange of the
technical assistance for institutional support to HA and
training; and



- 18 -
(d) 80 percent of expenditures in Yemeni rials for imported equip-
ment materials and supplies procured locally, and 100 percent
of expenditures in foreign exchange for goods procured abroad.
Retroactive financing of not more than 1250,000 for consultancy services for
payments made after September 1, 1983, has been agreed. The project is
expected to be completed by February 28, 1987, and the Credit closing date
is December 31, 1987.
Environment
58.       The project will not adversely affect the environment.  The in-
creased traffic generated by the proposed road could cause some trash pollu-
tion.  The Government has initiated garbage collection and disposal schemes
in some towns, including Ibb, which will gradually be extended to other parts
of the country. The project would eliminate the existing hazards of dust
and mud through asphalt concrete paving of the road, and is expected to
improve considerably the overall rural environment, by improving access to
schools, hospitals and markets.
Benefits and Risks
~9.       The main benefits from the proposed project are:  (i) savings in
vehicle operating costs (VOC) for the existing traffic and for the new traf-
fic it would generate; (ii) higher net farm incomes to farmers in the area,
through introduction of high value crops such as fruits and vegetables,
facilitated by improved access to agricultural extension services and inputs
and improved transport aud marketing; and (iii) the strengthening of the
Highway Authority through the training of over 400 road maintenance person-
nel. Besides generating new and diversified employment opportunities, the
project would have several unquantifiable benefits resulting from better
access to hospitals, schools and promoting national cohesion and integration.
The project would also test a new contracting procedure, with a view to
reducing the high construction costs experienced in YAR. If successful, this
procedure could be replicated in other highway investments.
60.       The road component of the project, accounting for 86 percent of
the project costs, is estimated to have an economic rate of return (ERR) of
22 percent. If the costs were higher by 20 percent, and the benefits
reduced by 20 percent, the project would still yield a good return of 17
percent.  There would be large unquantifiable benefits from the technical
a3sistance included in the project. It would help improve the availability
of skilled man-power for road maintenance, reduce reliance on expatriates,
and thereby save considerable amount of foreign expenditures.
61.       Major risks associated with the project relate to possible delays
in implementation. Adequate technical assistance has been included in the
project, to help minimize delays in project execution. Actions already
initiated to invite bids and to recruit consultants would help project im-
plementation in line with agreed schedule.



- 19 -
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
62.       The draft Development Credit Agreement between the Yemen Arab
Republic and the Association, and the recommendation of the Committee pro-
vided for in Article V, Section l(d) of the Association's Articles of Agree-
ment are being distributed to the Executive Directors separately.
63.       Features of the Development Credit Agreement of special interest
are referred to in Section III of Annex III. The appointment of engineering
consultants with qualifications, experience and terms of reference satisfac-
tory to the Association to assist HA in the sapervision of project construc-
tion is a special condition of effectiveness (draft Development Credit
Agreement, Section 6.01).
64.       I am satisfied that the proposed credit would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Association.
PART VI - RECOMHENDATION
65.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
Development Credit.
A. W. Clausen
President
Washington, D.C.
August 23, 1983



-20 -                                               Page 1 of 5
TA B LE  3A
YESMS AltA REP. o      - SOCIAL IWICATORS DATA SUET
YCHNC  ARA" REP. or                  NFCRENCE Csours (CEIGe D AViRAGes) /.
HOST                    (lOST RECENT ESTUIATI) /b
b         /r Ab     mIDDLE  NCEE           MEDDLE TN-CtO
1960b      1970-1  tSTIATS=      M. ArCA £ MID CAST   LAT. AMERICA £ CAIIB
ARI (Tun          11. 0)
TOTAL                             195.0       195.0      195.0
AGRICULTURAL                       96.F        97.3       97.9
CUP tE CAPITA CUSS)                              120.0      460.0             1340.0                   2086.2
CT mCOWTION MRK CAPITA
(KILOCRAMS OF COAL EQUIVALENT)      7.0        15.0       6Z.0              110.4                   1407.6
IMATs  aE  rlAL SATUTES
POPULATIOH,HID-YEAR (THOUSANDS)   4163.0     5256.0     7251.f/ce
URB  POPULATION (I OF TOTAL)        3.4         6.0       IO.S-             47.4                      65.9
POPULATION PROJECTIONS
POPULATION IN YEAR 2000 (HILL)                          IZ.3
STATIOWNARY POPULATION (HILL)                          31.7
YEAR STATIONARY POP. REACHED                           2155
POPULATION DENSI M
PER SQ. NH.                      21.3        27.0       36.1              36.0                      35.6
PER SQ. IN. AGRI. LAND           43.1        54.0       71.9             449.0                     93.2
POPULATION AGE STRUCTURE (2)
0-14 YRS                        42.4        43.0       45.0               43.9                     40.1
15-64 YRS                        54.4       53.9        51.9              52.8                     55.6
65 AND ABOVE                      3.Z         3.1        3.2               3.3                      4.1
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (2)
TorAL                             2.3         2.3        2.9               2.9                       2.3
URBAN                             8.1         8.0        8.2                4.6                     3.7
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (PER THOUS)       49.7        48.6       46.5              42.5                      31.5
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PER THOUS)       28.9        26.5       22.8              12.0                       8.1
GROSS REMRODUCTION RATE             3.4         3.3        3.3               3.0                      Z.0
FAMILY PLANNIN
ACCEPT0RS, ANUAL (THOUS)
USERS (Z OF MARRIED WsHE)
rowD AND NUTRITID
INDEX OF FOOD ROD. TER CAPITA
(1969-71-100)                     119.0        64.0       96.0              97.5                     113.0
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (T OF REHUIREHENTS)     90.0        76.0       76.0              102.3                    111.3
PROtEINS (GRAS PER DAT)          69.0       55.0        53.0              72.0                     67.9
OF WHICH ANDIAL AND PULSE       16.0        14.0       19.01d             17.8                     34.1
CHILD (AGES 1-4) DEATH RATE        60.4          ..       50.0              15.2                      5.3
-.LTll
LIFE EXPECT. Ar BIRTH (YEARS)      35.8        36.5       42.6               57.2                     64.6
INFANT MORT. RATE (PER TWOUS)     211.6          ..      190.0             104.2                     62.6
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (%POP)
TOTAL                                        4.0         4.0/.            59.3                      64.6
ws AN                                       45.0        30.0d7            34.9                     77.8
RURAL                                        2.0         2.o7sf           37.5                     44.3
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL
CZ OF POPULATfOH)
TOrAL                              ..          ..         ..                 ..                     56.6
URL AW                                                                                             69.8
RURAL                              ..          ..         ..                 .                      29.8
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN       130090.0    24370.0    11670.0             3536.0                   1776.0
POP. PER NURSING PERSON              ..          ..     4560.0            1820.7                   1012.Z
PoP. PER HOSPITAL SED
TOTAL                          2730.0      1430.0/f   1700.0              643.3                    477.0
URB A                                                  230.0            . 565.0                    667.5
RURAL                              ..          ..     6750.0             2462.0                   1921.6
ADHISSIONS PER HOSPITAL RID          ..          ..       1.3               26.4                     27.2
mOOSIxC
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                                                    5.0 
URBAN                                                    6 .2  bR           ..h.
RURAL                                                    6. o t
AVERACE NO. OF PERSONS/ROWM
TOTAL                                                    2  2./3
UR-                                ...                    x7j,              ,.
RURAL                                                    3.Qj7
ACCESS TO ELECT. (2 OF DWELLINGS)
TOrAL                              ..          ..         ..              46.2
URBAN                              .                    56.Sft.h          77.6
RURAL                              .                                      16.1



ANNEX I
- 21 -                                  Page 2 of 5
TAILS  UA
TSll. ARAB XI. OF       SOCIAL INDICATOtS DATA SHEET
flUH  ARAB RIP. a                  RFIRENCE SOUPS (WEIGTED AVERACS) 
HOST                    (MST RECENT SS^TATE3 hb
*NA              NIDDLE UCO            MIDDLE rN-cams
*noL        1970k CSSDIATR/b    W. AFRICA & NIP CAST   LAY. AMERICA £ CA-RI
ASSI EISNROLLMETIS IRATIOS
PRumAY   TOTS.                   S.         12.0       47.0              39.6                   105.0
IIarLC                14.0       23.0        82.0             104.8                   106.3
FIALE                  0.4        2.0        12.0              72.4                   IL3.6
SECIDAR  TSOTAL                   ..         1.0        5.0              41.7                    40.0
MALE                    ..        2.0         ..               32.5                    33.6
rIou                    ..        0.1         ..              31.2                     41.2
VOCATIONAL  I OF SECONDARY)        3.2/i      2.2         4.4fj            10.3                    34.0
UPIL-TACRER RATIO
PRIMARY                         45.01i      51.0       44.0              31.9                    30.7
SICOIIDAlR                      24.071      24.0       18.0A             23.3                    16.7
4                  SADUT LITERACY RAZE (2)          2.5/i     10.0f       21.0             43.3                     79.5
PASSENCR CARS/TUOUSAND POP          ..         ..          ..              18.0                    43.6
IADIO RECCIIERS/UROUSD              ..       13.5/f      15.6             138.1                   228.2
TV RKCtEVSRSTOMSA   O               ..          ..        0.2              45.6                   105.3
nNSISA    rnIzV  euNa
INT9CRtC) CIRCILATION
EIa TOUohA  POPULATION              ..       10.7         ..              31.0                    64.1
CDNI ANUL ATENDACE/CAPTA            ..         ..         0.911             1.7                     2.9
TOTL LADOR FORCE (SHOOIS)        1263.0     1481.0     1809.0
FnLE (PECES)                     3.7         4.5        5.4              10.7                    24.8
AGRICLTURZ (PERCENT)            83.0        79.0       75.0              42.5                    31.3
INDUST  (PCPERCENT)              7.0        9.0        11.0              27.9                    23.9
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCET)
TAL                             30.3        28.2       24.9              25.6                    31.3
MALZ                            57.7        55.0       49.9              654                     49.8
FMALt                            2.3        2.5         2.6               5.6                    14.8
ECONOIC DEPENDENCY RATIO           1.5        1.6         1.9               1.8                     1.4
iNCUE DISERUIOU
PERCENT Or PRIVATE 1ICUS
uIzNmSr  t O NoUSEnDS             ..
HICIIEST 201 or HOENuoDs          ..
LOJZST 201 Or fOUS.DLDS           ..
Lo=Esr 4e oF HOS DS               ..         ..us.
ESTINA    ASLUTE POERTY INCr.
LEeVL (UE$ PER CAPITA)
DUWA                              ..         ..       366.0             276.1                   289.8
RURAL                             ..         ..          ..             177.1                   184.3
ESTINAID REATIVE POVERTY INCUS
LEVI. (US$ PER CAITA)
DltREA                            ..         ..          ..             100.0                   519.8
UIIUL                             ..          ..      157.0             283.3                   372.1
ESTnmAsC POP. IBLMW ARSOLUTE
POVERLT ITIC LEVEL (Z)
*                 UltR                               ..         ..          ..              22.0
RURAL                             ..         ..          ..              30.8
NOT AVAILABLE
"OT APMICABLE
W OT  E S
/a The group averqee for each indicator are populutlon-eighted arilthetic mans. Coerege of countriea a*og the
Indlectors dependa on allability of data and In not uniforn.
/b Unless otherwlea noted. Data for 1960' refer to any year between 1959 and 1961: 'Data for 1970- betwen 1969 and
1971; *ad data for -Most Recent Eetimte' bhetme 1979 and 1981.
/c lReident population. includes migrant workers abroad for lesa than a year; /d 1977: Ie 1976; /f 1972; a 19753 /h In
the ajor lcitia of Sanna TaSi and Nodaidab; /i 1962; LI 1973.
May 1983



ANNEX I
- 22 -                                                                                   Page 3 of 5
tsi Atechteit.t. Ife irs.-  Iron toetssr.   geat,trity  Silte  the sentl tothartletIc   en  relW          he  It thas   vl- 1     he easd  fIMd they tey tee hetifra ai
es.operabit tent.      re the lack at niacdarleei   etltias,. ad neet.ptt Costi hy d1Iferee   escetLrie. in -reit.ite   tI  .1 es.  The is.1  a..,.tntest ..Av5A1t t.
d... rih. criers. Iftapeviles. leellare  trende. See   chreel. enat   -aJcr diifcresets WIs.n  enttle
The ref..... Srne  art ill tb  eI-  rosety crepe ci the .ebjent tee .eff  o  (2  a resnt,  arosi  .lu tnebe  higiher .crete  leI-- ls the %   eenFry *r.ep of the
*ejc   e.eyIe-tpt, for "Nigh Iller,ae5 liiitelrfr.  creep netr. 91dlldd .            -ltt  herth Alair  cci          MAl teeI*   i.e  beet   t   teet         -ttt    eli..al
aliu t . Ithe r      .ietnc  gAies, deli the.... serae  err Petpleliec  mclehid *Ar1Lhtti    ..terso ler eade Llelcter s.d eleme eealy els  eserity ci the .. teetas  In. 
urtp ha. data far Lbs te 9ire.D.r.  ilies  shA         ete.  .1 ceeetrlos seese the lefel.rc.re depend. Aes tb. .actlablilsy ci date an  it wel a1etre, teedite *eat he
s..etlte-d In,    s reee, atrege  e  net i,lc tnrI   eeh               Then   .. scres. etcni   uteis-.Is etl:et,rlrte  ItIe cl.  If  -e  lIW .leser at 5 tile  Calelt the  Wectry cod
rsfrtcree 5recpe.
40 fh.eeId tqh.                                                                                           ON.li1trlltdn1 nplfe   Meded4.  by .-Weree craa lt
'IWcs  - Tete  seisCrteernt   adc-ci  sadetri1*1                                                                          Tfj        a   s tedira   se.heeA at  eolveercllp  .It.l
eRYr  ted  Slit deL..                                                                                   Paeltitpr9irt(yee                      aplte  untiedl by nsabr.1 ci  ,ecstiaie.
%  leeer         t .; tle-ee er  ti  el rra   e    -sa o ti en rerlLy c  pcrAets.eilp sysiie  e~aat   aee  ateiseet rr-tePe                                                CcC rret i erial.saed
ergr ..p ctre.  erket enSd kicehee  iAricee tr enli I     AdIle   lion.                       nt"nl  .ee sesliaste..
iSle med Into date.                                                                                                                                the      tia-iteltie   eeet
;[Pr ~  ~    ~       m    erap it    eVae   teroe   trr    rss                                          elel   npabl,ll n    risetecc   ed speiallesi hetpifs  aad
,;:t. 1910, cAd till dte                                                                                   byatlest.n  pleneln    retalllth-tet   preidleml prIlespal1y  uettadi.
careare  eelIcri .ai     .Ierloheepltaia, Ise-ecef. teside health sri
rSPS9  tl5lltliTlfll FtP~~lTA - ha   aPPcree  teeeeetta  ml t-art-l                                 aedleal Catner  net pcreseeflty elslfIsd  by A, lilsycisla  C         ba p *Ceed11
_TAprTIit.r.errtetad Iete pceen   cea  ae. tAdA Ityiro. inecl.                                   atnioee.  nrtr. Ad-isu.e  eel.) Setch otfar te-peln    eandte 
cad  eethmal   lteelsttl li hlleeret e  caa  ejaetlespe  esetelprewldt a 1lcited  rrese at teW.flIe r-altl vel .  ptor  teticWtre   psipett
IWAfeiW.    as, 0lo   dct..                                                                                ar=       hepIltats ttttleei  Clot perteeipallapahar1 ai esLeita. asil reota
heephiat   mealCc    or,raral "Iepttaltand te-leal .adester-sty etelert.
lePs;_iir O   t  sltf     Nelst. Iperalted    sptale  era    elPded celg coder ts.
inte  ie.sicleTiidYaa   f-ee.We.) - bAr  JeLy I1 1i1o. love1, tee  16*1                          ple3elperNPplt.ly - T.tL1 e-abr ei oduistloe   - er diteherse
.1tte.                                                      t.fi                                                I     IiiiliiIIi   h   V-bhr elf beW.
tIieenat M,    fI  s itloso. C,  cI ere  trea eCIA   stit r.eegearahittty n"iica ,01l~
dewave, ae-trtacl iota. 10.      adlitdae                                                             7ciie5 cet   .eebl (ercn   arheeeeei)-  all  cringe  end-,                   C    rena
Peelifle         M. FItS-Ctrrnt  Peeaei.e.  prujeftiat are beard at [too                                 et  theft taeI tveals.  A biorder er  edger tapA -r tap eat he iralArdd  ie
WMiiFjPeati- hig    a            W.- and thleir  netL.i!ty as  f-iceity                                the isea-ei4 A.,itlrclpspeo
rateL.  ?rjetl.praeetleer enetaltr  rats.teapri..  i ttrce                                                                                                                  aclae  na3
taptts  eeeet  L cat, osd lassIe  Lire .ptae   et.abtaloeln   at CP5                                  detttnto.. rneper1.c.ly.                   -.llp   tlIcI  -ce-pe.seet  tfracteee  and
per.    he1%  pareteler  for inititltprt A loe ten h. .c  la- olt                                    eas_epid  Penrto.
eateAtee  4arLite   te  -ietllty   -lcentte,  L-  at  tenet  Wtd       Vetiel                       Aer..e to 1 Aiet'"r,e icccen  c  deilee  -  oa.ae,n era
pisttg  prioaue    tct,  -.stry Is thee aecigeti AoteOf thoeta 1 ele                             teeeiee  deieg   siLt.trrnt    ticn    artra   percentAgeA
eabeale    at-eraty ta   i-rtllltp  tretit F.r perojettee  perpsae.                           or tonal, ertet. e   rura -      etlt  rcp-trtle.l
Stets-ery  ep40gen-   It  ,ttettear   papaletla  thare Ia  W 1erneth
iii~~iiu1ertiiiie  it mast . the death rate  ted sie the as.                               tintcxtlele
-oh Aeserat, lee etZaenrPiseo   It.eff  Lecy.  Th.etsfstiar ..eryllee                                                                         , alcs   te .eese  Letat-rI etge.e  rscpettee
peepeLtteeataatte        tteatd  -   he bal  .1 the prejttd  ,her-rer                                    piltry irhei-a. peeettet    AwtIVtt                 Itreds   biir .agd hIl
teic A tepnntatoli  lb  perJiit.            sodn th  rtee  dee  nrPeare  WAt ediste  Icr ditterct tceegthe s' pr                                             y   .ttery ir ete     i.r
latlt   ite .to _reylacAnet  ec-4.strc sI.necesa  ednrtlcs                                                                                               -Arulte , eptea Itoo perasot
bar tne1eCtsr, nutts  ie  resbd - Tha lee  adso eLAteelt-ae                                                niece tun   aepile  Arc heic   er alcec  he. efliell erhei apt.
icr  e.  o. -elipastpepLattqee per wnsra   letce   tine lecesree)e                                  prniacger . -L tieel. er  ...th.r irieLog.1 Utetret iee ter
i~iijjje   tOcl* lP5~  eed  ern: at.                                                              p...Id. stALleli   cIpararairrrptdaemre ac
sellogo. ns  ad  ot  dta                                                                     Vee paLana cereiltret  12~ A             sittlV.- j - netiluc   t              Cteti
Popeeel. acentPat tertec      oa -Ai         Meoerat greet  rItes et intel el-                        iraty5    saoeitr    el   tielb   eseto   steeI    scr
year pepesittice tar leis-ino. l~~sOU-te, as  l iA--l.l,ehpaeeaee.locals.
year ptptlttieeel tee.u~  told, 5arl1151 data.               .ett .lit_fCAn
Credebah   at.(er  hettand)       Ieeldeh    e   hned  1ee-e.                                      scee Caeer     aaedreieaels  - latenge   carea.m te  et.C..'
pcpeLAAI.Ctieo    VInAt    .   an   diidtatcr  enL                                                                    sls et-e Attlec   Usrt-t  cotd.1e eebAeen   b                 re t. en
Pa. -Arraae  eterat  sehtru    as-l                        witt es  I                         eel tety chlle. -.WkIA41    -                                       
listo'                                  .                                                              lS151icesdcticr   sr.nre !                 e "r   icersertieelat
p rart                                                                                                it-P,ertrae itirtth.tsnd cse           atieel i - irArllCere for brsedere  It          t
all.ariadate.  n ea.  se   ra..r   -re.qeee  neAtL  lengec  teaowteerete ied -  hestth  aer_
etapt netmete v lit                               ~hWA.  ~I                                                         -r0E p.1tctrelIee  res  et.toeect   a  ts   sspreta
Ilktecetr ee  Ie t.  fel coitte    trAe-tee  csceed.t  ed  n                                   in- he rdaS   t -if-te sre.e.  et, tet fe-  stec, at tech           10.IvC   elo
Fred sti l  -  rates.  pear bes..P    liercn            eiey...        ta                    Cee heteet  SteleeerCreaer  at-et   nteehre
eProevef.          da.ea.cis  r   ihradretintint  se                                                     ihcetodSra   h    as.irsieadleent   rcri   iea   n
hea   eetetlseselieee    rereeoe;iOsti                              It., aid .bell.FTVIe.-                                                                                     . 
date P.                                                                                               LilieS r_ea....Act."   4!-d                                                     prWt.
eepets.  nd reeegt itatat.  sa  sepibre  -1end - ettat -iaed.L ee....                        lepeahle  let.  lP)  a   1 1-11 ices.                        .  '
jasf_ettttsed    inr._ f    doe J. prceoeay. aced iee .a.I         h ditrbsirA'                          -9. -oifjt..4-rnl   eo   ec   nprett    fetttl,fr
teurtet    er   tittdb pra4 c bmi.  en  ethtele9lral5 made. -r aot)rt   ecr9n-Lbrfer.i   ate.irety    otn    n
t  mryart   etyer5    _rtt  irae ret dart-rstet fA er.                    _ r   per r,.Atabtil  sad  it data
ne  elyl  e   eepper ay.Pteppa  fsedIC        ftr.  ltee   anrt sh...                         ParttIet"atle   bee fo.r.e.    -  ae         1e . endt icae-  tartltp le  m
at  eeea  instte b.- a   nrg   e   thefend  prtI           esad by t-in) I- the .                        t crean   acfrteaiffmrt.
it 1iCsi   yes . 1smy;  ie-in. 1970    an   uS)1 d at.                                                rent. Irartat  aI      ese   fppeelt-e. ielh  aed  a.  to
ret ceita eetritooret ironmeits en   mite -  irate  te  eppl  nr. feed        .                   the teed leher tere
d  -r,,,ro  aI el  eed pp,,:,.ataL   etrs ri  day   10*1-tOI. til   ae   teyf'                                                                     "L
ChIld te__ I-4  brb; lat(er t                      bccd , hetact icth- pt  he. t   to .A                Uereae A t Llerita   -er.ee  (fcIn  tcn.adte)-i.ei.   yrtat
a.  crep - t    Feer.. c          rht rceenthis pge creep  fs  eeo   deeut,                               ere    * r- dI tbo t leepret  peretlpe.ret.  sdpoeitO                       rete
cenperrtso  dat   derIc   tret i-   t1ablee  lbe. ..    )51 sad. Int  isteI. heembtddIeeX                                                                              "rar        :"A !
Cir te  .ta       tti-rt  tAM. ra W- F7  t-ear      F  -at ..Ia part  rti. rT toein .2itl3t'Jftet    reAererrneae   reee  oft poetc tsree   tee
eThildthIr 1950  lSl yan   1961 data D  .dLM ..             .ehsllheneen 1rre                                                        - Ith rae-tdctr P ta1t1e lee.     5-         t     d    r
ftet,   Oeetllf c          I,t (pe-r,tAeed)-lnalSah    f  est  eeeWC                                      t      _tlat 1 Ihetee  iIcrrtreetet lS    r trtl-  re   ee   e
pern ,espr  thae    i.  ite   051   te   n   1                 na                                     taine r imerytetc   er   nte   eec   edhl    hn      tta
otrsetf  af  tltr emete    -eolen) ;- Ieta .  rAn,p. anh -as - Itasfrifle-eoa-FT-vares    ie   tmcee-iteefa   reareet   it   -                                                                     
Wae.c    aiatett   eho   n  rual  cih   eaeeat                 rerat  o  ae                         alIsreteitie
em tee eapply (tottadee treated  tatsate eater. ar atreated  heet                          tetleafeti tetatice Iteerce tettone CoccI Sf5) err esi.ttpet - Wterbe so.:5d reralP--..    -F.,-. 1,   1,;
nt braeotete   water tab'.        a. the   rtceetdtacee.erne   a                                         sara4 reete   nnec ..  tenp-  d  tl,- e4..  l ae-fhr   taetc    er-y
tatltrt wlts)te peecetic.  f thIr      ,AR ceitec   prI-t fa."   Ita                           preetteen  orf.P           eety        rAs Ice  leX ici' itee   tero
Setse ta tencrIatltpna    erte             - e   .,-teiafn   - totl. rc.  nod
:-Ia ..macer.,   peepte  _ftl  orees. se  rarsti etree   Ly.rr-eta                                                                     ~       tb.           ..I1     -1-     -         -
fly  ocisa th   miettte sa  dieasL.M - e-tch       aIths   irnateeno.j                                              -         F ttf   teome-   t ne  !o.Itt1.   hecb-   ie
bons cerea eed  aet-we.rby       I. at .r-hr.e e-fee-.Ithe et  at  i                                                         AW.I.-ni  Sttyt              se . Arjr   a   bprt
pride,              r-         I -   .-tt                                  -Iy and stItarPtotaitatinet.                                                        Oa -  0*1



- 23 -                          ANIEX I
Page 4 of 5
ECONOMIC INDICATORS
NATIONAL ACCOUNTS (US$ Mln)                           ANNUAL RATE OF GROWrH
1982                  (Constant Price)
(Current Prices)         FY1977-81     FY1982
GNP at Market Prices 1/            3685                    6           5
GDP at Market Prices               32.53                   6           5
Gross Domestic Investments          1384                  26           4
Gross National Savings               872                   1          -4
Exports of GNFS                      324                  24          21
Imports of GNFS                    2417                   13           6
OUPUT, LABOR FORCE AND PRODUCTIVITY (1981)
Value Added    Resident Labor Force    V.A. Per Worker
USS Mm       z    'Thousand      Z       US$         Z
Agriculture            820      32         830       69         988      47
Industry               206       8         54         5        3815     182
Services              1492      60        318        26        4691     224
TOTAL/AVERAGE     2518     100       1202       100        2095     100
GOVERNMENT FINANCE (YRls Mln)
2 of GUP
1978/79   1979/80   1981   1982     1982
Current Receipts              2161      2755     3277    3720       22
Current Expenditure           1847      2531      3253    4584      28
Current Deficit/Surplus        314       224       24    -864       -5
Capital Expenditure           2618      2492      3807    4321      26
External Assistance, Net      1904       976-O   2437    2865       17
(including Grants)
NDNEY CREDIT AND PRICES
-TRls Million Outstanding End Period--
1980      1981     1982   March 1983
Money Supply                  9180      9905    12519   13075
Claims on Government          2017      4039      8488    9332
Claims on Private Sector      2939      3234     3346    3513
-         Percentages
*                                        1979/80     1981     1982
Money Supply as Z of GNP      63         66       75
Annual Increase in:
Honey Supply              16         8        Z6
Consumer Price Index      11         5        3
1/ Not including private transfers by Yemeni migrants whose duration of
stay abroad exceeds one year.



- 24 -
ANNEX I
Page 5 of 5
BALANCE OF PAYNENTS (ust min) 1/
1978/79   1980   1981   1982
Exports of Goods, fob                3       13     10      5
Imports of Goods, cif            -1250   -1915  -1748  -1967
Trade Balance                    -1247   -1902  -1738  -1962
Non Factor Services, net           -36      -21    -51    -37
Transfers and Factor
Income, net                      833    1084    788    924
Balance on Current Account        -450    -839  -1001   -1075
X & LT Capital, net                416      600    542     649
official Grants                  312     148    337      445
Official Loans, net 21           104     452    205      204
Disbursements                 (114)   (467)  (262)   (246)
Repayments                    (-10)   (-15)  (-57)   (-42)
other Capital (including
errors and ommissions), net      162     167    126       72
Tncrease in Reserves (-)          -128      72    332      354
Net Foreign Assets                1350    1392   1059      706
EXLERNAL PUBLIC DEBT                         DEBT sERVICES RATIO (1982) 3/
(uSg million)               1982                                       z
Total Outstanding            2244         Total Outstanding and
of which disbursed           1312         Disbursed                     3.6
1/ Based on Central Bank's statistics. These figures differ slightly from
National Accounts' ones produced by CPO.
2/ Based on figures published in the Central Bank's financial statistical
bulletins. These figures differ slightly from debt information
compiled on a loan-by-loan basis.
3/ workers' remittances and transfers included in denominator.
EM1DB
August 1983



- 25 -                           AMEX It
Page 1 of 7
THE STATuS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN THE YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
(As of March 31, 1983 - $ Million)
A. Statement of IDA Credits 1/
Amount
Credit                                                        (less cancellations)
Number Year      Borrower              Purpose                  IDA  Undisbursed
Nine credits fully disbursed                       81.3
465   1974 Yemen Arab Republic Industrial Estate               2.3       0.3
636   1976 Yemen Arab Republic Grain Storage and Processing    5.2       0.1
662   1976 Yemen Arab Republic Livestock Credit and Processing 5.0       0.7
670   1976 Yemen Arab Republic Sanaa Water Supply II          10.0       2.8
714   1977 Yemen Arab Republic Port Development                6.0       0.7
794   19,8 Yemen Arab Republic Highways III                   11.,       4.6
805   .978 Yemen Arab Republic Tihama Agriculture II          10.5       3.1
837   1978 Yemen Arab Republic Power Distribution             10.0       3.4
880  1979 Yemen Arab Republic Tihama Agriculture III          15.0      13.3
915   1979 Yemen Arab Republic Education III                  10.0       4.4
950   1980 Yemen Arab Republic Tbb and Dhamar Water Supply   12.0       11.8
978   1980 Yemen Arab Republic Tihama Agriculture IV           5.5       4.0
102.5  1980 Yemen Arab Republic Fisheries Development          17.0      13.9
1067   1980 Yemen Arab Republic S. Uplands Rural Dev. II       17.0 2/   14.0 2/
1102  1981 Yemen Arab Republic Regional Electrification        12.0       6.3
1122   1981 Yemen Arab Republic Industrial Development         12.0      10.0
1202   1982 Yemen Arab Republic Sanaa Urban Development        15.0      14.3
1203   1982 Yemen Arab Republic Education IV                   12.0      11.3
1216   1982 Yemen Arab Republic Petroleum and Geothermal Exp.  2.0        1.5
1259 3/1982 Yemen Arab Republic Agr. Research and Development  6.0        6.0
1267 S/1982 Yemen Arab Republic Highways IV                     7.0       7.0
1294   1982 Yemen Arab Republic Health                         10.5      10.3
1308 3/1982 Yemen Arab Republic Agricultural Credit             8.0       8.0
Total                                             302.8 4/
of which has been repaid                          0.1
Total now held by IDA                             302.7
Total undisbursed                                           151.8
1/  Excluding $7 million credit for textile rehabilitation project cancelled on
October 31, 1979.
2/  Beginning with Credit 1067-YAR, credits have been denominated in Special
Drawing Rights. The dollar amounts in these columns represent the dollar
equivalents at the time of credit negotiations for the IDA amounts and the
dollar equivalents as of March 31, 1983, for the undisbursed amounts.
3/  Not yet effective.
4/  Excludes a credit of $10.0 million for a fifth education project, and a
credit of $19.0 million for a Third Power Project, signed on May 18, 1983.



- 26 -
ANNEX II
Page 2 of 7
B.   Statement of IFC Investments
(Amount in US$ millions)
Year            Obligor            Type of Business    Loan   Equity   Total
1978    Yemen Dairy and Juice     Dairy Products        2.4      -       2.4
Industries Co. Ltd.
Total Gross Commitments                         2.4             2.4
less cancellations, terminations,
repayments, sales                               -               -           J
Total comnitments now held by IFC               2.4             2.4
Fully disbursed
C.   Other Bank Group Activities
Two Bank grants of $200,000 each, and one of $120,000 were approved
in July 1971, September 1973 and January 1976 to help finance, jointly with
the Kuwait Fund for Arab Economic Development, a team of planning and econo-
mic advisors and later a management/administrative expert. The Kuwait Fund
provided grants of about $200,000, $300,000 and $425,000.
D.  Status of Projects in Execution 1/
Cr. No. 662-YAR - Livestock Credit and Processing Project; $5.0 million
Credit of November 15, 1976; Effectiveness Date: August 22, 1977; Closing
Date: June 30, 1984
Most of the infrastructure being constructed under the project has
been completed and is being handed over to the Yemeni organizations, about
one year behind schedule. Four of the six vacancies for expatriate project
staff have been filled. Some problems are being encountered in completing
the development of and in operating the dairy and livestock fattening farms.
1/ These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding the
progress of projects in execution and in particular, to report any
problems which are being encountered and the action being taken to remedy
them. They should be read in this sense, and with the understanding that
they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation of strengths and
weaknesses in project execution.



- 27 -
ANNEX II
Page 3 of 7
Cr. No. 670-YAR - Sanala Second Water Supply and Sewerage Project; $10.0
million Credit of January 14, 1977; Effectiveness Date; May 16, 1977;
Closing Date: December 31, 1983-
All contracts for supply of materials and construction of the water
and sewerage systems have been awarded and construction of the water system
has been completed. Implemeutation of the sewerage component of the project
is behind schedule because of a change in the location of the treatment plant
site, and resulting delay in award of civil vorks contract. The closing date
was extended to allow time for a site survey and for nev engineering designs
to be drawn up for the installation of an extended aeration type of activated
sludge treatment plant. If satisfactory progress is made, a further exten-
sion will be considered.
Cr. No. 794-YAR - Third Highway Project; $11.5 million Credit of May 31,
1978; Effectiveness Date: April 4, 1979; Closing Date: March 31, 1984
Implementation is about two years behind schedule due to initial
delays in arranging co-financing and subsequent difficulties in implementing
a suitable training program. The road overlay construction has been com-
pleted. Most of the equipment provided under the project has arrived and
construction of three of the five weighing stations has been completed.
A omprehensive training program is being implemented and is prodicing good
results. Contract negotiations with consultants selected to carry out the
road master plan study are being finalized. The credit's closing date has
been extended to March 31, 1984 to allow for the training program and the
road master plan study to be implemented. A further extension may be neces-
sary to allow for completion of the project and will be considered if satis-
factory progress is made.
Cr. No. 805-YAR - Second Tihama Development Project (Wadi Rima); $10.5
million Credit of May 31, 1978; Effectiveness Date: March 5, 1979; Closing
Date: June 30, 1984
After an initial slow start, progress on all components relating
to Wadi Rima has picked up with some of them nearing coMpletion.  Most of
the project staff for agricultural extension and engineering have been re-
cruited and the agricultural extension service is proceeding satisfactorily.
Work on the village water supply schemes is expected to start shortly.  Some
of the buildings for TDA's headquarters in Hodeida are in use. The remaining
buildings are expected to be completed by mid-1983.



- 28 -
ANNEX II
Page 4 of 7
Cr. No. 837-YAR - Power Distribution Project; $10.0 million Credit of
July 25, 1978; Effectiveness Date; August 20, 1979; Closing Date;
June 30, 1984
Implementation is over two years behind schedule due to initial
delays in closing the financing gap and in awarding major contracts for the
supply of equipment and materials. The study for the National Electrifica-
tion Program (NEP) has been completed. YGEC's training center is operating
but experiencing some problems relating to lack of text books.  Training
abroad is proceeding but in vie-t of the lack of qualified Yemeni staff not            3
at an adequate pace to meet YGEC's pressing need for trained staff.
Cr. No. 880-YAR - Third Tihama Development Project (Wadi Mawr); $15.0
million Credit and $3.0 million Special Action Credit of April 20, 1979;
Effectiveness Date: February 29, 1980; Closing Date: September 30. 1985
After a delay in declaring the credit effective and selecting pro-
ject consultants for engineering work, implementation is now underway. The
design of major engineering works is now progressing at a fast pace and the
first major construction contract is expected to be awarded by mid-1983.
Farm management consultants have been appointed and a project manager is
expected to be appointed by the end of May 1983. The first batch of exten-
sion agents have been assigned to the project area. Procurement of equipment
for agricultural services has been initiated. The consultants on the pro-
duction components of the Surdud Farm have been appointed and mobilized.
Cr. No. 915-YAR - Third Education Project; $10.0 million Credit of June 27,
1979; Effectiveness Date: December 21, 1979; Closing Date: July 31, 1986
All project institutions have been completed and classes have com-
menced. Civil works equipment procurement is proceeding satisfactorily.
Except for the Ministry of Education, all technical assistance programs under
the project arc proceeding satisfactorily. The Ministry of Education has
now prepared a detailed program and will start sending its fellows abroad
for the coming 1983/84 academic year. The pre-investment studies for the
development of a post-secondary education system have been completed.
Cr. No. 950-YAR - Ibb and Dhamar Water Supply and Sewerage Project; $12.0
million Credit of November 15, 1979; Effectiveness Date: January 13, 1981;
Closing Date: December 31, 1984
Tardy preparation of the hydrological study and tender documents
together with slippage of the well drilling program have delayed the water
component. Drilling has been completed in Ibb and in Dhamar. The tariff
Study has been completed. Because of the delay in appointing the civil works



- 29 -
ANNEX II
Page 5 of 7
consultants, project implementation is more than two years behind schedule
and, based on revised tender prices, there will be a considerable cost over-
run. The Government is seeking supplemental financing to cover the result-
ing gap.
Cr. No. 978-YAR - Fourth Tihama Development Project (Wadi Rima II); $5.5
million Credit of April 21, 1980; Effectiveness Date; April 14, 1981;
Closing Date; June 30, 1985
After a slow start, the major civil works in the wadi have started
and are making good progress. Partial operation of the irrigation structures
should start by the end of 1983 and the works should be completed by mid-
1984. The sand dune stabilization program has not been started due to dif-
ficulties in the recruitment of staff. The staff required for the rural
uplift program have been appointed.
Cr. No. 1025-YAR - Fisheries Development Project; $17.0 million Credit of
June 6, 1980; Effectiveness Date; April 14, 1981; Closing Date; June 30,
1986
Fishing trials are underway but project management continues to be
weak, due to inexperience, inadequate support staff, insufficient working
capital and lack of equipment. Certain non-project activities of the General
Corporation for the Development of Fish Resources (GCDFR) threaten to con-
flict with project objectives. An IDA mission visited YAR in July 1983 to
address these issues and to review implementation of the trial fishing
program.
Cr. No. 1067-YAR - Second Southern Uplauds Rural Development Project;
$17.0 Million Credit of November 24, 1980; Effectiveness Date: June 16,
1981; Closing Date: December 31, 1985
Agricultural extension, rural water supply construction and prov,'i-
sion of agricultural credit, started under the First Southern Uplands pro-
ject, are expanded to cover most of the provinces of the region. Most key
staff have been appointed. Expansion of agricultural extension services is
progressing on schedule, although additional local staff are required. The
construction of water supply schemes and buildings is progressing satisfac-
torily.



- 30 -
ANNEX II
Page 6 of 7
Cs  ITo. 1102-YM - Regionl. glectrificatio             $12.0 million Credit
t~a7S199;fet n  Date   Deeme  15,a 191   lsn  ae
Contracts for the soPPly of materials, the construction and erec-
tion of ProjeCt facilities and with cousultants for detailed engineering and
constr'tl'O  supervisiOt have been awarded. Project 'ulplementation is
U,derv4 but is about six Ajo(thrs behind schedule because of delays in Making
tie maCerials supply cottract effecti've. The project manager and his
assistsat8 have been appoirited.
Gr* Nov l122-YA1d  Industrial DeteloPment Project; $12.0 miillion Credit of
The leneraR visnaget anrd the developOaent bankiug adviser have been
appoi,red and Project iuplempentfttion has improved considerably since early
1,982. psy has relaxed setv%rsl Of itS lending policies to make them more
actracr'lve to DOtential -AVeStors, and it has strengthened its project pipe-
line.  A  IBY branch offiCe tiss been opened in Taiz.  IBg has prepared an
arrear9 control progrtm atd arrears have begun to decline.
c~* o'  202YAi SanEtlrban Deveplopment Proet *15.0xidllion Credit of
9 b~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~e
PrOject ikpleentaCi.OI is Proceeding satisfactorily.  Sone key
4taff for the Project 1%PlemeOtation Unit have been appointed and the Unit
is ope0ational.  The recrzitoent Of counterpart staff is proceeding satis-
factodIly- Cfotracth   for ins.attrScture Works have been awarded and the
contractor fcr the sites and se-vices component was appointed in February
1983.  COnstruction Wor  stated ina March 1983.
Gr. No' 1203YM Thurth $Eduction frOject *12.0 million Credit of
Decebero3, c9             - 87
project implementtrion is underway.  The Education Research and
pevelo?mflt Center (ERDC) is noI operating in temporary premises made avail-
able c° it- Appointment of staff to the ERDC is proceeding.  Construction
of the ERDC complex and boa*ding facilities for existing teacher training
institates have begun. The designs for the first phase of the Engineering
faculdf facilities have been comApleted and construction work for the Civil
:ngiveering DePartment is expected to begin in the summer of 1983.



- 31 -
ANNEX II
Page 7 of 7
Cr. No. 1216YAR Petroleum and Geothermal Exploration Promotion Project;
T2.0 million Credit of April 9, 1982; Effectiveness Date: September 29,
1982; Closing Date: June 30, 1985
Implementation of the pipeline feasibility study and of the geo-
thermal exploration promotion components are progressing well and on schedule.
The petroleum exploration promotion consultants have now been appointed and
are expected to start work shortly.
Cr. No.1259-YAR Agricultural Research and Development Project; $6.0 million
Credit of Autust 11, 1982; Effectiveness Date: (Not yet effective); Closing
Date; June 30, 1988
Action on effectiveness and project start-up is underway.
Cr. No. 1267-YAR Fourth Highway Proiect; $7.0 million Credit of August 11,
1982; Effectiveness Date: (Not yet effective); Closing Date: June 30, 1985
Action on effectiveness and project start-up is underway.
Cr. No. 1295-YAR Health Project; $10.5 million Credit of September 30, 1982;
Effectiveness Date;  January 28, 1983; Closin  Date: June 30, 1986
Project implementation is underway. All staff for the Project
Implementation Unit have been appointed and have taken up their posts.
Designs for civil works are being finalized.
Cr. No. 1308-YAK Agricultural Credit Project; $8.0 million Credit of
March 31. 1983; Effectiveness Date: (Not yet effective); Closing Date: June
Action on effectiveness and project start-up is underway.



- 32 -
ANNEX III
Page 1 of 2
YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
FIFTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
SUPPLEMENTARY PROJECT DATA SHEET
Section I: Timetable of Key Events
(a)  Time taken by country to prepare            ten months (March -               )
project:                                 December 1982)
(b)  The agencies which prepared the project:  HA with the assistance
of consultants
(c)  Date of first presentation to IDA:         August 1982
Cd)  Date of departure of appraisal mission;   January 20, 1983
(e)  Date of completion of negotiations:        May 20, 1983
(f)  Planned date of effectiveness:             December 1983
Section II: Special Implementation Action by IDA
None
Section III: Special Conditions
(a) Condition of Effectiveness;
Appointment by HA of engineering consultants with qualifica-
tions, experience and terms of reference satisfactory to the
Association to assist it in supervision of project construc-
tion (para. 49).
(b)    Other Conditions:
Ci) review with the Association of the master plan study with-
in nine months of its completion, formulation of a system
of road user charges, and its implementation in accordance
with a program satisfactory to the Association (para. 29);
and



- 33 -
ANNEX III
Page 2 of 2
(i;) employment of suitable technical, management and training
consultants by January 1, 1985 to fill key positions in
HA, provision of suitable counterparts, and provision of
incentives to attract aud retain such counterparts
(paras. 42 and 45).



lIBRD 17074R
'~~~~~~v¶  /' ~~~~~~~~~~~~YEMEt ARAB REpUBLIC
w^,,}                                        A-v             _        _R A  S U  V A 0 p A  FIFTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
-E            1 o ,'            SAUPITRANSPORT NETWR
oe      S) ht4e .UrC~~~~~~~~~~~~~ _~~~-ReP ,
.,.   ~~~~~0- u. n           hotlo
-          _              z    -                     ^>,, goa p,,,,d R,"u undsr Cct           ion
4 ,-. , %                '>5 91      D -A                               *  C -   -o
lwo/\\  > -< m ;> t  R  /  r --/               o ~~~~~~~~~~~cilies towss ard Vilqloo§
J                                                                                          I"                 'e-
j% 5        ,     ,,-E....D.OR^IC tpa     BL   OF cds
FiL'-'tA~~~~~-4  -'A
t~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ pfVOC0 10da i.
/~~~~~~~~~~                      (:;t    OF              hI"SDfatE"dFS
o    20 a     m do    10
X~~~~~A L'X 
N                           ) Lk.  ~       '
yPEOPLE-S DEMOCZRATIC RtEPuBLIC OF YEMEN
Ul/j    OF   ADEN'
D Ioi 



~~tiANJ   /   ISLAMIC                                 44-                                                           46'
I,ALVY{ IRAO\.  REP OF AFGHANISIAN
'-t'j,^,s    \  IRAN    16                                                      YEMEN  ARAB REPUBLIC
PZix rzef0rXi>    ;AKISTAN                               IDA-ASSISTED  PROJECTS BY SECTOR
EGYP                                                                                                          PROJECTS.
1 SAUDI                A                 A          R A      B I ARAJIA
SAUAr                               ,                                                                  AgricuItural
SUDAN *o¶ 0                                                                                               U °.f  : Cooperativu and Agricultutal Credit Bank
/JY~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~  ~~~~~~~~                                               U  ~~~~~~~~~~Agricultural Research Centers
X   w       A^- ~~~S.                                                                            A _    Demonstration Forms
f    !~~~~~~~~~uII.~~~~~~~~~~\  -  ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~    ~     ~     ~    ~    ~         ~Grain Storage
*, ;M  )IA*< Fisheries
4ETHIOPIA                                                                 *~.~I.Fish Markets
M. Industriol
,   Health
~~~(             A ~~~~~Education
'     R             '-         -  ~~~~~~~~~~Highways
I7 --  t ?g<. .>>-    Highway Mointenonce
- ~~~~~~~~~~~~~'                                                  - ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Power Distribution Areas
C'                   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~9Power Stations
:                                                              1¢ ->.- _  w    lt  _ Transmission Lines
V, ~ ~ ~   ~    ~ ~ ~                              Water Supply
~~~             -               7 ~~~~~~~~~~~t' ~~~~Port Development
Urban Development
~~~  j?   ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~                       -   ~~~~~~Primary Road%
1Z<~                                                                                                  ~          ~           ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~11
A~~~~-     Secodr Roods!
w                                                                              *~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ National Capitals
7  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~-Provincial Boundaries
-International Boundaries
Elevation Imeterjs
~~~~~~~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~~~~~~300
HODEI~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
A'LCD 5LCA~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~  ~e



C b4Sflad4~~lU\LAlIi
HODEID                                                                                                                         Ki~VI
RED SEA
/,>~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~__                                                                      .f1 iAflvEg
Z"o~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~7
I<1 < | C F   E'AbEn                    i'E r,                   in-AIr
\~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~EFL'  DEA  REt ;:. LI u9rSDt1                                                      f%T s
SAMA'A WATER %UPY I & inMilE  an
,.\IItEM MXTS I
.~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~"    AMLLTI .                            ^aFalww
POWR m3TFn                   m
I2ZATIM K 
-                 S~~~~~~O & UAW F ATE! SMPL i WSIfAt m
r    P.                                                                                     -    ADEN               mum sfMrlv'a lrm
*Bob el Mondeb                                                              AJS4IK   UM PRARS MI E&m1 a
|M R I EGAL ELKINCTIS
AG-RTUtLt  AEPA' S WWLWC     M
7                                                           GUL;F OF ADN PrVY lr
e rea s sfi e el Mon  kdaeb  Emo   MbV S.* a.d Eu h*tSS M                     aL  y.                 - 
D J I B 0 U T I           F~~rrne Caqouban The dunrtsI lad &W geoant DMWRes Mt E*iNW do mle      fLCAT  VM
*nt/ ean a a of MD70 Nro a*  wtrmw wac    at ant tl                    P"
ORV    SafAC Of' NW    Y Or                                                                          w            OS
4a                                                     dtz b  JBee     ,4  e                              2



