Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 4437-YAR
YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
FIFTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
August 19, 1983
Projects Department
Europe, Middle East and North Africa Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENT
(as of January 1983)
Currency Unit                           = Yemeni Rial (YR)
US$ 0.222                               = YR 1.00
U$1.00                                  = YR 4.50
US$222,222                              = YR 1,000,000
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 meter (m)                                  = 3.2808 feet (ft)
1 Kilometer (km)                             = 0.6214 miles (m)
1 Square Kilometer (km2)                     = 0.3894 squire miles (sq. mi)
1 hectare (ha)                               = 2.47 acres
1 metric ton (  1 ton)                       = 0.9842 long ton (lg. ton)
ACRONYMS AND ABBREVIATIONS
AADT             - Average Annual Daily Traffic
Arab Fund        - Arab Fund for Economic Development
CAMA            - Civil Aviation and Meteorology Authority
CPO             - Central Planning Organization
CYDA             - Confederation of Yemeni Development Associations
DOT              - Department of Transportation
dwt              - deadweight tons
First Plan      - First Five-Year Plan (1977-81)
GDP              - Gross Domestic Product
GTC             - General Transport Corporation
HA               - Highway Authority
ICB             - International Competitive Bidding
IDA             - International Development Associat-ion
LDAs             - Local Development Associations
MCT              - Ministry of Communications and Trainsport
m/m              - man-month
MPW              - Ministry of Public Works
MTPU             - Mechanical Training Production Unit
OPEC             - Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries
PDRY             - People's Democratic Republic of Yemen
PMAC             - Ports and Marine Affairs Corporation
RTPU             - Road Training Production Unit
Second Plan     - Second Five-Year Plan (1982-86)
SURDP           - Southern Upland Regional Development Project
TCC              - Target Cost Contract
UNDP            - United Nations Development Program
USAID            - United States Agency for International Development
vpd             - vehicle per day
VOC              - Vehicle Operating Costs
VTC             - Vocational Training Center
YAR              - Yemen Arab Republic
YEMENIA          - YAR National Airline
YGTC             - Yemen General Transport Corporation.
YPC              - Yemen Petroleum Corporation
YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 to December 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
FIFTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
Table of Contents
Page No.
I.    THE TRANSPORT SECTOR ............................................    1
A.   Background ...................................................    1
B.   The Transport System .........................................    3
C.   Transport Sector Organization, Planning and Policy ...........    5
D.   Previous IDA Projects ........................................   11
II.   THE HIGHWAY SUB-SECTOR ..........................................   13
A.  The NetWork ............................                                      13
B. Traffic ...................                                                    14
C. Administration .15
D. Planning .17
E. Financing .18
F. Engineering .19
G. Construction .19
H.   Maintenance .................................................                20
I.   Training ..........................................                          21
J. Accounting and Auditing .22
III. THE PROJECT .23
A. Setting .23
B. Project Objectives .23
C. Description .23
D. Engineering .27
E. Cost Estimates .27
F.  Implementation and Monitoring .30
G. Employment Aspects .33
H. Environment .33
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission to YAR in
January/February 1983 consisting of Messrs. T. Pankaj (Senior Transport
Economist) and L. Revuelta (Senior Engineer).
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Table of Contents cont'd                                                       Page 2
IV.   ECONOMIC JUSTIFICATION .................................   33
A.   Economic AnaLysis:  General Approach ..,,.... 0.....    33
B.   Benefits and Beneficiaries ....... . ..... ...... ........ . ...    34
C.   Traffic Projections .........c.... ......0 ...   , * .    .....         36
D.   Results ................., 37
E. Projects Risks........... ....... . 38
V.    RECOMMENDATIONS ....... .....................   38
ANNEXES
1.   Documents in Project File .      .      .      ............................   40
2.   Main Government Agencies Dealing with Transport.  ., ,, 41
3.   Public Expenditures on Transpcrt During 1976-1981  . .42
4.   Existing M         inn Road Network (HA N) .............................   43
5'.  HA Organization Chart .. .......................................   44
6.   Design Standards of Ibb-Al Udayn Road             .    .....,, 45
7.   Proposed Technical Assistance to the HA                .    .    .      46
8. Training Program                           .. ...   47
9.   Technical Assistance for Training of Road and Mechanic
Maintenance Personnel ................................53 .....   '3
10.  Project Implementation Schedule .. ............................   56
11.  Project Monitoring Indices .         . .................................   57
12.  Schedule of Estimated Disbursements                  .     .     .      58
13. Estimated Vehicle Operating Costs                   . . .    59
14.  Estimated Vehicle Traffic on the Project Road    . . .60.....    6
15.  Economic Costs and Benefit Streams Relating to the
Upgrading of the Ibb-Al Udayn Road            .     .      .61
16. Results of Economic Analysis               . . .62
MAP       YAR Transport System and Project Roads, IBRD 17074R



I. THE TRANSPORT SECTOR
A. Background
1.01     The Yemen Arab Republic (YAR) occupies an area of about 195,000 km2
of largely mountainous terrain in the southwest corner of the Arabian
peninsula. It is bordered to the north by Saudi Arabia, to the south by the
People's Democratic Republic of Yemen (PDRY), and to the west by the Red Sea.
There are three distinct geographic regions, the arid coastal plain (the
Tihama), the rugged central highlands rising to about 2,500 m where the bulk
of population lives, and the eastern plateau.
1.02     Areas amenable to human settlement in YAR are limited and widely
scattered. Only about 8 percent of the land is arable, mainly in the central
and southern highlands where rainfall is highest, but also in the eastern
plateau, the Tihama, and in pockets of terraced mountain slopes throughout the
central highlands. Most of the estimated 8.5 million population (1981) is
widely dispersed. Only about 8.5 percent live in towns (of 10,000 or more)
and between 10 and 15 percent live and work abroad, mainly in Saudi Arabia.
The remainder is scattered in small villages in rural areas (mainly in the
central highlands). As a consequence of this setting, conditions for
transport are generally difficult while the demand for it is widespread.
1.03     Until about 1960, YAR was almost completely lacking in modern
transport infrastructure. Primitive tracks, suitable only for four-wheel
drive vehicles and animal transport, connected major towns and were the only
means of land transport.  Port facilities were limited to the ancient port of
Mocha, suitable only for very small ships and lighterage, and there was no air
service within the country. Though efforts for modernizing transportation in
YAR started in the 1960s, any significant progress could be made only from the
1970s. The end of the civil war in 1972 brought a new regime anxious to usher
the country into the modern world, through comprehensive economic
development. Communications were recognized as the catalyst of this
development process, and as a means for national integration. With no
railways, and with coastal shipping and air transport both of minor
importance, transport by road was dominant. Emphasis was placed, therefore,
on developing a comprehensive and adequate network of roads as an immediate
priority, in addition to modernizing of the country's main ports and starting
of air transport. The new policy also emphasized the building up of adequate
institutions to plan, implement and manage the new transport system.
1.04     The fast pace of economic development in neighboring oil-rich
countries since 1974 provided employment opportunities for Yemeni workers and
absorbed about 30 percent of the Yemeni workforce. The resulting large
increases in worker remittance fuelled an economic boom in YAR, and possibly



the sector that felt the greatest impact, and the fastest growth in demand, as
a result, has been that of transport. Various factors have contributed to
this upsurge in transport demand; (i) pressure from the migrant labor forcse,
with direct financial support, to have transport links to their villages;
(ii) increasing migration of rural people to the cities while maintaining
close ties to their villages; (iii) structural changes in the pattern and
level of consumption requiring much larger imports and their distribution; and
(iv) an ambitious development program spurring construction activities in
various sectors on a massive scale. Though statistics of recent traffic
growth, except in the case of ports, remain sketchy, the trend is obvious, as
shown in Table 1.1. After reaching sudden and unusual peak levels in the late
1970s, creating acute strains on YAR's ports and road syste!m which were under
expansion, the growth rates have only recently returned to more normal levels,
this partly reflecting the recent leveling off in the growth of worker
remittances and of overall economic activities.
Table 1.1 Avera e Annual Traffic Growth Rates!!
In Percentages)
1971-76      1976-80    1980-81    1981-82
1.  Road Traffic /2                   20           27            10.0        14
Light vehicles             23            26           10.5        15
Heavy vehicles             11            32            7.5        12
2. Traffic tonnage in
YAR Ports                         14s          29             1.0        13.4
Dry Cargo                  12            28            4.3        11.3
Petroleum products /3    23              30           11.0        22.7
3.  Air Transport Passengers
at Sana'a Airport                 26_/4        11            10.8         4.7
Domestic                   n.a.          58           13.4         9.7
International              n.a.           6           10.0         3.2
/1 Additional details in Project File; see Annex 1
/2 Based on traffic counting at selectecd counting stations on main highways.
/3  Since 1981, part of the petroleum traffic is coming by road from Saudi
Arabia.
/4 1974-76.



-:3-
1.05     The great thrust in demand for road, port, and air transport services
in the 1970s came when the institutions for handling the country's transport
development were still in their infancy, and were also troubled by the
emigration of skilled workers and scarce managerial talents. The process of
institution building in the transport sector is still continuing, and has a
long way to go.
B. The Transport System
1.06     Through concentrated efforts in the 1970s, YAR has by now built up
the basic framework of a modern transport system, consisting of paved roads
connecting the main towns, a main road system of about 2,900 km, a modern sea
port at Hodeidah which can handle container ships, and three airports with
modern facilities for international air traffic. Beginnings have been made to
install traffic control systems with automatic signals in towns, and road
signs and markings on the main roads, and for building up an institutional
framework to maintain and manage the transport infrastructure. However, only
the initial building blocks of the system are in place and a lot more needs to
be done in further expanding transport capacity, particularly the roads
network, and in building and strengthening institutions. Much of the
country's interior areas, even fertile and densely inhabited areas such as the
southern highlands, still lack adequate roads. A prime need exists,
therefore, for developing branch or secondary roads to provide better access
to these areas, in contrast to the emphasis so far placed in developing the
primary road network connecting main towns. Current Government policy and
planning emphasize this priority, while also assigning due importance to the
need for better maintaining and improving other elements of the transport
system.
Highways
1.07     The highway system is discussed in Chapter II.
Ports and Shipping
1.08     Port congestion, with ships waiting for up to three months before
berthing at Hodeidah, was a major economic problem faced by YAR in the late
1970s, resulting in more than doubling of the ocean freight charges to YAR,
supply uncertainties and shortages, related delays to projects, and high
inflation rates. Through imaginative and vigorous efforts made by the
Government, with assistance from IDA and the Kuwait Fund for improvements in
facilities and equipment, the port capacity constraints were effectively
removed by 1980.
1.09     Of YAR's three main ports (Hodeidah, Mocha and Salif), Hodeidah is
located almost centrally on the coastline and is the main port, handling about
80 percent of general cargo traffic and petroleum products.  Under YAR's First
Five-Year Plan (1977-81, First Plan), with IDA's participation under a port
development project (Credit 714-YAR), the approach channel of Hodeidah was



- 4 -
widened and the port dredged to a general depth of 9.2 meters, so that the
port now receives fully loaded ships of 22,000 deadweight tons (dwt) in place
of only 8,000 dwt before the project; three new berths, including a container
berth, were constructed and the existing berths rehabilitated; transit sheds
and open storage areas, a slipway for repairing harbor crafts, and new cargo
handling equipment including a 35-ton crane for handling containers, were also
added under the project. The mooring berth for handling petroleum products
was reconstructed, and can now accommodate tankers up to 15,000 dwt. The
Yemen Petroleum Corporation (YPC) will complete in 1983 the pumping facilities
for handling such tankers.  Under the Grain Storage and Processing Project
financed by IDA (Credit No. 636-YAR), the Hodeidah port also received
mechanized installation for unloading bulk food grains and a grain silo of
about 20,000-ton capacity.  Across the bay from Hodeidah, two floating berths
equipped with cranes were built at Al Kathib at the beginning of the First
Plan to provide quick relief to port congestion, and these berths have become
a valuable addition to Hodeidah's facilities.
1.10     The small port of Mocha was a:Lso improved under the First Plan.  It
has now a finger pier with two berths of 8 m water depth, cargo sheds and
shore cranes and a mooring berth to un]Load small amounts of petroleum products
mainly to feed the local power station. Mocha is well sited to serve the
prosperous southern highland governorat:es of Taiz and Ibb; however, for
containerized and other specialized cargo destined for these areas, Hodeidah,
with its superior facilities, still ret:ains a competitive advantage.
1.11     The port of Salif is a natural. deep-water harbor with a modern pier
to handle salt. It has no general cargo facilities, and is further from YAR's
main traffic centers than the other two ports. Salif was used to unload ships
with grain, cement and motor vehicles during the period of port congestion in
YAR (1976-79), though the handling facilities were meager, and the road link
to the port was and continues to be poor. From 1980, a private firm has
constructed at Salif a floating jetty and silo for mechanized discharge of
cement.
1.12     The Ports of Hodeidah and Mocha are managed by the Yemen Ports and
Marine Affairs Corporation (PMAC), and Salif by the Yemen Salt Export
Corporation. These organizations are reasonably efficient. During 1982, the
three ports together handled about 2.6 million tons of dry cargo (about 2
million tons in Hodeidah, and 0.3 million tons each in Mocha and Salif), and
0.7 million tons of bulk petroleum products of which 92 percent was handled in
Hodeidah and the rest in Mocha.
1.13     Though port capacity is now adequate for present needs, further port
expansion will be needed to accommodate traffic growth; Government has
recently decided to add another berth at Hodeidah by 1986 for this purpose.
1.14     The Government made a beginning in entering the shipping sector
during the First Plan, by setting up, under a joint venture agreement with the
Government of the PDRY, the Yemen Sea Transport Company with a nominal capital



-5-.
of YR 100 million of which YR 24 million was subscribed by 1981. YAR's future
share will include both Government and private sector contributions. The
company is still in its early stage and has not yet started commercial
operations.
Civil Aviation
1.15     YAR ushered into the jet age in the 1970s.  Airports at Sana'a, Taiz
and Hodeidah now provide facilities for both international and domestic air
traffic and seven small airports cater for regional needs. Under the First
Plan, Sana'a Airport (runway 3,250 m) was improved significantly; a runway of
3,000 m was built at Hodeidah, and the one at Taiz was extended also to
3,000 m. All three major airports received substantial amounts of equipment
and can meet present traffic needs.
1.16     The Sana'a Airport handled a total of 12,400 flights (arrivals and
departures) in 1982, covering both domestic and international flights. The
passenger traffic was about 458,000, about 25 percent of which was domestic.
1.17     The national airline's (YEMENIA, 49 percent owned by Saudi Arabia)
fleet was renewed and expanded under the First Plan to reduce operating costs
and to facilitate route extensions, both domestic and international. It now
uses DC 7s on its domestic operations and Boeing 727-200s on its international
routes to neighboring Arab countries, Europe and South Asia.
1.18     Under the Second Five-Year Plan (1982-86, Second Plan), the
Government aims to further strengthen and expand the civil aviation ground
infrastructure and operational efficiency. The United Nations, through its
International Civil Aviation Organization and United Nations Development
Program (UNDP), continue to provide valuable technical assistance covering a
variety of areas to assist YAR's Civil Aviation and Meteorology Authority
(CAMA), the autonomous authority now in charge of civil aviation matters
including airports and meteorological installations.
C. Transport Sector Organization, Planning and Policy
Sector Organization
1.19     The transport sector is mainly administered by two Ministries:  The
Ministry of Public Works (MPW), and the Ministry of Communications and
Transport (MCT). Other Ministries involved are: the Ministry of Interior,
through its Traffic Department, and the Central Planning Organization (CPO).
In addition, the Local Development Associations (LDAs) (see para. 1.20 below)
play a special role in the sector.
1.20     The MPW supervises the activities of the autonomous Highway Authority
(HA), responsible for planning, construction and maintenance of the main road
system (see details on HA in para. 2.07). The PMAC, which manages the main
ports of Hodeidah and Mocha, is also controlled by the MPW, even though an



-6-
official policy was announced in 1981 to transfer PMAC's supervision to the
MCT. The MCT presently controls the CAMA, the YEMENIA, the Yemen Sea
Transport Company (see para. 1.14) and the two land transport companies (see
para. 1.23 below). The LDAs are not under the direct control of any Ministry;
they are co-operative associations of local people for pooling funds and
labour to plan, finance and execute local roads, schools and health
facilities. They build, among other things, low-cost rural roads, with their
own, as well as Government, financing. LDAs are represented vis-a-vis the
Government by the Confederation of Yemeni Development Associations (CYDA)
whose Chairman is the President of YAR. The basic organization of
transport-related agencies is illustrated in Annex 2.
1.21     The MCT has recently formed a Department of Transportation (DOT)
under a Deputy Minister. This nascent agency is still feeling its way, and as
a result, the operating agencies for ports, shipping, road transport, airports
and civil aviation which have generally dealt directly with the CPO, MPW and
the Ministry of Finance, appear still to do so, and as yet have little
accountability to their own Ministry (MCT) for their activities or plans.
1.22     The organization of the transport sector is an issue at present,
Ministerial responsibilities are loosely defined; further, the links between
the operating agencies and their respective ministries are often unclear, with
no real definition of roles and functions. This often leads to overlapping of
responsibilities, and also to confusion regarding which agency should take
initiative for new policies and actions. This is very much a reflection of
the relative infancy of the organized transport sector itself, which is only
about a decade old. To improve the situation and to help streamline the
organizational arrangements, the recent IDA-financed Fourth Highway Project
(Credit 1276-YAR) is financing a study by a consulting firm to recommend
organizational and policy reforms in the sector. That project will also
finance technical experts to work in DOT to help implement reforms suggested
by the study. Consultants for the study were appointed in May 1983. The
study should be completed in early 1984. The Credit Agreement for the Fourth
Highway Project provides that Government should review the results of the
above study with the Association and take necessary measures to implement
reforms as agreed with the Association in the light of the study.
Road Transport Organization
1.23     In road transport, the Government has recently set up two
public-sector enterprises: (i) the General Transport Corporation (GTC),
established in 1982 with YR 100 million capital (51 percent of which is owned
by YAR Government), which organizes inter-city and in-city bus services; and
(ii) the Yemen General Transport Corporat:ion (YGTC), with a capital of YR 50
million jointly owned by YAR and PDRY, to carry freight and passengers between
the two countries. The GTC, which had operated on a limited scale from 1977
under the name General Transport Company, owns a modern fleet of 60 buses, and
organizes 40 inter-city bus services everyday; it is yet to start in-city bus



services planned for Sana'a, Hodeidah and Taiz. YGTC plans to have an initial
fleet of 25 trucks and 15 passenger buses in 1983.
1.24     Apart from the fringe of public sector activity noted above, road
transport, both passenger and general haulage, is essentially a private sector
function, but subject to regulations of drivers' associations which are
enforced with Government assistance. The regulations call for drivers to
register for the route they wish to ope,rate on and to wait for their turn at
the associations' freight and passenger stations which exist in all major
towns. Contracting transport from sources other than the association offices
is not permitted, but entry into the industry is free and many migrant
Yemenis, returning with capital to invest in small business, opted to be
transport operators.  As a result, the size of the fleet is large, waiting
time at the turn offices long, vehicle utilization low and transport cost
high. Tariffs which are proposed by the associations and normally approved by
Government without change, reflect these high costs although they vary from
route to route depending on road conditions, likelihood of a backhaul, size of
shipments and other factors. Deregulation and determining the proper role of
the drivers' association are two principal issues that Government must address
if costs and prices are to be brought down. Government is aware of this
problem. Studies on this subject are also to be carried out as part of the
transport organization and policy study under the Fourth Highway Project (see
para. 1.22); these studies should help to implement the necessary
organizational and policy changes with a view to stimulating greater
competition as has been successfully done in other sectors of the economy.
Planning
1.25     Transport planning is done predpminantly with the help of outside
consultants engaged by sub-sectoral agencies, with decision making on
investment allocation and project selection being done by the project
sub-sector agencies (such as the PMAC, HA and CAMA), and by concerned
ministries, coordinated by the CPO. CE'O is responsible for national economic
planning and for coordinating economic decisions for all sectors. Like other
Government agencies, it is seriously short of professional staff and its
involvement in transport has been in less depth than in other sectors, leaving
transport planning almost entirely to the sub-sector agencies. For the
preparation of the transport part of the Second Plan, the CPO made use of
consultants to collate the contributions of the sub-sector agencies; the
latter are now building up planning capability in their own individual areas.
1.26     There is at present a clear need to improve transport sector planning
and the collection and analysis of transport sector statistics, on a
country-wide basis. The planned strengthening of the DOT proposed under the
Fourth Highway Project (para. 1.22) is expected to improve sector planning and
collection of sector-wide statistics. In the meantime, an understanding has
been reached with the Government during negotiations that it will cause CPO to
improve the existing coverage of transport statistics collected and published
through CPO's annual statistical yearbooks. The needed improvements have been
discussed and confirmed during negotiations.



Policy Objectives
1.27     The objectives of the transport: sector are reflected in the country's
Five-Year Plans. The policy objectives of the First Plan (1976-81) were
stated in only general terms, but emphasized the role of transport and the
need to build up a reasonable infrastructural base to integrate the country,
to mobilize existing domestic resources for development, to reduce YAR's
isolation, and in general, to cater for the growing mobility of people and
exchange of goods. Roads were to be extended to connect the YAR with
neighboring states and help open up remote parts of the country; ports were to
be expanded to absorb the growing import and export of goods expected during
the Plan period. A general objective with implications for transport was that
of promoting integration with the PDRY.
1.28     The objectives of the Second Plan (1982-86) are to foster the
productive base of the economy with priorities given to agriculture, mineral
and manpower development. Transport and communications, however, retain an
important supporting role to this strategy, with nearly 17 percent of the
proposed plan investments covering both public and private sectors, and with
14 percent of public sector outlay, this being the largest share of any
individual sector under the Plan. Transport sector objectives under the
Second Plan include continued development of all sub-sectors with special
emphasis on road investments to maintain existing roads ancl to develop
secondary roads to serve the country's interior areas better. The Second Plan
also emphasizes investments and other measures to reduce costs of passenger
and freight transport so as to promote better utilization cf the country's
resources. The Bank considers the Second Plan priorities and strategy to be
rational.
1.29     The predominant priority given to road development is reflected in
the details of public investment allocation for transport and communications
under the Second Plan, shown below:
- Roads                              YR 2,460 million  (62 percent)
- Posts and communications           YR   618 million  (16 percent)
- Civil aviation, meteorological
department and air transport    YR   709 million  (18 percent)
- Ports, sea transport
and miscellaneous                 YR   162 million   (4 percent)
TOTAL                    YR 3,949 million (100 percent)
Transport Investment and User Charges
1.30     Government policies aim at recovering full costs for services
rendered by transport agencies, except in special circumstances where a
subsidy may be justified. It is, however, difficult to articulate this policy
since information on the costs and revenue recovery of transport, particularly
road transport, is hard to obtain.



- 9 -
1.31     Public expenditures during the First Plan to build up the transport
system amounted to YR 3.8 billion (US$0.85 billion), of which YR 2.2 billion
or 58 percent was for roads (Annex 3). Government does not have an explicit
road user charge policy, but road users contribute to the general tax revenue
through customs duties and excise taxes on fuel, customs duties on transport
equipment, spare parts and tires, annual vehicle taxes and various license
fees. Since the beginning of the First Plan (1977), the proceeds of these
taxes have increased more than seven-fold due to increases in the volume of
taxed items, improved collection procedures, and changes in the rates,
reaching in 1980 about YR 500 million or nearly a quarter of the total tax
revenue. Estimated total revenue from these sources in 1982 was about
YR 442 million, the decline reflecting: (i) mainly reduced tax revenue from
road transport equipment which was imported less and was also taxed less (the
duty rate declining from 60 percent in 1980 to 50 percent in 1982); and
(ii) reduced fuel taxes due to some diversion of gasoline imports through
unofficial channels (see para. 1.35). Table 1.2 presents a rough estimate of
the revenue and receipts in the road transport sector in 1982 as a rough
indicator of the extent of cost recovery. The figures show that estimated
costs including maintenance, administration and construction activity was
about YR 423 million, while the total revenue from taxes and fees was about YR
426 million. Total costs are thus covered by total revenue from the sector;
in particular, maintenance costs (YR 108 million) are fully covered by
specific user fees (vehicle taxes and various license fees, YR 125 million).
However, it is necessary to consider a small portion of the tax revenue from
petroleum products and motor vehicle imports as a contribution to Government's
essential general expenditure (say 15%, which is small considering that these
items are major general revenue sources for the country). The resulting
road-related revenue (YR 381 million) covers about 90 percent of total road
costs (including maintenance and new construction, but excluding capital
charges on past investments), which is satisfactory.
1.32     The system, however, has many structural weaknesses.  First, most of
the road revenue presently comes from taLxes on import of motor vehicles, which
will diminish over time. Second, the in,cidence of road user charges on
particular user categories does not appear to be rational; for example, heavy
trucks which inflict heavy damage to roads do not pay any fuel tax since they
use diesel whose price does not include any taxes, the diesel taxes being paid
from proceeds of gasoline sales (see para. 1.36 below). Third, since goods
vehicles are taxed at a fixed rate per ton of carrying capacity, the tax
incidence is proportional to capacity, while the damage to the road is steeply
progressive as capacity increases.
1.33     Introducing a rational and adequate road user charge system has
recently been a subject of discussion between the Bank and the Government in
the context of past highway credits. This is also one of the special topics
to be studied by the consultants preparing the Highway Master Plan Study,
financed by IDA under the Third Highway Project (see para. 2.11). During
negotiations, the Government agreed that: within nine months of the completion
of the Master Plan Study (expected by August 1984), it would formulate a
system of road user charges based on such recommendations and conclusions and,
thereafter, agree on an action plan to implement suitable reform.



- 10 -
Table 1.2: Road Expenditure and Road-Related Revenues in 1982
A.    Road and Road Traffic Related Expenditures              YR million
1.   Highway Authority
Road construction                                205.0
Road maintenance and administration
(including traffic management by
Interior Ministry)                               93.0
2.   LDA
Road construction                                110.0
Road maintenance                                  15.0
Total Road Expenditure                423.0
B.    Road-Related Revenues
Total revenue from gasoline/diesel taxes/-                  66.0
Customs duty on road transport equipment                  234.6
Vehicle taxes                                               86.2
Driving licenses                                             8.9
Transfer licenses                                            1.9
License plates                                              18.5
Vehicle licenses                                             9.7
Total Road-related Revenue            425.8
1l Total revenue from all fuel taxes was YR 97 million, of which about
77.0 million was for gasoline and diesel; of this amount, 66.0 million is
estimated as road-related, assuming 98 percent of gasoline consumption and
70 percent of diesel consumption as road-related.
Source:  Highway Authority/Other Government Agencies; compiled by the Bank
Appraisal Mission.
1.34     Regarding cost recovery in other sub-sectors, the PMAC presents a
very good picture; it financed nearly half of its development projects from
self-generated funds, and produced 8 percent financial return in 1982 on net
fixed assets even after revaluing assets in 1981 and after including the
assets of the newly completed port project. In the case of the airport
authority (CAMA), however, there has been no study so far regarding the
adequacy of the various airport charges, mainly because CAMA has been recently
established. In order to study current policy and practices in this sector
and to initiate improvements if needed, an understanding was reached with the
Government during negotiations that it would cause CAMA to undertake a study
on the adequacy of its user charges, to be completed before end of 1984.



- ]11 
Fuel Prices
1.35     The import and distribution of petroleum products is officially
channelized through the Yemen Petroleum Corporation. During 1982, about
680,000 tons of petroleum products were imported by YPC, of which 114,000 tons
was gasoline and 412,000 tons diesel oil. Recently, after the completion of
good road links with Saudi Arabia, at least an equal volume of gasoline is
understood to be coming to YAR by road, outside official channels, which has
in fact caused a decline in YPC's imports of gasoline in recent years (from
174,000 tons in 1979).
1.36     Government policy is to recoup the full cost of petroleum supplies
from consumers. Gasoline is presently retailed at a price of YR 2.6
(US$0.58) per liter, as against an econiomic cost (including distribution cost)
of about YR 1.4, indicating a surplus of 85 percent over economic costs.
About 35 percent of this surplus goes as gasoline taxes, and bulk of the
balance goes as taxes to Government pa:id by YPC on behalf of diesel
consumers. The retail price of diesel is YR 1.50 (US$0.33) per liter, which
covers import costs and part of the distribution costs and is marginally less
than the estimated economic cost (for import and distribution) of about
YR 1.54 per liter (as of January 1983). The resulting subsidy element,
amounting to only about YR 0.04 per litre (about US$0.01; and 3 percent of
total cost) is expected to be more than wiped out by the recent further
reduction in the import prices of fuel. However, the situation would still
remain somewhat unsatisfactory to the extent diesel consumers do not directly
pay any taxes, the car users (gasoline consumers) financially
cross-subsidizing them for the payment of taxes. An important source for
recovering adequate road-user charges from trucks (see para. 1.32) is thus
lost. Government is reluctant to raise ,the retail price of diesel since it is
used also by villagers in farming and power supply. In the context of IDA's
dialogues with YAR on means to mobilize domestic resources for development,
the Government has agreed to consider raising diesel and other petroleum
prices through additional taxes.
D. Previous IDA Projects
1.37     YAR became a member of IDA in 1971, at the time when the first major
efforts to build up a transport systemL and related institutions in the country
were started. IDA has actively participated in these efforts, through a total
of five projects (four highway projects, two of them completed and two
on-going, and a port project just completed), amounting to a total IDA credit
of US$43.2 million, and involving substantial co-financing from other
agencies. Of the completed projects, the First Highway Project (Credit
315-YAR, 1972) consisted of technical assistance to set up and organize the
HA, feasibility and engineering studies, construction of the Taiz-Turba road,
and supply of road equipment. The Second Highway Project (Credit 558-YAR,
1975) financed the continuation of the technical assistance and the
construction of the Taiz-Al Mafraq road (the second stage construction of
which is the subject of the Fourth Highway Project). Both projects, jointly



- 12 -
financed by the Kuwait Fund, were satisfactorily completed in 1978 (see para.
1.39 below). The Port Project (Credit 714-YAR, 1977) which was also
co-financed by the Kuwait Fund included technical assistance to the PMAC,
dredging and berth construction works as well as equipment for the port of
Hodeidah. This project was successfully completed in March 1983.
1.38     Among the on-going projects, the Third Highway Project (Credit
794-YAR, 1978), financed jointly with the OPEC Fund, again catered for
technical assistance to HA, but focussed more closely on the road maintenance
problem by including provision for appropriate equipment for maintenance, for
mechanical workshops and buildings for new maintenance depots; training of
road maintenance personnel and fellowships for senior Yemeni staff; five
vehicle weighing stations; an overlay of 3 km of main road between Taiz and
km 3 (the Turba road); and the preparation of a Highway Master Plan. The
project faced initial delays in arranging co-financing; moreover, some of the
technical assistance and institutional reform elements in this project (such
as setting up a training program, recruiting a team of technical experts,
conducting the Highway Master Plan Study) experienced initial delays and
needed an extension of time for successful completion; the project is now
expected to be completed by December 31, 1984. The Fourth Highway Project
(Credit 1267-YAR) co-financed with the Arab Fund for Economic Development
(Arab Fund), was signed in August 1982; however, the project became effective
only in August 1983 mainly due to delays in finalizing co-financing
arrangements and in appointment of consultants for construction supervision.
This credit will finance (i) the asphaltic overlay and flood protection works
for the primary road Taiz-Al Mafraq (61 kim) including supervision by
consultants; and (ii) technical assistance to improve the management and
administration of the transport sector tlhrough strengthening the newly
established DOT in the MCT by organization and policy studies, provision of
experts for key positions, and staff training. This project is now starting
well. International competitive bids for construction works were invited, and
consultants for construction supervision and the DOT studies have been
appointed.
1.39     The Project Performance Audit Report for Highways I and II (Report
No. 2737 of November 12, 1979) acknowledged that despite cost and time
overruns, these projects had made importmnt contributions to strengthening HA
organization and to the country's road network. The technical assistance
under these projects was delivered by consultants and gave HA its basic
organizational structure and the main operating divisions. A national axle
loading policy was developed and a start was made to establish geometric
design standards (para. 2.17). A basic accounting system was designed and
traffic counting and planning systems were set up. Based on an inventory of
roads, a road maintenance program was worked out, identifying both the direct
equipment and manpower input needs and the necessary workshop and training
infrastructure. Unfortunately, the training objective of the technical
assistance could not fully be achieved because of the severe shortages of
local personnel. To mitigate HA's staff shortages in the short term and to
assist in the implementation of the above programs and systems, the Third
Highway Project provides technical assist:ance in the form of individual



- 13 -
experts to fill the most important positions in HA's structure. After initial
difficulties in locating appropriate souireps of recruitment, these
arrangements are now working satisfactorily.
II. THE HIGHWAY SUB-SECTOR
A. The Network
2.01     As a result of the all-out efiorts in building up a road network in
the country from almost nothing, YAR's main road network expanded from about
700 km in 1970 to about 2,900 km in 1982, 62 percent of the latter being paved
roads (see Table 2.1). The 1,800 km of paved roads link Sana'a, the capital,
with Hodeidah, the main port and second largest city, Taiz, the third largest
city, and with the networks of Saudi Arabia and PDRY. The 1,100 km of unpaved
roads mainly serve the three most fertile agricultural regions of the country
located in the Governorates of Hodeidah, Ibb and Taiz. Annex 4 gives an
inventory of the existing main road network. HA is responsible for
improvement and maintenance of this network which excludes local roads, mostly
tracks or low-quality roads, built by LDAs (para. 2.02).
Table 2.1: GROWTH OF MAIN ROAD NETWORK
------------------ - Length (km) -------…-…------
Year      Paved Roads         Unpaved Roads        Total
1970            436                 266              702
1975            684                 609           1,293
1980          1,472                 798           2,270
1981         1,604                  876           2,480
1982          1,810               1,096           2,906
2.02     YAR has an extensive low-standard local road network of about
20,000 km , which has been built through the efforts of the LDAs. As a result
of their independence from Government, their grassroot organization and
especially the availability of local contributions, these associations have
increased from 28 in 1972 to more than 204 now, and have been active in
promoting and building all types of public works projects in their areas;
roads giving access to even the smallest communities have ranked high in their
priorities. These roads or tracks have not been built to any formalized
design standards and most lack drainage. Many are barely of bulldozer width
and are negotiable only by four-wheel-drive vehicles. Under the Second Plan,
the LDAs propose adding about 3,700 km of new local roads, while also doing
maintenance work on about 13,500 km oif the existing local roads.
2.03     YAR's road density is still very low (about 15 km per 1,000 km2),
but would compare well (117 km per 1,000 km2) with other countries at a
similar stage of development in the region if the LDA roads could be
considered part of the network though these are of very poor quality. As to



- l4 -
coverage, the main road system is still inadequate and secondary roads in
particular are still lacking; LDA roads have assumed their functions in many
areas but are carrying traffic volumes in excess of their capacity. In
addition, the condition of many paved roads has been deteriorating due to an
unprecedented growth in traffic over recent years, an increasp in the axle
weights of vehicles well beyond the 8-ton design loading which was YAR's
earlier standard, and also an acute shortage of skilled staff in HA's
maintenance organization, limiting its ability to cope with the problem.
2.04     Many programs started under the First Plan and proposed under the
Second Plan, as well as the various IDA credits for the highway sector, have
their focus on addressing these problems of inadequate network and better
maintenance, the latter through more investments, better organization, use of
new design standards and introduction cf axle-load regulations.
B. Traffic
2.05     Reliable data for assessing the development of motor vehicle fleet in
YAR over recent years are not available. Tax records indicate a fleet of
about 129,550 vehicles (85,160 trucks of all sizes, 33,940 taxis and 10,450
passenger cars) at the end of 1981, or 15.5 vehicles per 1,000 inhabitants
which appears high compared with other countries at a similar stage of
development. There is also shortage of data for estimating growth in road
traffic. Estimation of traffic growth based on consumption of petroleum
products is difficult, since a good part of petroleum products comes by road
from Saudi Arabia and is not covered by official statistics (para. 1.35). The
HA's Planning and Projects Division has been carrying out traffic counts since
1976; however, there have been interruptions due to lack of staff, and some
inconsistencies due to the shift of survey stations and survey norms caused by
change in personnel. Data from a few selected stations, however, show that
traffic on main roads grew at high rates, particularly during 1976-80 (average
27 percent p.a.), reflecting in general the rapid growth of the economy, the
structural changes that resulted in additional transport demand, and the
traffic generating effect of road construction. During 1980-82, the growth
rate slackened considerably (see Table 1.1, para. 1.04), partly due to the
stabilization of the economy on a sustainable lower growth path following
reduced worker remittances, and partly because the traffic base widened. Away
from the urban centers, traffic on main roads generally ranges between 2,000
and 4,000 v.p.d. Many secondary roads carry between 500 and 1,500 v.p.d.
despite their poor condition. Permanent counters have recently been
established at key points in the network to monitor traffic growth on a
year-round basis, and the traffic engineering unit in HA is being
strengthened. In line with the economic forecasts for the Second Plan, annual
traffic growth rates of 10 to 12 percent are expected during the Plan period,
with lower rates subsequently.
2.06     A 1978 report by the consultants Kampsax/Berger noted significant
overloading on most of the paved network and studied the axle-loading which
would minimize total costs of transport, road construction and maintenance.



- 15 -
Based on these studies, a permissible axle-loading of 13 tons has recently
been adopted, and the design axle-loading increased from 8 tons accordingly.
More recently, a 1980 axle-load survey in the Taiz area indicated that 46
percent of loaded trucks had axle weights exceeding 13 tons, the heaviest then
encountered being 21.2 tons. The effect is now noticeable in pavement
distress at some locations on most of the paved roads and HA has now prepared
a strengthening program to cope with the problem; works on the Taiz-Al Mafraq
road which are included in the Fourth Highway Project are a first phase of the
program. A project for strengthening the Sana'a-Taiz Highway is being
finalized with financial assistance from the Federal Republic of Germany. In
parallel, under the IDA-assisted Third Highway Project, three vehicle weighing
stations have been built at strategic points in the network to monitor and
check overloading, and two more will be built soon after final decision is
taken on their most suitable location. After making efforts to prepare
axle-loading legislation on its own, HA has recently sought assistance from
consultants with special expertise in the field. The consultants being
appointed for the Highway Master Plan Study will conduct a special study for
this purpose as a priority item (see para. 2.11). Government expects that the
necessary axle-load legislation and enforcement regulations can be implemented
by mid-1984. Under the terms of the Third Highway Credit, the Government had
committed to implement such legislation before mid-1981, but various delays in
the legislation process and, to some extent, some public opposition to such
regulations are making this a slow-moving reform. In view of these
difficulties, the Association recently agreed to the Government's request to
amend the target date, noted in the above Credit Agreement, for implementing
such legislation to September 1984.
C. Administration
2.07     HA was established in 1972 under the First Highway Project.  It is
responsible for the administration, training, design, construction and
maintenance of main public roads out of urban areas. An autonomous Government
agency with its own capital (mainly consisting of road equipment), budget,
income and salary scales, it is controlled by a Board of Government Directors
whose Chairman is the Minister of Public Works. Annex 5 gives details of its
organization. HA carries out all functions and operations related to roads,
except construction, at cost from the Government budget. When involved in
construction of roads for Central Government or local authorities, HA charges
them on a contractual basis.
2.08     HA's headquarters in Sana'a provides central services for
administration, planning and design. Construction and maintenance operations
are regionalized in five offices each under the authority of a regional
director directly responsible to the HA Chairman. These offices are located
in Sana'a, Ibb, Taiz, Hodeidah and Saadah. In case of large construction
works, design and supervision of works are entrusted to foreign consultants as
HA is short of adequate skilled staff. Road maintenance operations are
entirely performed by HA using its own labor force and equipment (para. 2.24).



- 16 -
2.09     Since its start, HA has suffered a chronic short'age of adequate
qualified staff at many levels. The I'hird Highway Project provided technical
assistance to alleviate this shortfall and so will the proposed project (para.
3.09). Recruitment of experts and availability of Yemeni counterparts for
institutional support to HA have not been totally satisfactory up to now.
Recruitment of experts has been slow and turnover among appointed experts has
been high. Selection of Yemeni counterparts has also been slow. Recently,
however, under an arrangement made with the Government of India, a group of
experts on secondment from the Indian Civil Service have taken appointment
with HA. More recruitment efforts are being made with the Philippine
Government and it is expected that by mid-1983 all technical assistance posts
needed for an adequate institutional support to HA will be filled. Selection
of adequate Yemeni counterparts is also improving although still hampered by
the high salaries offered in neighboring oil-rich countries. A training
program (para. 3.10) including all activities of road maintenance has gathered
momentum under the Tnird Highway Project and will be continued and completed
under the proposed project. The target of this training program is that at
the end of 1986 sufficient skilled workers should be available for maint(enance
and the Yemeni instructor' trained under the program should be able to replace
all the expatriate training experts.
2.10     Outside the direct control of HA is the rural road network created by
the LDAs. Construction and maintenance of this network is directly
administered at local level by the respective LDAs. The LDAs (para. 1.20) are
local organizations based on individual and collective contributions for
providing rural communities with adequate services, mainly roads. These
contributions come from a variety of sources including local emigrants in oil
rich neighboring countries, Government ministries, charitable organizations
and a proportion of the Zaqat (a 1 percent tax levied on agricultural
production by Government). The LDAs national organization for coordination,
the CYDA, has a strong inbuilt dislike for Government controls and operational
procedures. CYDA and LDA organizations at the Governorate level maintain
technical staff to provide essential advice and supervision for construction
works. They also hire technical services when needed. Equipment is partly
owned and partly hired. Recently, with technical assistance primarily from
USAID, the CYDA and LDAs are strengthening their technical ser-vices. The
training program run by HA under the Third Highway Project is training some
LDA personnel, and more will be trained under the proposed Fifth Project
(para. 3.11). IDA's rural development projects (like the Southern Uplands
Development Projects I and II, and the Tihama IV Project; IDA Credits 545,
1067, and 978 respectively) have local construction components which are
integrated with the local LDA programs. The Highway Master Plan Study under
the Third Highway Project (para. 1.33) will identify the more important LDA
roads, i.e., those with inter-regional significance, those serving larger
communities, etc., for upgrading and inclusion in the national network to be
maintained by HA. It will also study possible programs to support LDAs to
improve their technical capability within the framework of their present
organization.



- 17 -
D. Planning
2.11     In preparation of IDA's First Highway Project, and as a step toward
rationalizing road investment decisions, consultants reviewed road improvement
proposals and prepared a program for system development during the period
1972-79, covering about 1,400 km of roads. This document provided the basic
framework for expansion of the network in the 1970s. Some of the projects
were included in the Government's Three-Year Development Plan (1974-76),
others in the First Plan (1977-1981). Road planning efforts in recent years
have not been firmly based, due to lack of staff, paucity of planning data and
abnormally high rates of traffic growth. The Highway Master Plan Study
included under the Third Highway Project (para. 1.33) was delayed because of
lack of adequate input data on the primary sectors. However, in view of the
spiralling costs of construction, Government has again given emphasis to
planning. To prepare a program of road investment decisions for the Second
Plan, HA carried out at short notice (under the Third Highway Project) an
economic review of the road projects uncommitted in the First Plan, as well as
other new proposals; the review also' took account of design standards and set
a priority ranking. Many of these roads are tracks only, whose improvement is
long overdue. HA was assisted in this work by expatriate experts attached to
HA, and by foreign consulting firms engaged by HA and some international aid
agencies to study individual projects. The consultants employed by CPO for
preparing transport investments included under the Second Plan also
contributed in this work. In the meantime, in May 1983, HA appointed
consultants to prepare the Highway Master Plan Study for the period up to 1996
(end-year of the Fourth Five-Year Plan), financed under the Third Highway
Project (para. 1.33). This study will provide the concept for a balanced
development of the road system and establish priorities, based on a
comprehensive review of needs and detailed traffic forecasts, and propose
improvements in various road-related management and policy matters. It will
further review investment projects scheduled to start in the latter part of
the Second Plan and suggest changes if justified. The study, expected to be
completed by end 1984 will also report on special topics such as design
standards, maintenance policy and recovery of road user charges, role of LDAs,
setting up a data bank in YAR, and in addition, provide guidelines for
axle-load legislation.
2.12     For main roads construction, (covering primary and secondary roads),
the First Plan anticipated a total investment of YR 3.1 billion
(US$0.7 billion), YR 2.0 billion of which was classified as first priority.
Actual expenditures reached about YR 1.4 billion by the end of the Plan
period. In physical terms, the rate of achievement was even less. The major
works carried out or underway are for two road connections to PDRY (financed
by the Arab Fund and the Saudi Fund), three connections to Saudi Arabia (one
financed by Abu Dhabi and two by the Saudi Fund) and a link to Mocha Port
(financed by Libya), totaling 726 km. However, the bulk of Plan projects
directed to serve domestic needs (some 2,300 km of secondary roads) was
delayed for lack of foreign financing. Only very recently commitments for
some of these roads were obtained, the largest of which are from Iraq for an



- 18 -
additional road link in the Sana'a-Hodeidah corridor (Bajil-Mabar), and from
Saudi Arabia for a link from Yarim to Qataba. These projects will make up for
the bulk of work during the first years of the Second Plan.
2.13     The Second Plan allocates YR 2.5 billion (US$0.5 billion) of public
investments to the road sector. Of this, 40 percent is for road maintenance
and improvement including urban roads and the IDA-financed Fourth Highway and
the proposed Fifth Highway Projects; about 34 percent is for construction of
new main roads (bulk of this provision going to the projects started with
assistance from Iraq, Saudi Arabia and Libya noted in para. 2.12 above); 18
percent is for rural roads under various integrated rural development projects
and also roads constructed by LDAs; and 8 percent is for completion of
on-going construction projects. In addition, the Second Plan lists road
projects under preparation at a total cost of about YR 2.6 billion (US$0.6
billion), some of which were envisaged to be started during the Second Plan,
depending on project feasibility and availability of additional funds. A
project in this category for which technical and economic feasibility has now
been established is the construction of a new road from Al Udayn to Al Jarrahi
(90 km), which will open up the isolated interior areas in this region, and
link Al Udayn directly to the sub-tropical agricultural areas on the coast and
to the coastal highway leading to the port of Hodeidah. The Bank has reviewed
the Second Plan allocations and strategy, and consider them rational. An
effort is now under way, with the Association's assistance, to trim down the
Second Plan allocations in all sectors because of the shortage of resources;
however, the road sub-sector may not be significantly affected by such changes
since the projects included are of very high priority for the country.
E.  Financing
2.14     Foreign aid has played a major role in financing the construction of
YAR's main road system. Many Governments and agencies, such as the Federal
Republic of Germany, Iraq, Libya, People's Republic of China, Saudi Arabia,
the USSR, the Abu Dhabi Fund, the Arab Fund, USAID, as well as IDA, have
participated at some time, and some are doing so currently. Financing of road
maintenance began only in 1972 and has risen from less than US$150,000 then,
to about US$7.8 million in 1981. The main constraint to effective maintenance
is now neither budgetary nor the lack oE appropriate mechanical equipment, but
the shortage of skilled manpower. Despite this problem, progress in this
field has been dramatic and demonstrablea. The technical assistance and
training programs under the Third Highway Project are addressing the manpower
problem (para. 2.23).
2.15     The Government finances road maintenance, design and the related
overheads, and HA carries out the work at cost (para. 2.07). IDA has
previously participated in the construction of low-class roads under the
Tihama and Southern Uplands Development Projects (para. 2.10) but has recently
confined its assistance to technical advisors to the local authorities.



- 19 -
F. Engineering
2.16     The HA's Design Division is responsible for road engineering design.
The division staff is well qualified but is insufficient in number to carry
out the design work needed. HA is strengthening the unit by hiring newly
graduated engineers and expatriate experts. Due to the shortage of skilled
staff, however, the design and supervisory capacity of HA is limited to small
and medium-sized projects and, therefore, consultancy firms carry out the
design studies for major projects. The Design Division also includes a Soils
Laboratory. This laboratory is well staffed and newly equipped, and can carry
out all soil and material tests required for engineering studies and road
works. Design work performed by the Division and by consultants has been, in
general, satisfactory, although there have been some cases where closer
supervision of consultants and less stringent deadlines might have prevented
problems.
2.17     In 1976, standards for low traffic volume roads of less than
400 v.p.d. were drawn up under the Second Highway Project but they now need
review in light of increased construction and maintenance costs, prevailing
traffic volumes and the new limit of 13 tons for axle loading. One of the
important tasks of the Highway Master Plan Study under the Third Highway
Project (para. 2.11) will be to establish an adequate classification of the
HA's road network and to define road design standards. The Highway Master
Plan Study will review the various design standards currently being used by HA
for road construction. This review wiLl be based upon comparative studies
with standards in use in other countries and upon the specific requirements of
the YAR. Following discussions of this review with HA and the Bank, the
Highway Master Plan Study will provide a manual of design standards for
primary and secondary roads. This manual will ensure uniformity of design by
different consultants and HA and standardization of detailing. Although with
less depth and details, it will also review the design standards being used by
the LDAs and will make recommendations on new standards to be applied.
G. Construction
2.18     Modern highway construction methods were first introduced in YAR in
the mid-1960s when USAID started its technical assistance program and foreign
contractors were employed to build some of the trunk roads. Since then, road
construction has dispersed among several agencies until the establishment in
1972 of the HA. The HA's Construction Division is responsible for road
construction and for carrying out works either through contracting or by force
account. Contracts for highway projects financed by international or
bilateral assistance are let on the baLsis of international
competitive bidding following guidelines of the agencies involved.
International consultants are retained by HA for preparation, design and
construction supervision of many projects.
2.19     One special characteristic of HA is its capacity to carry out
construction works acting as a contractor of last resort. This is possible



- 20 -
because it possesses a relatively well organized construction division wjith a
considerable equipment fleet, and staffed adequately with many expatriate
experts. In general, large civil works are carried out primarily by foreign
companies, but when no responsive bids are received, HA itself acts as a
contractor of last resort, and may undertake the work. Examples are the
IDA-financed Taiz-Turba Road constructed under the First Highway Project, and
the on-going works of the Yarim-Qataba Road, where no responsive bids were
received.  HA itself undertook the work with the guidance of a management
team, and to avoid potential conflict Df interest, the supervising consultant
was retained by CPO.
2.20     Construction costs in YAR are high.  An important reason for high
costs is the application of fixed-price contracts which has recently been a
Government requirement. Other reasons are the generally difficult terrain,
high transport costs, a tight market for construction materials, and shortages
in skilled and unskilled domestic labor. Another contributory factor seems to
be contractors' hedging against real or perceived risks such as cumbersome
administrative procedures and uncertainties.  The ports and roads improvements
recently achieved, the return of many Yemeni emigrants, the recent starting of
a large cement factory in YAR, and the application of different contracting
procedures (para. 3.26) will considerably reduce construction costs under the
proposed project.
2.21     Construction of LDA's low standard roads is carried out directly by
the respective LDAs with their own equipment and personnel (para. 2.10).
H. Maintenance
2.22     When HA was established as a separate entity in 1972, hardly any
attention was being given to road maintenance. The rapid development of the
road network since 1972 was not matched by an improved capability to maintain
the network. Subsequently, the road network deteriorated considerably. The
Government became well aware of this negative trend in late 1970s, and has
since taken consistent measures to improve road maintenance funding and
organization.
2.23     In 1977, HA prepared a three-year maintenance program (1978-81) with
assistance from consultants, Kampsax/Berger, who drew up for the first time a
detailed inventory of HA's road network needs and appraised the equipment,
manpower and budget allocations needed for both routine and periodic
maintenance. The program which was implemented under the Third Highway
Project, helped to set up the basis for future maintenance efforts. The
Government supplied adequate budget al]ocations, while the needed equipment
and workshop improvements were financecl under the Third Project. The main
bottleneck of the maintenance program was, and still remains, lack of
sufficient trained personnel to operate! and maintain the equipment and to
supervise and monitor the work of maintenance teams. This manpower problem is
being addressed under the training program of the Third Highway Project, which
has set up a local training organization and training centers. Though started



- 21 -
late, this program has by now proved a great success, and is to be continued
under the proposed project. By the end of 1986, all experienced manpower
needed for the maintenance of HA road network will be available through this
proposed training program, and through some outside recruitment at
professional levels. The technical assistance program under the Third Highway
Project, and under the proposed project provides essential expatriate
personnel to bridge the gap until the training programs have caught up with
HA's needs, which is expected towards the end of 1986.
2.24     HA considers road maintenance a high priority among its various
activities. The maintenance of its 2,900 km road network is carried out by
its own equipment and manpower of about 1,900 workers including 30 engineers.
Maintenance is organized under five regional offices (Sana'a, Hodeidah, Ibb,
Taiz and Saadah). Each regional office is allocated its own maintenance
equipment and has a field workshop for routine maintenance. Major equipment
repairs are made at the central workshop located in Sana'a, and at the Taiz
workshop which is also the center for maintenance training. Routine
maintenance of main roads is generally satisfactory and improves consistently
after new trainees are made available. Periodic maintenance such as renewal
of the wearing course of paved roads is also carried out by the regional
offices. In the case of some important roads, special maintenance projects
are often undertaken by the bilateral lender which financed their construction.
2.25     The Administration and Accounting Division of HA provides all support
services in the areas of financial accounting, cost accounting and budgeting
related to road maintenance (para. 2.29).
2.26     Maintenance of LDA roads is carried out by LDAs (para. 2.10).  In the
long run, when HA has built up sufficient capacity, the more important of the
LDA roads must be integrated into the main road network maintained by HA, and
accordingly, will need to be reconstructed/upgraded. HA's reluctance in
taking over these roads is based, in addition to its capacity limitation, on
the fact that these roads are not built to good design standards. The Highway
Master Plan Study (para. 2.11) will provide a preliminary basis for planning
further action in this regard.
I. Training
2.27     The Third Highway Project is financing a program for the training of
HA maintenance personnel, which is now producing excellent results. The
program was designed by consultants after making an inventory of existing
manpower and identifying all manpower needs in HA. Under the program, the
Vocational Training Center (VTC) in Taiz has been expanded and training
activities strengthened. The training program ran into delays in the beginning
due to difficulties in recruiting the team of trainers. Since mid-1982 with
one year delay, the program is being implemented with the assistance of a
training advisor from Egypt and five instructors from India provided on the
basis of a bilateral agreement between the Governments of YAR and India. Six
Yemeni counterpart instructors have already completed training (March 1983)
and are already participating in the program as trainers.



- 22 -
2.28     The theoretical training of road and equipment maintenance personnel
is carried out at the VTC in Taiz. The practical training is provided through
the mobile Road Training Production Unit (RTPU) and Mechanical Training
Production Units (MTPU). The 1982-84 training program, whlich started in
mid-1982, envisages the training of 450 persons (fresh recruits and
retraining), of which 90 individuals completed training by early 1983 and are
already providing services in the different districts of HA and several LDAs.
The program will be further strengthened during 1983-84 and will train the
remaining 360 individuals. The training will cover most maintenance functions
such as road supervisors, foremen, equipment operators and drivers. About 70
of the trainees during 1982-84 will belong to LDAs, this being part of the
technical assistance help provided by HA to LDAs.   The training activities
developed by HA under the 1982-84 program will be continued and expanded under
the proposed project up to end-1986 (para. 3.10).
J.  Accounting and Auditing
2.29     With the help of technical assistance provided under the Third
Highway Project, HA has introduced new integrated financial and cost
accounting systems and documentation recording systems which will be
progressively reinforced to cover all areas of financial management. Separate
accounts are now kept for construction and maintenance divisions, with
expenditures and revenues recorded for each project. Published accounts
(1981) do not show yet how depreciation is allocated to projects and therefore
how adequate recovery for each of them is achieved but HA is trying to
introduce a system where such comparison will be made possible. An adequate
inventory control system for spare parts is in operation. A first evaluation
of assets took place in 1981 and since then all assets acquired are recorded
at historical value in a register where ,annual and accumulated depreciation
are shown for each item. On the whole, the new integrated financial and cost
accounting systems and documentation recording systems already provide
adequate information for pricing servicess and form a satisfactory basis fcr
the auditing, monitoring and reporting of highway projects.
2.30     HA agreed under the Fourth Highway Project to have its "project
related expenditures" audited by independent auditors acceptable to the
Association, commencing with calendar year 1982, and to furnish to the
Association a certified copy of the audit report. HA's 1982 accounts are now
under audit; however, there was no project expenditure related to the Fourth
Highway Project during 1982. Since proper accounting procedures and systems
are a basic part of the efforts of institution building in HA, the Government
agreed during negotiations that HA will in future submit to the Association
full annual statements of accounts, duly audited by independent auditors
acceptable to the Association, within six months after the end of each
financial year. This will facilitate monitoring the continued maintenance of
adequate accounting procedures and systems by HA.



- 23 -
III. THE PROJECT
A.  Setting
3.01     From 1972, IDA has actively assisted YAR, in coordination with other
co-financing agencies, in building up from scratch a basic transport network
and related institutions (para. 1.37). IDA's assistance in the highway
sector, the most important part of YAR's transport system, has been
particularly noteworthy as evidenced by the four highway projects, two of them
on-going, all of which are interrelated and present a coordinated strategy to
support expansion of the physical network and to gradually help establish new
and efficient institutions and a rational policy framework. YAR has made
impressive strides in all these areas but has still a long way to go in
attaining adequate coverage of the network over the country and in building
institutions and policy.
3.02     The proposed Fifth Highway Project, which will in part run
concurrently with the Third and Fourth Highway Projects (para. 1.38), fits in
with this on-going effort by YAR and IDA, and is a continuing response to
Government's and IDA's priority objectives in the highway sector. It proposes
to support upgrading a major secondary road, thus supplementing the Fourth
Highway Project in further expanding YAR's main road network. It also
proposes further continuation of the training and technical assistance for HA
started under the Third Highway Project: and finishing at end-1984; these
elements will be continued from the completion of the Third Highway Project up
to the end of 1986, by which time it is expected that HA should become
reasonably self-supporting in training and technical expertise. The training
program will also train field staff for the LDAs for construction and
maintenance of rural roads.
B.  Project Objectives
3.03     The prime objective of the proposed project is to assist the
Government in its program for improving/constructing priority secondary
roads. Other important objectives of ithe project are:
(i)  to continue institutional support to HA, particularly for its road
maintenance efforts;
(ii)  to attempt new contracting procedures to reduce the high road
construction costs prevailing in YAR; and
(iii)  to improve the quality of roads built and maintained by LDAs.
C. Description
3.04     The project components would consist of the following:
(i) upgrading to paved standards, including realignments in
mountainous sections, of the Ibb-Al Udayn (31.7 km) road, a high



- 24 -
priority road selected, on the basis of economaic criteria, from
2,300 km of secondary roads; engineered by HA;
(ii)  construction supervision of (i) by consultants; and
(iii)  technical assistance to improve nationwide road maintenance
through:
(a) provision of experts in key positions for institutional
support to HA; and
(b) training programs covering all activities of road maintenance.
Upgrading of Ibb-Al Udayn Road (Map IBRD 17074)
3.05     The existing gravel road is located in the central-southern uplands
of the country, and passes through a densely populated corridor in one of the
most fertile areas of YAR. The road links the capital of the Governorate,
Ibb, the fourth largest city of the country and a main regional market ancl
consumption center, to Al Udayn, center of an important agricultural area for
temperate produces. Intensive development of the area served by the road is
included under IDA's Second Southern Upland Rural Development Project (Credit
1067 of November 1980 for US$17.0 million).
3.06     The road is in a mountainous terrain with altitudes of 2,000 m at
Ibb, 1,350 m at Al Udayn, and reaching a peak of 2,300 m about 11 km from
Ibb. It passes through difficult escarpments with steep gradients and sharp
curves which together with the bad pavernent conditions make transport
difficult and expensive. After periods of heavy rainfall, some sections
become impassable for hours and even days owing to inadequate or non-existent
drainage structures, and due to the laclc of retaining walls to contain
landslides.
3.07     The road is heavily used, average traffic being presently about 1,300
vehicles per day (v.p.d.) in the 0-10 km section, and 600 v.p.d. in the more
difficult 10-31 km section. About 60 percent of freight vehicles are of less
than 6 tons, since the larger part of the road is hardly passable for heavy
trucks. Based on this current traffic and its estimated future growth, the
physical conditions of the terrain and a design standard of 13 tons
axle-loading, the consultants employed for the purpose prepared technical and
economic feasibility studies and provided the basic road designs (para.
3.15). These designs, which were critically reviewed and modified in some
respects by HA and the Bank to improve them, form the basis of the project.
The project provides for the road to be upgraded and paved with a 7 m-wide
carriage way and 1.25 m-wide selected material shoulders from km 0 to 5.45;
from km 5.45 to 31.7, shoulder width will be reduced to 0.75 m because of the
difficult terrain. The carriage way will be paved with a 5 cm thick asphalt
concrete wearing course. Construction of retaining walls will be one of the
most expensive and important items of the new road. The main drainage



- 25 -
structures, an average of 2.5 units per km, will be standard pipe and box
culverts in masonry and reinforced concrete depending on their dimensions.
Existing alignments will be changed in siome sections, which will reduce the
present 31.7 km distance to 30.5 km. Thie design standards for the existing
and proposed road are given in Annex 6. Consultants' services will be
provided for supervision of road construction as HA is short of experienced
staff.
Technical Assistance
3.08     Under the Third Highway Project (Credit 794-YAR) the Bank financed an
ambitious technical assistance component: to overcome the constraints to
highway development and maintenance. The proposed project, a core technical
assistance program during the years 1985-86, will continue after completion of
the Third Highway Project in December 1984. The program includes two main
sub-components: (i) institutional support to HA, and (ii) training program for
maintenance.
(i) Institutional support to HA
3.09     Beyond 1984 and up to end of 1986, HA will continue to require
assistance for some of its most critical staffing needs. It is expected that
this need will trail off by end-1986 by completion of the assistance program,
which includes training of counterparts attached to expatriate experts.
Accordingly, the proposed project includles provision of technical assistance
through the HA's employment of foreign experts for many of HA's senior
technical and professional posts. Eighteen key in-line positions for a total
of 432 man/months (m/m) are proposed as detailed in Annex 7.  The list of
positions prepared is the result of the detailed review of HA's current and
future needs in essential areas. Twelve of these posts have already been
filled and six more will be filled under the Third Highway Project, covering
the period up to December 1984. During negotiations, agreement was reached on
this technical assistance program including the composition of the list,
number of man/months and procedures for expediting recruitment of experts, to
ensure that all key positions will be filled during the whole period 1985-86.
(ii) Training Program
3.10     The two-year program (1985-1986) for training of highway maintenance
personnel would follow up and expand thie three-year program (1982-1984) being
implemented under the Third Highway Project (para. 2.28) and would be
especially addressed to road supervisors, equipment operators, drivers,
mechanical personnel, storekeepers and accountants. The program will include:
(i) training of manpower required by HA and the strengthening of the existing
HA Training Division; (ii) selection and training of HA staff as instructors;
(iii) procurement of training equipment and materials; (iv) fellowships abroad
for selected staff; and (v) the training under the same programs designed for
HA staff, of selected field staff for road construction and maintenance of the
rural roads under CYDA.



- 26 -
3.11     About 430 HA staff would require training under 40 courses (Annex 8,
pages 1-3) during 1985 and 1986. The estimate includes some 240 staff who
cannot be accommodated under the current training program, an additional 126
staff as a result of an expected growth of the road network under HA every
year and 64 staff required by CYDA for its feeder road network. HA and CYDA
have agreed on a phased program for the selection and training of the CYDA
staff.
3.12     Road foremen/supervisors, operators and drivers will be trained
mostly in the field through the existing Road Training Production Unit (RTPU),
enabling them to gain experience under actual working conditions. Training of
mechanical staff will be conducted part:ly at the Vocational Training Center
(VTC) at Taiz and partly at selected workshops denominated as Mechanical
Training Production Units (MTPU). Repairing broken-down equipment will form
the basis of the training of mechanical. personnel.
3.13     The two-year training program will require technical assistance by
nine expatriate instructors (Annex 8, page 4).  It is expected that the
contract of the existing expatriate specialists/instructors still needed
during 1985-86 would be extended. One of the expatriate specialists would
continue to act as the Chief of the Training Division of HA, responsible for
planning, implementing and monitoring all HA's training activities. Yemeni
counterparts would work closely with expatriate staff and it is expected that
they would continue the program after the departure of the expatriate staff.
HA will assign new counterparts to the: (i) Chief of Training Division and
eventually the Director of the VTC; (ii) Personnel Management System expert;
(iii) Chief of RTPU; (iv) Chief of MTPU'; (v) Storekeeper; and (vi) Accountant.
In addition, it will continue to assign to the training effort the 19 counter-
parts expected to be available by the end of 1984.  The main sources of
recruitment of instructors up to now have been India and Egypt and the quality
of experts provided has been satisfactory. In order to obtain adequate
results from the training program, sufficient capable expatriate instructors
and Yemeni counterparts as well as new HA personnel needed for training should
be recruited. HA has agreed to provide incentives and higher salary to Yemeni
counterparts and to employ those trainees who have satisfactorily completed
their courses. The per diem for new trainees will be financed by HA while the
foreign component in the cost of materials for the operation of the RTPU and
MTPU will be financed under the project, in addition to the salary of experts,
and the cost of a fellowship program for HA senior staff (Annex 8, pages 5-6).
3.14     During negotiations, agreement was reached with the Government that
it will: (i) starting January 1, 1985, employ expatriate training experts
under terms and conditions acceptable to IDA (see Annex 9); (ii) appoint
suitable counterparts by January 1, 1985 to work with the experts on a full
time basis; (iii) recruit candidates for training in Yemen and abroad in
accordance with a program satisfactory to the Association; (iv) provide
adequate incentives to ensure the recruitment of trainees, and candidates to
be trained as instructors; (v) monitor and evaluate the training program;
(vi) ensure suitable employment in HA for the HA personnel trained under the
program; and (vii) provide adequate annual funds for the implementation of the
training program.



- 27 -
D. Engineering
3.15     Engineering of the Ibb-Al Udayn road was initially designed by
Ingeroute-Gibb Consultants Engineers in July 1977. Because of the estimated
high cost of the project, HA requested SWECO consultants to review and
redesign the study looking for possible new partial alignments to reduce
construction costs. The feasibility and final engineering studies were
financed under IDA Third Highway Project; these were completed by late 1982,
and further updated in May 1983.
E. Cost Estimates
3.16     The total cost of the project is e.stimated at US$35.5 million
equivalent to a foreign exchange component of US$26.6 million (75 percent).
Base costs are estimated in May 1983 prices. Costs of the various project
components are given in Table 3.1.
3.17     Construction cost estimates are based on quantities from final
engineering designs and on unit rates derived from the individual works and
checked against recent contract awards in YAR. The foreign costs are
estimated from a breakdown of component cost elements. The local costs
include estimated taxes (like petroleum monopoly tax) to be paid by contractor
which amount to about 2 percent of total costs; exempted taxes on imports have
been excluded. Supervision of works will be exercised by foreign consultants
and is estimated to cost US$1.2 million equivalent based on a requirement of
120 m/m at an average cost of US$10,000 per m/m (including salary, fees,
overheads, international travel and subsistence).
3.18     The base costs of technical assistance on expatriate staff for
institutional support to HA and for training has been estimated on the basis
of present m/m rates for similar services in YAR provided by experts from
other developing countries. The total for the former is estimated at
US$2.0 million equivalent based on a requirement of 18 experts and 432 m/m
(para. 3.09) at an average cost of US$4,600 equivalent per m/m.  The total
cost for training instructors is estimated at US$0.8 million equivalent
(YR 3.5 million) based on a requirement of nine training specialists (para.
3.13) and 255 m/m at an average cost of US$3,000 per month.  These rates,
which are based on HA's recent experience in hiring experts from other
developing countries, include salary, subsistence and international travel.
The training component also includes US$1.3 million equivalent for training
equipment, materials and fellowships (para. 3.13).
3.19     A physical contingency of ten percent is included for civil works and
construction supervision to cover possible increases in quantities. Price
escalation has been estimated assuming the rates of inflation for local and
foreign costs for the period 1983-1987 as shown in Table 3.1.



- 28 -
Table 3.1: Projects Cost Estimates
(In May 1983 Prices)
% of
- YR million-   -US$ million -     Foreign
Project Ccanponent            Local Foreign Total  Local Foreignt Total  Exchange
I.    Road Construction
Ibb-Al Udayn (31.7 kmn)          24.1  74.6  98.7   5.4   16.6  22.0
Sub-total I               24.1  74.6  98.7   5.4   16.6  22.0           75
II.   Supervision of Construction        1.1   4.4    5.5   0.2    1.0   1.2
Sub-total II               1.1   4.4   5.5   0.2    1.0   1.2           80
TTI.  Technical Assistance
(i) Institutional support to HA       0.8   8.1   8.9   0.2    1.7   1.9           90
(ii) Training (9 experts, equip-
Irent & materials, fellowships)    3.8   5.5    9.3   0.8     1.3   2.1        62
Sub-total III              4.6  13.6  18.2   1.0    3.0   4.0
Base Cost (I + II + III)         29.8  92.6  122.4   6.6   20.6  27.2           75
IV.   Contingencies
Physical 1/ (I + II)              2.5   7.9  10.4   0.6    1.8   2.4
Price  2/ (I + II)                5.8  15.9  21.7   1.3    3.5   4.8
III                1.4   3.6   5.0   0.4    0.7    1.1
Sub-total IV               9.7  27.4  37.1   2.3    6.0   8.3
TOEAL PROJECT COST             39.5  120.0  159.5   8.9   26.6  35.5         75
1 10 percent on civil works and construction superrision.
2/ Based on the following inflation rates in percenltage:
1983   1984   1985   1986   1987
Local (%)      9       8       8       7       7
Foreign ()     8       7.5     7       6       6



- 29 -
Financing
3.20     The Borrower will be the Government of YAR.  Of the total project
costs, local costs are about US$8.9 million and foreign component about
US$26.6 million equivalent. Regarding foreign costs, after allowing for
US$13 million from the proposed IDA credit, the gap of US$13.6 million will be
filled up by the Government, though efforts are being made to obtain
co-financing from other aid donors to cover this part. The US$8.9 million
local cost will be entirely met by the Government. During negotiations, the
Government agreed that it would provide the necessary funds for the project
promptly as needed.
3.21     In accordance with the above, a suggested financing and disbursement
plan based on the participation of US$13 million by IDA and US$22.5 million by
the Government is shown in Table 3.2. This plan was discussed and agreed upon
with the Borrower at negotiations.
Table 3.2 Preliminary Financing and Disbursement Plan
Cost --------    Source of Finance
Local   Foreign   Total        IDA      Govern.
Project Component              -----… ----- US$ million equivalent ---------
Construction                   7.3      21.4     28.7        8.3       20.4
(%)                     (25.0)   (75.0)  (100.0)    (29.0)    (71.0)
Construction Supervision       0.3       1.3       1.6       0.8        0.8
(%)                     (19.0)   (81.0)  (100.0)    (50.0)    (50.0)
Technical Assistance
including training
equipment & materials          1.2       3.8       5.0       3.8        1.2
(M)                     (24.0)   (76.0)  (100.0)    (76.0)    (24.0)
Unallocated                    0.1       0.1       0.2       0.1        0.1
(%)                     (50.0)   (50.0)  (100.0)    (50.0)    (50.0)
TOTAL                          8.9      26.6     35.5       13.0       22.5
(%)                     (25.0)   (75.0)  (100.0)    (37.0)    (63.0)



- :3o -
F. Implementation and Monitoring
3.22     The HA will be responsible for implementing the project.  The civil
works component will cover three years from early-1984 to early 1987 and will
be carried out by contract. HA will employ consultants to assist it in
construction supervision. Employment of such consultant firm will be a
condition of effectiveness of the proposed credit. Proposals have been
invited from selected firms.
3.23     The two technical assistance programs, i.e., institutional support to
HA and training, will also be implemented by HA and will last from January 1,
1985 to December 31, 1986. Qualifications, experience, and terms and
conditions of employment of experts selected would be acceptable to the
Association (para. 3.14).
3.24     The implementation schedule for each project activity is shown in
Annex 10. The project completion date would be February 28, 1987. The
implementation schedule was discussed and confirmed with the Borrower at
credit negotiations.  For monitoring the project, HA should submit quarterly
progress reports to the Association detailing the implementation of the
different project components. Within six months of the closing date of the
Credit, the Borrower will provide IDA with a Project Completion Report. Annex
11 gives details of project monitoring indices to be applied and used in the
reports. During negotiations, reporting arrangements were discussed and
agreed upon.
Procurement
New Contracting Procedures for Civil Works
3.25     Road construction costs, particularly for projects with construction
periods of more than 18 months, are relatively high in YAR partly because the
Government insists on compulsory fixed price contracts as they are easy to
monitor and administer (para. 2.20). Contractors are required to bear risks
related to price increases and various cdelays and uncertainties, and
consequently, they mark up their bids to cover such risks. Such high
construction costs also prevail in other sectors in YAR.
3.26     In order to address the problem of high road consltruction costs, the
proposed project will introduce, for the civil works procurement, the
following contracting procedures: (a) the traditional contract using price
adjustment formula; and (b) on an optional basis, the more innovative target
cost contract (TCC) which will reduce considerably the contractor's risks and
costs. The ICB procedure under suitable price adjustment formulae which take
into account price increases due to inflation or other specific reasons is
well known and generally applied in Bank/IDA projects. A more ambitious
procedure, although requiring a greater degree and sophistication of project
monitoring and administration, is the TCC.



- 31 -
3.27     Under the proposed TCC procedure, the bidder quotes a target price
for the contract. Specific risks and other occurrences are excluded from the
tendered target cost which is adjusted periodically for changes in the work,
acceptable delays and price variations. Any difference between the actual and
target costs will be shared by the employer and contractor in a specified
way. This method will considerably reduce project risks and will enable
contractors to bid prices without high mark-ups; it will also provide greater
incentives to both the employer and contractor to avoid delays and
uncertainties in project execution, thus reducing costs. The TCC method, if
accepted and proved successful in this project, could become a model for
future construction projects in YAR.
3.28     The civil works under the proposed project will be awarded as a
single contract on the basis of International Competitive Bidding (ICB) in
accordance with IDA guidelines. Within this framework, HA has agreed during
negotiations to follow and select between the two types of contracts, i.e.,
(a) traditional type contract with a price adjustment formula covering main
materials; and (b) TCC. Bidding,documents have been prepared covering both
alternatives. Bidders will be asked to bid under the traditional method and,
on an optional basis, under the TCC method. HA will retain the right to
choose between the two methods at the itime of awarding the contract when the
actual terms offered may persuade the Government of the merits of awarding the
TCC method. For evaluation and selection between the two types of bids, the
following procedure has been agreed during negotiations: the lowest evaluated
bidder should be selected under method (a) above, but the Borrower will have
the option to choose between the two types of bids if submitted by the
selected bidder.
3.29     Bids for the civil works, following ICB, have already been invited by
HA, the closing date being September 30, 1983.
Consulting Services
3.30     Construction supervision would be exercised by HA with the assistance
of qualified and experienced consulting engineers, selected and appointed on
the basis of IDA guidelines. Similarly, the individual experts for the
technical assistance will be selected and appointed on the basis of IDA
guidelines. The experts and their terms and conditions should be satisfactory
to IDA (para. 3.22).
Training Equipment and Materials
3.31     The total cost of training equipment, materials and supplies proposed
to be financed by IDA (Annex 8, page 6) will amount to about US$550,000,
including contingencies. Since the total amount is not large and since these
purchases will be made in small quantities spread over three years, the ICB
procedures are not considered suitable for their procurement. Therefore,
procurement of these items will be permitted in accordance with local
procurement procedures of the YAR Government which are satisfactory to the
Association.



- 32 -
Land Acquisition
3.32     There will be no significant problem in obtaining the 27 ha of land
(of them, only 11 ha with an agricultural value) needed for the new road
alignment. Since the rural population ardently welcome and press for new road
access to their areas, land acquisition has not posed any significant problem
in past road projects in YAR, including previous Bank projects. The CPO, MPW
and local authorities of the project areia all gave assurance that land
acquisition will be done in time. During negotiations, the Government agreed
to complete by June 30, 1984 the formal acquisition of all land and rights in
respect of land as shall be required for carrying out the project and shall
furnish, promptly after such acquisition, evidence that such land and rights
in respect of land are available for purpose related to the project.
Disbursements
3.33     Disbursements from the Credit will be made againsit normal
documentation as follows:
(a) 30 percent of total expenditureb for civil works;
(b) 100 percent of the foreign expenditure of the consultant services for
supervision of civil works; and.
(c) 100 percent of the foreign expenditure of the technical assistance
for institutional support to HA and training; and
(d) 100 percent of foreign expenditures of equipment, materials and
supplies when imported, and 80 percent of local expenditure thereof
when locally procured.
Retroactive financing of not more than US$250,000 for consultancy services for
payments made after September 1, 1983, has been agreed. Annex 12 shows
schedule of estimated disbursements. It is based on the participations
indicated above (para. 3.21) and on the project implementation schedule (Annex
10); it assumes that the credit will become effective within four months of
signature. There is no adequate statistical basis for arriving at an overall
disbursement profile for an average road project in YAR, s:ince the first
projects were implemented under very difficult circumstances not prevailing
any longer in the country. The Third Highway Project is delayed by 18 months
and will last a total of about five years. However, this is because of delays
in starting the training program from scratch; the construction work under the
Third Highway Project was done in time. The proposed project will have the
following advantages in this respect: (a) construction worlcs are clearly
defined and their designs completed; and (b) the technical assistance is a
continuation of a program already started and well established under the
on-going Third Highway Project. For these reasons we expect that the project
will be completed by February 28, 1987, and that disbursements will be
completed by December 31, 1987. The schedule of disbursement was discussed
and confirmed with the Borrower during credit negotiations.



- 33 -
G. Employment Aspects
3.34     The project will have positive effects on employment.  By boosting
transport activities and agricultural and commercial development, the project
will generate new and diversified employment opportunities which will
particularly benefit the poorer sections of the society. The inhabitants of
the entire region served by the road will share in the various economic and
social benefits created by the project, such as improved agricultural income,
reduced passenger and goods transport charges, and better access to hospitals,
markets, schools, etc. (paras. 4.02, 4.03).
H. Environment
3.35     The works to be carried out under the project will not detrimentally
affect the environment. The existing hazards of dust and mud will be avoided
with the asphalt-concrete paving. Realignment of the Ibb-Al Udayn road in its
mountainous sections will improve the steep gradients and sharp curves, which
make transport difficult and dangerous,, to a satisfactory level of service and
safety. The improved road will enable easy transport and marketing of
vegetables and fruits, and some switch to fruit and vegetable cultivation from
lower income crops such as sorghum is expected. At present, the journey from
Al Udayn to the Ibb area, where good schools and one of the country's best
hospitals (at Jibla) are located, is tortuous and hazardous, particularly for
the sick. On the whole, the project will improve considerably the rural
environment enhancing the reliability of access to markets, schools and to one
of the most important hospitals of YAR.
3.36     The proposed realignment of the road to avoid the mountainous terrain
in one section (between km 20 and 24.2) will take the road partly through farm
land requiring about 11 ha of agricultural land to be used for road
construction. The Government will take adequate measures, under existing
procedures, to compensate the affected families.
3.37      It is true that increasing road traffic is generally spoiling the
environment in some respects, particularly through the spread of trash
pollution (mainly bottles, cans and plastic containers) without an adequate
system of garbage disposal. YAR is, hlowever, focussing on this issue at
present, and garbage collection and disposal schemes have been initiated in
all towns, including Ibb. This is a process which will understandably take
some time to spread all over the country.
IV. ECONOMIC JUSTIFICATION
A. Economic Analysis: General Approach
4.01     The economic analysis of the project presented below is based on the
feasibility study carried out by consultants, SWECO, supplemented by analysis
made by the Bank appraisal mission. The analysis is done by comparing the
"without project" situation, with the situation of having the project. The



- .34 -
economic return is computed mainly for the road improvement component of the
project, since it was difficult to quantify benefits for the technical
assistance components; however, in term.s of the crucial importance of
strengthening road maintenance institutions and training iin YAR, the related
technical assistance components are considered essential and justified on
their own. Market prices of early 1983 properly adjusted to exclude transfer
payments (taxes and subsidies) have been used throughout the analysis. The
analysis includes sensitivity tests to gauge project risks.
B. Benefits and Beneficiaries
4.02     The main benefits from the proposed project will be:
(i) savings in vehicle operating costs (VOC) for the existing traffic,
and for the generated traffic in non-agricultural items; and
(ii) gains to the farmers from agricultural improvements made possible by
the improved road, reflected as higher net farm incomes. The
improved road will enable easier transport and marketing of fruits
and vegetables, which will help farmers to switch. from low-income
sorghum and other crops to more profitable fruits and vegetables for
which the soil and climate in this area are highly suitable; it will
also enable better access to agricultural extension services and
other agricultural inputs.
The two major sources of savings listed above have been quantified to compute
the project's economic rate of return, and are discussed in detail further
below (paras. 4.05 and 4.06).
4.03     The project will also produce other important benefits, not
quantified in the present analysis. It will: (a) provide better access to
good schools, hospitals, recreation facilities (such as a new stadium under
construction) and a large regional market, all located in the Ibb area;
(b) increase comfort and reduce time in the transport of people, since the
improved road will smooth the present tortuous curves, steep gradients and
pavement roughness of the road, increase speed and also shorten the road by
about 1.2 km; (c) help boost non-agricultural activities and business and
marketing opportunities; (d) enable through-transport of goods from Hodeidah
to the Ibb area, saving about 100 km per trip, after the Al Udayn-Al Jarrahi
road is also completed, which the Goverrnaent proposes to take up as the next
phase of the Ibb-Al Udayn road; and above all, (e) help national cohesion and
integration by improving accessibility of the interior areas and by reducing
their isolation.
4.04     The immediate beneficiaries from the project will be the entire
regional community living in the service area of the road, estimated at about
120,000. The main benefits, viz, the savings in VOC, will accrue initially to
the transport operators who should be expected to pass thera on to consumers
and producers of the freight carried or to passengers using the hired vehicles
and taxi services (a dominant form of passenger transport in the area),



- 35 -
through market competition. The farm income benefits will accrue to the
farmers, part of which may be passed on to the consumers as reduced
agricultural product prices. Governmenl: will benefit from reduced road
maintenance costs, and increased tax revenue from petroleum products and road
vehicles whose use would increase with higher traffic.
Savings in VOC
4.05     VOC for different classes of vehicles have been estimated for two
separate sets of conditions: (a) the existing condition of the road which will
be kept unchanged through increasing maintenance costs in future in the face
of normal increases of traffic; and (b) the conditions prevailing with the
completion of the proposed upgrading, when the road will have smoother
surface, better alignments and curves, and will allow faster speeds. VOC
under the new conditions will be lower because of lesser use of fuel,
lubricants, and tires, lesser maintenance and depreciation costs, and lower
wage costs of drivers in commercial vehicles (taxies, trucks, pick-ups on
hire, etc.). The consultants used the technical coefficients for consumption
developed by the Transport Road Research Laboratory (TRRL Report No. 672) as
the main basis for their estimates, as applied to the characteristics of the
project road. The resulting unit cost levels per vehicle-km (economic costs,
March 1983 prices) are presented in Annex 13. The figures are shown
separately for the 0-10 km and 10-31 km sections of the road which have
different characteristics, the latter having more difficult road conditions.
The difference between the cost levels for the existing and upgraded road
gives unit savings per vehicle-km for each class of vehicle. These benefits
will start accruing following completion of the project in early 1987. The
stream of benefits for the duration of the project life up to 2,006 has been
estimated using these unit savings as applied to the composition and level of
traffic from year to year (see para. 4.08 for discussion on traffic). The
analysis ignores the likely increases in unit VOC due to future congestion on
the existing road, as also the minimal congestion and higher unit costs that
may be experienced on the new road towards the end of its project life; the
net effect of this assumption is to unclerestimate the rate of return. Only 50
percent of the unit VOC savings is assumed for the generated traffic (para.
4.09).
Agricultural Benefits
4.06     The new road will result in lower produce movement costs, new crop
and market possibilities, easier access to farm inputs at reasonable costs and
better access to the agricultural extension services. The service area of the
road is presently being developed through an integrated development project
(SURDP II, financed by IDA), which is encouraging farmers in a variety of ways
to change cropping patterns where profitable and to adopt new techniques. The
road project will add to the benefits so generated, mainly by improving
marketing possibilities for vegetables and fruits; these crops can be grown in
the area, but farmers are reluctant to grow them since transport difficulties
and spoilage have kept marketing difficult and underdeveloped. Easier access
to extension services and inputs, particularly the facility to bring in farm



- 36 -
implements and hired pumps for irrigation which is very difficult and
expensive under the present road conditions, will also help improve
productivity in general. Consultants and the Bank appraisal team, in close
consultation with agricultural experts working in the Al-Udayn area under the
SURDP II project and in the Agricultural Research Institute in Taiz, prepared
estimates on potential changes in cropping pattern and productivity levels,
due to the SURDP II project and additionally due to the road project, frcom
about 1987 onwards (the 10th year after starting the first SURDP project).
Data on costs of inputs including labor and marginal land preparation costs,
and farm gate prices of crops, were taken from farm survey data collected on a
regular basis by the SURDP project agency.  The net incremental agricultural
income attributable to the road project was separately estimated. The level
of agricultural benefits is expected to increase gradually over time due to
progressive changes in cropping patterns. However, the total value of
agricultural benefits included in the analysis increases the economic rate of
return from the project only by about 3 percentage points (para. 4.11).
C. Traffic Projections
4.07     The average annual daily traffic (AADT) on the project road in 1982
is estimated as 1300 and 600 vehicles respectively for the 0-10 km and
10-31 km sections, based on traffic counts and surveys conducted by the
consultants and HA (Annex 14). The field trips made by the Bank appraisal
mission further confirmed this magnitude of traffic. The higher density on
the 0-10 km section is due to better existing road conditions on this section,
greater density of population as it is almost a suburb of Ibb, the existence
of a large market near km 10, and the existence of a branch road from km 10.
The worst escarpment section starts imrnediately after km 10, forming a
bottleneck for the traffic beyond. The major types of vehicles used at
present are four-wheel drive sedans and pick-ups with a limited load-carrying
capacity. Heavy trucks can also go to Al-Udayn, but transport costs are
excessive and prevailing haulage charges are as high as YR 600 for a three-ton
load from Al-Udayn to Ibb.
4.08     Data for accurate traffic projections are difficult to obtain.  In
general, road traffic in YAR grew at about 27 percent per annum during 1976-80
when the country's GDP in real terms grew only by 6 percent per annum.  Ihe
Second Plan projects an annual growth rate of 7 percent, but possibly only a
somewhat lower rate can be realized. The actual traffic growth during 1980-82
was about 12 percent. It is considered realistic to assume that future annual
growth rate in road traffic in the country may be about 10-12 percent during
the Second Plan, with a possibly lower rate subsequently due to the widening
traffic base. On the project road, data from past traffic counts and surveys
show an annual growth rate of about 35 percent during 1971-80. For the
present project analysis, the following modest assumptions have been made for
normal traffic growth on the road:
Period                        Passenger Vehicles         Other Vehicles
1982-86                               12%                      10%
1987-96                                8%                       8%
1997-2006                             5%                        5%



- 37 -
These assumptions are conservative considering the fact that the present
traffic base is very narrow, and that the area is highly fertile and well
populated, and has vast potential for agricultural development which is
promoted through a well conceived integrated rural development project, which
itself will create substantial new increases in traffic.
4.09    In addition to the above normal growth, some traffic is assumed to be
"generated" as a result of the new road project, since the reduced transport
costs may spur new economic activities which had hitherto remained
uneconomic. The generated traffic has been estimated using a price elasticity
(transport price) of -1.0 for light traffic and -0.5 for heavy traffic, such
increase taking place gradually over a period of 3 years after project
completion. Only the non-agricultural traffic (estimated on the basis of
recent traffic surveys) has been taken into account while computing generated
traffic, since the transport savings in agricultural traffic is already
reflected in the farm income benefits calculated separately. Annex 14
presents the results of traffic projections, both normal and generated, for
1989 which is the year when the full extent of traffic generation would
materialize.
D.  Results
4.10    Annex 15 presents the economic benefit and cost streams related to the
project.  The project benefits have been estimated as described in the
foregoing sections. The project costs include all construction costs,
excluding taxes and price contingencies, but including physical contingencies,
supervision costs, and periodic maintenance costs. The costs also include the
price of land needed for the new alignnnent, estimated at its economic value
based on present productivity and yield. The stream of maintenance costs
shown in Annex 15 shows the net maintenlance costs on the new road compared to
the existing road; the negative costs reflect the fact that annual maintenance
costs are higher on the existing road, except when a major repaving is to be
done on the new road.
4.11    Annex 16 shows the results of economic return calculations, and of
various sensitivity tests. It will be seen that the road project yields a
good economic return, of about 22 percient, even on the conservative
assumptions used in the analysis.   The rate of return is 27 percent for the
section 0-10 km, and 21 percent for the 10-31 km section which is more
expensive to construct. Sensitivity analysis shows that the economic return
from the total road will be reduced by about 3 percent if agricultural
benefits are excluded. Even if costs were to go up by 20 percent and benefits
to be less by 20 percent than estimated, the rate of return would still be
high, about 17 percent. The project yields a first year return of 14 percent
using 12 percent discount rate. The project's net present value, at a
discount rate of 12 percent, would turn negative only if benefits declined by
55 percent below estimated levels, or costs increased by 122 percent above
estimated levels. The project investment is, therefore, strongly justified,
and is subject to no conceivable economic risk.



- 38 -
4.12     As noted before, the results described above are only for the road
project, accounting for 86 percent of the total project costs. It excludes
costs and benefits from the technical assistance, since the latter benefits,
though immense, are difficult to quantify. The technical assistance
components are about 14 percent of total. project costs. A composite rate of
return has been calculated taking total project costs including technical
assistance, but with project benefits only as quantified above (that is,
excluding benefits from technical assistance); the result shows a notional
rate of return from the overall project of about 20 percent.
E. Project Risks
4.13     Project risks relate to possible delays in implementation.  Adequate
technical assistance has been included in the project to help minimize delays
in project execution. This, along with actions initiated to invite bids for
the civil works and to recruit consultants, along with close supervision, by
the Association would minimize these project risks.  The experience gained by
HA in handling many similar projects in the past would be an additional factor
in minimizing risks. But for the above, the project is not subject to any
significant risk.
V. RECOMMENDATIONS
5.01     During negotiations, Government and HA have agreed with the
Association on the following:
(a) within nine months of completion of the Master Plan Study, Government
would agree with the Association on an action plan to implement
suitable reforms in the matter of road user charges (para. 1.33);
(b) HA would provide to the Association full annual statement of accounts
duly audited, within six months of the close of each financial year
(para. 2.30);
(c) HA would implement the technical assistance and training programs
under the project according to a schedule acceptable to the
Association, and in particular, would:
(1)  employ the needed experts not later than January 1, 1985, and
for the duration of the project;
(2) appoint suitable counterparts by January 1, 1985 to work with
the experts on a full time basis;
(3) recruit candidates for training in Yemen and abroad in
accordance with a program satisfactory to the Association;
(4) provide adequate incentives to ensure the recruitment of
trainees and candidates to be trained as instructors;



- 39 -
(5) monitor and evaluate the training program; and
(6) ensure suitable employment in HA for the HA personnel trained
under the program (paras. 3.09, 3.14);
(d)  Government would arrange to provide all necessary funds for the
project as and when required (para. 3.20);
(e) HA would provide IDA with a project completion report within six
months of the closing date of the credit (para. 3.24);
(f) HA would follow IDA Guidelines for procurement of civil works (para.
3.28) and for the selection and appQintment of consultants and
individual experts (para. 3.29);
(g) procurement of equipment, materials and supplies, the total cost of
which is estimated at about US$550,000 under the project, would be
made following local procurement rules of the YAR Government,
satisfactory to the Association (para. 3.31); and
(h) Government would acquire expeditiously, but note later than June 30,
1984 the land required for the realignment of the project (para.
3.32).
5.02     The Employment of Consultants, acceptable to the Association, for
supervising the civil works component of the above project is a condition of
credit effectiveness (para. 3.22).
5.03     With the agreements and understandings noted above, the proposed
project is suitable for an IDA credit of US$13 million equi\alent to YAR on
standard terms.



- 40 -
ANNEX 1
YEiMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
FIFTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
Documents in Project File
A. General Reports and Studies on the Transport Sector
1.   YAR Statistical Year Book 1981-CPO Statistical Department, April 1982.
2.   YAR - The Construction Industry - A Survey and Identification Report
- World Bank/UNIDO Cooperativre Program Report No. 17, July 1981.
3.   Target Cost Contracts for Road Projects in Developing Countries,
Howard Humphreys and Partners, May 1981.
4.   Laws and Regulations of the CYDA (1981).
B. General Reports and Studies Related to the Project
1.   Report on the Construction of the Ibb-Al Udayn Road (Tender
Documents, Feasibility and Engineering Studies) - Five Volumes
March 1983 by Consultants - SWECO.
2.   Ebb-Al Udayn Road Project:  Tender documents for procurement under
target cost contracting, SWECO, March 1983.
3.   Data and papers relating to YAR transport sector.
4.   Selected papers on economic analysis of the project prepared by the
Bank Appraisal Mission.
5.   Training Plan 1982-84 - HA, February 1983.
6.   Training Plan 1985-86 - HA, February 1983.
7.   World Bank Staff Appraisal Report of a Fourth Highway Project in YAR,
June 1982.
8.   Highway Maintenance Training Program.  Inception Report, Volume I.
PRC Harris Inc., May 1981.
9.   YAR - Three-Year Maintenance Program Study 1978--81, Volumes I and II
Final Report - Kampsax International and Louis Berger International
Inc., October 1978.
10. World Bank Staff Appraisal Report of a Third Highway Project in YAR,
April 1978.



YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
FIFTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
Main Government Agencies Dealing with Transport
Otie  HfOffice of the
Publi| PMAC  AuthorPresident
Works~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~rm
Roads | Other |   ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~          ~Mi isters
|~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Mnse of -4 Dprlnto
Mo l, 1983                                                                                                                                                        WorlP WksTnptnte
Sea       |      CM/I Avlatlon           Yernen            Road Transport     Miscellarvous  
Transpcxt          MeteoalbXw              Airway             Crbs                 Proibets    
Co poratlon   |       AuthoritY           Corportion           CO    ih
Source: HA
May '1983                                                                                                                                                                World Bank-24991
10
. x
N:



- 42 -
ANNEX 3
YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
FIFTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
Public Expenditures on Transport During 1976--1981
YR         US$ Equiv.
Million       Million    % of Total
A.  Infrastructure
1.  Main Highways                          1,583          352             41
Rural Roads                              650 /1       144             17
2,233          496            58
2. Ports
Hodeidah and Al Khatib                   233           52              6
Mocha                                     85           19             2
318           71             8
3. Airports
Sana'a, Hodeidah and Taiz                705          157             18
Seven Domestic Airports                    6            1            19
711          158            19
Total A                   3,262           725            85
B. Public Transport Companies
1.  General (Road) Transport Corp.            20            4
2.  Yemen Airways (Yemenia)                  558          124             15
Total B                     578           128            15
GRAND TOTAL               3,840            853          100
/1 Includes local contributions
Source: DOT, HA and Appraisal Mission
March 1983



- 43 -
ANNEC 4
YEMEN ARAB REIPUBLIC
FIFIH HIGHWY PROJECT
Existmg Main Road Network (HA)
(As of Decenber 31, 1982)
Paved                          Kn.          Upaed                       K.
SANA'A-HODEIDAH                226          KrlAB-ANNADERAH              30
AIMAaRAA-MANAKHA                 5          ASHOOL-HOBBISH                14
HKDAIDA-AL MAFRNQ              192          YARIM-A1D4LIL                 63
SANA'A-TAIZ                    256          AL YAKHAR-AL KAFR             25
SANA'A-SADAH                   242          YARIM-HOWBAN                 25
DAMAR-ALBADA                  168          YARIM-DAM'J                   53
TAIZ-TURBA                      70          IBB-AL UDDAYN                 31
TAIZ-AL MAFRAQ                  64          IBB-JIBIAH                     6
TAIZ-AL RAHIDA                  59          IBB-{tIBA                     85
SANA'A-ADDA                      6          IBB-BADAN                     19
SAN'A-SHIBAM                    34          TELEVISION ROAD               31
SANA'A-WADI DHAR                12          SBIBAM-AIMAWIJ                77
S'A-AIMATAR                     22          AL Q(IDA-DISSUFAL             10
SANA'A-JIHANA                   49          AL HOBAN-MAWIYA              39
SHI&kIILABARA-THELIA            15          TAIZ-SABAR                    11
AIRPORT-ALSAMA                  15          ASSAIRAH-MAKBA               24
HCUEIDAH-KATIB                  14
SANA'A-MRIB                    173          HADRAN-ARRAWNAH               26
ANRAN-HAJJA                     77          JABAL-HABASHI                 26
SADAH-DALIRAN                   80          YOUFRES                       4
JIB&4-MARIB                     30          ANASM-(DAS                   35
1,810          HODEBDH-SALIF                64
AL RUSBM-HAJJA               64
RAJTL-AL KADEM               23
AL MANSURIA-AL SUKHIA        20
HAIS-AL K(HA                 29
AL AWIYA ROAD                12
ASSUKINA-AL QBA-RAIBATE      29
AL SAMA-ARHAB                15
H0DEBAH-,JAIZAN             206
1,096
Source: HA and Appraisal Missicn
Mardh 1983



YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
FIFTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
HA Organization Chart
Highway Authority Headquarters
ACCthority       Directors
Deputy Chairnman &                                  P
Chief Me_h.    ChiefCons Chif Deign  TainigPoj.                                     unant          oresAccoChief Engir levr
Enginee                                              Monager                                              Administratlon D
SourceReAonal Offices
Managers
2          ~~~~Public    
|         ~~~Rblatlons
Source:~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ivso                                                                                Offce
May 1983                           .Word Bank-24992



)D24EN ARAB REPW3UBC
FIFIH HIGH1AY Pl40JECr
Design Stadards of Ibb-Al Udayn Road
(E: Existing Road; N: New Road)
Max.                           Pavemnt                      Shaxlders      Desig  Speed
Section         lIgth    Terrain  Gradient  Visibility    Surface type   Lane   Nwber  Surface type  width    (ban (h))
(Wi                   %         450 m     & Ccndition    width    of       & Ccndition     (5)
(%)                      (m)    lanes
E          0-5.45          5.45      Rolling       7          50       Gravel        Variable   2      Earth         Variable      35
(Bad)                           (Bad)       nmstly nme
N          0-5.45          5.45      Rolling       4          100      A.CJ1[        3.50        2      Stabilized    1.25         80
(Good)                          Gravel (Good)
E     5.45 -    10.0       4.55      Muntainous  12            70      Gravel        Variable   2       Eath         Variable      25
(Bad)         ( 3 m)            (Bad)        or im
N     5.45 -    10.0       4.55      Mbutainws    7            30      A.C.          3.50        2      Stabilized    0.75         60
(Good)                          Gravel (Good)
E    10.0 -      31.7     21.7       Mtutainous   18           80      Gravel/       Variable   2       Earth        Variable      20
Earth (Bad)   ( 3 m)            (Bad)         or rix
N    10.0 -      30.5L/2   20.5/2    Mountainous  12          40       A.C.          3.50        2      Stabilized    0.75         50
(Good)                          Gravel (Good)
/1 A.C. - As1phalt cocxrete.
/2The new aligmEnt is 1.2 km shorter than the existing cne.
Sotrce: SWEOO Study
March 1983



- 4f) -
ANNEX 7
YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
FIFTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
Proposed Technical Assistance to the HA
No of       Total
HA Unit                                                     Persons    Man/Months
Chief Engineer's
Office:                -  Chief Engineer                        1           24
-  Deputy Chief Engineer                 1           24
Mechanical Services
Division;              - Mechanical Engineer                    2           48
-  Machine Shop Superintendent           1           24
Maintenance
Division;              - Dep. Chief Maintenance Engineer        1           24
-  Maintenance Superintendent           2            48
Design
Division;              -  Chief Design Engineer                 1           24
-  Soils & Materials Engineer            1           24
-  Traffic Engineer                      1           24
Planning & Project.
Division;              -  Planning Engineer                     1           24
Construction
Division:              -  Construction Engineer                 1           24
-  Contracts Engineer                    1           24
Administration/Ac-
counting Division:    -  Chief Accountant                       1           24
-  Senior Accountant                    3            72
TOTAL                         18           432
Source: HA Headquarters and Bank Appraisal Mission
March 1983



- 47 -
ANNEX 8
Page 1 of 6
YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
FIFTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
Training Program
Manpower Requirements (1985-86)
Manporer                 Training
Courses            ------- Requirements -------         Program       To be   Short-
Shortfall  CYDA    HA    Total   1985   1986   Trained   fall
(1982-84)
1.  Road Supervisor                 7       11      7     25      16     10        26      -
2.  Plant Mechanic                  6      20      11     37      20     17        37      -
3.  Auto Mechanic                   1       4      14      19     12       8       20       -
4.  Machinist                      11        1      8     20    .12        8       20       -
5.  Welder                          4       -       4       8      4      4         8       -
6.  Plant Operator                 90      20      31    141      70      70      140       -
7.  Heavy Vehicle Driver          100       6      35    141      70     70       140      -
8.  Auto Electrician                5        1      7      13      6       7       13       -
9.  Storekeeper                    13        1      6     20       6      14       20       -
10. Accountant                      6       -       3      9       5      4         9      -
TOTAL               243       64    126    433    221    212        433
Source: VTC and. Appraisal Mission
March 1983



- 48 -
ANNEX 8
Page 2 of 6
YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
FIFTH E[IGHWAY PROJECT
Trai_ing Program
Number of Courses and Students to be Trained
Number of Courses    Intake    Total to
Courses                 Duration          per year             per         be
(months)     1985  1986  Total    Course        Trained
1.   Road Supervisor              6           2       1     3         8            24
2.   Plant Mechanic               6           2       2     4         10           40
3.   Auto Mechanic                6           2       -     2        12            24
4.   Machinist                    6           2       1      3         6           18
5.   Welder                       6           2       -      2        4             8
6.   Plant Operator               4           5       5    10        14            140
7.   Heavy Vehicle Driver         4           5       5    10        14            140
8.   Auto Electrician             6           2       -      2         6           12
9.   Storekeeper                  2           2       1     3         6            18
10.  Accountant                   2           1       1     2         5            10
TOTAL                         25    16    41         85           434
Source: VTC and Appraisal Mission
March 1983



49                                                    Annex 8
Page 3 of 6
YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
FIFrH HIGHWAY PROJECT
Trainingi Program
Training Calendar for Perod 1985-1986
1985                                  1986 _1987
Trade               1  2  3  4  5  6  7  8 | 9 |1011|121  2  3T    4 4  5 |6 17  8  9        1111 12 1  2  3  4  5  6  7  8  9 10 11 12
Road Supervisor
Plant Mechanic                               0     =
Auto MOchanic
Machinist
Welder                                                                                                                    Ban-299
Plant Operator
H.V. Driver                 
Auto Electrician
Storekeeper
Accountant                           
V.T.C.                On-the-job Training
Source: Appraisal Mission)
May 1983                                                                               ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~World Bank-24993



- 50 -
/,
ANNEX 8
Page 4 of E
YBNl ARAB REPELIC
FIFUI HIGQI4Y PROJECf
5xpetriate and Yemeni Comterparts
Service Period    (Ecpatriates)     Man/kinths
Post                       Expatriate     Y/Coimterpart          1985 --    - 1986-             (expatriates)
1. aCief Trainiig Divisia/Div. VIC            1                1                                                    24
2. Chief RMU                                  1                1                                                    24
3. Chief MWPU                                 1                1          _   ___                     _             24
4. Persaxmel Msnagent Systen Expert           1                1                                                     6
5. Rad Supervisor                             1                2                                                    24
6. Plait Maeiaic                              1                3                               _                    24
7. Auto Mdcanicl/                             -                3                                                    15
1/
8. Yachinist                                  -                1                            -                       18
9. Welder Y                                   -                1                                                    15
10. Plant Operator                            1                3                                                    24
11. H. V. Driver-.                            -                3                                       _            24
12. Auto Electricias- -                                        3                                                    15
13. Storeceeper                               1                1                                                    12
14. Accountant                                1                1                                                     6
TCIIPiL                          9               22/                                                  255
1/ The folliing six Yemeii cmterparts for Auto Mechanic (1), Machinist (1), Welder (1), Plant Operator (1),
and H.V. Drivers (2) will be able to take over as instructors after the Training Progran 1982-84 ard
therefore no expa,riate experts are needed for these posts.
2/ They include the six instructors above, 13 counterparts cmuing fran progran 1982-84
and six nrew counterparts. The six new ones respectively for Chief of Training
Division, Chief of RIPU, Chief of MM, Persariel Managenent Systen Expert, Storekeeper and
Accountant.
Source: VrC and Appraisal Missicn
March 1983



- 51 -
ANNEX 8
Page 5 of 6
ME ARAB REPU IC
FIFT HIC0.Y PROJECT
Training Progran
Fellowships. Proposed Field of Specialization and Country of Training
of Yemni Counterparts. (1985-86)
Duratimx                                                        Country where
Post                moths             Field of Specialization          Nurber       training is sought
1. Chief of Training         4 - 6        Progran development and                One        Central Staff Training
curricula design . Determiin-                    and Research Institute,
ing training needs.  Skills                      Calcutta - India.
analysis Training Center and its
mnagement.
2. Director V.T.C.            4-6                -   do   -                       One             -   do    -
3. Persomiel Management,   4 - 6          Personnel evaluation.  Job              One       N.I.T.E/National Pro-
classification,                       evaluation.  Productivity,                        ductive Council,
control and Follw-up                  Human Relations, Statistical                      India
techniques. Behavioral
Science. J6b and Skill analysis.
4.  Instructors                12         Instructor training.  On-the-         Eleven      Central Training Insti-
job training.  Pedagogy and                      tute, Bobay.
teaching methods.
Source: VTC and Appraisal Mission
March 1983



- 52 -
ANNEX 8
Page 6 of 6
YEMEN ARAS REPUBLIC
FIFTH HIGHWAY PRDJECT
Tran   Progra
Proposed Budget
(CR)
% of
YAR         IDA         Total      Foreign
Expendi-
ture
Non Recurrent Expenditures
1. Equipment, tools and visual aids                   20,000       410,00()     430,00      95
2. Vehicles                                             -           70,00()      70,000   100
Sub-total                          20,000      480,000       500,000
Recurrent Expenditures
1.  Cost of nine experts (255nVm x US$3000/month)   700,000    2,800,00Cl    3,500,000    80
2.  Fellowships                                         -          800,000      800,000   100
3.  Salaries Yemeni Staff                           1,400,000         -        1,400,000    -
4.  Per diem                                        1,200,000         -        1,200,000    -
5.  Office expenses                                    50,000         -           50,000    -
6.  Training Materials and suppiesl                  360,000    1,440,000    1,800,000    80
7.  Travelling expenses                              100,000          -          100,000    -
Sub-total                       3,810,000    5,040,000    8,850,00
TOIAL (YR)                      3,830,000    5,520,000    9,350,000    60
TCrAL (US$)                     0.8 rmillion  1.3 mnillion  2.1 million
1/ Including fuel, oil and lubricants used for the training progran.
Source: VWC and Appraisal Mission
March 1983.



- 53 -
YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC                    ANNEX 9
Page 1 of 3
FIFTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
Technical Assistance for Training of Road
Maintenance Personnel
Outline of Terms of Reference
I. OBJECTIVES
1.       The objectives of the technical assistance (T/A) for training will
consist of assisting HA in:
(i)  strengthening the existing Training Division;
(ii) providing continuity to the on-going Training Program (1982-84);
(iii)  determining training courses and manuals to be used;
(iv) proposing adequate fellowships for selected HA staffing; and
(v) determining and recruiting additional staff needed for HA operations.
II. SCOPE AND SERVICES
A. General
2.       The training program aims at improving the technical capacity of
about 430 trainees. It will strengthen and expand on-going training
activities and will include most of the maintenance activities from road
supervisors, mechanics and drivers to storekeepers and accountants. The
expatriate T/A group in charge of the training will consist of a training
advisor, acting as Chief of the Training Division and a team including an
expert on Personnel Management Systems and seven instructors. Most of the
instructors will likely be the same as in the previous training program
(1982-84) under an extended contract. The training advisor will coordinate
the team and will be responsible for the implementation of the training
component before the HA Chief Engineer.
B. Expansion of Previous Training Program
3.       The training advisor will review and examine the training activities
carried out by HA under the previous Training Program (1982-84). Based on the
conclusions obtained and lessons learned he/she will:
(i)  assist HA in upgrading the Training Division to enable it to carry
out present and future expanding activities in the VTC, RTPU and
MTPU; and
(ii) determine with the assistance of the Personnel Management Systems
expert provided under the pr(esent Training Program actions to be
taken to improve HA personneL management systems including personnel
recruitment, classification and career development.
All these activities should be complet-ed in about one month.



54 -
ANNEX 9
Page 2 of 3
C. Preparation of Training Program 1985-86
4.       The training advisor, once the review in para. 3 above is completed,
will prepare a detailed training program and will:
(i)  determine and agree with HA on the personnel requiring training and
upgrading during the two-year program.  The list prepared should
specify the category/level, education and HA regional office of
precedence for each person;
(ii)  develop a program for different categories and level of personnel
based on HA's manpower requirements and budgetary constraints;
(iii)  prepare a fellowship program for selected personnel;
(iv)  advise HA on recruitment of additional staff;
(v)  determine and detail courses to be implemented;
(vi)  advise and assist on the selection of HA instructors who will take
over the program after 1986;
(vii)  assist in purchasing training equipment and materials;
(viii)  monitor and evaluate the training program;
(ix)  recommend actions for satisfactory implementation of the program; and
(x)  estimate annual budget for the program.
Above activities should be completed before two months and agreed upon with HA
and IDA.
D. Implementation of Training Program (1985-86)
5.       During the implementation of the program the training advisor will:
(i)  assist in implementing the agreed program and ensure on-the-job
training for HA's counterparts;
(ii)  organize periodic seminars onL training for headquarters senior staff,
district engineers and field supervisors; and
(iii)  carry out any action for the satisfactory implementation of training.
III.  REPORTING
6.       The training advisor will be responsible for:
(i)  an inception report within first four months, detailing training
needs, recommendations to meet them and resources needed to implement
the program;
(ii)  quarterly reports describing the works and achi-evements of the
previous quarter and identifying actual and anticipated difficulties
in implementing the program; and
(iii)  draft final report two monthEs prior to completion of program
summarizing whole program, progress made, benefits from the program,
goals not achieved and recommendations.  After comments and approval
by HA and IDA, the final report will be issued including these
comments.



- 55 -
ANNEX 9
Page 3 of 3
IV. THE ROLE OF HA
7.       The contribution of HA will consist of:
(i) providing adequate counterparts to expatriate training specialists
and Yemeni instructors;
(ii) selecting suitable staff to be trained as instructors;
(iii) releasing staff needed to attend agreed training courses;
(iv) providing road maintenance equipment and spare parts for RTPU and
MTPU as needed; and
(v) providing funds and any other resources required for implementing the
agreed training program.



YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
FIFTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
Project Implementation Schedule
1983                1984                  1985                 1986                 1987
Item        ActMty                Resp~~~~~~~utorsibl
Item  cRAupthoOrsityvl '     2    3    4    1    2 1   1    2    3    4    1    2    3    4    I    2    3    4
I. IDA Credit        (i) End Negotiations         IDA/Govt./HA      5/ia A
(iI) Board Presentation     IDA                        A
(iii) Signature             IDA/Govt./HA                A 8/9
(iv) Effectiveness          IDA/Govt./HA                   A
(v) Closing                 IDA                                                                                                                   A
II. Ibb-Al Udayn Road    (i) Tender Documents     HA/Consult.
Construction       (ii) IDA Approval            IDA
(iii) Bidding Period
(Iv)App. Supn. Consultant
for Bid Execution        HA                          A
(v) Evaluation of Bids      HA/Consult,
(vi) IDA Approval           IDA                              0
(vii) Award of Contract
(viii) Slgnature of Contract  HA/Contractor
(ix) Construction           HA/Contractor                         _   _          m    _    _
Il1. Supervision of   (i) Preparation of Documents    HA                  *T                                                                      J
Construction,     (ii) Evaluation ot Proposals                                                                                                                                               an
(Consultants)   .     & Selection              HA/IDA
(ill) Superv. of Bidding/
Contracting              HA/Consult.
(iv) Superv. of Constr. Works  HA/Consult.                        -    m    m    -                    -.
IV. T/A for Institutional    (i) New/Renewed Contracts    HA
Support to HA     (il) IDA Approval             IDA            
(ill) Signature of Contracts  HA                                               |
(Iv) Employment             Experts
V.T/A for Training    (I) New/Renewed Contracts    HA
(il) IDA Approval           IDA
(ill) Signature of Contracts  HA
(iv) Employment             Experts                                                   -    -    -    -           -    -    -
|\1. Training Equipment   (i) Preparation of Documents    HA
(ii) IDA Approval           IDA           
(iii) Bidding               HA
(iv) Evaluation of Bids     HA
(v) IDA Approval            IDA
(vi) Award                  HA
(vii) Supply                Suppliers
Source: Appraisal Mission
May 1983                                                                                                                                                   World Bank-24994



- 57 -
YRqN ARAB REPUBLC
FIf HI}IAY PRlJECT
Project Monitoring Indices
Actual as percent-       Reason (if mrW)     Actios to be
Project Canpnent                                          Estimated     Actual       age (%) of Estimated      for Difference           t&en
I,  Ibb-Al LUayn Road Cmstruction
(i)    Contract award (date)
(ii)   Fonration/eardworks completed (m3)
(iii)  Sub-base and base completed (le)
(iv)   Shoulders completed (km)
(v)    Asphalt concrete paving (Ea)
(vi)   Drainage structures, culverts (units)
(vii)  Construction work cansleted (date)
(viii) Maintenance work ccmpleted (date)
(ix)   Caspletion certificate (date)
(x)    Final Cost
II. Supervision of Construction
(i)   lI.V  for each expert
(ii)   Final cost
III.       T/A for Institutional Support to HA
(i)    N   for each expatriate expert
(ii)   M/m for each Yeneni counterpart
(iii) Dates of replacement of experts by counterparts
(iv)   Final cost of expatriate experts
(v)    Final cost of whole canpor.ent
IV. T/A for Train.in
(i)   M/m for each expatriate instructor
(ii)   N/m for Yeneni instructors
(iii)  Nanber of Yemeni instructors trained and dates
(iv)   Nmber of Yemeni instructors replacing
expatriate experts and dates
(v)    limber of courses, dates and duration
(vi)   Nnber of trainees
(vii)  Final cost of expatriate experts
(viii) Final cost of whole caaponent
V. Training  Euipment
(i)    Selection of suppliers
(ii)   Ctotract awards (dates ead costs)
(iii)  Periods of delivery
(iv)   Equipent delivered
(v)    Final costs
Source: Appraisal Mission
My 1983



- 58 -
ANNEX 12
YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
FIFTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
Schedule of Estimated Disbursements
(US  Million equivalent)
IDA Fiscal Year                     Ctmulative Disbursement         Percentage
and Quarter                            at End of Quarter           of Total
IDA      Government   Total       Disbursement
FY 1984
September 30, 1983                --
December 31, 1983                 -            -
March 31, 1984                   0.1           -          0.1            -
June 30, 1984                    0.5           -          0.5            1
FY 1985
September 30, 1984               0.9          1.3         2.2            6
December 31, 1984                1.8          3.0         4.8           14
March 31, 1985                   2.6          4.5         7.1           20
June 30, 1985                    4.0          6.8        10.8           30
FY 1986
September 30, 1985               5.5          9.6        15.1           45
December 31, 1985                6.8         11.8        18.6           52
March 31, 1986                   8.1         14.1        22.2           62
June 30, 1986                    9.2         16.4        25.3           71
FY 1987
September 30, 1986              10.2         17.9        28.1           79
December 31, 1986               11.3         19.7        31.0           87
March 31, 1987                  11.8         20.4        32..2          91
June 30, 1987                   12.1         21.2        33.,3          94
FY 1988
September 30, 1987              12.5         21.7        34.2           96
December 31, 1987               13.0         22.5        35.5          100
Source: Appraisal Mission Estimates
May 1983



- 59 -
ANNEX 13
YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
FIFTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
Estimated Vehicle Operating Costs
(in YR per Vehicle-Km.)
(March 1983 Prices)
Section                        Cars /1    Pick-ups   6-Ton Trucks   10-Ton Trucks
0 - 10km          E 12            1.44        2.21          3.95              6.34
N /3            0.96        1.65          2.93             4.56
10 - 31km         E               1.71        3.14          5.22             N.A. /4
N               1.03        1.91          3.45             5.23
Notes;
/1      Includes jeeps and land cruisers.
/2  E = Existing Road Conditions.
/3  N = Conditions on Upgraded road.
14      No traffic in such trucks at present.
Source: Consultants, SWECO, and Bank Appraisal Mission.
March 1983



YEMEN     REuBLIC
FIFi HIGHIAY PROJECr
Estimated Vehicle Traffic on the Project Road
(Ibb-Alf n)
Road Section                                     1982                                                      198)
6-Ton     10-Ton                                          6-Ton      10-Ton
0-10 M                Cars/Jeeps    Pickups    Trucks    Trucks    Total    Cars/Jeeps    Pi               Trcks    Truicks    Total
Nonnaa                 560           510         230        0        1,300        1,324        612        474         48       2,458
Generated                0             0           0        0           0          516         220         47          6         789           0
Total                  560           510         230        0        1,300        1,840        832        521         54       3,247
10-31 Km
Nanmal                 265           265          70        0          600         635         319        154         48       1,156
Generated                0             0           0        0           0          318         153         22          6         499
Total                  265           265          70        0          600         953         472        176         54       1,655
Note; It is assumed that with the inpraved road, part of the normal growth in pickups traffic will switdi to cars and trucks.
Source: Consultants SW30, and Bank Appraisal Mission.
March 1983.



- 59 -
ANNEX 13
YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
FIFTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
Estimated Vehicle_Operating Costs
(in YR per Vehicle-Km.)
(March 1983 Prices)
Section                         Cars /1    Pick-ups   6-Ton Trucks   10-Ton Trucks
0 - lOkm          E /2             1.44        2.21           3.95             6.34
N /3            0.96        1.65           2.93              4.56
10 - 31km         E                1.71        3.14           5.22             N.A. /4
N               1.03         1.91          3.45             5.23
Notes:
/1      Includes jeeps and land cruisers.
/2 E = Existing Road Conditions.
/3 N = Conditions on Upgraded road.
/4      No traffic in such trucks at present.
Source: Consultants, SWECO, and Bank Appraisal Mission.
March 1983



YEEN      RE UBLIC
FIFIH HIGIIY PDJECT
Estimated Vehicle Traffic on the Project Road
Road Section                                     1982-                                                     1989
6-Ton     10-Ton                                          6-Ton      10-Ton
0-10 KM               Cars/Jeeps    Pickups    Trucks    Trucks    Total    Cars/Jeeps    Pickups    Trucks    Trucks    Total
Nonnal                 560           510         23         n        1.300        1,324        612        474         48       2,458            1
Generated                0             0           0        0           0          516         220         47          6         789           C
Total                  560           510         230        0        1,300        1,840        832        521         54       3,247
10-31 Km
Normal                 265           265          70        0         600          635         319        154         48       1,156
Generated                0             0           0        0           0          318         153         22          6         499
Total                  265           265          70        0         600          953         472        176         54       1,655
Note: It is assuried that with the improved road, part of the normal growth in pickups traffic will switch to cars and trucks.
Source: Consultants SWEC, and Bank Appraisal Mission.
March 1983.
XS



- 6:L -
ANNEX 15
Y&EN  ARAB REPUBLIC
FIFIH HI(AY PROJECr
Econxoic Costs and Benef.its StreanE Relating to the
Upgrading of the Ibb-Al Udayn Road (0-32 km)
(in cstant  rices, March 1983)
(in '000 YR)
Benefits                                   Cost
Savings in
Vehicle Operating    Agricultural    Project Investments    Net Maintenance
Years            Costs           Benefits                                   Costs
1984        0                     0                 33,900                  0
1985        0                     0                 56,500                  0
1986        0                     0                 22,600                  0
1987        15,865                2,546              0                      -223
1988         18,648               3,234              0                      -237
1989        21,045                4,104              0                      -253
1990        22,728                5,211              0                      -268
1991        24,545                6,620              0                      -280
1992        26,508                8,417              0                      -287
1993        28,628               10,694              0                      -300
1994        30,917               13,569              0                      -315
1995        33,390               15,000              0                      -335
1996        36,060                  t                0                      -350
1997        37,861                  "                0                      -370
1998        39,752                  "                0                      6620
1999        41,739                  "                0                      -405
2000        43,824                  "                0                      -430
2001        46,013                  "                0                      -455
2002        48,312                  '                0                      -485
2003         50,725                 "                0                      -500
2004         53,260                 "                0                      -520
2005        55,920                                   0                      -535
2006         58,714                 "                0                      -545
Source; Consultants SWEGO, and Bank Appraisal Mission.
March 1983



- 62 -
ANNEX 16
YEMEN ASAB REPUBLIC
FIFTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
Results of Economic Analysis
Ibb-Al Udayn Road Upgrading Rates of Return and Sensitivity Analysis
Description                      0 - lOkm             10 - 31km            0 - 31km
Base Cost                          27.0                  21.0                22.0
Costs Up By 10%                    25.0                  1Si.0               21.0
Costs Up By 20%                    24.0                  18.0                20.0
Benefits Down By 10%               25.0                  19.0                21.0
Benefits Down By 20%               23.0                  18.0                19.0
Benefits Down By 50%               16.0                  12.0                13.0
Costs Up By 20% and )
Benefits down by 20%)              20.0                  15.0                17.0
Costs Up By 10% and )
Benefits down by 50%)              15.0                  11.0                12.0
First Year Return
(Using 12% discount rate)/l      19.0                   12.0                14.0
Rate of Return if Agr.
Benefits are excluded             25.0                  16.0                19.0
/1 Underestimated, to the extent generated traffic will take about 3 years
to build up after first year.
Note: Decimals rounded off.
Source: Consultants SWECO, and Bank Appraisal Mission.
March 1983



IBRD 17074R
i ^>¢  '   s   q   ,,  44,                                                                                  SEI'EMBER 1953
RRiiU4  "       . IROU  SLUICRER                                                                                                          YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
>  tONE KUWA/T    k D ;e                    \  ~~~~~S A U D I   A R A B I AFIFTHHIGHW YPRO EC
-A     'SSAD   AARAFIFTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
S         / E^H'N D^TA-                                    D b                                                                    TRANSPORT NETWORK
S' 5AUOI                                                         ARAEIA U AtE.   _   ..   ::   .. Project Rood
~~~~- ~~~~~Novo                                                        Frst,Second aind Tir    ih-ao Proiect
SL'                  _. OANC t ~'                       '    n  1  9                   O    N  . I ,                               _     Rood  Constructed
/ <  F  > PSAPSE'°YS REDME       /           V    (  X     ,             r                                             Fourth Hlihway Prorect
J       Rep O~ EMN                            I-.\ 1\                 /l- R                                                            oad U nde r C onstruction
0'  ETtAPIA -f                        , -                 /      I \--A  Paved  Roods
So {   X SOMALIA                         >   )    B \  )             ,2        >                                  --_Paved Roads under Construction
IP',   .F                                               A            D A        H                                       -c      Other Roads
J1zr /\                       j                                                                                  ®> <0J  y\   (     -  National Capitals
\osdoh                                                      0    Cities, Towns and Villages
--                                                                            4.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-   Main Ports
0    S    I \   <\   t    -      'AF'                               *    International Airports
\  .O' '                               Provincial Boundaries
,I X2z_g1        ,                    I    /\ WX                                    International Boundaries
Wadis
_. or y    (  < 2 >            \  )                                             -210D- Contours in meters
tHldi  /   X                f X                                  a
t  X   <~~~J        a             z    //                                                               20   40   60   80   100
0            20           40            60
'o7  .U//                                                               ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~MiLES
'AN
S. .,dif                                                                  J.h-9       /Xw.    
B.~~~~~~~~~~~~K
-A\y'"\g\11 
t4                                                                                                                                                                                             t4~~~~~~~A 
Al K.uk-                  f .\hw                                            ~                             A 
-oI '|, ;> s oPEOPLE'S   DEMOCRATIC   REPUBLIC   OF   YEMEN
,Cpub, b                                                              l:
B rHIOPIA  .-    -               /                        CQ-.- -- -~~~~~~~~t. >-  ' .stj          DEN
E T h I  O P I A ' - ~
/                                                                         GL/( ',    QiF  liVf-EY
./             DJIBOUTI                                                                                                                R                   R        ttOtiDR  EDbmS IoCROt
42h rI fR R Ot ot CUD no, e 001* oDO fFfCo.rSSDIIrCoR  fOtDRD   AOCOOOO
/              '                                                                                       F th I tf t Slat s 0e a/ry ttsf t fT for 5srxrt tT aF762MreCe of JaCh tdM 10. DIESDC 15ODOS O SW DODOROR DRRORDIOD REDO EDOCDR
/                                                                           a,



