OFFICIAL
DOCU MENTS GREDIT NIMBER 1413 YAR
Development Credit Agreement
(Fifth Highway Projeet)
between
YMNARA REPUBLIC
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated                         , 1983
ml3


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 1413 YAR
DEVELOPKENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated         U{A    7   1            , 1983, between
YEMEN ARAB   REPUBLIC  (hereinafter  called   the  Borrower)  and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the
Association).
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the
provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Development
Credit Agreements of the Association, dated June 30, 1980, with
the same force and effect as if they were fully set forth herein
(said  General   Conditions  Applicable   to  Development  Credit
Agreements of   the  Association being   hereinafter called    the
General Conditions).
Section 1.02.   Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the
General Conditions have the respective meanings therein set forth
and the term "Authority" means the Highway Authority of the
Borrower, established and operating pursuant to the Borrower's
Decree No. 16 of 1972.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section  2.01. The    Association  agrees  to  lend  to  the
Borrower, on the terms and conditions in the Development Credit
Agreement set   forth  or referred   to, an   amount  in various
currencies equivalent to twelve million Special Drawing Rights
(SDR 12,000,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from
the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule
1 to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended from time to
time by agreement between the Borrower and the Association, for
expenditures made (or, if the Association shall so agree, to be
made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services
required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit.


﻿-2-
Section 2.03. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, procurement of the goods and civil works required for the
Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agree-
ment.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1987 or
such later date as the Association shall establish. The Associa-
tion shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.05. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association
a commitment charge at.the rate of one-half of one per cent (1/2
of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit not with-
drawn from time to time. The commitment charge shall accrue from
a date sixty days after the date of this Agreement to the respec-
tive dates on which amounts shall be withdrawn by the Borrower
from the Credit Account or shall be cancelled.
(b) The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places
as the Association shall reaso-aably request; (ii) without
restrictions of any kind imposed by, or in the territory of, the
Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this Agreement
for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in
such other eligible currency or currencies as may from time to
time be designated or selected pursuant to the provisions of that
Section.
Section 2.06. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4
of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn
and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.07. Commitment charges and service charges shall
be payable semiannually on June 1 and December 1 in each year.
Section 2.08. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Credit in semiannual installments payable on each June L
and December 1, commencing December 1, 1993, and ending June 1,
2033, each installment to and including the installment payable
on June 1, 2003, to be one-half of one per cent (1/2 of 1%) of
such principal amount, and each installment thereafter to be one
and one-half per cent (1-1/2%) of such principal amount.
Section 2.09. The currency of the United States of America
is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the
General Conditions.


﻿ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. The Borrower shall carry out the Project
through the Authority with due diligence and efficiency and in
conformity   with  appropriate   financial,  administrative   and
engineering practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the
funds, facilities, services and other resources required for the
purpose.
Section 3.02.' (a) In order to assist the Borrower in the
following matters, the Borrower shall employ: (i) engineering
consultants, to assist in the supervision of the construction
under Part A of the Project, and (ii) by January 1, 1985,
technical, management and training consultants, to assist in
carrying out Part B of the Project.
(b) The said consultants shall: (i) have qualif1rations,
experience and terms and conditions of employment satisfactory to
the  Association; and   (ii)  be   selected  in  accordance. with
principles and procedures satisfactory to the Association on the
basis of the "Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank
Borrowers and by the World Bank as Executing Agency" published by
the Bank in August 1981.
(c) The Borrower    shall  caus,  the  Authority  to assign
qualified staff in adequate numbers to work, on a full-time
basis, with the consultants to be employed pursuant to paragraph
(a) (ii) of this Section for the duration of their employment.
Section 3.03. (a) The Borrower undertakes to insure, or make
adequate provision for the insurance of, the imported goods to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit against hazards
incident to the acquisition, transportation and delivery thereof
to the place of use or installation, and for such insurance any
indemnity shall be payable in a currency freely usable by the
Borrower to replace or repair such goods.
(b) The Borrower shall cause all goods and services
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit to be used exclusively
for the purposes of the Project.
Section 3.04. The Borrower shall carry out the training
program under Part B (2) of the Project in accordance with


﻿policies  and   procedures  satisfactory  to   the  Association,
including those relating to:
(a) the criteria for the selection of the candidates for
such training and particulars of their training;
(b) the provision of adequate incentives and guarantees of
employment to ensure the recruitment, in a timely manner and in
adequate numbers, of qualified candidates for such training and,
thereafter, the employment of such candidates by the Authority
upon completion of their training, other than those candidates
selected for training on behalf of the Confederation of Yemeni
Development Associations; and
(c) the proper monitoring and evaluation of the said
training program.
Section 3.05. (a) The Borrower shall furnish to the Associa-
tion, promptly upon their preparation, the plans, specifications,
reports, contract documents and work and procurement schedules
for the Project, and any material modifications thereof or
additions thereto, in such detail as the Association shall
reasonably request.
(b) The Borrower: (i) shall maintain records and procedures
adequate to record and monitor the progress of the Project
(including its cost and the benefits to be derived from it), to
identify the goods and services financed out of the proceeds of
the Credit, and to disclose their use in the Project; (ii) shall
enable the Association's representatives to visit the facilities
and construction sites included in the Project and to examine the
goods financed out of the proceeds of the Credit and any relevant
records and documents; and (iii) shall furnish to the Association
at regular intervals all such information as the Association
shall reasonably request concerning the Project, its cost and,
where appropriate, the benefits to be .derived from it, the
expenditure of the proceeds of the Credit and the goods and
services financed out of such proceeds.
(c) Upon the award by the Borrower of any contract for
goods, works or services to be financed out of the proceeds of
the Credit, the Association may publish a description thereof,
the name and nationality of the party to whom the contract was
awarded and the contract price.


﻿(d) Promptly after completion of the Project, but in any
event not later than six months after the Closing Date or such
later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower
and the Association, the Borrower shall prepare and furnish to
the Association a report, of such scope and in such detail as the
Association shall reasonably request, on the execution and
initial operation of the Project, its cost and the benefits
derived and to be derived from it, the performance by the
Borrower and the Association of their respective obligations
under this Agreement and the accomplishment of the purposes of
the Credit.
Section 3.06. The Borrower shall take or cause to be taken
all such action as shall be necessary to acquire, by June 30,
1984, all such land and rights in respect of land as shall be
required for carrying out the Project and shall furnish to the
Association,   promptly   after   such   acquisition,   evidence
satisfactory to the Association that such land and rights in
respect of land are available for purposes related to the
Project.
ARTICLE IV
Other Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall cause the Authority to
maintain  records  adequate   to  reflect  in   accordance  with
consistently maintained appropriate accounting practices the
operations and financial condition of the Authority.
(b) The iorrower shall cause the Authority to: (i) have its
accounts and financial statements (balance sheets, statements of
income and expenses and related statements) for each fiscal yeaZ
,audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing principles
consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the
Association;  (ii)  furnish  to  the  Association   as  soon  as
available, but in any case not later than six months after the
end of each such year, (A) certified copies of its financial
statements for such year as so audited and (B) the report of such
audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the
Association shall have reasonably requested; and (iii) furnish to
the Association such other information concerning the accounts
and financial statements of the Authority and the audit thereof
as the Association shall from time to time reasonably request.


﻿-6-
Section 4.02. The Borrower shall, upon completion of the
highway master plan under Part E.1 of the Third Highway Project
being carried out pursuant to the Development Credit Agreement
dated May 31, 1978 between the Borrower and the Association,
consult  with   the  Association   on  the  recommendations  and
conclusions relating thereto and, within nine months of the date
of such completion, formul.ate a system of road user charges based
on   such  recommendations  and   conclusions  and,   thereafter,
implement the same in accordance with a program satisfactory to
the Association.
Section 4.03. The Borrower shall at all times cause its road
system and road maintenance equipment to be maintained and all
necessary repairs and renewals thereto to be made in accordance
with appropriate engineering standards and routine and periodic
maintenance practices.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination
Section 5.01. The following event is specified as an
additional condition to the effectiveness of the Development
Credit Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of the
General Conditions, namely, that the Borrower has employed the
consultants referred to in. Section 3.02 (a) (i) of this
Agreement.
Section 5.02. The date                        /   is hereby
specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Condi-
tions.
Section 5.03. The obligations of the Borrower under Sections
4.01 and 4.03 of this Agreement shall cease and determine on the
date on which this Agreement shall terminate or on a date twenty
years after the date of this Agreement, whidhever shall be the
earlier.
ARTICLE VI
Representatives of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 6.01. The Minister of Development and Chairman of
the Central Planning Organization of the Borrower is designated


﻿as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section
11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Central Planning Organization
?.0. Box 175
Sana'a
Yemen Arab Republic
Cable address:                      Telex:
CENPLAN                           2266 CENPLAN YE
Sana'a
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                      Telex:
INDEVAS                           440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                  248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year
first above written.
0                                 YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
By
Authorized Repr sentative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By
Reg nal Vice President
Europe, Middle East and North Africa


﻿-8-
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the
amounts of the Credit to *each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated           % of
(Expressed in        Expenditures
Category              SDR Equivalent)     to be Financed
(1) Civil works               6,820,000        30%
(2) Training equipment,         460,000        100% of foreign
materials and                             expenditures and
supplies                                  80% of local
expenditures for
items procured
locally
(3)  Consultants' services     920,000     )
for supervision of                    )
construction under                     )
Part A of the Project                 )   100% of foreign
)   expenditures
(4) Consultants' services     2,800,000    )
for Part B of the                     )
Project                               )
(5) Unallocated               1,000,000
TOTAL              12,000,000
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a) the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of any country other than that of the Borrower for
goods or services supplied from the territory of any country
other than that of the Borrower; and


﻿-9-
(b) the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied from
the territory of the Borrower.
3.   The disbursement percentages have been calculated in com-
pliance with the policy of the Association that the proceeds of
the Credit shall not be disbursed on account of payments for
taxes levied by, or in the territory of, the Borrower on goods or
services, or on the importation, manufacture, procurement or
supply thereof; on this basis, if the amount of any such taxes
levied on or in respect of items in any Category decreases or
increases, the Association may, by notice to the Borrower,
increase or decrease the disbursement percentage then applicable
to such Category as required to be consistent with the aforemen-
tioned policy of the.Association.
4.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph I above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments made for
expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement, except that
withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not exceeding $250,000, may
be made in respect of Category (3) on account of payments made
before that date but after September 1, 1983.
5.   Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Credit or
the disbursement percentages set forth in the table in paragraph
1 above, if the Association has reasonably estimated that the
amount of the Credit then allocated to any Category will be in-
sufficient to finance the agreed percentage of all expenditures
in that Category, the Assoriation may, by notice to the Borrower:
(i) reallocate to such Category, to the extent required to meet
the estimated shortfall, proceeds of the Credit which are then
allocated to another Category and which in the opinion of the
Association are not needed to meet other expenditures, and (ii)
if such reallocation cannot fully meet the estimated shortfall,
reduce the disbursement percentage then applicable to such
expenditures in order that further withdrawals under such
Category may continue until all expenditures thereunder shall
have been made.
6.   If the Association shall have reasonably determined that the
procurement of any item in any Category is inconsistent with the
procedures set forth or referred to in this Agreement, no
expenditure for such item shall be financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit, and the Association may, without in any way
restricting or limiting any other right, power or remedy of the


﻿- 10 -
Association under this Agreement, by notice to the Borrower,
cancel such amount of the Credit as, in the Association's reason-
able opinion, represents the amount of such expenditure which
would otherwise have been eligible for financing out of the
proceeds of the Credit.


﻿- 11 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
d                  The Project consists of the following Parts:
Part A:
Upgreding to paved standards of the Ibb-Al Udayn road for
about 32 km, including realignment, diainag- struct1-res and
retaining walls therefor.
Part B:
The carrying out of a program to strengthen the road
maintenance capability of the Authority through, inter alia:
(1) the provision of appropriate technical and managerial
support; and
(2) the training of road maintenance personnel, including
formal instruction and on-the-job training for about
450 persons, fellowships for about 150 man-months for
training abroad of selected staff, and the provision of
training equipment, materials and supplies therefor.
The Project is expected to be completed by February 28,
1987.
#0


﻿- 12 -
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement
A.   International Competitive Bidding
1.   Civil works shall be procured under contracts awarded in
accordance with procedures consistent with those set forth in the
current edition of the "Guidelines for Procurement under World
Bank Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Bank in March 1977
(hereinafter   called   the  Guidelines),   on   the   basis  of
international competitive bidding as described in Part A of the
Guidelines.
2.   For works to be procured on the basis of international com-
petitive bidding, in addition to the requirements of paragraph
1.2 of the Guidelines, the Borrower shall prepare and forward to
the Association as soon as possible, and in any event not later
than 60 days prior to the date of availability to the public of
the first tender or prequalification documents relating thereto,
as the case may be, a general procurement notice, in such form
and detail and containing such information as the Association
shall reasonably request; the Association will arrange for the
publication of such notice in order to provide timely notifica-
tion to prospective bidders of the opportunity to bid for the
works in question. The Borrower shall provide the necessary
information to update such notice annually so long as any works
remain to be procured on the basis of international competitive
bidding.
B.   Other Procurement Procedures
Goods shall be procured in accordance with such of the
Borrower's applicable procurement procedures as are satisfactory
to the Association.
S4kC.             Review of Procurement Decisions by the Association
1.   Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and
final contracts:
With respect to all contracts for works:
(a) Before bids are invited, the Borrower shall furnish to
the Association, for its comments, the text of the invitations to


﻿-13-
bid and the specifications and other bidding documents, together
with a description of the advertising procedures to be followed
for the bidding, and shall make such modifications in the said
documents or procedures as the Association shall reasonably
request. Any further modification to the bidding documents shall
require the Association's concurrence before it is issued to the
prospective bidders.
(b) After bids have been received and evaluated, the Bor-
rower shall, before a final decision on the award is madE, inform
the Association of the name of the bidder to which it intends to
award the contract and shall furnish to the Association, in
sufficient time for its review, a detailed report, by the con-
sultants referred to in Section 3.02 (a)(i) of this Agreement, on
the evaluation and comparison of the bids received, together with
the recommendations for award of the said consultants and such
other information as the Association shall reasonably request.
The Association shall, if it determines that the intended award
would be inconsistent with the Guidelines or this Schedule,
promptly inform the Borrower and state the reasons for such
determination.
(c) The terms and conditions of the contract shall not,
without the Association's concurrence, materially differ from
those on which bids were asked or prequalification was invited.
(d) Two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished
to the Association promptly after its execution and prior to the
submission to the Association of the first application for with-
drawal of funds from the Credit Account in respect of such con-
tract.
2.   With respect to each contract not governed by the preceding
paragraph, the Borrower shall furnish to the Association,
promptly after its execution and prior to the submission to the
Association of the first application for withdrawal of funds from
the Credit Account in respect of such contract, two conformed
copies of such contract, together with the analysis of the
respective bids, recommendations for award and such other infor-
mation as the Association shall reasonably request. The Associa-
tion shall, if it determines that the award of the contract was
not consistent wita the Guidelines or this Schedule, promptly
inform the Borrower and state the reasons for such determination.
3.   Before agreeing to any material modification or waiver of
the terms and conditions of a contract, or granting an extension


﻿- 14 -
of the stipulated time for performance of such contract, or
issuing any change order under such contract (except in cases of
extreme urgency) which would increase the cost of the contract by
more than 15% of the original price, the Borrower shall inform
the Association of the proposed modification, waiver, extension
or change order and the reasons therefor. The .Association, if it
*            determines that the proposal would be inconsistent with the pro-
visions of this Agreement, shall promptly inform the Borrower and
state the reasons for its determination.
*A
1.1


﻿Q                         INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true
copy of the original in the archives of the Interna-
tional Development Association.
In witness whereof I have signed this Certifi-
cate and affixed the Seal of the Association
thereunto the           day of 
198 3.
FOR SECRETARY


