Report No. PID8586
Project Name                     Ghana-Rural Financial Services (@)
Project
Region                           Africa Regional Office
Sector                           Other Agriculture; Financial Sector
Development
Project ID                       GHPE60248
Borrower(s)                      GOVERNMENT OF GHANA
Implementing Agency
Address BANK OF GHANA
Accra, GHANA
Contact Person: The Director
Rural Finance Inspection Dept. (RFID)
Bank of Ghana, Accra
Tel: 233-21-665338
Environment Category             F
Date PID Prepared                June 9, 2000
Projected Appraisal Date         March 20, 2000
Projected Board Date             June 8, 2000
1. Country and Sector Background
Sector Issuesl. With Ghana's rural sector accounting for 60t of total
employment and 39t of GDP, efforts to improve the sector's competitivity
and productivity remain at the heart of the country's accelerated growth
and poverty reduction strategy. However, this sector, which is largely
dominated by agriculture, remains severely constrained by poor
infrastructure, resulting in high input costs and low output prices, and
limited used of improved inputs and modern production processes and
methods as a result of poor agricultural services and inadequate access to
credit. 2. The lack of access to credit for input purchase (fertilizer,
seed, labor), processing, and trade remains a key constraint to improved
economic performance in the rural sector, both agricultural and
non-agricultural. The rural sector's share of total formal credit was a
mere 8 percent in 1999. In addition, there has been a steady withdrawal
from lending to the rural sector by domestic commercial banks,
particularly after the 1990 elimination of the 20 percent mandatory
lending to agriculture, and this share (of 8 percent) is likely to fall.
There is potential for filling part of this void with resources from the
111 small, community owned rural banks, and a multitude of small informal
micro finance organizations and specialized microfinance institutions
(including NGOs), but these entities are weak, fragmented, and operate
with outdated technologies and under residual policy constraints which
need to be urgently addressed. However, based on international best
practices and lessons of past operations in Ghana's rural financial
sector, this would only be effectively filled if rural microfinance
institutions are appropriately strengthened to more effectively perform
such tasks. Secondly, the lack of access to institutional credit further
tends to undermine government efforts in other areas as well, preventing
attainment of strong development impact. With substantial investments in



infrastructure and services, the lack of a strong rural financial sector
is the "critical missing link" of an integrated rural development
strategy, the lack of which continues to stifle private sector initiatives
in the rural economy. Strengthening of the rural financial system will
therefore put into place the third pillar needed for rural economic growth
and poverty reduction. A number of these constraints are discussed below.
3. Weak rural banks. Many rural and community banks are weak, with limited
skilled staff, and outmoded technologies to adequately deliver services to
rural clientele, a diversified group with different and often changing
needs for financial services. Of the 134 rural banks in existence as at
December 31, 1998, 23 were classified as distressed, with negative capital
adequacy ratios (CARs), or a CAR of less than 1 percent. [The CAR measures
the ratio of owned funds (such as paid up capital, free reserves, plus
accumulated profits or less accumulated loss) to risk assets]. These 23
distressed rural banks were closed in 1999, after ascertainment of their
inability to regain financial viability. Of the 111 rural banks remaining,
2 more became distressed during the last quarter of 1999 alone, and these
will likely be closed by BOG in accordance with the banking laws. About 56
of the 111 banks are rated as mediocre, defined as rural banks with
capital adequacy between 1 percent and 6 percent. The remaining 52 banks
rated satisfactory are based on the narrow classification of capital
adequacy ratio alone, i.e., those with capital adequacy equal to or
greater than 6 percent. The performance rating does not take into account
other key performance measures such as provision for bad and doubtful
debt, portfolio quality, shallow capital and deposit base, etc. If more
stringent criteria were applied, many of the banks currently ranked
satisfactory would be further downgraded. The average paid-up capital for
the satisfactory rural banks is only Cedis 48.1 million (US$13,000) and
average networth of Cedis 282.1 million (US$78,000). Many banks are not
often supervised within a given financial year: 29 of the 52 satisfactory
rural banks were last supervised in 1998, the longest supervision lag
being March 1998. There is also a large divergence in rural bank status,
depending on the data source: there is an average divergence of Cedis 56
million in networth based on returns submitted by the rural banks and the
examination conducted by the Central Bank. This is due mainly to the poor
provisioning for bad and doubtful debts by the rural banks, and the lax
supervision provided by the BSD. Consequently, policy prescriptions are
likely to differ, depending on the data source used. Another area of
weakness is human resources. A training needs assessment undertaken in
1999 from a sample of 42 of the rural banks showed that 60 percent of
managers had only a diploma or certificate, and 12 percent had GCEs or
equivalent; only 28 percent of rural bank managers had degrees. Also, 50
percent of all accountants had diplomas, 50 percent had GCE levels, and
none had formal degrees in accountancy. All projects officers only had a
diploma or certificate, with many having very little practical knowledge
of rural investment appraisal. 4. Poor integration of formal and informal
sectors. There is little real formalized relationship between formal and
informal financial sector entities. Existing relationships are often ad
hoc. This relative isolation of the two sectors impedes effective
integration of the rural and urban economies needed to attain sustainable
impact on rural poverty reduction. In reality, the formal and informal
financial sectors are important parts of the same continuum, and efforts
need to be made to remove constraints affecting the smooth flow of
information, technology, and resources between them. Some rural banks have
increased outreach through association with NGOs that have established
- 2 -



methodology, and through linkages with susu collectors and clubs.5.
Uncoordinated nature of past donor efforts. Past donor assistance to the
rural financial sector has often been piecemeal, driven by each donor's
comparative advantage and rural development strategy. IFAD has in the
past focused largely on grassroots, micro finance institutions; IDA, on
the larger financial sector and the rural banks; and AfDB, on lines of
credit channeled largely through the ADB. Until now, there has not been a
concerted and coordinated response so much so that in some instances,
measures instituted by one donor have often worked at crossed purposes
with the efforts of other donors: for example, a line of credit is given
to a rural bank by one donor while another donor is financing capacity
building activities in the same rural bank; or both donors support the
same capacity building activities but use different triggers and
requirements. Coverage has also been limited: for example, focusing on a
few rural banks or informal associations within a project sphere of
influence. Also, experience has often not been shared, often leading to
costly duplication of efforts. Finally, donor assistance has often been
short-lived, not allowing for sufficient time for reforms to take hold --
for example the IDA-financed project closed in 1995 when some reforms were
still in progress, with no follow-up operation planned. 6. Thin and
overextended oversight capacity. The Bank of Ghana (BOG) has the
statutory mandate to monitor rural bank operations (as is the case for
other, mostly urban based, commercial banks). However, this task is made
very difficult by the large number, isolation and wide geographic
distribution of the 111 rural banks. As a result, poorly performing banks
(that actually need) do not often receive the intense supervision required
and some banks may not be supervised in a given financial year. Current
BOG supervision strategy normally consists of a team visiting each rural
bank for 3 - 4 days to review reports and ascertain data reported. This
approach was adequate when there were only a few rural banks in existence.
Now, with over 111 rural banks scattered all over the 10 administrative
regions, and many more applications from communities wishing to establish
rural banks under consideration, this approach is now costly and
unsustainable. The situation is exacerbated by poorly trained staff of the
rural banks and poorly maintained files for quick supervision. Often, the
BOG team may need to clean up the recording system first before beginning
its supervision, leading to lost time. Hence, new technological reporting
standards which take into account not only current but future growth needs
of the rural financial system are urgently required.Government Strategyl.
Regarding overall rural development, the government has undertaken a
series of reforms and initiatives aimed at improved natural resource
management, better rural infrastructure, and improved quality of
agricultural services to the rural population. [Government strategy for
the sector is contained in these strategy documents: Vision 2020 (1996);
National Environmental Action Plan (1991); Forestry Master Plan 1996-2020
(1996); Land Sector Medium Term Plan 1996-2000 (1996); Accelerated
Agricultural Growth and Development Strategy (draft 1997, being finalized
in 1999); Wildlife Development Plan 1998-2003 (1998); National Soil
Fertility Management Action Plan (1998); and Cocoa Sector Development
Strategy (1999)]. In addition, government is undertaking, with multidonor
support, major investment programs in rural infrastructure (ASIP and VIP)
and services (AGSSIP) which will be complemented by the proposed
project.2. Government strategy for promoting rural financial
intermediation calls for deepening outreach and expanding services to a
large number of rural clients by: (i) promoting the formal/informal
-3 -



micro-finance sector through increased networking and capacity building,
(ii) strengthening the overall capacity of rural banks for effective
intermediation; (iii) creating a conducive environment for commercial bank
intervention in the rural sector; and (iv) reviewing the role of the
country's Agricultural Development Bank (ADB) in supporting accelerated
agricultural growth, particularly with regard to medium and long term
lending. 3. In this context, GOG began the first systematic efforts to
restructure the rural banking sector between 1989 and 1995, with the
IDA-financed Rural Finance Project. The project, which was also
implemented by BOG, had a combination of institutional reforms and a line
of credit to eligible rural banks. The undertaking of these reforms was a
condition for individual bank participation in the line of credit scheme.
However, experience of its implementation shows that many rural banks
rushed through with these reforms in order to access the line of credit
(which was quickly being depleted), and the capacity building process was
halted as soon as the onlending resources which acted as a catalyst were
exhausted. Additionally, GOG has initiated other reforms for non-bank
institutions, such as the PNDCL 328 (Non-Bank Financial Institutions Act)
of 1993. Furthermore, the Ministry of Finance, in association with the
Ghana Microfinance Network (GHAMFIN), has prepared a strategic framework
for the development of microfinance which will be presented to Cabinet
after revision following a stakeholders' workshop.
2. Objectives
1. The Rural Financial Services Project (RFSP) seeks to promote growth and
reduce poverty in Ghana by broadening and deepening financial
intermediation in rural areas through the following measures: (i)
strengthening operational linkages between informal and semiformal
microfinance institutions and the formal network of rural and community
banks in order to expand services to a larger number of rural clients;
(ii) building capacity of the rural and community banks, the principal
formal financial intermediaries operating in rural areas, in order to
enhance their effectiveness and the quality of services they provide;
(iii) supporting the establishment of an apex structure for the rural
banking system to provide the economies of scale needed for these unit
rural banks to address generic constraints related to check clearing,
specie supply, liquidity management and training, etc. which have impeded
growth of the rural finance sector; and (iv) strengthening the
institutional and policy framework for improved oversight of the rural
finance sector.2. Strengthening effective linkages between informal and
formal financial sector institutions will involve the following measures:
(i) developing, testing and disseminating innovative products and
instruments suitable to the needs of rural clients, often comprising small
community self-help groups, associations with limited organizational
skills, assets and information; (ii) supporting the organization, training
and empowerment of informal financial institutions, community self-help
groups and associations to enhance their ability to mobilize savings and
access credit from formal sources; (iii) investing in various mechanisms
for more effective linkages between informal and formal financial sectors
for better integration; (iv) improving the regulatory and policy
environment under which informal financial sector entities operate to
enable them to exploit new market opportunities; and (v) training and
capacity building of microfinance institutions that serve rural clients
and often help link them to more formal sources of finance. 3. The
capacity building program of the rural and community banks will comprise
- 4 -



the following measures: (i) undertaking a thorough and in-depth assessment
of the financial and management performance of each rural bank in order to
determine the extent of the constraints affecting their profitability and
operational effectiveness and to design appropriate policy response
(liquidation/restructuring, capacity building needs, etc.); (ii)
supporting a human resource development program for key staff and
personnel (e.g., managers, accountants, rural credit analysts) in order to
augment the overall quality of rural bank personnel; (iii) upgrading
internal controls and procedures for greater transparency of operations
needed to enhance depositors' confidence; (iv) investing in various
technologies needed to promote rural bank-to-rural bank communication,
operations and synergy; (v) rationalizing agency banking and linking the
number of agencies to each individual rural bank's capacity; and (vi)
addressing residual policy constraints (geographical restrictions,
secondary reserves, classification standards, etc.) which affect the
smooth operations and functions of the rural banking sector. 4.
Establishment of an apex structure for the rural and community banks will
entail the following measures: (i) sensitizing of member rural banks,
their shareholders, and clients on the proposed institutional changes
which will be introduced under the apex initiative; (ii) developing and
clarifying the institutional and legal framework under which the apex will
operate; (iii) supporting technological innovations that will permit more
efficient exchange of information between the member rural banks, the
apex, and the oversight departments of the Bank of Ghana, the central
bank; (iv) strengthening the responsible departments of the BOG for more
effective oversight of the activities of the apex bank and the member
rural banks; (v) supporting training and other capacity building
activities needed for the effective operations of the apex; (vi)
establishing a decentralized clearing and support system of the apex
consistent with the regional clearing systems of the Bank of Ghana; and
(vii) financing technical assistance to put into place appropriate
operational procedures and policies needed for transparency and
accountability of apex operations. 5. The program will also strengthen the
Banking Supervision Department (BSD) for effective monitoring and
supervision, as well as strengthen the capacity of the Rural Finance
Inspection Department (RFID) for rural finance policy and strategy
formulation. These two departments are the focal points for monitoring of
the rural and community banks. The investment in new technologies will
facilitate improved reporting, standardization, and timely analysis of
rural banks' returns to more effectively guide decision makers and provide
an early warning system of changes in rural banks' performance. It will
also reinforce the capacity of the Ministry of Finance (MOF) to coordinate
various programs supporting rural, informal and microfinance institutions
and to collaborate in the development of capacity building programs.6. The
approach and strategy described in paras. 2 to 5 above represent a
holistic response to the deep-rooted malaise of the rural financial sector
which has significantly impeded the unleashing of rural economic growth
and undermined realization of the benefits of earlier financial sector
reforms (FINSAC). The need for a holistic approach is guided by past
government policies and the salient lessons of donor assistance to the
sector, which has been piecemeal, uncoordinated and short-term (as opposed
to long-term), and thereby resulting in less-than-optimal development
impact. The objectives of this program are therefore consistent with the
GOG's overall economic development and poverty reduction strategy as
contained in the CAS and their attainment will lead to the emergence of a
- 5 -



strong and vibrant rural financial sector to support private, rural
economic initiatives, and complement ongoing operations (rural
infrastructure, services, etc.) and expand benefits of the earlier
macro-level reforms to the rural inhabitants.
3. Rationale for Bank's Involvement
The Bank has worked closely with the Borrower and with many other donors,
notably AfDB and IFAD, in providing support for strengthening rural
financial institutions in Ghana. The Bank has therefore worked at all
three levels of the rural financial continuum -- microfinance and the
informal rural and cooperative sector, the rural and community banks, and
the central bank. Consistent with its global experience and knowledge
base, the Bank brings significant international experience from Asia and
other regions, in assisting the government's efforts to strengthen its
rural financial sector and implement the reforms needed to unleash sector
growth. In addition, the proposed operation complements past and on-going
operations in the sector financed by the Bank in rural infrastructure
(ASIP and VIP), in agriculture services (AGSSIP), and microfinance (NBFI).
The Bank's participation complements well IFAD's comparative advantage on
rural poverty reduction and informal financial institutions, and AfDB's
comparative advantage with Agriculture Development Bank. These two donors
would not together constitute the critical mass of experience and
strategic focus needed to provide the holistic support along the continuum
of rural financial system. The combined participation of these three
donors, unprecedented in the rural microfinance sector in Ghana, is
therefore needed to support this program.
4. Description
The project components (summarized in the table below) are as follows:
Capacity Building - Informal Financial Sector
Capacity Building of Rural Banks
Institution Building - Apex
Institutional Support
5. Financing
Total ( US$m)
GOVERNMENT                       0.75
IBRD
IDA                              5.13
AFRICAN DEVELOPMENT
BANK                             5.01
INTERNATIONAL FUND FOR
AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT         10.12
BENEFICIARIES                    1.95
Total Project Cost               22.96
6. Implementation
1. The project will be implemented by the Rural Finance Inspection
Department (RFID) of the Bank of Ghana. RFID has increased its capacity in
recent years to manage similar operations, beginning with the Rural
Finance Project which closed in 1995. The scope of responsibilities of the
RFID has been recently reduced with the transfer of its management audit
functions to BSD and a clearer focus on policy and strategy development.
This sharpened mandate now better prepares RFID to implement this program
aimed at institutional and policy reforms and capacity building of the
- 6 -



rural financial sector. Project implementation will therefore be
mainstreamed in the RFID, with key project staff being seconded to the
RFID to augment its capacity through a competitive search process within
the BOG departments. Those staff seconded will not have competing
responsibilities and will spend their time fully in project
implementation. Where such staff do not have adequate training, training
in procurement and financial management will be provided through the
project to augment their technical skills. The key project staff within
the BOG will comprise a Project Coordinator, Procurement Specialist, and
Accountant. These staff will report to the Director, RFID. 2.
Implementation of the microfinance component will be the responsibility of
the RFID, with activities contracted out to private sector entities, such
as GHAMFIN, which will oversee the technical support being provided by
participating NGOs. Each potential beneficiary group meeting eligibility
criteria will prepare a funding proposal requesting support under the
Rural and Microfinance Capacity Building Fund. All such proposals will be
reviewed by a committee comprising the ARB, head of the microfinance
clusters, representative of an NGO specializing in rural/microfinance, the
Head of the Microfinance Unit of MOF, and the RFSP Project Coordinator.
The Project Coordinator within RFID shall chair this committee. All
proposals approved by the Committee will be recorded and sent to the
implementing agency which will oversee contracting of services. In its
implementing responsibility, the implemenring agency will ensure quality
of services, as well as timeliness of quarterly and annual reports to the
RFSP management. Disbursement under all such contracts will be made by the
RFID, based on applicable disbursement and procurement procedures and
thresholds. 3. Similarly, a New Products and Innovations Fund (NPIF) will
be established under the New Products and Innovations Department (NPID) of
the apex to promote research and development of new and innovative
instruments and products for rural financial intermediation. The NPIF
Committee will comprise of all members of the MFCDF, the Director of the
NPID of the apex and the Deputy Managing Director of the apex, who will
chair this committtee. For an interim period of two years until the NPID
of the apex has been established, the Committee will be chaired by the
Head, Microfinance Unit of the MOF and the responsibilities transferred to
the apex after this transition period. The latter arrangement will ensure
continuity in similar ongoing programs under the NBFI Project while
allowing the apex to develop its own capacity. 4. Overall policy guidance
on RFSP implementation will be the responsibility of a multisectoral
Project Steering Committee comprising the following: (i) The Governor, BOG
or his designee; (ii) the Director, RFID; (iii) one representative of the
Ministry of Finance; (iv) one representative of the Ministry of Food and
Agriculture (MOFA); (v) one representative of the ARB; (vi) one
representative of a rural/microfinance network; and (vii) the Project
Coordinator who shall act as Secretary to the PSC. The PSC will be chaired
by the Governor, Bank of Ghana. The terms of reference of the PSC is in
the Implementation Manual.5. Project Monitoring. Project monitoring will
include: (i) monitoring of overall implementation, including procurement,
disbursement, and financial management; (ii) monitoring of the rural bank
reform processes, including adherence to stipulated legal requirements of
performance, etc.; (iii) monitoring of supervision input of the agencies
of the BOG such as BSD and RFID; and (iv) monitoring of general indicators
of project development impact. A participatory baseline survey will be
undertaken. The project development impact will take gender and
poverty-related aspects into consideration. Apart from quantitative
- 7-



indicators, information on qualitative indicators will also be collected
and analyzed.
7. Sustainability
1. Certain design features of this project provide a high probability of
sustainability. First, the holistic approach adopted allows for
transmission of best practices and the building up of initial critical
mass of skilled staff. Focusing on the continuum provides broad ownership
beyond the traditional stakeholder groups. Linking group development and
training with the provision of financial services of the rural banks is
essential in their sustainability, as such groups will be profitable and
therefore will require no subsidies beyond the initial (start-up) phase.
The proposed institutional reforms have been discussed with the key
stakeholders who have also seen the high financial profitability and the
cost effectiveness it would bring to their operations. This provides an
important buy-in and a strong incentive to keep these reforms on track.
Additionally, assessment of the apex indicates that it can be maintained
without any subsidy from government or donor support beyond the initial
capital investment period. Hence, it is financially viable.2. The key
risks are as follows: (i) unstable macroeconomic environment apex; (ii)
lack of commitment to financial sector reforms; (iii) unclear governance
relationships between the Central Bank and the Apex body; and (iv) weak
management of the apex. The implications of these risks and likely
mitigatory measures are discussed below.
8. Lessons learned from past operations in the country/sector
The IDA-assisted Rural Finance Project (closed in 1995) provided the first
comprehensive support to Ghana's rural banking sector. The project
included both a line of credit to eligible rural banks and technical
assistance for a financial restructuring program for rural banks to enable
them to become more efficient in rural savings mobilization and credit
delivery. IFAD has supported more than five projects in Ghana over the
last six years, three with a credit/rural financial services strengthening
component focusing on micro lending for small scale on-farm/off-farm
income generating activities, with particular emphasis on rural women. The
AfDB has had four successive lines of credit (1980, 1985, early 1990s, and
1999) to the Agricultural Development Bank (ADB). All of these donor
activities have been largely uncoordinated (until now) and the salient
lessons learned have been incorporated into the RFSP: (a) Training.
Training of RB directors and staff has emerged as an essential element in
the development of a viable rural banking sector with strong internal
controls, transparency, better business practices and management of
risks. Consequently, this project will have a heavy emphasis on training
throughout all levels of rural, micro and informal financial institutions.
(b) Need for an Apex Institution. Lack of an apex institution has made it
difficult for individual rural banks to sustainably deal with common
constraints, e.g. check clearing, specie supply, and liquidity management.
Hence, the project will support the setting up of an apex bank that would
permit attainment of a desirable level of economies of scale in dealing
with these constraints. (c) Need for stronger oversight. Improved
oversight of rural bank activities enhanced depositors' confidence in the
overall rural banking sector, and this will be further supported under the
project. (d) Timely Reporting of returns. Long distances from the central
bank and weak capacity affect the ability of the rural banks to provide
timely returns to the supervising entity, the Bank of Ghana. Such delays
- 8 -



in reporting undermine the ability of the BSD to provide timely oversight
of banking activities. Investments in communications and related
technologies will help to address this problem.(f) Partnerships with NGOs
crucial. Groups organized and trained by NGOs have shown promising
results, especially when group membership remained small and manageable.
Thus, NGOs will be contracted to carry out group formation and training
activities for the informal financial sector. (g) Emphasis on Savings
Mobilization. The IFAD experience confirmed that building and sustaining
a strong rural financial system requires emphasis on savings mobilization
as opposed to lines of credit, a key feature of this operation.
9. Program of Targeted Intervention (PTI)     N
10. Environment Aspects (including any public consultation)
Issues     :  This is a rural finance sector technical assistance
operation focused mainly on institutional reforms and capacity building.
It therefore has no direct environmental impact and no environmental
assessment is needed.
11. Contact Point:
Task Manager
Eustacius Betubiza
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington D.C. 20433
Telephone:   (202) 458-5618
Fax:   (202) 473-8229
12. For information on other project related documents contact:
The InfoShop
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone: (202) 458-5454
Fax:        (202) 522-1500
Web: http:// www.worldbank.org/infoshop
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain components may
not be necessarily included in the final project.
This PID was processed by the InfoShop during the week ending October
20, 2000.
9



