Document of
The World Bank
Report No: 20367 GH
PROJECT APPRAISAL DOCUMENT
ONA
PROPOSED CREDIT
IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 3.9 MILLION
US$5.13 MILLION EQUIVALENT
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF GHANA
FORA
RURAL FINANCIAL SERVICES PROJECT
MAY 12, 2000
Rural Development III
Country Department 10
Africa Regional Office



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective March 3, 2000)
Currency Unit = Cedis
Cedis 4,000 = US$1.00
US$1.00 = Cedis 4,000
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ADB                   Agricultural Development Bank
AfDB                  African Development Bank
ARB                   Association of Rural Banks
ASIP                  Agricultural Sector Investnent Project
AGSSIP                Agricultural Services Subsector Investment Program
BOG                   Bank of Ghana
BSD                   Banking Supervision Department (BOG)
CAR                   Capital Adequacy Ratio
CAS                   Country Assistance Strategy
CBO                   Community Based Organization
DANIDA                Danish International Development Agency
ERP                   Economic Recovery Program
FECECAM               Federation des Caisses d'Epargne et de Credit Agricole Mutuel
FINSAC                Financial Sector Adjustment Credit
FSA                   Financial Services Agencies
GCE                   General Certificate of Education
GHAMFIN               Ghana Microfinance Network
GOG                   Government of Ghana
IAPSO                 International Agency Procurement Service Office
ICB                   International Competitive Bidding
IDA                   International Development Agency
IFAD                  International Fund for Agricultural Development
LACOSREP              Land Conservation & Smallholder Rehabilitation Project (IFAD)
LC                    Letter of Credit
Vice President: Callisto Madavo
Country Manager/Director: Peter Harrold
Sector manager/Director: Jean Paul Chausse
Task Team Leader: Rudolph A. Polson



ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS (cont'd)
MIS                  Management Information Systems
MDPI                 Management Development & Productivity Institute
MOF                  Ministry of Finance
MOFA                 Ministry of Food and Agriculture
MRFI                 Micro and Rural Finance Institution
MTR                  Mid Term Review
NBFI                 Non-Bank Financial Institution
NCB                  National Competitive Bidding
NGO                  Non-Governmental Organization
NPID                 New Products and Innovations Department
NPIF                 New Products and Innovations Department
PSC                  Project Steering Committee
QCBS                 Quality Cost-Based Selection
RB                   Rural Bank
RCB                  Rural and Community Bank
RFID                 Rural Finance Inspection Department (BOG)
RFSP                 Rural Financial Services Project
RMDS                 Regional Microfinance Development Specialist
SCIMP                Smallholder Credit, Input Supply and Marketing Project (IFAD)
SHG                  Self-help Group
SOE                  Statements of Expenditures
TASC                 Transition Apex Steering Committee
UNDP                 United Nations Development Program
VIP                  Village Infrastructure Project



I



GHANA
RURAL FINANCIAL SERVICES PROJECT
CONTENTS
A. Project Development Objective                                                      Page
1. Project development objective                                                       3
2. Key performance indicators                                                          4
B. Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project      5
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy                                          5
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices                  9
C. Project Description Summary
1. Project components                                                                 11
2. Key policy and institutional reforrns supported by the project                     13
3. Benefits and target population                                                     14
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements                                      16
D. Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection                          17
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and other development agencies         19
3. Lessons learned and reflected in proposed project design                           21
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership                                   22
5. Value added of Bank support in this project                                        23
E. Summary Project Analysis
1. Economic                                                                           23
2. Financial                                                                          25
3. Technical                                                                          30
4. Institutional                                                                      30
5. Environment                                                                        31
6. Social                                                                             31
7. Safeguard Policies                                                                 32
F. Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability                                                                     33
2. Critical risks                                                                     33
3. Possible controversial aspects                                                     34



G. Main Conditions
1. Effectiveness Condition                                                            35
2. Other                                                                              35
H. Readiness for Implementation                                                          35
I. Compliance with Bank Policies                                                         36
Annexes
Annex 1: Project Design Summary                                                          37
Annex 2: Project Description                                                             39
Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs                                                         50
Annex 4: Cost-Effectiveness Analysis Summary                                             51
Annex 5: Financial Summary                                                               52
Annex 6: Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements                                       60
Annex 7: Project Processing Schedule                                                     70
Annex 8: Documents in the Project File                                                   71
Annex 9: Statement of Loans and Credits                                                  72
Annex 10: Country at a Glance                                                            73
Annex 11: Innovative Pilots Linking Informal and Formal Financial Institutions           76
Annex 12: Classification of Rural Banks, December 1998                                   78
Annex 13: Overview of IT Constraints Facing Rural and Community Banks                    81
Annex 14: Flowchart of Project Management Organization                                   86
Annex 15: Organizational Chart: Apex Bank for the rural and Community Banks              87
MAP(S)
IBRD 30892



GHANA
RURAL FINANCIAL SERVICES PROJECT
Project Appraisal Document
Africa Regional Office
AFTR3
Date: May 12, 2000                                Team Leader: Rudolph A. Polson
Country Manager/Director: Peter C. Harrold        Sector Manager/Director: Jean-Paul Chausse
Project ID: P069465                               Sector(s): AY - Other Agriculture, FS - Financial Sector
Development
Lending Instrument: Financial Intermediary Loan (FIL)  Theme(s): Rural Development
Poverty Targeted Intervention: N
Project Financing Data
[ Loan          Z Credit       El Grant        OI Guarantee    El Other (Specify)
For Loans/CreditslOthers:
Amount (US$m): 5.13
Proposed Terms: Currency Pool Loan (CPL)
Grace period (years): 10                              Years to maturity: 40
Commitment fee: %                                     Service charge: %
Flnencing 33an:    So~urc~                                   L
GOVERNMENT                                                     0.75            0.00          0.75
IDA                                                            2.95            2.18          5.13
AFRICAN DEVELOPMENT BANK                                        2.92           2.09          5.01
INTERNATIONAL FUND FOR AGRICULTURAL                             5.39           4.73         10.12
DEVELOPMENT
BENEFICIARIES                                                   1.95           0.00          1.95
Total:                                                         13.96           9.00         22.96
Borrower: GOVERNMENT OF GHANA
Responsible agency: BANK OF GHANA
Address: Accra, GHANA
Contact Person: The Director
Rural Finance Inspection Dept. (RFID)
Bank of Ghana, Accra
Tel: 233-21-665338                Fax:                  Email:
Other Agency(ies):
Bank Supervision Department (BSD)
Bank of Ghana
Address: Accra, GHANA
Contact Person: The Director
Bank Supervision Department
Accra, Ghana
Tel: 233-21-665034              Fax: 233-21-662038                Email: easiedu@bog.gov.gh



Annual      2.5           4.7         4.9         4.2         2.8          3.8
Cumulative     2.5           7.2         12.1        16.3        19.1         22.9
Project implementation period: 6 Years
Expectedeffectivenessdate: 01/01/2001  Expectedclosingdate:  12/31/2006
OMs PAD PoF, R.:- 2  -
-2-



A. Project Development Objective
1. Project development objective: (see Annex 1)
1.    The Rural Financial Services Project (RFSP) seeks to promote growth and reduce
poverty in Ghana by broadening and deepening financial intermediation in rural areas through the
following measures: (i) strengthening operational linkages between informal and semiformal
microfinance institutions and the formal network of rural and community banks in order to expand
services to a larger number of rural clients; (ii) building capacity of the rural and community
banks, the principal formal financial intermediaries operating in rural areas, in order to enhance
their effectiveness and the quality of services they provide; (iii) supporting the establishment of an
apex structure for the rural banking system to provide the economies of scale needed for these
unit rural banks to address generic constraints related to check clearing, specie supply, liquidity
management and training, etc. which have impeded growth of the rural finance sector; and (iv)
strengthening the institutional and policy framework for improved oversight of the rural finance
sector.
2.    Strengthening effective linkages between informal and formal financial sector institutions
will involve the following measures: (i) developing, testing and disseminating innovative products
and instruments suitable to the needs of rural clients, often comprising small community self-help
groups, associations with limited organizational skills, assets and information; (ii) supporting the
organization, training and empowerment of informal financial institutions, community self-help
groups and associations to enhance their ability to mobilize savings and access credit from formal
sources; (iii) investing in various mechanisms for more effective linkages between informal and
formal financial sectors for better integration; (iv) improving the regulatory and policy
environment under which informal financial sector entities operate to enable them to exploit new
market opportunities; and (v) training and capacity building of microfinance institutions that serve
rural clients and often help link them to more formal sources of finance.
3.    The capacity building program of the rural and community banks will comprise the
following measures: (i) undertaking a thorough and in-depth assessment of the financial and
management performance of each rural bank in order to determine the extent of the constraints
affecting their profitability and operational effectiveness and to design appropriate policy response
(liquidation/restructuring, capacity building needs, etc.); (ii) supporting a human resource
development program for key staff and personnel (e.g., managers, accountants, rural credit
analysts) in order to augment the overall quality of rural bank personnel; (iii) upgrading internal
controls and procedures for greater transparency of operations needed to enhance depositors'
confidence; (iv) investing in various technologies needed to promote rural bank-to-rural bank
communication, operations and synergy; (v) rationalizing agency banking and linking the number
of agencies to each individual rural bank's capacity; and (vi) addressing residual policy constraints
(geographical restrictions, secondary reserves, classification standards, etc.) which affect the
smooth operations and functions of the rural banking sector.
4.    Establishment of an apex structure for the rural and community banks will entail the
following measures: (i) sensitizing of member rural banks, their shareholders, and clients on the
- 3 -



proposed institutional changes which will be introduced under the apex initiative; (ii) developing
and clarifying the institutional and legal framework under which the apex will operate; (iii)
supporting technological innovations that will permit more efficient exchange of information
between the member rural banks, the apex, and the oversight departments of the Bank of Ghana,
the central bank; (iv) strengthening the responsible departments of the BOG for more effective
oversight of the activities of the apex bank and the member rural banks; (v) supporting training
and other capacity building activities needed for the effective operations of the apex; (vi)
establishing a decentralized clearing and support system of the apex consistent with the regional
clearing systems of the Bank of Ghana; and (vii) financing technical assistance to put into place
appropriate operational procedures and policies needed for transparency and accountability of
apex operations.
5.    The program will also strengthen the Banking Supervision Department (BSD) for effective
monitoring and supervision, as well as strengthen the capacity of the Rural Finance Inspection
Department (RFID) for rural finance policy and strategy formulation. These two departments are
the focal points for monitoring of the rural and community banks. The investment in new
technologies will facilitate improved reporting, standardization, and timely analysis of rural banks'
returns to more effectively guide decision makers and provide an early warning system of changes
in rural banks' performance. It will also reinforce the capacity of the Ministry of Finance (MOF) to
coordinate various programs supporting rural, informal and microfinance institutions and to
collaborate in the development of capacity building programs.
6.    The approach and strategy described in paras. 2 to 5 above represent a holistic response to
the deep-rooted malaise of the rural financial sector which has significantly impeded the
unleashing of rural economic growth and undermined realization of the benefits of earlier financial
sector reforms (FINSAC). The need for a holistic approach is guided by past government policies
and the salient lessons of donor assistance to the sector, which has been piecemeal, uncoordinated
and short-term (as opposed to long-term), and thereby resulting in less-than-optimal development
impact. The objectives of this program are therefore consistent with the GOG's overall economic
development and poverty reduction strategy as contained in the CAS and their attainment will
lead to the emergence of a strong and vibrant rural financial sector to support private, rural
economic initiatives, and complement ongoing operations (rural infrastructure, services, etc.) and
expand benefits of the earlier macro-level reforms to the rural inhabitants.
2. Key performance indicators: (see Annex 1)
Output Indicators
Informal and Microfinance Sector
* No. of rural microfinance groups organized and trained (by gender);
* No. of clients reached by rural microfinance institutions;
*  Total deposits mobilized by rural/microfinance institutions;
*  No. of rural/microfinance groups accessing credit from rural banks.
Rural Banks
* No. of clients and % of women as total borrowers;
-4 -



* No. of rural banks operating profitably;
*  Percent increase in loan recovery rates among rural banks; and
* Percent increase in annual profitability of rural banks.
The Apex Structure
* Perecnt increase in rural savings deposit of member banks;
* No. of rural banks meeting capital adequacy ratios;
* Level of profitability of apex bank;
* No. of rural banks with full share subscription in the apex.
Impact Indicators
* Total annual loans and advances of rural banks;
* Total annual savings mobilized by rural banks;
* Total number of clients of rural banks
(Apart from quantitative indicators, information on qualitative indicators will also be
collected and analyzed, paying special attention to disaggregation of gender aspects. Also,
participatory evaluation processes will be implemented).
B. Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project: (see Annex 1)
Document number: 20185-GH             Date of latest CAS discussion: 03/08/2000
1.    The Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) dated March 8, 2000 supports overall economic
growth and sustainable poverty reduction through macroeconomic stability, fostering an enabling
enviromment for broader private sector participation in economic development, and ensuring
broad-based socioeconomic development through decentralization of core services. The proposed
investment program is consistent with, and directly supports, these development goals of the
government. The rural financial institutions are the primary vehicles for providing
critically-needed financial services to Ghana's rural areas where an estimated 70 percent of the
total population of 18.5 million live. By helping to better integrate the informal and formal
financial sectors, strengthen capacity of participant institutions, empower rural groups and
associations, and provide the institutional framework for addressing generic constraints, the
proposed operation will help to unleash rural economic growth leading to reduced poverty (an
important GOG objective). It will also help to broaden and deepen coverage of rural financial
services to a larger number of rural dwellers (who otherwise would not have access), help to
better integrate rural and urban markets, and improve overall efficiency of financial service
delivery. In addition, the proposed operation strongly complements and adds value to other
ongoing and/or planned operations also supported by the CAS.
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy:
Sector Issues
1.    With Ghana's rural sector accounting for 60% of total employment and 39% of GDP,
efforts to improve the sector's competitivity and productivity remain at the heart of the country's
-5-



accelerated growth and poverty reduction strategy. However, this sector, which is largely
dominated by agriculture, remains severely constrained by poor infrastructure, resulting in high
input costs and low output prices, and limited used of improved inputs and modem production
processes and methods as a result of poor agricultural services and inadequate access to credit.
2.    The lack of access to credit for input purchase (fertilizer, seed, labor), processing, and
trade remains a key constraint to improved economic performance in the rural sector, both
agricultural and non-agricultural. The rural sector's share of total formal credit was a mere 8
percent in 1999. In addition, there has been a steady withdrawal from lending to the rural sector
by domestic commercial banks, particularly after the 1990 elimination of the 20 percent
mandatory lending to agriculture, and this share (of 8 percent) is likely to fall. There is potential
for filling part of this void with resources from the 111 small, community owned rural banks, and
a multitude of small informal micro finance organizations and specialized microfinance institutions
(including NGOs), but these entities are weak, fragmented, and operate with outdated
technologies and under residual policy constraints which need to be urgently addressed.
However, based on international best practices and lessons of past operations in Ghana's rural
financial sector, this would only be effectively filled if rural microfinance institutions are
appropriately strengthened to more effectively perform such tasks. Secondly, the lack of access to
institutional credit further tends to undermine government efforts in other areas as well,
preventing attainment of strong development impact. With substantial investments in
infrastructure and services, the lack of a strong rural financial sector is the "critical missing link"
of an integrated rural development strategy, the lack of which continues to stifle private sector
initiatives in the rural economy. Strengthening of the rural financial system will therefore put into
place the third pillar needed for rural economic growth and poverty reduction. A number of these
constraints are discussed below.
3.    Weak rural banks. Many rural and community banks are weak, with limited skilled staff,
and outmoded technologies to adequately deliver services to rural clientele, a diversified group
with different and often changing needs for financial services. Of the 134 rural banks in existence
as at December 31, 1998, 23 were classified as distressed, with negative capital adequacy ratios
(CARs), or a CAR of less than 1 percent. [The CAR measures the ratio of owned funds (such as
paid up capital, free reserves, plus accumulated profits or less accumulated loss) to risk assets].
These 23 distressed rural banks were closed in 1999, after ascertainment of their inability to
regain financial viability. Of the 111 rural banks remaining, 2 more became distressed during the
last quarter of 1999 alone, and these will likely be closed by BOG in accordance with the banking
laws. About 56 of the 111 banks are rated as mediocre, defined as rural banks with capital
adequacy between 1 percent and 6 percent. The remaining 52 banks rated satisfactory are based
on the narrow classification of capital adequacy ratio alone, i.e., those with capital adequacy equal
to or greater than 6 percent. The performance rating does not take into account other key
performance measures such as provision for bad and doubtful debt, portfolio quality, shallow
capital and deposit base, etc. If more stringent criteria were applied, many of the banks currently
ranked satisfactory would be further downgraded. The average paid-up capital for the satisfactory
rural banks is only Cedis 48.1 million (UJS$13,000) and average networth of Cedis 282.1 million
(US$78,000). Many banks are not often supervised within a given financial year: 29 of the 52
satisfactory rural banks were last supervised in 1998, the longest supervision lag being March
-6-



1998. There is also a large divergence in rural bank status, depending on the data source: there is
an average divergence of Cedis 56 million in networth based on returns submitted by the rural
banks and the examination conducted by the Central Bank. This is due mainly to the poor
provisioning for bad and doubtful debts by the rural banks, and the lax supervision provided by
the BSD. Consequently, policy prescriptions are likely to differ, depending on the data source
used. Another area of weakness is human resources. A training needs assessment undertaken in
1999 from a sample of 42 of the rural banks showed that 60 percent of managers had only a
diploma or certificate, and 12 percent had GCEs or equivalent; only 28 percent of rural bank
managers had degrees. Also, 50 percent of all accountants had diplomas, 50 percent had GCE
levels, and none had formal degrees in accountancy. All projects officers only had a diploma or
certificate, with many having very little practical knowledge of rural investment appraisal.
4.    Poor integration of formal and informal sectors. There is little real formalized
relationship between formal and informal financial sector entities. Existing relationships are often
ad hoc. This relative isolation of the two sectors impedes effective integration of the rural and
urban economies needed to attain sustainable impact on rural poverty reduction. In reality, the
formal and informal financial sectors are important parts of the same continuum, and efforts need
to be made to remove constraints affecting the smooth flow of information, technology, and
resources between them. Some rural banks have increased outreach through association with
NGOs that have established methodology, and through linkages with susu collectors and clubs.
5.    Uncoordinated nature of past donor efforts. Past donor assistance to the rural financial
sector has often been piecemeal, driven by each donor's comparative advantage and rural
development strategy. IFAD has in the past focused largely on grassroots, micro finance
institutions; IDA, on the larger financial sector and the rural banks; and AfDB, on lines of credit
channeled largely through the ADB. Until now, there has not been a concerted and coordinated
response so much so that in some instances, measures instituted by one donor have often worked
at crossed purposes with the efforts of other donors: for example, a line of credit is given to a
rural bank by one donor while another donor is financing capacity building activities in the same
rural bank; or both donors support the same capacity building activities but use different triggers
and requirements. Coverage has also been limited: for example, focusing on a few rural banks or
informal associations within a project sphere of influence. Also, experience has often not been
shared, often leading to costly duplication of efforts. Finally, donor assistance has often been
short-lived, not allowing for sufficient time for reforms to take hold -- for example the
IDA-financed project closed in 1995 when some reforms were still in progress, with no follow-up
operation planned.
6.    Thin and overextended oversight capacity. The Bank of Ghana (BOG) has the statutory
mandate to monitor rural bank operations (as is the case for other, mostly urban based,
commercial banks). However, this task is made very difficult by the large number, isolation and
wide geographic distribution of the 111 rural banks. As a result, poorly performing banks (that
actually need) do not often receive the intense supervision required and some banks may not be
supervised in a given financial year. Current BOG supervision strategy normally consists of a team
visiting each rural bank for 3 - 4 days to review reports and ascertain data reported. This
approach was adequate when there were only a few rural banks in existence. Now, with over 111
- 7-



rural banks scattered all over the 10 administrative regions, and many more applications from
communities wishing to establish rural banks under consideration, this approach is now costly and
unsustainable. The situation is exacerbated by poorly trained staff of the rural banks and poorly
maintained files for quick supervision. Often, the BOG team may need to clean up the recording
system first before beginning its supervision, leading to lost time. Hence, new technological
reporting standards which take into account not only current but future growth needs of the rural
financial system are urgently required.
Government Strategy
1.    Regarding overall rural development, the government has undertaken a series of reforms
and initiatives aimed at improved natural resource management, better rural infrastructure, and
improved quality of agricultural services to the rural population. [Government strategy for the
sector is contained in these strategy documents: Vision 2020 (1996); National Environmental
Action Plan (1991); Forestry Master Plan 1996-2020 (1996); Land Sector Medium Term Plan
1996-2000 (1996); Accelerated Agricultural Growth and Development Strategy (draft 1997,
being finalized in 1999); Wildlife Development Plan 1998-2003 (1998); National Soil Fertility
Management Action Plan (1998); and Cocoa Sector Development Strategy (1999)]. In addition,
government is undertaking, with multidonor support, major investment programs in rural
infrastructure (ASIP and VIP) and services (AGSSIP) which will be complemented by the
proposed project.
2.    Government strategy for promoting rural financial intermediation calls for deepening
outreach and expanding services to a large number of rural clients by: (i) promoting the
formal/informal micro-finance sector through increased networking and capacity building, (ii)
strengthening the overall capacity of rural banks for effective intermediation; (iii) creating a
conducive environment for commercial bank intervention in the rural sector; and (iv) reviewing
the role of the country's Agricultural Development Bank (ADB) in supporting accelerated
agricultural growth, particularly with regard to medium and long tern lending.
3.   In this context, GOG began the first systematic efforts to restructure the rural banking
sector between 1989 and 1995, with the IDA-financed Rural Finance Project. The project, which
was also implemented by BOG, had a combination of institutional reforms and a line of credit to
eligible rural banks. The undertaking of these reforms was a condition for individual bank
participation in the line of credit scheme. However, experience of its implementation shows that
many rural banks rushed through with these reforms in order to access the line of credit (which
was quickly being depleted), and the capacity building process was halted as soon as the
onlending resources which acted as a catalyst were exhausted. Additionally, GOG has initiated
other reforms for non-bank institutions, such as the PNDCL 328 (Non-Bank Financial Institutions
Act) of 1993. Furthermore, the Ministry of Finance, in association with the Ghana Microfinance
Network (GHAMFIN), has prepared a strategic framework for the development of microfinance
which will be presented to Cabinet after revision following a stakeholders' workshop.
- 8-



3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices:
1.    There is a clear recognition by policymakers that reform of the rural financial sector is
critical to the offtake and sustainability of economic growth on the one hand, and distribution of
the growth generated to a larger share of the population, on the other. The latter distribution is
key to attainment of poverty reduction targets which is a cornerstone of government strategy of
poverty reduction. GOG has made substantial efforts in the past which have had some payoffs:
(a) encouraging and promoting the establishment of rural banks among rural communities,
characterized by local ownership and management;
(b) undertaking financial sector reforms (FINSAC) which were essential in removing
government control of some banks and broadly improving the policy and regulatory
environment for the overall financial sector;
(c) extending financial sector reforms to the rural banks, and ending a regime of targeted
credit and interest rate ceilings for the agricultural sector, thereby creating a more
competitive environment;
(d) encouraging the establishment of the Association of Rural Banks (ARB) and
supporting its efforts to transform the rural banks into an effective apex structure for a
more efficient and responsive rural financial system; and
(e) facilitating development of a training program for capacity building of micro and rural
finance institutions through many private groups, including GHAMFIN.
2.    In this context, and in order to build upon the successes of the earlier efforts mentioned
above, this operation will address the following issues:
3.    Institutional reforms. Transformation of the rural financial sector will require strong and
sustained emphasis on sector capacity building of its constituent institutions. Unlike other sectors,
previous capacity building efforts in the rural financial sector have been largely uncoordinated and
narrowly focused at specific nodes along the rural finance continuum, thereby resulting in little
multiplier effect on the rest of the financial sector, or the rural economy. Based on this lesson, the
approach to capacity building adopted under this program will have the following key attributes:
holistic: following the continuum of institutions in the rural financial sector, from the informal
financial sector, to the rural banks, the apex body and the Bank of Ghana; multifaceted: with many
broad attributes, covering human resource development, institution strengthening of rural groups
and associations, and various technological options; externalinternal linkages: utilizing a judicious
blend of both international and national experiences, best practices and knowledge; and long-term:
sustaining reforms for the entire project duration and beyond to allow institutions to grow and
become less dependent on continued donor or government subsidies.
4.    Strengthening linkages and Microfinance Capacity  The broader issue concerns the
extent to which real development impact can be realized without effective integration of the rural
and urban economies. In Ghana, despite years of successful reforms, an estimated 30 percent of
the rural poor live below the poverty line, with no major change in rural livelihoods. That benefits
of macroeconomic reforms have not yielded the desired impact on rural welfare (to the extent
anticipated) underpin the existing rural-urban dichotomy in the economic development process.
While a large part of this is due to the difficulties inherent in the rural milieu (transaction costs,
-9-



high risks, uncertainties, inaccessibility, etc.), there is increasing evidence that the weak nature of
rural institutions (both financial and non-financial) is an important constraint in harnessing the
rural economic potential. On one hand, the informal sector entities are too fragmented and lack
the education, information and assets (collateral) needed to effectively obtain financial services.
On the other hand, many of the formal financial institutions in urban (and quasi-urban) settings
further lack the experience and organizational arrangements to link "backward" into the rural
sector. For example, although a high proportion of clients of rural banks are informal groups,
many of these banks often fail to effectively harness this source by developing appropriate
instruments -- "specialized windows and services" tailored to the needs of these client groups. In
many instances, rural banks tend to adopt the behavior and mannerisms of the larger commercial
banks in the capital Accra, with very strict and limited hours of operation unsuitable to their
clientele. Many rural banks also tend to use financial products and loans made specifically for the
urban clients who have access to capital and collateral. This inflexibility results in a mismatch
between rural informal clients and formal financial entities. On the positive side, some of the
leading rural banks have teamed up with NGOs to introduce microfmance methodologies such as
village banking. The proposed operation will help develop and test new instruments and products
that will take into account the important roles and comparative advantages of each actor in the
rural/micro finance continuum (rural banks, NGOs, community-based organizations, and rural
associations, susu groups, etc.). The emphasis will be on: (i) identifying, mobilizing and training
informal groups in mobilizing and managing their funds; (ii) organizing, sensitizing, and
empowering informal groups as effective partners with formal financial sector entities; (iii)
inculcating savings behavior among group members through practical programs and other
innovations for more effective group cohesion; and (iv) training and capacity building for
microfmance institutions, including NGOs, to assist in group development and training through
their active participation in the provision of rural and microfmancial services.
5.     Capacity building.  The weak capacity of both formal and informal financial sector
entities is an important issue in developing strategies for a functional rural finance system. The
capacity dimensions of the rural banks are to a large extent systemic, reflecting both structural and
technological constraints which they face. The rural setting provides an effective barrier to
technological infusion and adoption, and/or attraction and retention of skilled and experience
staff. Such staff often opt to stay in the large urban centers with basic social and economic
facilities. This situation is further exacerbated by the lack of adequate resources of the rural banks
to provide the incentive to attract skilled staff, even in any setting. An important structural aspect
of the capacity dimension relates to the unit nature of the rural and community banks. For
example, operating in a restrictive catchment area, a small unit bank cannot, in a cost effective
manner, capture and utilize new information, have strong bargaining position with suppliers of
services such as training, or upgrade facilities. Hence, support for an apex is consistent with the
need to build strong and functional rural banks, with generic services being provided in a cost
effective manner by pooling of resources, experience and expertise. A technological dimension of
the capacity problem (also linked to the shallow resource base of the rural banks) relates to the
inability to invest in, and/or harness basic information technology for operational purposes. Even
in an era when many ready off-the-shelf software exists, such as microbanker, many rural banks
depend on cumbersome ledgers, which makes reporting difficult. Acquisition and training of rural
bank staff to effectively adapt these innovations to rural banking would lead to huge cost savings
- 10 -



in the long run and higher reporting standards. The program will therefore finance technical
assistance for specific institutional strengthening activities (strengthening internal controls,
improving procedures for greater transparency and accountability, strengthening the operations of
savings mobilization agencies, strengthening capacity for rural investment appraisal, etc).
Strategic Choices
6.    Why rural banks and micro-finance institutions?  The rural sector comprises nearly
80% of Ghana's population of 18.5 million, with rural economic activities providing employment
and incomes for an estimated 60% of rural dwellers. At the same time, nearly 30 percent of rural
inhabitants live below the poverty line. However, financial services remain significantly limited at
present, mainly provided by informal groups and rural banks. After relatively successful
macroeconomic and financial sector reforms, the absence of strong rural and micro finance
institutions have continued to impede the attainment of rapid rural economic development.
Existing rural financial institutions are often community-based, with strong sociocultural linkages.
The rural banks in particular are characterized by broad-based shareholdings by community
members and, compared to the larger commercial banks, have a higher propensity to serve clients
with low asset base, education and/or collateral -- clients who otherwise would have little or no
access to formal financial services. At the same time, there is an emerging network of specialized
microfinancial institutions that are testing out international best practice methodologies and
adapting them to Ghanaian microfinance context and situations. Given the dispersion of rural
banks, the nature of community ownership, and rural client base, development of strong rural and
micro finance institutions would provide a coherent framework for rural economic growth that
would lead to lowered poverty rates and improved standards of living for a majority of the
country's population.
7.    Why an Apex Structure for the rural and community banks? The network of 111 rural
and community banks are widely (but non-uniformly) dispersed throughout the 10 administrative
regions of Ghana. Each rural bank is a separate and free standing, limited liability corporation
operating under the Banking Laws of Ghana (PNDCL 225). Given its limited size and deposit
base, each of the rural banks is weak, both administratively and technically, and cannot on its own
tackle industry-wide constraints described above. Bilateral protocols established with the larger
commercial banks to provide these services are often costly, as these commercial banks are also
competitors of the rural banks. There is an existing but albeit limited framework of cooperation
amongst the rural banks under the Association of Rural Banks (ARB) for the provision of
common services. The apex arrangement is therefore a logical expansion of, and further
formalizes, the cooperative mechanism established under the ARB for the provision of
common/generic services in a more cost effective manner.
C. Project Description Summary
1. Project components (see Annex 2 for a detailed description and Annex 3 for a detailed cost
breakdown):
1.    The project components (summarized in the table below) are as follows:
- 11 -



Capacity Building - Informal      Financial Sector    6.39       27.8      1.86      36.3
Financial Sector                  Development
Capacity Building of Rural Banks  Financial Sector    5.05       22.0      0.00       0.0
Development
Institution Building - Apex       Institutional       9.89       43.1      2.90      56.6
Development
Institutional Support                                  1.63       7.1      0.36       7.0
Total Project Costs                   22.96     100.0      5.12      100.0
Total Financing Required                   22.96      100.0      5.12     100.0
1.    Capacity Building - Informal Financial Sector.  This component will focus on
strengthening informal and microfinancial entities by developing, organizing, and training
community groups and associations; training and capacity building for microfmance institutions;
developing and testing various instruments and products that would foster stronger linkages
between the formal rural and community banks and informal financial sector entities; sharing of
best practices, including those from within the subregion; facilitating the input of NGOs as
partners in rural financial sector institutions; and removing any administrative and/or regulatory
impediments to achieving effective integration. Activities under this component will build upon
existing initiatives such as the Ghana Microfinance Network (GHAMFIN), susu groups, women's'
banking initiatives, cooperatives and credit unions, etc.
2.    Capacity Building - Rural and Community Banks. This component will focus on: (i)
restructuring weak rural banks and strengthening their operational effectiveness; (ii) strengthening
internal controls of all rural banks including provision of new information technologies, logistics
and training of key staff; (iii) rationalizing the approach to agency banking (mobilization centers)
by improving communication and logistics and better defining criteria for setting up such centers
that are linked to individual rural bank capacity; (iv) updating rural banks operational procedures
and policies; (v) providing support for information technologies (and related training) for more
efficient electronic reporting to the apex and BOG; (vi) developing an overall staff development
plan for all categories of rural bank staff, including Board of Directors and implementing these
plans; (vii) strengthening rural bank-to-rural bank communication to facilitate greater operational
linkages; and (viii) reviewing and removing residual policies that may impede rural bank efficiency
such as those restricting geographical area of coverage, secondary reserve requirements, etc.
3.    Institution Building - Apex. This component will: (i) finance technical assistance needed
to set up, train and operationalize an apex bank for the rural and community banks for the
network of 111 rural and community banks, including the key units/departments of the apex; (ii)
provide support for initial capacity building activities, logistics (facilities, communications, etc.)
and other start-up activities; (iv) support development of operational procedures and policies for
the apex consistent with the requirements of the Banking Law (PNDCL 225); and (v) finance
short-term technical assistance of trained and experienced international experts to assist the rural
and community banks in establishing and operating the apex initiative.
- 12 -



4.    Institutional Support. This component will provide support to the BOG, notably the
Banking Supervision and Rural Finance Inspection Departments, to upgrade staff skills and
improve technologies. For the BSD, in particular, this support will be critical in enabling it to
modify its current approach to supervision of the rural banks, and thereby shifting to greater
standardization and electronic reporting, retrieval and analyses of returns, and more targeted
supervision of banks based on assessment of the returns submitted prior to going to the field.
Additionally, establishing a credible database will facilitate better pre-supervision preparation
which will shorten the time spent by BSD staff at each rural bank. Support will be provided to
RFID to strengthen its capacity for rural finance policy and strategy formulation, as well as for
program implementation and monitoring. Support to the MOF will ensure continuity in ongoing
rural microfmance initiatives such' as coordination of various programs and donor initiatives and
development of training programs and funds being supported under the NBFI project. This
component will enable effective implementation, monitoring and evaluation of project activities,
including financial management, reporting and audits (by independent frmns).
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project:
1.    Policy and institutional reforms supported by the project are as follows:
(a) Proliferation of Rural Bank Agencies. Many rural banks have opened branches and
agencies without proper clearances by the BOG. In many instances, these branches are
located in far away towns much removed from the main office of the rural banks. With
weak capacity at the center, lack of proper logistics, and poor rural communications,
supervision of these rural branches are often sporadic. The lack of proper monitoring leads
to fraud in some of these agencies, affecting rural depositors. Also, far flung branches
further burden the already overstretched supervision capacity of BSD. It is therefore
important to rationalize the approach to agency banking of the rural and community
banks, linked to the capacity of the member banks. The key action steps for these reforms
will be as follows: (i) BOG will issue a Memorandum to the management of all rural banks
reiterating that henceforth it will close all agencies and branches opened after January 1,
2001; (ii) BOG will urgently undertake a study to determine the magnitude of the problem
(amount of depositors funds involved, the relative importance of these agencies in the
overall portfolio of the rural bank; the impact of these agencies on lending practices, etc.).
The findings of these studies will be discussed with the donors and an agreement will be
reached on clear and monitorable Action Steps leading to the rationalization of these
agencies. These steps would include the closing of non-profitable rural bank branches
operating illegally in the rural areas.
(b) Secondary Reserve Requirement. BOG has established a 10 percent primary and 52
percent secondary reserve requirement for the rural banks. Given the weak capacity of
these rural banks, the key objective of the high secondary reserve ratio is to limit the
exposure of depositors funds in the event of rural bank failure. This high secondary
reserve limits the amount of loanable funds available to the rural banks. Also, it unduly
penalizes rural banks following prudential guidelines from lending for viable rural
enterprises. The proposed policy change explicitly links the level of secondary reserve to
-13-



the banks' performance and commitment to prudential requirements such as loan recovery,
appropriate provisioning for bad and doubtful debts, adequate internal controls, etc. The
following action steps are therefore envisaged: (i) Primary Reserve. Depositing with the
apex the primary reserve of 10 percent of all member rural banks of the apex; (ii)
Secondary Reserve. The secondary reserve of 52 percent will be modified to ensure that
rural banks meeting all prudential requirements have greater access to loanable funds while
penalizing those banks which do not apply prudential measures. The secondary reserve
ratio for all rural banks will therefore be based on the capacity of each rural bank and on a
graduated basis (20%, 35% and 52% of secondary reserve, for example) depending on
performance and capacity of each bank. A graduated, risk-based secondary reserve
requirement acceptable to IFAD and IDA will be established by BOG before effectiveness
of the credit, with implementation monitored by BSD and the Apex Bank.
(c) Inappropriateness of Rural Bank Sanctions. All commercial banks (including rural
banks) operate under PNDCL 225. Despite their large differences in size and operations,
both the large commercial banks (GCB, Barclays) and the small rural banks are subject to
the same sanctions for violations of operating procedures and policies. The stiff penalties
and fines applicable to larger commercial banks cannot be applied to the rural banks which
have small capital base and low profitability. The relatively high fines mean in effect that
these sanctions are not enforced at all on rural banks, further contributing to lax adherence
to rules and policies. The policy change envisaged would be as follows: (i) the apex bank
would become the equivalent of the other commercial banks for purpose of the sanctions
applicable under PNDCL 225; (ii) a separate (and appropriate) set of sanctions would be
developed for the rural banks which are more consistent with their size, profitability and
asset base; (iii) violations of PNDCL 225 by the apex would be enforced by BOG, while
violations by the rural banks would be enforced by the apex bank. BOG will ensure that it
does not transfer to the apex bank those sanctions over which the central bank has
fudiciary responsibility, such as withdrawal of the license of a rural bank. In all cases, the
apex bank will ensure that sanctions applicable to member rural banks are communicated
to these banks via their Board of Directors, which shall have such rights to impose these
sanctions. The apex bank may, upon recommendations of the Board, deny access to apex
services to rural banks in repeated violations of the operating procedures and policies and
general code of conduct of participants in the apex arrangment. The BOG will be duly
notified by the apex of changes in the status of a member bank,and BOG reserves the right
to take additional steps as necessary to ensure compliance under the Banking Laws
(PNDCL 225). The revised Guidelines of sanctions applicable to the rural banks
acceptable to the donors will be prepared by BOG prior to credit effectiveness. In
addition, the Code of Conduct of rural banks which are members of the apex acceptable to
the donors will be prepared and adopted by member banks prior to effectiveness of the
credit.
3. Benefits and target population:
Benefits
I .    The interventions proposed under this operation will have both direct and indirect benefits.
-14 -



In general, direct benefits will include increased investment in Ghana's rural sector due to the
existence of a functional rural financial sector, which would lead to-expanded income investment
opportunities in both the rural farm and non-farm sectors. These, in turn, would lead to expanded
employment and improved incomes of rural households, including female-headed households as
they play a more important role in rural credit compared to their male counterparts. The net effect
of sustained rural employment and incomes would be measured in terms of greater food security,
household incomes, and lowered rural poverty rates. By broadening coverage and diversifying the
range of instruments, products and services, these benefits would be captured by a wider segment
of the rural population, including those from among the poorest segments. Improved savings
mobilization would enhance the pool of financial resources available for investment in rural
enterprises, with substantial income effects in the rural economy. Indirect benefits would include
stronger and more vibrant rural financial institutions capable of adopting new technologies and
better managing risks, expanded pool of skilled personnel, more efficient transmission of
information, and improved confidence in the rural financial sector by rural depositors, investors
and borrowers.
2.    Specific component benefits and targets are described below:
(a) Informalfinancial sector. An additional 330,000 rural clients are expected to benefit
through access to financial services and products, whether as direct rural bank clients;
through an anticipated 8,000 self-help groups (SHGs) to be organized and trained under
the project over the next six years in collaboration with NGOs; through specialized
microfinancial institutions; through cooperating arrangements with susu collectors and
clubs; or through new innovations such as financial services agencies (FSAs). Based on
past experience under the IFAD-financed SCIMP project, about 60 percent of the SHGs
would be women's groups, while 70 percent of susu collectors' clients would be women.
The total number of women participants is therefore estimated to be in excess of 200,000.
At an average deposit rate of about Cedi 30,000 per day per client, incremental rural
savings mobilized is conservatively estimated as Cedi 10 billion (IJSD 2.5 million) per
annum.
(b) Rural and community banks. Investment in communications facilities, both to
facilitate electronic reporting and effective oversight of rural banking activities, would lead
to reduced reporting costs (travel from rural towns to the Central Bank in Accra) and
more efficient service provision. Capacity building in agency management and improved
linkage with informal sectors would lead to increased deposits in the rural banking sector.
Investment in human resource development would lead to improved quality of the
portfolio of rural banks, improved services, and better capacity to deal with risks. The
latter is very important as many rural bank staff do not have adequate training on
investment appraisal and loan administration.
(c) Apex bank. The key benefits would be: (i) more efficient service provision to the rural
banks through access to the national and regional clearing system; (ii) improved liquidity
and reduced costs of transactions through timely provision of specie to member banks; (iii)
greater profitability through improved investment decisions and better management of
- 15 -



risk; and (iv) greater confidence in the rural banking sector.
Target population
3.    For informal financial sector institutions, the program will target rural groups and
associations, including women, as well as the poorest segments of the rural population served by
informal and microfinancial entities. For rural and community banks, the program targets the 1 1 1
rural and community banks and their managers, Directors and shareholders. More than 1 11
managers, at least 220 accountants and over 500 to 800 Directors will be trained under the
project. The program will be national in scope but focused on specific strata of the rural financial
sector. However, participation of member banks will be phased, based on clear criteria and
determined by the needs assessment of these rural banks.
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements:
1.    The project will be implemented by the Rural Finance Inspection Department (RFID) of
the Bank of Ghana. RFID has increased its capacity in recent years to manage similar operations,
beginning with the Rural Finance Project which closed in 1995. The scope of responsibilities of
the RFID has been recently reduced with the transfer of its management audit functions to BSD
and a clearer focus on policy and strategy development. This sharpened mandate now better
prepares RFID to implement this program aimed at institutional and policy reforms and capacity
building of the rural financial sector. Project implementation will therefore be mainstreamed in the
RFID, with key project staff being seconded to the RFID to augment its capacity through a
competitive search process within the BOG departments. Those staff seconded will not have
competing responsibilities and will spend their time fully in project implementation. Where such
staff do not have adequate training, training in procurement and financial management will be
provided through the project to augment their technical skills. The key project staff within the
BOG will comprise a Project Coordinator, Procurement Specialist, and Accountant. These staff
will report to the Director, RFID.
2.    Implementation of the microfinance component will be the responsibility of the RFID, with
activities contracted out to private sector entities, such as GHAMFIN, which will oversee the
technical support being provided by participating NGOs. Each potential beneficiary group meeting
eligibility criteria will prepare a funding proposal requesting support under the Rural and
Microfinance Capacity Building Fund. All such proposals will be reviewed by a committee
comprising the ARB, head of the microfinance clusters, representative of an NGO specializing in
rural/microfinance, the Head of the Microfinance Unit of MOF, and the RFSP Project
Coordinator. The Project Coordinator within RFID shall chair this committee. All proposals
approved by the Committee will be recorded and sent to the implementing agency which will
oversee contracting of services. In its implementing responsibility, the implemenring agency will
ensure quality of services, as well as timeliness of quarterly and annual reports to the RFSP
management. Disbursement under all such contracts will be made by the RFID, based on
applicable disbursement and procurement procedures and thresholds.
3.    Similarly, a New Products and Innovations Fund (NPIF) will be established under the New
Products and Innovations Department (NPID) of the apex to promote research and development
- 16 -



of new and innovative instruments and products for rural financial intermediation. The NPIF
Committee will comprise of all members of the MFCDF, the Director of the NPID of the apex
and the Deputy Managing Director of the apex, who will chair this committtee. For an interim
period of two years until the NPID of the apex has been established, the Committee will be
chaired by the Head, Microfinance Unit of the MOF and the responsibilities transferred to the
apex after this transition period. The latter arrangement will ensure continuity in similar ongoing
programs under the NBFI Project while allowing the apex to develop its own capacity.
4.    Overall policy guidance on RFSP implementation will be the responsibility of a
multisectoral Project Steering Committee comprising the following: (i) The Governor, BOG or
his designee; (ii) the Director, RFID; (iii) one representative of the Ministry of Finance; (iv) one
representative of the Ministry of Food and Agriculture (MOFA); (v) one representative of the
ARB; (vi) one representative of a rural/microfmance network; and (vii) the Project Coordinator
who shall act as Secretary to the PSC. The PSC will be chaired by the Governor, Bank of Ghana.
The terms of reference of the PSC is in the Implementation Manual.
5.    Project Monitoring. Project monitoring will include: (i) monitoring of overall
implementation, including procurement, disbursement, and financial management; (ii) monitoring
of the rural bank reform processes, including adherence to stipulated legal requirements of
performance, etc.; (iii) monitoring of supervision input of the agencies of the BOG such as BSD
and RFID; and (iv) monitoring of general indicators of project development impact. A
participatory baseline survey will be undertaken. The project development impact will take gender
and poverty-related aspects into consideration. Apart from quantitative indicators, information on
qualitative indicators will also be collected and analyzed.
D. Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection:
1.    Several alternative formulations of this operation were considered and rejected by key
stakeholders and donor partners as inappropriate for the Ghana rural/micro finance context:
(a) Multiple donor projects targeted at different tiers of the rural finance continuum.
Lessons of AfDB, Bank and IFAD-financed operations have shown the need for providing
support to the rural and microfinancial sector in a holistic manner that adds value to and
complements each individual donor initiative. Poorly coordinated approaches of the past
have often resulted in dissipation of scarce resources and efforts, bottlenecks in sharing
lessons of experience, institutional rigidities which undermine sustainability, and overall low
development impact. The approach adopted by this project is based on a coordinated
program co-financed by the principal donors active in Ghana's rural finance sector, with each
donor participation based on its area of comparative advantage.
(b) Capacity building versus lines of credit. The focus of the proposed operation is to
strengthen capacity of formal and informal financial sector institutions for effective
intermediation given the chronic weakness of the rural banking system: 24 distressed, 56
mediocre, and 52 deemed satisfactory based on a narrowly defined CAR criterion. The issue
- 17 -



is not a line of credit as such but appropriate sequencing of interventions that would ensure
enhanced impact of the reforms. The first step toward increasing the liquidity available is to
improve the capabilities of the rural and community banks so that the 52 percent secondary
reserve requirement can be lowered, thereby releasing liquidity to those rural and
community banks capable of managing it. If inclusion of a line of credit is not properly
sequenced, it would conflict with the core institutional building objectives of this operation,
leading to less-than-optimal impact of these reforms on the rural economy. The initial
emphasis on capacity building does not preclude all options for a resource infusion to the
rural financial sector during implementation. For example, some donors would consider
support for a line of credit after the initial period of reforms, and such facility could be
targeted at the satisfactory rural banks, with key triggers for participation. Also, after the
reforms, many commercial banks, notably the ADB, would consider wholesaling credit to
the rural banks rather than maintaining non-profitable rural branches. Therefore, a short and
intense period of reforms would lead to the inflow of new resources to the rural financial
sector, both from external and mobilized sources. Hence, the option of including a line of
credit as a part of this program was rejected as too distractive to its core capacity building
objectives.
(c) Use of an Existing financial institution as the apex for the rural banks. Historically,
Ghana's rural banks developed under a unit (as opposed to branch) banking culture, whereby
each bank is independently owned and managed by members of rural communities.
Requiring an existing financial entity, such as the ADB, to become the apex structure for the
rural banks would undermine the community ownership structure and lead to centralization
of decision making and service delivery at the time when the focus is on decentralization of
financial services and decisionmaking, and greater community participation in the rural
development process. The apex concept builds upon both the culture and history of the rural
banking sector in Ghana, nurtured on a foundation of voluntary association promoted under
the Association of Rural Banks (ARB). The proposal to have another competitor
commercial bank providing services to the network of rural banks as the apex was discussed
and rejected during project preparation by member rural banks during the Sensitization
Campaigns held in Accra, Takoradi, Cape Coast, Kumasi, Tamale, Sunyani and Koforidua
in 1999. Hence, such imposition would be a top down model, with a high non-participation
rate by the member rural banks. Furthermore, the experience of the rural and community
banks in dealing with commercial and development banks has not proven satisfactory in
terms of timely provision of services. It also does not appear likely that existing commercial
banks will treat rural and community banks as priority clients.
- 18 -



2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and/or other development agencies (completed,
ongoing and planned).
T                             1  g   . .g.............. . .Latest Supervision
Sector Issue            j           Project                    (PSR) Ratings
.____ ____ ____ ____ ____ ____   ____________ (Bank-financed  projects only)
Implementation   Development
Bank-financed                                                        Progress (IP)   Objective (DO)
National agricultural research strategic National Agricultural Research   S              S
plan formulation and its short-term  (Closed 12/31/99)
implementation
Rehabilitation and development of
research infrastructure
Human resources development
Strengthening research/extension
linkages
Development of a unified national    National Agricultural Extension      S              S
agricultural extension system with   (Closed 10/31/99)
strong research linkages for diffusing
improved agricultural technology
Capacity building
Policy reforms in cost recovery and  National Livestock Services          U              S
privatization of animal health services (Closed 12/31/99)
Getting government out of commercial
production of livestock
Institutional reform
Production and distribution of
improved livestock breeds, forage and
pasture resources
Increasing exports of non-traditional   Agricultural Diversification      S              S
agricultural exports, horticulture   (Closed 12/31/99)
capacity building
Legislative reform                   Fisheries Capacity Building          S              S
Formulation of policy and action plans
for sustainable management of fisheries
resources
Development of aquaculture
Capacity building in public and private
sectors (community-based
organizations)
- 19 -



Support to reforms of the formal                                    S             S
financial sector, and liberalization of   FINSAC
the financial institutions        Closed
Support for capacity building of the    Rural Finance Project       S             S
rural and community banks         Closed 6/30/95
S             S
Support to reforms and capacity   Non-Bank Financial Institutions
building of non-bank financial    Project
institutions
Support to reforms in the public sector Public Sector Financial Mngt  S           S
and capacity building of key sector    Technical Assistance Project
agencies                          Closingl2/31/01
Access of rural population to      Agricultural Sector Investment    S             S
infrastructure, i.e. feeder roads, tracks, (Closed 11/30/99)
markets, water supply (for humans,    Village Infrastructure
livestock and irrigation), storage and   (Closing 12/31/04)
small scale food processing equipment
Other development agencies
Provision of input supply, marketing   IFAD - Small holder Credit
and credit services               Inputs Marketing
Provision of extension, livestock and   IFAD - Upper East Rural
water supply services              Development
Provision of extension, livestock and   IFAD - Upper West Rural
water supply services              Development
Research and production of planting    IFAD - Root and Tuber
materials                         Improvement
Development of an integrated pest
management system
Community support and mobilization
Research, production, inputs and   AfDB - Food Crops
marketing support services        Improvement
Rehabilitation of small scale surface   Japanese - Irrigation  i.
water irrigation schemes           Rehabilitation
Eradication of Cocoa Swollen Shoot   EU - Cocoa Swollen Shoot
Virus Disease                      Eradication
Control of Rinderpest disease in cattle  EU - Pan African Rinderpest
Privatization of animal health services  Control
-20 -



Production of rice in valley bottoms    French - Rice Improvement
Capacity building                 DANIDA - Technical
Institutional strengthening       Assistance to Ghana Rural
Banking Sector
Promotion of agricultural exports and   US - Trade and Investment
investment                        Promotion
IP/DO Ratings: HS (Highly Satisfactory), S (Satisfactory), U (Unsatisfactory), HU (Highly Unsatisfactory)
3. Lessons learned and reflected in the project design:
1.    The IDA-assisted Rural Finance Project (closed in 1995) provided the first comprehensive
support to Ghana's rural banking sector. The project included both a line of credit to eligible rural
banks and technical assistance for a financial restructuring program for rural banks to enable them
to become more efficient in rural savings mobilization and credit delivery. IFAD has supported
more than five projects in Ghana over the last six years, three with a credit/rural financial services
strengthening component focusing on micro lending for small scale on-farm/off-farm  income
generating activities, with particular emphasis on rural women. The AfDB has had four successive
lines of credit (1980, 1985, early 1990s, and 1999) to the Agricultural Development Bank (ADB).
All of these donor activities have been largely uncoordinated (until now) and the salient lessons
learned have been incorporated into the RFSP:
(a) Training. Training of RB directors and staff has emerged as an essential element in the
development of a viable rural banking sector with strong internal controls, transparency, better
business practices and management of risks. Consequently, this project will have a heavy
emphasis on training throughout all levels of rural, micro and informal financial institutions.
(b) Need for an Apex Institution. Lack of an apex institution has made it difficult for
individual rural banks to sustainably deal with common constraints, e.g. check clearing, specie
supply, and liquidity management. Hence, the project will support the setting up of an apex
bank that would permit attainment of a desirable level of economies of scale in dealing with
these constraints.
(c) Need for stronger oversight. Improved oversight of rural bank activities enhanced
depositors' confidence in the overall rural banking sector, and this will be further supported
under the project.
(d) Timely Reporting of returns. Long distances from the central bank and weak capacity
affect the ability of the rural banks to provide timely returns to the supervising entity, the
Bank of Ghana. Such delays in reporting undermiine the ability of the BSD to provide timely
oversight of banking activities. Investments in communications and related technologies will
help to address this problem.
(f) Partnerships with NGOs crucial. Groups organized and trained by NGOs have shown
promising results, especially when group membership remained small and manageable. Thus,
NGOs will be contracted to carry out group formation and training activities for the informal
-21 -



financial sector.
(g) Emphasis on Savings Mobilization. The IFAD experience confirmed that building and
sustaining a strong rural financial system requires emphasis on savings mobilization as
opposed to lines of credit, a key feature of this operation.
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership:
I1.    The activities supported under this operation are the outcomes of consultations among
many internal stakeholders (Bank of Ghana, ARB, member rural banks, private sector entities)
and with the donor partners. They therefore represent a collectively felt need. In addition, these
activities are the logical continuation of past donor (AfDB, DANIDA, IDA and IFAD) efforts in
the rural financial sector for which the Borrower has requested assistance in the past. The
proposed operation therefore has strong borrower ownership as demonstrated by the following:
*  Borrower has undertaken a broad technical review and feasibility study of the apex and
has put together a cogent proposal for support by all participating donors;
5  Borrower's central bank (BOG) allocated and disbursed an amount of Cedis 500 million as
seed capital to finance pre-start up activities even before donor funds were available;
* Borrower has initiated broad consultations, including visits both within Asia (Philippines
Rural Banks) and Europe (Rabobank) to assess and gain international experiences and
lessons in rural banking. The Borrower has sought the technical partnership of the
Rabobank (Netherlands) which has a similar apex structure to assist it in implementing this
program;
*  Borrower has established a high-level Transition Apex Steering Committee (TASC)
chaired by the Governor of the Bank of Ghana (the central bank) and, correspondingly, a
Technical Committee to guide the conceptualization and design of this program;
*  Borrower has undertaken a nationwide Sensitization Campaign to make all rural banks and
their management aware of these important changes and the likely impact on their
institutions and communities;
*  Borrower has supported development of a comprehensive training program  for
microfinance institutions through collaboration with GHAMFIN;
*  Borrower convened a Multidonor Roundtable on the Apex initiative during which
consensus was developed on the key activities to be supported and agreement reached on
the next steps; and
*  The Apex has been registered and a provisional license for its operations has been issued
by the BOG pursuant to Banking Laws 225.
2.    Borrower has therefore strong ownership of the product and has taken clear leadership of
- 22 -



the process of reforms in the rural financial sector.
5. Value added of Bank support in this project:
1.    The Bank has worked closely with the Borrower and with many other donors, notably
AfDB and IFAD, in providing support for strengthening rural financial institutions in Ghana. The
Bank has therefore worked at all three levels of the rural financial continuum -- microfinance and
the informal rural and cooperative sector, the rural and community banks, and the central bank.
Consistent with its global experience and knowledge base, the Bank brings significant
international experience from Asia and other regions, in assisting the government's efforts to
strengthen its rural financial sector and implement the reforms needed to unleash sector growth.
In addition, the proposed operation complements past and on-going operations in the sector
financed by the Bank in rural infrastructure (ASIP and VIP), in agriculture services (AGSSIP),
and microfmance (NBFI). The Bank's participation complements well IFAD's comparative
advantage on rural poverty reduction and informal financial institutions, and AfIB's.comparative
advantage with Agriculture Development Bank. These two donors would not together constitute
the critical mass of experience and strategic focus needed to provide the holistic support along the
continuum of rural financial system. The combined participation of these three donors,
unprecedented in the rural microfinance sector in Ghana, is therefore needed to support this
program.
E. Summary Project Analysis (Detailed assessments are in the project file, see Annex 8)
1. Economic (see Annex 4):
O Cost benefit    NPV=US$ million; ERR = % (see Annex 4)
3 Cost effectiveness
O Other (specify)
1. Cost Effectiveness Analysis
1.    The project is an important vehicle for the GOG and the other internal stakeholders (BOG,
rural and community banks, informal financial sector actors, etc.) to implement a series of well
coordinated and targeted reforms of the rural financial sector aimed at inducing an acceptable
level of efficiency in rural financial intermediation in support of growth and poverty reduction.
The cost effectiveness analysis therefore focuses on: (i) the expected reduction in transaction
costs of service delivery; (ii) the reduction in response time to the needs for rural depositors and
borrowers; and (iii) the overall quality of the rural financial sector portfolio attainable through
training and investments in improved internal control and technology.
2.    The key assumptions are as follows:
(a) while a myriad of informal and microfmancial sector institutions are active in the rural
milieu in Ghana, the assessment will focus on the susu groups, selfhelp associations and
GHAMFIN members for which baseline information exists;
(b) for rural and community banks, the cost-effectiveness analysis will focus only on primary
-23 -



changes and their impact, for example, the extent to which investment in organizing and
training groups lead to direct reduction in transaction costs, or how adoption of technologies
would result into time saved. Secondary (but nevertheless important) impact such as
subprojects investments, while substantial, will only be described;
(c) where technical data are not available, the cost effectiveness assessment will utilize an
assessment based on relative degree of intensity of the induced impact of the change, for
example, negligible, low, medium or high impact; and
(d) for purposes of comparison, the assessment will look at both before and after project
scenarios, and then a relative measure of the magnitude of the expected change.
Background and Context of the Analysis
3.    The wide range of infonnal and micro financial institutions in Ghana offer substantial
potential to reach poor people in rural areas and link them up to the financial system (particularly
through Rural and Community Banks). While a number of institutions-ranging from susu
collectors to NGOs to savings and loan companies-have adopted international best practices and
made important advances in recent years, the scale and capabilities of these institutions remain
limited. Building the capacity of these institutions and linking them better to each other and to the
financial system through RCBs is a critical component of the Project in order to achieve the
objective of making financial services more widely available to the rural poor. Training of the
staff and Directors of specialized MRFIs is expected to improve their application of best practices
and financial accounting systems, resulting in increased operational and financial sustainability and
hence greater capacity to reach growing numbers of rural clients. Training to community-based
organizations, self-help groups, susu collectors and clubs, and other informal institutions is
expected to increase the number of savings and credit groups as well as the ability of the target
population to better manage and mobilize their own funds, establishing a better basis for fornal
and semi-formal MRFIs to work with them to provide access to savings, credit, and other
financial instruments. Grants will also be provided specifically to facilitate development of such
linkages, as well as the development of new, innovative financial products suited to rural client
groups. The expected result will be substantial increases in savings mobilized from rural
households, as well as an expansion in their share of credit allocations by RCBs.
4.    The project would lead to the training of rural bank staff and directors, upgrading internal
control procedures to ensure greater transparency in reporting, improving technology for more
efficient reporting, building of capacity for rural credit appraisal, and strengthening mobilization
agencies. It is expected that investment in training will lead to a higher caliber of staff, better
managed rural banks with an effective and efficient Board. This in turn will lead to better
investment and money management decisions, greater ability to manage risks, and overall healthy
portfolio. Improved internal controls would lead to reduced fraud, and enhanced confidence of
rural communities in their local banks. Investment in information technology would lead to more
cost-effective submission of rural banks' returns, better economic integration of the rural banking
sector, and reduced operating costs of the rural banks. Support for the mobilization centers would
lead to increased deposit mobilization, increased deposit base, and more effective oversight of
-24 -



agency activities by the rural bank.
Summary Effectiveness Analysis
5.    Details of the cost effectiveness analysis is in Annex IV but are summarized below.
6.    Impact. The project is expected to substantially increase the number of rural poor with
access to financial services, whether at the level of community-based organizations, MlRFIs, or
rural banks. The direct impact is expected to be an addition of some 100,000 rural poor clients
(at least 60,000 of them women), about half linked to rural banks (and an average increase of
about 500 per bank) and the other half as clients of other MRFIs (an average of about 500 for 30
GHAMFIN members), susu collectors and clubs (about 100 benefiting directly from the project
and adding an average of 200 clients), and new community savings and credit groups (about 500
formed with an average membership of 30). The data base for monitoring these figures is weak,
and it will be important in the early phases of the project to improve baseline data and monitoring
systems. The resulting increase in resource mobilization is expected to show up in a doubling of
deposits in rural banks (from the Dec. 1998 base of cedis 117 billion). Because of present reserve
requirements, no more than 38% of those additional deposits would be able to flow into increased
credit for RCB clients; nevertheless, it is expected that a lowering of the secondary reserve
requirement for satisfactory rural banks would also enable total loans and advances to double
(from the Dec. 1998 base of cedis 58 billion). While the share of the poor in rural bank credit is
not available, this share is expected to rise as a result of the linkage efforts, so that loans and
advances to them would rise more than in proportion to the aggregate figure.
7.    The ultimate impact of this increase in the financial assets and access to credit and other
financial services would be to improve the ability of the rural poor to manage the risks of
economic cycles and shocks that lead to fluctuating incomes and to invest and obtain the working
capital necessary to raise their level of income. Since these effects of increased access to financial
services are well documented, the project's monitoring and evaluation activities will not take on
the expense of systematic measurement of impact at the household level, although an effort will be
made on a sample basis to verify that the impact of increased access to microfmance in Ghana
conforms to experience elsewhere.
8.    The training activities of the Informal and Micro Financial Sector Component are
innovative in that they attempt to develop a sustainable market of training services for MRFIs,
consistent with the emerging international consensus on best practices for development of
business development service markets. It is expected that MRFIs will increasingly recognize the
value of training their productivity and performance and hence will be willing to bear an increasing
share of the cost. The subsidy rate on professional development courses for RMFIs is expected to
fall from 75% to 25% during the project period, with at least some of the highly-demanded
courses being offered independently by private training providers on a full cost-recovery basis.
2. Financial (see Annex 5):
NPV=US$ million; FRR = % (see Annex 4)
Corporate Status and Establishment Costs of the Apex Bank
1.    The Apex Bank is a public limited liability company registered under the banking law with
-25-



rural banks as its principal shareholders. A head-office and five branches (Accra, Kumasi,
Takoradi, Bolgatanga and Sunyani) will be established for an estimated $8.1million covering the
rehabilitation of premises, training for apex staff, vehicles, office equipment, furniture, data and
voice communication equipment within the Apex-Rural Bank-Central Bank network, technical
assistance, and initial operating capital. In order to avoid possible dominance of the Apex Bank
by the larger rural banks, the Apex Bank's shares will be distributed evenly across all rural banks,
regardless of each rural bank's size. In order not to compromise the rural bank's financial health,
it will be required that no rural bank's capital adequacy ratio falls below the prudential level of
6.5% after its share subscription to the Apex Bank. Based on December 1999 financial
performance data for rural banks, a capital contribution of 20 million per rural bank (currently
equivalent to US$ 5,000) was deemed manageable, which amounts to p2.2 billion (or US$ 0.6
million) for all the rural banks combined. The project will provide a capital grant for the
remaining US$ 7.5 million needed for the Apex Bank's establishment.
2.    However, not all rural banks can afford to make a full payment of their required capital
contribution at this time. In fact, only 53 of the Ill rural banks are currently in position to pay a
significant portion of the 20 million each without compromising their financial health, with only
23 rural banks presently in position to make a full payment. The remaining 88 rural banks will
make an initial contribution of at least  1 million, and pay the remainder in up to five installments
after a grace period of up to 5 years during which the rural banks' capacity will be strengthened
(the exact number of installments and the length of the grace period to depend upon the individual
rural bank's current financial health and projected performance). It is expected that a combined
total amount of 730 million (or US$ 183,000) will be mobilized at project inception, with the
remaining 1.47 billion (or US$ 367,500) paid up over the next ten years. For now, the
corresponding capital needs will be financed by the project, bringing the project's contribution to
US$ 7.9 million. The unpaid share capital balance for each rural bank will be valued in US dollars
at the May 31, 2000 exchange rate. Any outstanding balance will attract an interest rate of 4%
per annum on the US dollar value in order to preserve its purchasing power. However, actual
payments will be made in the local currency, after converting the installment in question into the
local currency at the prevailing exchange rate. All rural banks will hold an account with the Apex
Bank (for the purposes of check clearing, specie management, and primary reserve requirements).
All share capital subscriptions due will be deducted by the Apex Bank from the rural bank's
account. An agreement will be signed between each rural bank and the Apex Bank spelling out
these payment arrangements.
The Apex Bank's Operating Income Projections
3.    The Apex Bank's income will mainly comprise the return from investing (in Treasury
Bills) the rural banks' primary reserves which the Bank of Ghana has allowed to be deposited with
the Apex Bank. The other relatively minor sources of revenue will come from investing some of
the rural banks' clearing account balances; brokerage fees from treasury management services to
rural banks; and the return on invested equity contributions and depreciation provisions. Key
assumptions underlying the analysis are: (i) rural bank deposits grow at a relatively conservative
30% per annum (instead of the recently observed 40%); (ii) the primary reserve requirement is
maintained at no less than 10% of total rural bank deposits; (iii) all primary reserves are
-26 -



maintained at the Apex Bank which it in turn invests them in Treasury Bills at an interest rate
which steadily declines from 25% in the year 2001 to 18% by the sixth year to reflect likely
macro-economic improvements in the Ghanaian economy (this rate currently stands at 31%); and
(iv) the composite secondary reserve requirement ratio declines from 52% to 50% in the first
year, and down to 38% by the sixth year in tandem with improved performance among rural
banks due to the capacity building program and a new risk-based secondary reserve requirement
computation system. Based on these assumptions, the Apex Bank's income is projected to
increase from 5.8 billion (or US$ 1.5 million) in its first full year of operation, to 1 5.7 billion (or
US$ 3.9 million) by the end of the sixth year, most of it (average of 73%) coming from
investments of rural banks' primary reserves.
The Apex Bank's Operating Cost Projections
4.    The Apex Bank's operating expenses will cover: (i) rural bank inspection; (ii) rural bank
management and staff training; (iii) specie management; and (iv) other operating costs (staff
salaries and wages, utilities, administrative expenses, depreciation, etc.). Major assumptions
underlying operating cost projections are: (i) the inspection function will start with a small core
unit of 10 inspectors, which will be scaled up gradually to its full strength of 32 inspectors over a
three year period (note that full inspection will continue to be adequately provided by the central
bank over this period, and will be gradually transferred over to the Apex Bank in tandem with the
latter's increased capacity. Note also that the central bank will not transfer its statutory mandate
of rural bank supervision, but will only delegate the inspection function); (ii) similarly, financing
training activities from the Apex Bank's own resources will be introduced gradually, starting with
the second year of the Apex Bank's full operation and increasing in tandem with improvements in
the Apex Bank's financial performance (although training itself will be adequately provided, right
from the start, under previous arrangements funded by DANIDA, the Bank of Ghana, and
contributions by rural banks themselves and with new funding to be provided under this project);
(iii) each of the five branch offices of the Apex Bank will have a bullion van for specie supply and
a cross-country vehicle for rural bank inspection and training coordination; and (iv) rural banks
are responsible for 50% of the training and specie supply costs, including related depreciation and
staffing charges, and for 100% of the operation of the IT equipment at their disposal, although the
equipment's major maintenance and depreciation is the Apex Bank's responsibility. Based on
these assumptions, the Apex Bank's operating costs are expected to increase from 5.7 billion
(US$ 1.4 million) to 012.7 billion (US$ 3.2 million). The bulk of the costs is constituted of
depreciation charges, thanks to the sizable amount of rapidly depreciable information technology
underlying the Apex system's set-up.
The Apex Bank's Operating Profit and Loss Projections
5.   In assessing the Apex's profitability and sustainability, the overall financial performance of
the Apex Bank is considered of prime importance, rather than the profitability of each branch
office. In this regard, all figures have been consolidated in the financial projections. As a matter
of strategy, the Apex Bank phases additional functions into its operations as and when it can
afford them. Although it will need an operating grant of 3.2 billion in its pre-operation phase to
cater for staff recruitment, salaries and training during the start up period, the Apex Bank is
-27 -



reduced costs) from more efficient field supervision and timely monitoring and reporting. The 111
rural banks are expected to contribute a total of US$1.6 million over six years, largely as
contribution to training, and increasing assumption of the cost of project appraisals within the
rural banks. The financial burden of the required counterpart funding is again small, averaging
about US$18,0000 per rural bank over the next six years or US$ 3,000 per annum.
3. Technical:
1.    The capacity building program for the rural financial sector represents international best
practices and lessons learned over the last decade of rural and microfmance in Ghana. These
lessons were incorporated in the design of this operation. During the design stage, the
representatives of the BOG, ARB and rural banks visited the Federation des Caisses d'Epargne et
de Credit Agricole Mutuel (FECECAM) and IFAD-supported Financial Services Associations
(FSAs) in nearby Benin Republic in 1999 to review operational experiences of an informal
financial sector apex and visits to autonomous FSA microfinance institutions, including field visits
to their rural branches. Design of the apex arrangement was informed by initial technical feasibility
assessments undertaken in 1997 by SGV (Manila), which took into account lessons from the
Philippines rural banking sector. Also, these experiences were broaden by visits to the Rabobank
(Netherlands) between 1998 and 1999. The latter has also assisted the ARB and the rural banks in
various training and capacity building initiatives. The ARB and its member banks have also
benefited from training provided through a DANIDA technical assistance grant. During 1999,
ARB undertook an independent assessment of the viability of the apex and determined that it
would also be financially viable based on certain features incorporated into the design.
2.    In addition to these external linkages, preparation of this operation was also guided by
internal client consultations, mainly through Sensitization Campaigns undertaken by the Transition
Apex Steering Committee and its Technical Secretariat during 1999. These regional workshops
were held in Accra, Cape Coast, Kumasi, Sunyani, Bonsu, Koforidua and Bolgatanga and were
attended by the regional chapters and members of the rural and community banks. These meetings
helped to validate initial assumptions of on the membership, configuration, and participation of the
rural and community banks in the apex initiative.
4. Institutional:
4.1 Executing agencies:
The Bank of Ghana, through its Rural Finance Inspection Division (RFID), is the
designated implementing agency of the project. A key factor in this designation is that the RFSP
focuses on banking regulations, policies and institutional arrangements for which the Central Bank
has comparative advantage, compared to any other stakeholder entity. Additionally, the RFID
managed the previous Rural Finance Project funded by the Bank which closed in 1995. The RFID
was restructured in 1999, divesting it of its inspection management audit responsibility and
re-orienting it to focus on rural finance policy and strategy development. The focus on
strengthening rural financial intermediation in Ghana, within the appropriate legal and institutional
framework, is consistent with the revised mandate of the RFID.
- 30 -



4.2 Project management:
The project would be managed by a team of staff with appropriate training, qualification
and experience that would be transferred from various parts of the BOG. The implementation
team will be selected based on proven expertise and experience, with additional training provided
to augment their skills. The core staff will comprise a Project Coordinator, Procurement
Management Specialist, and a Financial Management Specialist and these staff will have terms of
reference, experience and qualification acceptable to the Association.
4.3 Procurement issues:
A procurement capacity assessment has been undertaken of the implementing unit, the
RFID, and a detailed Procurement Plan has been prepared for the first year of project
implementation. In addition, applicable thresholds have been set based on the findings of the
procurement assessment. There are no specific procurement issue associated with this project.
4.4 Financial management issues:
An assessment of the financial management capacity was also undertaken of the
implementing and concrete steps were defined for further strengthening the implementing agency's
capacity for financial management, including training. In addition, a firm of independent auditors
will be hired to provide annual review of project financial management, beginning with an interim
audit to take place nine months after effectiveness. There are no specific financial management
issues associated with this project.
5. Environmental:                  Environmental Category: F (Financial Intermediary Assessment)
5.1 Summarize the steps undertaken for environmental assessment and EMP preparation (including
consultation and disclosure) and the significant issues and their treatment emerging from this analysis.
This is a rural finance sector technical assistance operation focused mainly on institutional
reforms and capacity building. It therefore has no direct environmental impact and no
environmental assessment is needed.
5.2 What are the main features of the EMP and are they adequate?
N/A
5.3 For Category A and B projects, timeline and status of EA:
Date of receipt of final draft: N/A
5.4 How have stakeholders been consulted at the stage of (a) environmental screening and (b) draft EA
report on the environmental impacts and proposed environment management plan? Describe mechanisms
of consultation that were used and which groups were consulted?
N/A
5.5 What mechanisms have been established to monitor and evaluate the impact of the project on the
environment? Do the indicators reflect the objectives and results of the EMP?
N/A
6. Social:
6.1 Summarize key social issues relevant to the project objectives, and specify the project's social
- 31 -



development outcomes.
Experience from similar projects show that self-help groups which are well organized and
have the capacity to manage their deposits have higher probability of success. The program
proposes to develop such groups. In this context, qualified NGOs will work closely as partners
with rural banks to develop awareness of such self help groups. Ghana has a strong culture of
volunteerism and NGOs are active in the rural sector. This grassroots presence makes them ideal
partners as well as intermediaries between the informal and formal sector entities. Also, for
individuals whose social and economic disadvantages place then "beyond the frontier" of the
formal financial sector, successful financial intermediation is often accompanied by social
intermediation, with the groups' cohesiveness a key factor in their success. These social
dimensions of this program have been taken into account in the design and implementation
arrangements of this project.
6.2 Participatory Approach: How are key stakeholders participating in the project?
Participatory approaches for community involvement in rural finance are now widely
recognized in Ghana and were designed as an integral part of this program. Successful
implementation of this program is contingent upon close collaboration between a wide range of
stakeholder groups (rural banks, informal groups, NGOs, local government agencies, including
District Assemblies, agricultural cooperatives, farmer groups and traditional institutional entities,
etc.), and a participatory process will be the key variable to this success. During project
preparation, participatory methods were used to: (i) identify and discern among various options
for capacity building amongst informal groups and associations; (ii) ascertain donors' commitment
and support through a multidonor Roundtable workshop. Beyond the preparatory phase,
participatory approaches will be used to determine priority areas for support, the nature of groups
to be financed, the sequencing of activities, and the various mechanisms for effective linkages with
the formal sector. The level of consultative dialogue to be undertaken will minimize the
probability of some groups being negatively affected by the proposed changes.
6.3 How does the project involve consultations or collaboration with NGOs or other civil society
organizations?
N/A
6.4 What institutional arrangements have been provided to ensure the project achieves its social
development outcomes?
N/A
6.5 How will the project monitor performance in terms of social development outcomes?
N/A
7. Safeguard Policies:
7.1 Do any of the following safeguard policies apply to the project?
O Environmental Assessment (OP 4.01. BP 4.01. GP 4.01)           r Yes 1 No
El Natural habitats (OP 4.04. BP 4.04. GP 4.04)                  El Yes 1 No
E Forestry (OP 4.36, GP 4.36)                                    El Yes M No
O Pest Management (OP 4.09)                                       El Yes 1 No
- 32 -



El Cultural Property (OPN 11.03)                                   l Yes 1 No
El Indigenous Peoples (OD 4.20)                                   L Yes 1 No
El Involuntary Resettlement (OD 4.30)                             E Yes 1 No
El Safety of Dams (OP 4.37. BP 4.37)                              ElI Yes M No
El Projects in International Waters (OP 7.50. BP 7.50, GP 7.50)   El Yes IZ No
El Projects in Disputed Areas (OP 7.60, BP 7.60, GP 7.60)         E] Yes ER No
7.2 Describe provisions made by the project to ensure compliance with applicable safeguard policies.
N/A
F. Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability:
1.    Certain design features of this project provide a high probability of sustainability. First, the
holistic approach adopted allows for transmission of best practices and the building up of initial
critical mass of skilled staff. Focusing on the continuum provides broad ownership beyond the
traditional stakeholder groups. Linking group development and training with the provision of
financial services of the rural banks is essential in their sustainability, as such groups will be
profitable and therefore will require no subsidies beyond the initial (start-up) phase. The proposed
institutional reforms have been discussed with the key stakeholders who have also seen the high
financial profitability and the cost effectiveness it would bring to their operations. This provides
an important buy-in and a strong incentive to keep these reforms on track. Additionally,
assessment of the apex indicates that it can be maintained without any subsidy from government
or donor support beyond the initial capital investment period. Hence, it is financially viable.
2.    The key risks are as follows: (i) unstable macroeconomic environment apex; (ii) lack of
commitment to financial sector reforms; (iii) unclear governance relationships between the Central
Bank and the Apex body; and (iv) weak management of the apex. The implications of these risks
and likely mitigatory measures are discussed below.
2. Critical Risks (reflecting assumptions in the fourth column of Annex 1):
Risk                    Risk Rating           Risk Minimization Measiure
From Outputs to Objective
Unstable macroeconomic environment          M         In a high inflationary environment coupled with
high agriculture sector risks, rural banks prefer
to hold treasury bills. While this risk is beyond
the apex, it can be mitigated by the capacity
building initiatives which will enable the rural
banks to better manage risk associated with, and
invest in the real sector.
- 33 -



Lack of Commitment to the reform            M         Inability to keep the financial sector reforms on
process                                              track undermine the attainment of project
development objectives. This risk is minimized
by undertaking the administrative steps
necessary to complete some key measures
upfront, such as the granting of license to the
apex and agreement on reducing secondary
reserves from 55 to 30 percent.
From Components to Outputs
Unclear governance arrangements             M         Unclear governance arrangements will lead to
between the Central Bank and apex                    intrusion in the affairs of the apex by the Central
Bank. While the BOG maintains oversight
responsibility of all financial entities, undue
interference in the operations of the apex will
lead to reduced confidence of member banks in
the apex body. This risk is mitigated by BOG
approval of the articles governing the apex and
granting of a special license for its operations as
a quasi-central entity for the network of rural
banks.
Weak management of the apex                 M         As a new entity, many of the staff to be
recruited will have little previous knowledge of
the apex arrangements and its special legal and
client status. If the management of the apex is
weak, it will affect the entire transformation
program. This risk is mitigated by the
recruitment of long-term TA to train apex staff,
by secondment and attachments to similar apex
entities such as the Rabobank; and by
recruitment of very experienced managers.
Overall Risk Rating                         M
Risk Rating - H (High Risk), S (Substantial Risk), M (Modest Risk), N(Negligible or Low Risk)
M
3. Possible Controversial Aspects:
This operation is a straight forward capacity building operation focusing on institution
building within the continuum of rural financial institutions (informal and semi-formal
microfmance, rural and community banks, and the apex). It has no controversial aspects.
G. Main Credit Conditions
1. Effectiveness Condition
The following constitute conditions precedent to effectiveness:
(a) The deposit by the Government of Ghana of US$100,000 equivalent into the Project
Account in the Bank of Ghana;
-34 -



(b) Completion and installation of a financial management system (FMS) of the RFSP
acceptable to the Association;
(c) The Subsidiary Administration Agreement has been executed on behalf of the
Borrower and BOG;
(d) Appointment of the independent auditor acceptable to the Association in accordance
with the agreed terms of reference; and
(e)   The Borrower and BOG  have submitted to the Association the Project
Implementation Manual in form and substance satisfactory to the Association.
2. Other [classify according to covenant types used in the Legal Agreements.]
Financial Covenants
(a) The Borrower shall maintain adequate records in accordance with sound accounting
practices on the operations and expenditures of the project;
(b) The Borrower shall have the records and accounts (including the Special Account)
audited at least once a year, in accordance with appropriate auditing principles; and
(c) The Borrower shall maintain adequate records on the basis of Project Management
Reports or statements of expenditures.
Implementation
(a) The Borrower shall not later than December 31, 2003 carry out jointly with the
Association a mid-term review (MTR) of the progress made in meeting project objectives
and the assessment of the overall performance of the Borrower and the Association.
H. Readiness for Implementation
O 1. a) The engineering design documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start
of project implementation.
1 1. b) Not applicable.
1 2. The procurement documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start of
project implementation.
1 3. The Project Implementation Plan has been appraised and found to be realistic and of satisfactory
quality.
El 4. The following items are lacking and are discussed under loan conditions (Section G):
- 35 -



1. Compliance with Bank Policies
1 1. This project complies with all applicable Bank policies.
O 2. The following exceptions to Bank policies are recommended for approval. Ihe project complies with
all other applicable Bank policies.
7tlY              son                  Jeanl&  shausse                  Peter C. Harrold
Team Leader                      Sector M nager/Director           Country Manager/Director
-36 -



Annex 1: Project Design Summary
GHANA: RURAL FINANCIAL SERVICES PROJECT
;A                      Sector
Sector-related CAS Goal:    Sector Indicators:              Sector/ country reports:      (from Goal to Bank Mission)
Accelerate rural development and Percent increase in per capita  Core Welfare Indicators Survey   Stable macroeconomic
poverty reduction in Ghana with  GDP of rural population;   Ghana Living Standards Survey   environment for poverty
rural financial institutions playing                        (GLSS)                        reduction;
a pivotal development role    Percent reduction in rural pop.   National Accounts
below poverty line;                                         Government commitment to
proposed financial sector reforms
Project Development           Outcome I Impact              Project reports:              (from Objective to Goal)
Objective:                    Indicators:
Strengthen rural financial    Total annual savings mobilized   Quarterly reports           BOG maintains supportive policy
institutions in order to broaden   by rural banks;                                        and regulatory environment;
and deepen services and enhance                             Mid-Term Review
the efficiency of rural financial   Total no. of clients of rural banks;                  Apex Bank established and
intermediation leading to                                   Project ICR                   providing key services to member
accelerated growth and poverty   Total annual loans and advances                          rural banks.
alleviation,                  of rural banks
Output from each              Output Indicators:            Project reports:              (from Outputs to Objective)
component:
EMPOWER rural informal        No. of informal groups organized  Mid-Term Review           Rural banks adopt and pursue a
financial institutions to expand   and trained (by gender);                               corporate policy to promote the
services to rural clients, including No. of clients reached by rural                      informal financial sector.
the disadvantaged and women    microfinance institutions;
Total deposits mobilized by
rural/microfinance institutions;
No. of rural/microfinance groups
accessing credit from rural banks;
No. of clients and % of women as
as total borrowers
RESTRUCTURE and strengthen  No. of RB successfully          BOG Annual Reports
the network of rural banks with  restructured;              Project M&E Reports
effective internal control and  No. of rural banks operating
management                    profitably;
Percent increase in loan recovery
rates among rural banks;
erecntage increase in annual
profitability of rural banks
- 37 -



ESTABLISH the apex bank as a  Percent increase in rural savings  Mid-Tern Review          Legal framework for the apex
broad institutional framework for deposit of member banks;                                established, with clear
provision of common services to  No. of rural banks meeting capital Periodic Reports      governance and entry and exit
RB                            adequacy ratios;                                            criteria
Level of profitability of apex
bank;
No. of rural banks with full share
subscription in the apex;
No. of rural banks clearing checks
via Apex;
No. of rural banks receiving
specie from Apex
SUPPORT specialized          No. of rural banks supervised  Mid-Term Review
departments of the BOG for    annually;
timely supervision and oversight No. of BSD staff trained in use of
IT based monitoring program;
No. of staff of RFID trained
Support MOF for more effective  No. of microfinance entities
coordination of microfinance  assisted by GHANFIN:
initiatives, includmig GHAMFIN. No. of members of MRFIs trained
Project Components /          Inputs: (budget for each      Project reports:              (from Components to
Sub-components:               component)                                                  Outputs)
Capacity Building - Informal  6.39
Financial Sector
Capacity Building of Rural    5.05
Banks
Institution Building - Apex    9.89
Institutional Support         1.63
-38 -



Annex 2: Project Description
GHANA: RURAL FINANCIAL SERVICES PROJECT
By Component:
Project Component I - US$6.39 million
1.    Capacity building under the Rural Financial Services Project (RFSP) is intended to
strengthen the full range of institutions and groups engaged in providing micro-financial services
in rural areas, differentiated into two components operating at three main levels: (a) capacity
building of the informal financial sector; (b) specialized micro and rural finance institutions
(MRFIs, including NGOs with a microfinance focus and licensed non-bank financial institutions
(NBFIs) such as credit unions and savings and loan companies); and (c) informal financial
institutions and community-based groups (including susu collectors and clubs; savings and credit
associations; and local self-help groups, NGOs, cooperatives, women's societies, etc., with credit
programs or an interest in linking up with rural and community banks or specialized MRFIs). The
latter two groups are important in enabling rural and community banks to realize their potential
for extending financial services to the grassroots level. Hence the project aims to strengthen the
capacity of these institutions both in themselves, to become more effective managers and
mobilizers of funds, and as mechanisms for linking the rural client base to the financial system.
The focus during an initial pilot period of one to two years will be on training and linkage
development, through special funding for this purpose. A review of experience during that pilot
period will form the basis for deciding how to expand and institutionalize the program.
Complementary support for new products and innovations on a selective basis will also be
provided.
2.    The program will build on the initial work undertaken on training and capacity-building by
the Ministry of Finance and the Ghana Micro-finance Institution Network (GHAMFIN) under the
Non-Bank Financial Institutions (NBFI) Project. This includes preparation of several components
of a sensitization and training program for specialized MRFIs and draft studies on:
* Establishment of a Pilot Training Fund for Micro and Rural Finance Institutions; and
* Feasibility Study for Capacity Building Fund for MRFIs
The latter study incorporates relevant aspects of the UNDP/AfDB MicroStart program, which
will provide complementary experience with capacity-building that should be taken into account
in the review and institutionalization process.
Activities and Institutions Supported
3.    During the pilot phase, the main types of capacity-building activities to be developed and
funded would fall under the headings of training and linkages. Based on experience during the
pilot phase, as well as experience with selective capacity-building under MicroStart, additional
capacity-building activities could then be incorporated.
4.    Training would include:
- 39 -



*  Core training courses for management of MRFIs, including RCBs (where such
courses go beyond those in the basic capacity-building program for RCBs under
RFSP) as well as specialized RMFIs;
* Basic sensitization and "prerequisite" skills for staff and Directors of informal
institutions and specialized RMFIs, to raise understanding of basic concepts and
methodologies in rural microfmance (including linkage banking);
*  Management of community-based savings and credit associations;
*  Group formation and management (for informal self-help groups that want to
engage in savings  and credit activities);
*  Follow-up consultations to ensure effective utilization of the training, in all of the
above cases (by the training provider or a specialized follow-up consultant);
* Participation in selected regional seminars/conferences on micro and rural finance
and intensive overseas training, on a selective, competitive basis, to facilitate
continuous injection of new ideas and international experience.
In addition, to support the development of high-quality supply of training providers to implement
the above program, some funds would be made available to the facilitating agency for
training-of-trainers and collaboration with CGAP's Africa Capacity-Building Program. Funds
would also be available to facilitate the development of new training modules, if warranted by
demand and needs assessment, as well as to undertake needs assessment, develop monitoring and
evaluation systems, and publicize training programs.
5.    Linkage activities could include:
*  Establishing or scaling up a "mobile banking" program (primarily for RCBs);
3  RCB working with an NGO with a proven methodology to introduce the program and
train staff over a period of 2-3 years to be integrated as a product of the RCB;
*  Linking susu collectors or clubs with RCBs or MRFIs to improve the flow and
management of savings and credit;
e  Other mechanisms to facilitate financial intermediation between rural communities and
the formal financial system.
6.    Applications for grant funding for these activities could come from:
* Rural and Community Banks;
* Specialized MRFIs;
* Informal savings and credit institutions;
* Community groups and associations.
Selection would be based on pre-established criteria for the performance and capability of the
applying institution or group, such as those set out in the study on "Establishment of a Pilot
Training Fund," and on the applicant's commitment to contributing a share of the cost.
Implementation could be directly by a RCB or MRFI, or in collaboration with a facilitating
organization such as an NGO.
-40-



Administrative Arrangements
7.    The two NBFI-funded studies mentioned above discuss the advantages and disadvantages
of alternative administrative mechanisms for implementing training and capacity-building funds,
ranging from an apex organization to contracting with a consulting firm. At this stage, without
adequate experience and a tested operational manual, it appears premature to resolve this question
definitively. In undertaking preliminary studies, the Ministry of Finance evidently has in view an
eventual central fund through which funds from various sources could be passed in a manner
consistent with the national strategy for developing the micro and rural finance sector.
8.    At present, since implementation of capacity-building will be piloted initially through the
RFSP, some of the administrative mechanisms that may be required may not suit the eventual
institutional format. It is therefore considered advisable to utilize existing institutions and
methodologies during the pilot phase to gain further experience, without prejudging what
institutional mechanisms might eventually be decided upon. The review process would be utilized
to reach such a decision by the time of the RFSP Mid-Term Review, at which point a new
approach could be adopted if appropriate. The Microfinance Coordinator, located in the Ministry
of Finance, will facilitate design and piloting of the grant program and will play a coordinating
role to ensure that this process is carried out consistent with the programs of the Government and
donors for development of the micro and rural finance sector, and hence will be supported under
RFSP for the initial two years.
9.    As part of the RFSP, the Capacity Building program will be under the overall
responsibility of the Rural Finance Inspection Department (RFID) of the Bank of Ghana (BOG).
It will be carried out by the following:
*  Management Committee: will make funding and policy decisions. It will consist of
representatives of a range of stakeholders, chaired by a high-level official of BOG, and
facilitated by the Microfmance Coordinator;
*  Facilitating Agency: will be delegated the responsibility for making the arrangements
necessary for  program promotion, needs assessment, implementation, monitoring, and
evaluation; this role will be taken up by a qualified microfinance institution and will
complement training and capacity building program    under the NBFI project; the
Microfinance Specialists in the Apex Bank clusters may also assist in   facilitation,
especially with respect to promotion and processing of applications;
*  Implementing Agencies: Actual delivery of training, capacity-building, monitoring and
evaluation, and   other services will be contracted to qualified providers, which could
include private consultants and firms, NGOs, public sector agencies such as MDPI and
the Universities, etc. One role of the Facilitating Agency will be to prequalify and select
implementing agencies, as well as manage certain aspect of service delivery.
Because disbursement of Project funds will be handled by the RFID's RFSP project
-41 -



management team, there will be no need initially to set up an independent fund.
Modalities
10.   Grants would be on a matching or cofinancing basis; that is, the applicant/participants
would always be expected to bear a portion of the cost. Rates of copayment would be expected
to be highest for formal training courses aimed at specialized MRFIs, which should increasingly be
able to incorporate such training in their budgets. Copayment would be presumably be lowest for
basic sensitization and training at the level of communities and self-help groups. In addition, the
rate of copayment might be designed to rise for a given institution or group with each successive
request (or year of participation). Details of the matching grant program will be designed
following discussion by stakeholders at a workshop to discuss the studies on pilot training and
capcity building funds, which are expected to set out the issue and suggest some illustrative
numbers.
11.   The program is intended to be demand-driven. To promote the program in the pilot
phase, however, the facilitating agency may undertake needs assessment at the level of informal
institutions and community-based organizations in order to design a program that would be
marketed to them (with an appropriate level of copayment).
12.   Monitoring and evaluation will be critical to ensure that the grants are appropriately and
effectively used and to gather data for assessment of the pilot program. The facilitating agency
will be expected to design and implement the modalities for monitoring and evaluation of the
capacity-building component, including:
X  Baseline inventory of MRFIs to be targeted for training;
*  Validation that contracted services have been delivered satisfactorily [e.g., evaluation or
validation forms signed by the participants in the training, which can also serve as a
baseline for follow-up and evaluation, as well as for disbursement];
*  Compilation of data on the services provided and beneficiaries;
*  Follow-up consultations, both to evaluate initial impact on the behavior of beneficiaries
and to reinforce (or solve implementation problems of) the initial training;
*  Annual audits, including verification on a sample basis;
*  Annual evaluation and needs assessments study to identify mid-course modifications after
the first pilot year and to serve as a basis for decisions about institutionalization at
Mid-Term Review;
*  Periodic benchmarking for comparison with baseline data.
Innovation and New Products Fund
13.   A second aspect of the Capacity Building program will be an Innovation and New
Products Fund, aimed at improving the services and efficiency of RCBs and specialized MRFIs.
These will be highly selective grants to finance the development and piloting of new financial
products and innovations that could contribute to development of the micro and rural finance
industry, for example: new approaches to savings mobilization; innovative credit products or
-42 -



methodologies; micro-insurance; micro-leasing; payment transfer mechanisms; smart cards; etc.
14.   Eligibility would be limited to high-performing RCBs and specialized MRFIs that have
demonstrated satisfactory financial and management performance and have the potential to
improve efficiency or extend outreach through the proposed product or innovation. A possible
modality would be to make a fixed amount of funds available for awards on a competitive basis
every six months. Some copayment would be required, though relatively small (10-20%), given
the highly developmental and innovative nature of the activities to be supported.
15.   This program is intended as the precursor to a Research and Development Department in
the Apex Bank that would be charged with developing products and innovations to enhance the
efficiency and outreach of micro and rural financial institutions. It will be administered separately
until such time as the proposed Department is established and staffed.
Administration: Decisions will be made by a small Management Committee, chaired by a
high official of BOG or the Apex Bank and comprised of representatives from a variety of
financial institutions.
Implementation will be done by the recipient institutions, which should be capable of
carrying out the specified activities (according to established procurement procedures).
Monitoring and evaluation, as well as facilitation on an as-needed basis, will be handled by
a microfinance network until such time as the program is fully integrated into the Apex Bank.
Key Steps
A. MRFI Training
A. 1. Workshop on Establishment of a Pilot Training Fund and Feasibility for a Capacity
Building Fund"
A.2.  Design of pilot program for matching grants for training to be implemented under RFSP,
taking into account workshop recommendations and adapting to the modalities of RFSP. Define
roles of Microfmance Coordinator and implementing network (and prepare Form 384 for the
latter).
A.3.  Design of monitoring and evaluation system, including:
* Inventory to establish baseline
* Design of data systems
* Periodic benchmarking
A.4.  Continued revision and delivery of MRFI training courses building upon those initiated
under the NBFI Project (with possible support from DANIDA, especially during the transition
-43 -



period between NBFI and RFSP).
A.5.  Development and delivery of additional MRFI training courses and training of trainers,
based on feedback from initial courses and needs assessment (with possible collaboration with
CGAP's Capacity-Building Program for Africa).
A.6  Implementation of monitoring and evaluation system, including annual review and
revisions, and a full-scale evaluation at the end of two years as a basis for decisions about
institutionalizing the program (at Mid-Term Review, if not before).
B. Grants for Linkage Development
B. 1   Workshop to discuss findings of two studies (carried out under NBFI) of linkage
mechanisms:
* Ghanaian Microfmance Best Practices, focusing on linkages between MRFIs and
self-help groups and community-based organizations;
* Review of Pilot On-lending Schemes, focusing on susu collectors and clubs.
B.2  Incorporation of demand for linkage mechanism in training needs assessment for informal
and community-based institutions (see section C).
B.3   Design of criteria and modalities for grants under RFSP to RCBs, MRFIs, and community
groups to develop linkage mechanisms, utilizing the process and institutional structure of the
training grants (see section A) and drawing on the workshop discussions.
B.4   Publicity and initiation of grant process.
B.5   Monitoring and evaluation, as in A.6.
C. Trainingfor Informal and Community-Based Institutions
C. 1   Training needs assessment and review of available literature, including:
* Types of savings and credit associations and activities in rural communities; demand
for training to build capacity or form new groups; and willingness to share cost;
* Demand by community groups for linkages with RCBs and other MRFIs;
* Capabilities of MRFIs and NGOs in Ghana to facilitate such linkages.
C.2   Feasibility  study presenting  options for cost-effective provision  of training to
community-based savings and credit associations, self-help groups, informal agents, and others
engaged in financial services at the grassroots level.
C.3   Design of modalities for implementing informal training program, including:
-44 -



* Development of training materials and courses;
* Process for identifying and certifying NGOs and others capable of delivering training at
the local level throughout the country;
* Appropriate financing mechanisms (including grants through the training fund to either
demanders or providers of services; or direct procurement of training programs);
* Incorporation of appropriate indicators and processes into the monitoring and evaluation
system.
C.4  Initial sensitization and piloting.
C.5   Roll out implementation more widely.
C.6   Monitoring and evaluation, as in A.6.
D. Innovation and New Products Fund
D.1   Consultant study to:
* Review literature on new instruments and innovations relevant to rural and micro finance;
*  Survey leading MRFIs (including RCBs) regarding their interest and capabilities in
developing new products;
3 Consult with Apex Bank management regarding expectations for a Research and
Development Department;
3 Prepare options and recommendations for selective awarding of grants for innovations and
new products, to pilot such a function for the eventual R&D Department.
D.2   Design of pilot program for funding grants for innovation and new products, based on the
consultant study and stakeholder consultations (or workshop, if appropriate), as well as
experience with the pilot training grant program, in consultation with a Procurement Officer to
establish acceptable funding and documentation procedures. Design to include suitable indicators
for evaluating impact.
D.3  Implementation of program as per agreed upon terms of reference and action steps.
Project Component 2 - US$5.05 million
1.    The key activities under this component are: (i) building capacity within individual banks
for rural project appraisal, including the provision of logistics; (ii) strengthening internal controls
by investing in simple equipment which provide greater transparency in conducting rural bank
businesses, and training staff in the use of such equipment; (iii) providing logistics and training to
strengthen linkages between rural banks and their agencies certified by the Bank of Ghana to
ensure better reporting, accountability for mobilized funds, and efficiency of responding to rural
clients' needs; (iv) investing in logistics to increase the efficiency of intrabank services, such as
cash movements; (v) investing in basic communication equipment to ensure improved linkages
between rural banks and between rural banks and their certified agencies; and (vi) given the rural
nature of many of these banks, investing in the development of an improved reporting system
-45 -



which will ensure timely reporting and monitoring of rural bank activities. These activities will be
linked to the existing DANIDA training programs. This component will be parallel financed by
AfDB.
Project Component 3 - US$ 9.89 million
1.    Key project interventions are as follows: (i) technical assistance related to start-up of the
apex body, including consultation workshops and sensitization training of apex members; (ii)
specific studies to more thoroughly define the functions of key departments responsible for
clearing, deposit insurance scheme, treasury operations, and MIS; (iii) rehabilitation of head office
building, facilities, and procurement of logistics (equipment and vehicles); (iv) training for key
personnel, including attachments at the Rabobank in the Netherlands; (v) the cost of technical
assistance which would be provided by Rabobank staff, and (vi) operational cost of the apex on a
declining basis.
2.    Structure and Legal Framework. The apex is a quasi-central bank to the Ill rural banks
providing common services in check clearing, specie supply, liquidity management, rural deposits
insurance (at a later date), and other services which it might, from time to time deem essential for
its members. The apex bank is registered under the Banking Law (PNDCL 225) of the Bank of
Ghana, the central bank. The apex bank will be managed by Managing Director, a Deputy
Managing Director, and other officers as appropriate. Structurally, it will consist of a Banking
Services Department, which will have responsibility for check clearing, specie supply and other
related banking activities, an MIS unit which will have responsibility for information technology,
and associated training, an Inspection Department, with responsibility for providing primary
inspection of member bank activities and for monitoring rural banks performance, a Training and
Capacity Building Department which will have primary responsibility for coordinating training
needs of member banks. The apex will also have a New Products and Innovations Unit which will
focus on developing new ideas and concepts for improving rural banking, piloting innovations
from other countries and localities, and disseminating best practices to member banks.
3.    Financial Viability of the Apex. Several simulations confirmed the financial viability of
the apex arrangement, mainly from the flows of investments from initial shareholder subscriptions,
placements of the member rural banks with the apex, and through cost recovery for services such
as check clearing and training. It is assumed that proceeds of the credit will be used for office
building, structures, equipment and logistics, including information technology. The preceding
analysis assumes that GOG will provide basic facilities as part of its contribution to the apex and
that credit proceeds would be used for rehabilitation and upgrading to meet the technical
requirements of the apex. Assurances will be sought during negotiations that GOG will provide
the appropriate facilities for housing the apex bank in Accra and its branches in the key cities
(Kumasi, Cape Coast, Bolgatanga and Sunyani).
4.    Transition to the apex bank. It is important that all rural and community banks wishing
to participate in the apex initiative be able to do so during the first round, in order to avoid
sending a negative image of the rural financial system, and to prevent further stigmatizing of those
banks which are weak. Having said that, it will be essential that the weak rural banks be subject to
substantial restructuring, including retooling of staff and preparation of an action plan that will
-46 -



guide their activities as a condition for participating in the apex initiative. The primary idea is that
at the end of the transition period, all banks would now be satisfactory, with good management
and strong internal controls. Seen from this perspective, the apex is a vehicle for capacity building
and for maintaining a higher quality of rural banks as a sine qua non for membership. All member
banks would then be subject to regular inspection services, and banks about to slip below
prescribed threshold of performance would be warned by the apex that such slippage would lead
to disciplinary actions by the apex. Such disciplinary actions would include suspension of services
and finally expulsion from the apex. Maintaining such high standards of quality and service will be
essential in transforming the image of the rural banking sector. The criteria and critical steps are
described below:
5.    Membership. Membership of the apex bank will be opened to all rural and community
banks on a voluntary basis. The Association of Rural Banks as the promoter of the concept, has
undertaken substantial degree of consultation with all the rural banks and the results of these
consultations have demonstrated an overwhelming support for the apex by the rural and
community banks. The next steps will be as follows: (i) clear information to all shareholders of the
member rural banks on the apex as has been done through the sensitization programs; (ii)
thereafter, each Board of individual rural bank will meet in session and resolve on the question of
participating in the apex initiative; (iii) each rural bank will through their Regional Chapters
participate in the selection process of the Regional Chapter's representative on the Board of the
apex bank; (iv) each rural bank will subscribe to the share of the apex bank as stipulated in the
Operational Guidelines of the apex; and (v) each member rural bank will abide by all policies and
procedures including a Code of Conduct governing the operations of members of the apex.
6.    Share Subcriptions. All rural and community banks participating in the apex initiative will
each subscribe to an equitable number of shares. The number of initial share offering will be
determined by the Board of the Apex. It is acknowledged that not all of the rural banks are in a
fnancial position for full share subscription at inception of the program. In such a case, the
project will provide support to the apex in terms of initial capitalization, with the value of the
initial capitalization divided equally between all the participating rural banks. The details of the
share subscriptions and capitalization of the apex are described below:
(i) the total capitalization of the apex bank is estimated at US$5.2 million;
(ii) in accordance with the Banking Law, Cedis 5 billion is required to set up a financial
institution such as the apex bank, and the member rural banks will each pay Cedis 20
million totaling Cedis 2.2 billion or 44 percent of the minimum capitalization required by
the BOG;
(iii) all rural banks capable of retaining a capital adequacy ratio (CAR) of 6 percent after
payment of the Cedis 20 million will subscribe fully to the apex, while all other banks will
contribute up to an amount after which they will be able to retain the capital adequacy
ratio of 6 percent;
(iv) rural banks currently at or below the 6 percent capital adequacy ratio will contribute a
-47 -



minimum token of Cedis 2 million or any amount determined by its Board in excess of the
Cedis 2 million subscription;
(v) as the project will meet the unsubscribed portion of the shares in capitalization of the
apex, it will pay the amount of the shortfall of the Cedis 5 billion and attribute an
equivalent portion of the capital paid to those banks not fully subscribing. For example, for
a rural bank which will only buy Cedis 10 million or 50 percent of its share subscription,
the project will attribute Cedis 10 million of the capital to that bank;
(vi) For all such capitalization described in (v), each bank will have a five (5) year
moratorium during which it will have ample time to build up its asset base and implement
all capacity building programs that would help to strengthen its operations and increase its
profitability. After the initial 5 year moratorium, the rural banks will buy back the share
outstanding and unsubscribed over a period of five years at 20 percent redemption per
year in the equivalent dollar value of the shares. All such redemptions will be deducted at
source within the apex bank from the account of the member rural bank.
7.    Entry and Exit Criteria. The apex, as designed, will not be a monopolist provider of
services to its member banks. There will be clear criteria for entry and exit for member banks and
any member may decide to opt out if, in the views of its shareholders and board, the apex
arrangement no longer serves its corporate interests. This aspect of the design is essential to
ensure that the apex remains cost effective and competitive as well as innovative and forward
looking. The procedure for entry will include formal resolution of the Board of the rural banks to
participate in the apex arrangement, purchase shares, and take other steps necessary to satisfy
membership. For banks wishing to leave the apex, a formal resolution of the Board and
confirmation by vote of the shareholders and notice to the Board of Directors of the apex and the
BSD of the Bank of Ghana of the intention to leave will be required, after which all steps will be
taken to divest the financial interests of the member rural bank from that of the apex. The shares
of the bank leaving the apex will be available for subscription by a new rural bank or if there is no
new bank, divided equally among the remaining banks. For new banks, the Board of Directors of
the Apex will issue an amount of shares equivalent to that of the existing members based on the
principle of equity. Such shares will be procured at the existing par value. All new rural banks
coming into being after the formation of the apex will as a condition for membership in the apex,
subscribe fully to the shares at the existing par value.
8.    Decentralization of Apex Services. Given the large number of rural banks (about 111), it
will be essential to decentralize the activities of the apex to regional clusters of banks in order to
ensure broader and efficient coverage. Five such clusters are proposed. These are the Accra
Cluster with 34 rural banks, the Kumasi Cluster with 29 rural banks, the Sunyani Cluster with 22
rural banks, the Takoradi Cluster with 17 rural banks, and the Bolgatanga Cluster with 9 rural
banks. Each cluster will represent a service center comprising check clearing, specie supply,
training and capacity building services, with appropriate logistics and equipment.
9.    Within each cluster, a Regional Microfinance Development Specialist (RMDS) and an
M&E officer will be assigned, with primary responsibility for coordinating the development of
-48 -



informal financial sector groups, piloting new ideas, and assisting in group formation and
development related to rural banking activities in the cluster. Each rural bank within a service
cluster will also have a Project Officer with adequate logistical support who would work
proactively in organizing and training community groups and associations. Each cluster will also
be a focal point for training and dissemination of best practices. Just as with the regional apex
centers, it will be essential to phase in the establishment of the microfinance clusters, and to learn
from their operations so as to guide in scaling up to other areas. Given this approach, two pilots
clusters will be established, the first in Kumasi, to be followed in a few months with a second in
Bolgatanga. These pilots take into consideration existing activities of IFAD (SCIMP in Kumasi
and LASCOREP in Bolgatanga) in group formation and linkages with the rural banks. It must be
noted that implementation of the pilot will be selective, beginning with one or two banks which
are satisfactory, and expanding to other banks gradually. Capacity assessments of participating
banks will be undertaken as a condition for their participation. Lessons learnt from these two
pilots will be used in finalizing the operational arrangements for the remaining four clusters.
Project Component 4 - US$1.63 million
1.    This component will focus on providing key logistics, including training, which may be
needed by the BOG to provide effective supervision of the apex and its constituent banks. This
will include the provision of information technology support linked to the apex MIS unit. The two
key departments will be the BSD and the RFID. This will include the incremental cost of the
project implementation unit, such as vehicles, equipment and salaries and allowances for
consultants, as well as travel and related costs. The Microfinance Unit will be supported under the
program to ensure that a cohesive policy environment is established and that close coordination
and linkages are promoted with other programs and activities in the field of micro and rural
finance, notably CGAP, AMINA and AFRACA.
-49-



Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs
GHANA: RURAL FINANCIAL SERVICES PROJECT
Capacity Building - Informnal Financial Sector            4.88         0.55         5.43
Capacity Building - Rural and Community Banks             2.50         1.81         4.31
Institution Building - Apex Bank                          3.73         4.96         8.69
Institutional Support                                     0.93         0.47         1.40
Total Baseline Cost                                      12.04         7.79        19.83
Physical Contingencies                                   1.08         0.78         1.86
Price Contingencies                                      0.85         0.42         1.27
Total Project Costs             13.97         8.99        22.96
Total Financing Required             13.97          8.99        22.96
.RN  Prol   ot    aeo                      U$ilo    IJ$MA!*1         U  $iUo
Civil Works                                                 1.17         0.29          1.46
Vehicles, Goods and Equipment                               1.93          3.83         5.76
Consultants Services                                       2.19          2.35          4.54
Training and Studies                                       3.10           0.08         3.18
Support to Rural and Community Banks                       2.97           2.08         5.05
Recurrent Costs                                            2.61          0.36          2.97
Total Project Costs    13.97          8.99        22.96
Total Financing Required     13.97          8.99        22.96
- 50 -



Annex 4: Cost Effectiveness Analysis Summary
GHANA: RURAL FINANCIAL SERVICES PROJECT
Summary of benefits and costs:
Main Assumptions:
The weak baseline data and monitoring systems in the informal and micro financial sector mean
that indicators will have to focus on those directly assisted by the project, using GHAMFIN
members as a proxy because it is undertaking an inventory and will establish a monitoring and
benchmarking system under the project. The total number of rural poor benefiting from increased
access to financial services under this component is expected to be on the order of 5 to 6 times
the numbers assisted directly, through the impact on household income levels and stability. The
appropriate baseline data will be established for purposes of monitoring project implementation
and undertaking impact assessment.
Cost-effectiveness indicators:
Existing Expected
Change    Effic'y
Informal and Micro Finance Sector
*  Number of clients reached by all segments:               100,000
by specialized MIRFIs
*  Proportion of women clients in informal/micro finance programs  60%
*  Number of community groups                               500
trained or organized
*  Number of staff and officials of MRFIs trained           600
1/4 professional courses/year x 25 participants x 6 yrs//
*  Percentage of cost of professional                       25%       75%
training courses for MRFIs being
paid by the MRFIs themselves
*  Share of credit in rural banks' assets                   33%      40%        +7%
For satisfactory-rated RCBs                                       50%        +17%
*  Increase in the level ofrural banks'                     117      234         100%
deposits (Cedi Million)
- 51 -



Annex 5: Financial Summary
GHANA: RURAL FINANCIAL SERVICES PROJECT
I. FUNCTIONS OF THE APEX BANK
BANKING SERVICES
1.    Check Clearing. Rural banks are not members of the National Bankers' Clearing House
and have difficulties clearing checks through their correspondent banks (viz. long delays,
expensive arrangements like the maintenance of non-interest bearing current account balances in
several correspondent banks to meet clearing settlement needs).
2.    Specie Management and Specie Movement. Currently rural banks receive very poor
services from their correspondent banks (excessive delays, mutilated notes), and move large sums
of money by insecure transportation means (between 54.0 million and 300.0 million per trip).
3.    Treasury Management for Rural Banks. Rural banks are constantly in the market buying
and selling Treasury Bills (to ftlfill the mandatory secondary reserve requirements or trade on
behalf of their clients), but untimely transactions by their correspondent banks result in potential
revenue losses.
4.    "Central Banker" to Rural Banks.  Lend to rural banks facing temporary liquidity
problems. Receive and safeguard rural banks' primary reserves.
5.    Rural Bank Inspection. Complement Bank of Ghana's Banking Supervision Department
through regular reviews of rural banks' prudential returns, on-site visits, and ensuring compliance
with banking regulations.
6.    Guarantee Support for Rural Banks' Checks. Payments due to third parties outside the
local clearing system may be made by draft drawn on the Apex Bank which will debit the
respective rural bank's account with the value of the draft, thus guaranteeing payment instruments
issued by the rural banks and thereby restoring public confidence in rural banks' instruments.
7.    Sourcing of Domestic and External Funds. Act as a conduit for additional resources for
on-lending to member rural banks.
NON-BANKING SERVICES
8.    Training. Upgrading the skills of the management and employees of rural banks.
9.    Deposit Insurance. A study will be conducted during the first two years of the project to
assess the possibilities of setting up a deposit insurance scheme, including the possibility of
establishing in-house services or through a subsidiary company or completely out-sourcing the
- 52 -



services.
II. APEX BANK'S ESTABLISHMENT COSTS
10.   A head-office and five branches (Accra, Kumasi, Takoradi, Bolgatanga and Sunyani) will
be established for an estimated US$ 8.1 million as presented in Table 5.1. Only summary figures
are presented in this annex. Please refer to project files for a much more detailed presentation of
the analyses.
Table 5.1 Apex Bank Establishment Costs ('000 US Dollars)
Head     Accr Kumasi Takoradi Sunyani Bolgatanga Total
Office    a
1.  Rehabilitation of Premises      707.6    29.0  29.0   29.0    29.0   29.0          852.6
2.  Furniture                        45.6     7.0  7.0    7.0       7.0    7.0         80.6
3.  Office Equipment                 320.1    20.2  20.2   20.2    20.2   20.2         421.1
4.  IT Link with Rural Banks         3,348.4                                           3,348.4
5.  Vehicles                         166.4    95.1  95.1   95.1    95.1    95.1        641.9
6.  Apex Staff Training              63.1                                              63.1
7.  Initial Operating Capital        680.2    11.0  11.0   21.9    68.4    68.4        860.9
8.  Technical Assistance             1,851.4                                           1,851.4
Total Capital Requirement       7,182.8  162.3 162.3  173.2   219.7  219.7         8,120.0
11.   Premises donated by the Government of Ghana will be converted into suitable banking
premises and suitably furnished and equipped. Communication (VSAT Satellite Dish System for
data transmission, and High Frequency Radio units for voice communication) between the Apex's
five branch offices and head-office on the one hand, and the branch offices with their respective
cluster of rural banks on the other, as well as personal computers together with appropriate
banking software and their accessories for more efficient banking and accounting operations of
the Apex Bank and its branches will be installed. Bullion vans for specie supply to the rural banks
by the Apex Bank branch offices and cross country vehicles to provide transportation for branch
managers when visiting rural banks, as well as for banking inspectors and training officers will be
provided. Training will be provided for Apex Bank staff, as well as initial operating capital, and
technical assistance.
III. CORPORATE STATUS OF THE APEX BANK
12.   The Apex Bank is a public limited liability company registered under the banking law with
rural banks as its principal shareholders. In order to avoid possible dominance of the Apex Bank
by the larger rural banks, the Apex Bank's shares will be distributed evenly across all rural banks,
regardless of each rural bank's size. In order not to compromise the rural bank's financial health,
it will be required that no rural bank's capital adequacy ratio falls below the prudential level of
6.5% after its share subscription to the Apex Bank. Based on December 1999 financial
performance data for rural banks, a capital contribution of 20 million per rural bank (currently
equivalent to US$ 5,000) was deemed manageable, which amounts to 2.2 billion (or US$ 0.6
million) for all the rural banks combined. The project will provide a capital grant for the
- 53 -



remaining US$ 7.5 million needed for the Apex Bank's establishment.
13.   However, not all rural banks can afford to make a full payment of their required capital
contribution at this time. In fact, only 53 of the 111 rural banks are currently in position to pay a
significant portion of the 20 million each without compromising their financial health, with only
23 rural banks presently in position to make a full payment. The remaining 88 rural banks will
make an initial contribution of at least  1 million, and pay the remainder in up to five installments
after a grace period of up to 5 years during which the rural banks' capacity will be strengthened
(the exact number of installments and the length of the grace period to depend upon the individual
rural bank's current financial health and projected performance). It is expected that a combined
total amount of 0730 million (or US$ 183,000) will be mobilized at project inception, with the
remaining 1.47 billion (or US$ 367,500) paid up over the next ten years. For now, the
corresponding capital needs will be financed by the project, bringing the project's contribution to
US$ 7.9 million. The unpaid share capital balance for each rural bank will be valued in US dollars
at the May 31, 2000 exchange rate. Any outstanding balance will attract an interest rate of 4%
per annum on the US dollar value in order to preserve its purchasing power. However, actual
payments will be made in the local currency, after converting the installment in question into the
local currency at the prevailing exchange rate. All rural banks will hold an account with the Apex
Bank (for the purposes of check clearing, specie management, and primary reserve requirements).
All share capital subscriptions due will be deducted by the Apex Bank from the rural bank's
account. An agreement will be signed between each rural bank and the Apex Bank spelling out
these payment arrangements.
IV. ANALYSIS OF THE APEX'S OPERATING INCOME AND OPERATING COSTS
INCOME PROJECTIONS
14.   The Apex Bank's income will mainly comprise the return from investing (in Treasury
Bills) the rural banks' primary reserves which the Bank of Ghana has allowed to be deposited with
the Apex Bank. The other relatively minor sources of revenue will come from investing some of
the rural banks' clearing account balances; brokerage fees from treasury management services to
rural banks; and the return on invested equity contributions and depreciation provisions. Key
assumptions underlying the analysis are: (i) rural bank deposits grow at a relatively conservative
30% per annum (instead of the recently observed 40%); (ii) the primary reserve requirement is
maintained at no less than 10% of total rural bank deposits; (iii) all primary reserves are
maintained at the Apex Bank which it in turn invests them in Treasury Bills at an interest rate
which steadily declines from 25% in the year 2001 to 18% by the sixth year to reflect likely
macro-economic improvements in the Ghanaian economy (this rate currently stands at 3 1%); and
(iv) the composite secondary reserve requirement ratio declines from 52% to 50% in the first
year, and down to 38% by the sixth year in tandem with improved performance among rural
banks due to the capacity building program and a new risk-based secondary reserve requirement
computation system. Based on these assumptions, the Apex Bank's income is projected to
increase from 5.8 billion (or US$ 1.5 million) in its first full year of operation, to 15.7 billion (or
US$ 3.9 million) by the end of the sixth year, most of it (average of 73%) coming from
investments of rural banks' primary reserves (see Table 5.2 below).
- 54 -



Table 5.2: Projected Apex Bank Income For The First Six Years (millions of cedis)
Year I   Year 2   Year 3 _ Year 4   Year 5   Year 6
A. Projected Total Deposit Liabilities of Rurl Banks  184,000   230,000   287,500   359,375   449,219   561,523
B. Volume of Investment
i.  Primary Reserves of Rural Banks (10% of total deposit 18,400    23,000    28,750    35,938    44,922    56,152
liab.)
ii. Sec. Reserves of Rural Banks
Aggregate Sec. Reserve Requir. Ratios:                0.50      0.47      0.45      0.43      0.40      0.38
Total Sec. Reserves:                                  92,000    108,100   129,375   154,531   179,688   213,379
iii. Clearing A/c Balances of (05% of A) rbs          9,200     11,500    14,375    17,969    22,461    28,076
iv. Depreciation Reserves (starting w. end of Ist year)  _2,506           5,388     8,703     12,514    16,898
C. Estimated Income from Investment/Brokerage Services
Assumed Treasury Bill Interest Rates:                 0.25      0.24      0.23      0.22      0.2       0.19
i. Investment income from primary reserves at various int. 4,600  5,520   6,613     7,906     8,984     10,669
rates on B(i) above
ii. Income from Clearing A/c Balances (20% of B[iii])  920      552       661       791       898       1,067
iii. Brokerage fee of 0.25% on B(ii) above            230       270       323       386       449       533
iv. Income from depreciation reserves                           601       1,239      1,915    2,503     3,211
v. Income from equity capital payments (installment plan)
Assumed proportion of outstanding balance paid        0.05      0.05      0.05      0.05      0.05      0.15
Amount paid                                           73.5      73.5      73.5      73.5      73.5      220.5
Total C(i)+(ii)+(iii)+(iv)+(v)                        5,824     7,017     8,910     11,071    12,908    15,700
Percentage of C(i) relative to total revenue          0.79      0.79      0.74      0.71      0.70      0.68
Percentage of C(ii) relative to total revenue         0.16      0.08      0.07      0.07      0.07      0.07
Percentage of C(iii) relative to total revenue        0.04      0.04      0.04      0.03      0.03      0.03
Percentage of C(iv) relative to total revenue         0.00      0.09      0.14      0.17      0.19      0.20
Percentage of C(v) relative to total revenue          0.01      0.01      0.01      0.01      0.01      0.01
OPERATING COST PROJECTIONS
15.    The Apex Bank's operating expenses will cover: (i) rural bank inspection; (ii) rural bank
management and staff training; (iii) specie management; and (iv) other operating costs (staff
salaries and wages, utilities, administrative expenses, depreciation, etc. ). Major assumptions
underlying operating cost projections are: (i) the inspection function will start with a small core
unit of 10 inspectors, which will be scaled up gradually to its full strength of 32 inspectors over a
three year period (note that full inspection will continue to be adequately provided by the central
bank over this period, and will be gradually transferred over to the Apex Bank in tandem with the
latter's increased capacity; note also that the central bank will not transfer its statutory mandate
of rural bank supervision, but will only delegate the inspection function); (ii) similarly, financing
training activities from the Apex Bank's own resources will be introduced gradually, starting with
the second year of the Apex Bank's full operation and increasing in tandem with improvements in
the Apex Bank's financial performance (although training itself will be adequately provided, right
from the start, under previous arrangements funded by DANIDA, the Bank of Ghana, and
contributions by rural banks themselves and with new funding to be provided under this project);
(iii) each of the five branch offices of the Apex Bank will have a bullion van for specie supply and
- 55 -



a cross-country vehicle for rural bank inspection and training coordination; (iv) rural banks are
responsible for 50% of the training and specie supply costs, including related depreciation and
staffing charges, and for 100% of the operation of the IT equipment at their disposal, although the
equipment's major maintenance and depreciation is the Apex Bank's responsibility. Based on
these assumptions, the Apex Bank's operating costs are expected to increase from p5.7 billion
(US$ 1.4 million) to 12.7 billion (US$ 3.2 million).  The bulk of the costs is constituted of
depreciation charges, thanks to the sizable amount of rapidly depreciable information technology
underlying the Apex system's set-up.
Table 5.3. Summary of the Apex Bank's Operating Costs (million cedis)
Activity                                   Year 1   Year 2   Year 3   Year 4   Year 5   Year 6
Inspection cost                           400        800       1,200     1,380     1,587      1,825
Training Cost                              100       150       300       345       397       456
Specie Management Cost                     150       173       198       228       262       302
Staff Cost                                 1,217     1,241     1,427     1,641     1,887     2,170
Administrative Expenses (5% of total income)   295   354       449       556       648        780
Utilities                                 48         55        63        73        84        97
O&M (communication and office equipment)    459      528       607       698       802       923
Insurance (10%  for vehicles, and 5%  other 238      273       314       361       416       478
equip)-.
Depreciation - computers, vehicles, other equip.  2,506  2,882  3,314    3,812     4,383      5,041
Contingency(5%/.)                         271        323       394       455       523       604
Total Cost                                 5,683     6,779     8,267     9,549     10,990    12,674
V. PROFITABILITY AND SUSTAINABILITY
16.    In assessing the Apex's profitability and sustainability, the overall financial performance of
the Apex Bank is considered as of primne importance, rather than the profitability of each branch
office. In this regard, all figures have been consolidated in the financial projections. As a matter
of strategy, the Apex Bank phases additional functions into its operations as and when it can
afford them. Although it will need an operating grant of 03.2 billion in its pre-operation phase to
cater for staff recruitment, salaries and training during the start up period, the Apex Bank is
expected to break even on its operations starting from its first full year of operation (see Table 5.4
below).
Table 5.4. Operating ProfitsALosses (Millions of Cedis)
Year 1    Year 2    Year 3    Year 4    Year 5    Year 6
Operating Income                    5,824     7,017      8,910     11,071    12,908    15,700
Operating Costs                     5,679     6,775      8,263     9,546     10,987    12,680
Net Income                          145       242        647       1,525     1,921     3,020
17.    Since almost all the Apex Bank's revenue comes from  investments in Treasury Bills, it's
income is expected to be very sensitive to changes in the Treasury Bill rate. Different operating
statements were simulated over a ten year period with varying degrees of declines in the Treasury
-56 -



Bill rate: a very favorable case with interest rates declining slowly and remaining around 20%; a
moderate case with interest rates steadily declining to, and stabilizing around, 18%; and a less
favorable case with interest rates dropping rapidly to, and stabilizing around, 15%. On the basis
of these simulations, no external support will be needed for the Apex Bank's operating budget if
Treasury Bill rates stay around 20% per annum in the near term. However, in the third scenario
simulating a rapid drop in Treasury Bill interest rates, the Apex Bank would be in need of support
totaling 76 million (or US$ 19,000) over two years. While possible, this scenario is very unlikely
under the current macro-economic projections.
Table 5.5: Operating Support Requirements Under Various Interest Rate Scenarios, With
50% and 100% Cost Recovery for Training and Specie Supply (Millions of Cedis)
Scenario 1          Scenario 2                    Scenario 3
Relatively high interest Moderate interest rate decline  Rapid interest rate decline
rates
Treasury Bill Rates  Support needs at 50% cost recovery  Support needs at 100% cost recovery
Year 1   25%                 0                            025%    0       025%  0      0
Year 2   25%                 0                            024%    0       023%  21     0
Year 3   24%                 0                            023%    0       021%  55    0
Year4   24%                  0                            022%    0       019%  0      0
Year s   23%                 0                            021%    0       017%  0      0
Year 6   23%                 0                            020%    0       015%  0
Year 7   22%                 0                            018%    0       015%  0      0
Year 8   22%                 0                            018%    0       015%  0      0
Year 9   21%                 0                            018%    0       015%  0      0
Year 10  20%                 0                            018%    0       015%  0      0
Total                        0                            0---     0      0---   76    0
needs
VI. COST OF THE SPECIAL SERVICES TO A RURAL BANK
18.   Rural banks currently pay 50% of actual training costs. At an average of 4 staff trained
per year, this amounts to approximately 0.5 million.  This cost sharing formula remains
unchanged under the Apex arrangement, thus there is no additional financial burden to the rural
banks as a result of the Apex's take over of training management. Similarly, on the basis of a
50% cost sharing arrangement with the Apex Bank, and a twice-a-month specie supply schedule,
rural banks will be responsible for 290 million in specie management fees, costing each bank 2.7
million in the first year and thereafter increasing by 20% annually (inflation provision). Thus, the
cost of the combined services amounts to 3.4 million per rural bank. Rural banks currently
spend between 2 million and 5million per annum on training and specie supply. It is expected
that the demand for these services will continue to vary across rural banks, as has been the case in
the past. Overall, the new system is affordable and will enhance security and reliability, in
addition to providing rural banks with "normal" specie, which will contribute to enhancing the
- 57 -



rural banks' image.
Table 5.6. Cost of Services to a Rural Bank
Year                                                  1       2       3       4       5       6
A. Training
i. Total Cost of Training                              111.0   127.7   146.8   168.8   194.1  223.3
ii. 50% of the cost allocated to all Rural Banks      55.5    63.8    73.4   84.4   97.1    111.6
iii. Cost to a Rural Bank                             0.5     0.6     0.7    0.8      0.9      1.0
B. Specie Management
i. Total Cost of Specie Management                    580    688      724     764    808    856
ii. 50% of the cost allocated to all Rural Banks      290     344     362     382    404    428
iii. Cost to a Rural Bank                             2.7     3.2     3.4    3.5      3.7     4
C. Total Cost of all Rural Banks
(A(ii) + B(ii))                                       345.5   407.8   435.4   466.4  501.1   539.6
D. Total Cost of Services to a Rural Bank
(A iii + B iii)                                       3.2    3.8    4.1       4.3     4.6     5.0
E. Cost of Services to a Rural Bank
Assuming Payment of 75% of costs (D x 1.5)            4.8     5.7    6.1      6.4    6.9    7.5
F. Cost of Services to a Rural Bank
Assuming 100% Payment of costs (Dx2)                  6.4     7.6    8.1      8.5    9.1      10.0
VII. RURAL BANK PERFORMANCE
19.    About one half of the rural banks currently display mediocre performance, i.e. marginal
profitability. Mediocre banks tend to be characterized by high loan to securities ratios (thus a
higher risk profile), poor interest income on the loan portfolio, and high operating costs. Under
the project, training and logistical support will be provided in order to improve their investment
planning and portfolio management. Without the project, such a bank would continue to register
a very low return on assets, in several cases in the neighborhood of 1%, and a capital adequacy
ratio of less than the required 6.5%. With the project's intervention, mediocre banks will be
required to secure their asset portfolios by realigning them in favor of government securities and
strictly adhering to secondary reserve requirements, which will be relaxed gradually in tandem
with their financial and managerial performance.   With better training  in loan  screening,
investment planning, credit recovery, and the reinforcement of greater transparency in the
granting of credit, mediocre banks will gradually build their loan portfolios. It is projected that by
project's end, at least 90% of the mediocre banks will be earning a return on their assets of in the
excess of 3% (after taxes), with capital adequacy ratios above the statutory 6.5%.
Table 5.7. Projected Performance of a typical "mediocre" bank with project intervention
2000     2001      2002      2003      2004      2005
i. Assumptions used in projecting future balance sheet
items and cash flows
Treasury Bill Rate:                                   0.22      0.21      0.20      0.19      0.17      0.15
Lending Rates:                                        0.27      0.26      0.25      0.24      0.22      0.20
-58 -



Deposit rates:                                         0.12      0.11      0.11      0.10      0.09      0.08
Poorly Performing Loans:                               0.45      0.40      0.35      0.31      0.27      0.24
Cash on Hand:                                          0.07      0.06      0.05      0.05      0.05      0.05
Applicable Secondary Reserve Ratio:                    0.52      0.50      0.47      0.45      0.43      0.40
Proportion of Loans in Asset Portfolio:                0.29      0.34      0.40      0.44      0.47      0.51
Proportin of Other Assets:                             0.07      0.06      0.04      0.04      0.03      0.02
Proportion of Fixed Assets:                            0.05      0.04      0.03      0.03      0.02      0.02
Deposit Growth Rate:                                   0.25      0.25      0.30      0.35      0.35      0.35
ii. Evolution of Balance Sheet Items (million cedis)
Cash and Balances:                                     126        85        91        95        119      148
Investments - ST:                                      360       632       759       892       1,068     1,275
Advances/Loans:                                        410       352       522        765      1,041     1,397
Other Assets:                                           54        85        85        85        85        85
Fixed assets:                                           22        61        61        61        61        61
Total Assets                                           972      1,215      1,519     1,898    2,373     2,966
Deposits                                               622       1,027     1,315     1,663     2,091     2,628
Other Liabilities                                       65        22        27        34        43        53
Short Term Debt                                         193       61        46        38        35        30
Paid-up capital                                         25        30        37        47        58        73
Reserves                                                67        75        93        116       146       182
Total Liabilities                                      972-    1,215       1,519     1,898     2,373     2,966
iii. Financial Statement Information (million cedis)
Interest Income:                                       110       188       237        297      349       404
Commissions & Fees:                                     43        53        66        83        104       130
Other operating Income:                                 2         3         3          4         5         6
Other Income:                                           0         0         0          0     .  1          I
Gross Operating Income:                                154       244       307        384      458       541
Provision for Bad Debts:                                19        24        29        37        46        57
Operating Exp. (incl. depreciation):                    51        85        96        114       135       152
Interest Expense:                                       75        118       143       172       194       215
Total Operating Expenses:                              144       227       269        323      375        425
Operating Profits Before Taxes:                         10        17        38        61        83        116
Provision for tax:                                      2         3          6         9        12        17
Net Profit                                               9        15        32        52        70        99
Op. Profits bef. Taxes as a % of Revenue               0.07      0.07      0.12      0.16      0.18      0.21
Return on Assets                                       0.01      0.01      0.02      0.03      0.03      0.03
-59 -



Annex 6: Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements
GHANA: RURAL FINANCIAL SERVICES PROJECT
Procurement
Guidelines
1.    All works and goods financed under the IDA credit and/or IFAD loan would be procured
in accordance with the Guidelines: Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits, January
1995 and as revised in January and August 1996, September 1997 and January 1999.
Consultants will be selected in accordance with the Guidelines: Selection and Employment of
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers, January 1997 and as revised September 1997 and
January 1999. National Competitive Bidding (NCB) procedures will include: (a) an explicit
statement to bidders of the evaluation and award criteria; (b) national advertising with public bid
opening; (c) award to the lowest evaluated responsive and qualified bidder and (d) foreign bidders
would not be precluded from participation in NCB.
2.    The Bank's Standard Bidding Documents (SBD) would be used for all ICB (and with
appropriate amendments for all NCB) for works and goods. The Bank's Standard Request for
Proposals would be used for all consulting assignments.
Project Management
3.    Procurement of works and goods and the selection of consultanits will be the responsibility
of the various implementing agencies under the project. The Rural Finance Inspection Division
(RFID) of the Bank of Ghana (BOG) will coordinate procurement activities and will provide
procurement support to the implementing agencies. A Procurement Specialist who is familiar with
good public procurement practice will be seconded from within the BOG to provide similar
services to the project. The Procurement Specialist will be part of management team which also
includes a Project Coordinator and a Financial Management Specialist, all staff of BOG. The
management team will report to the Director of RFID. The Project Coordinator, Procurement
Specialist and Financial Management Specialist will be provided with accelerated training on Bank
procurement and Consultants Selection policies and procedures at the Ghana Institute of
Management and Public Administration (GIMPA). The secondment of the management team with
qualification, education and experience acceptable to the donors will be a condition for
effectiveness
Advertising
4.    A General Procurement Notice (GPN) is mandatory and will be published in the UN
Development Business and in a newspaper with national circulation as provided under the
Guidelines. The GPN would be updated on a yearly basis and would show all outstanding ICB
and all consulting services estimated to cost US$200,000 or more. Specific Procurement Notices
(SPN) will be required for contracts to be procured under ICB and NCB procedures and for
consultant contracts estimated to cost US$100,000 or more; prior to the preparation of the
-60-



shortlist. SPNs will as (a minimum) be published in a newspaper with national circulation.
Consultant contracts estimated to cost US$100,000 or more shall be advertised in Development
Business to obtain expression of interest. Specific contracts below US$50,000 will be advertised
in two local newspapers.
Works
5.    The project will support the rehabilitation and completion of five service centers of the
Apex in Accra, Bolgatanga, Kumasi, Sunyani and Takoradi. The use of ICB is not practical
because works are small and scattered geographically and unlikely to attract foreign contractors.
Contracts for works estimated to cost US$100,000 equivalent or less, up to an aggregated
amount of US$460,000, will be awarded on the basis of lump-sum, fixed price quotations
obtained from at least three qualified domestic contractors following written requests. The
aggregate of US$460,000 has been arrived at from the procurement plan and may not be
exceeded unless justified and IDA has given prior no-objection. The RFID will track the
accumulation of such contracts during project implementation so as to assure that the aggregate
amount is not exceeded. The requests will include a detailed description of the works, including
basic specifications, the required completion date, a basic form of agreement acceptable to the
Bank, and relevant drawings, where applicable. The award shall be made to the contractor who
offers the lowest price quotation for the required work, and who has the experience and resources
to successfully complete the contract. If the estimated contract value exceeds US$100,000, then
NCB procedures will be followed.
Goods
6.    The project would finance vehicles, office equipment and computers as well as
telecommunications equipment. To the extent possible and practicable, goods and equipment to
be purchased under the project would be combined into packages worth at least US$100,000 and
will be procured centrally by REID. Packages estimated to cost the equivalent of US$100,000 or
more would be procured under ICB procedures using IDA Standard Bidding Documents.
Domestic preference will apply for goods subject to ICB if they are manufactured in Ghana, in
accordance with Appendix 2 of the Guidelines. Contracts for goods between US$30,000 -
US$100,000 available locally, up to an aggregate of US$250,000 will be procured through NCB
using national procurement procedures which have been reviewed during appraisal and were
found acceptable to IDA. Vehicles may be purchased from IAPSO up to an aggregate amount of
US$200,000 equivalent. "Off-the-shelf' goods, or specific items costing less than US$30,000,
which cannot be grouped, will be procured following written quotations obtained on the basis of
written solicitations from at least three qualified domestic suppliers, up to an aggregate amount of
US$250,000. If such goods are not available, international shopping may be used. Requests for
such quotations will include a clear description and quantity of the goods, as well as requirements
for delivery time, if they are not immediately available. The aggregate amount of US$250,000 for
both categories of goods have been arrived at from the procurement plan and may not be
exceeded unless justified and IDA has given prior no-objection. The REID will track the
accumulation of such contracts during project implementation so as to assure that the aggregate
amount will not be exceeded.
-61 -



Services/Training
7.    These services consist of consultancy services for studies and technical assistance for start
up of the Apex, coaching, training and workshops for the various implementing agencies under
the project. Consultancy services estimated to cost more than US$100,000 will be procured using
the Quality and Cost Based selection method. In the case of assignments estimated to cost less
than US$100,000, the shortlist may be made up entirely of national consultants, provided that at
least three qualified national consultants are available in the country and foreign consultants who
wish to participate are not excluded from consideration. Consultant services estimated to cost less
than the equivalent of US$50,000 may be contracted by comparing the qualifications of
consultants, including individual consultants, who have expressed an interest in the job or who
have been identified. Auditors would be selected using Least-Cost-Selection procedures.
8.    Training programs are geared toward building capacity and improving management and
skills of RFID staff, Rural Bank staff and Susu groups. These training programs would be subject
to the Bank's prior review and approval, as would be workshops.
9.    Setting up of the apex bank will require strong technical support from the Rabobank of the
Netherlands which has a long tradition of working with the rural banks in Ghana. Given the past
linkages with Rabobank, the IFAD project will provide up to US$ 1.2 million for various technical
assignments from Rabobank. The terms of reference and scope of work of the Rabobank technical
support will be firther reviewed by the Borrower in terms of its costs and the timing of the
inputs/outputs before final signature. In all such assigmnents, the Rabobank will undertake due
deligence to provide quality and cost effective serivces.
IDA Review
10.   As a result of the capacity assessment of the implementing agency (summary attached), the
following prior reviews are being set. All works and goods contracts estirnated to cost US$
100,000 or more will be subject to IDA review of bidding documents including draft contract and
technical specifications prior to inviting bids and IDA review of bid evaluation prior to contract
award. In addition, the first two contracts for goods and works below US$100,000 will be subject
to prior review to verify if corrections are needed. The TOR for all consulting assignments
irrespective of value will be subject to IDA prior review. For consultancy contracts with firms and
estimated value of US$ 50,000 or more, and US$ 20,000 or more in the case of individuals, the
draft Request for Proposals (RFP) and the shortlist of consultants must be cleared by IDA prior to
inviting proposals from consultants, In addition, the evaluation of technical proposals must be
cleared with IDA before financial proposals of the qualifying firms are opened. All the procedures
in Appendix I of the Consultants Guidelines would apply. Contracts which are not subject to prior
review will be selectively reviewed by the Bank during project implementation and will be
governed by the procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix I to the Guidelines.
Procurement Plans
-62-



11.    In  consultation  with  the  implementing  agencies, RFID  has prepared  an  indicative
Procurement Plan (PP) for the whole project, and a Detailed Procurement Plan (DPP) for the first
year of the project showing contract packages, and for each package its estimated cost and
procurement method and processing times till completion. The plans will be agreed with IDA and
the other donors by appraisal. Three months prior to the start of each subsequent fiscal year, the
RFID will submit up-dated versions of the PP, and the annual DPPs in respect of the following
year.
Procurement methods (Table A)
Works                              ___0.460    | 1.003                                      1.463
(0.439)      (0.00)       (0.439)
Goods & Equipment                      1.540        0.170                     4.06          5.776
(I1.470)    (0.160)                   (0.00)        (1.630)
Consulting Services                                              1.342        3.190         4.531
(1.342)     (0.00)        (1.342)
Training and Studies                                             0.939        2.231         3.170
(0.939)     (0.00)        (0.939)
Support to Rural Banks (a)                                                    5.05          5.05
_ _ _ _ _ _ _--  (0.00)  (0.00)
Recurrent Costs                                                  0.820        2.150         2.972
___________________ _ -  -(0.781)          (0.00)        (0.781)
1.540       0.171        3.560       17.68         22.96
(1.470)     (0.160)      (3.500)      (0.00)        (5.13)
Figures in parenthesis are amounts financed by the IDA Credit
(a) Parallel financed by the AfDB.
-63 -



Prior review thresholds (Table B)
Works                        Above US$ 100,000                    NCAlcotas
At or Below US$ I100,000          Price Quotation           First 2 contracts
Goods                        US$ I100,000 or above                ICB                     all contracts
US$ 30,000 - US$ 100,000               NCB                   First 2 contracts
Below US$ 30,000                 Shopping                     None
Services                                                   QCBS (National and/            all contracts
Firms                   US$ 100,000 or above         international advert)LC
Firms                 US$ 50,000 - <US$ 100,000     QCBS (National advert)LC         all contracts
Firms/Individuals     US$ 20,000 - <US$ 50,000               CQ/CV                 All contracts with
individuals
Individuals               Below US$ 20,000                    CV                  None, except TOR
Total value of contracts subject to prior review:          US $ 3m
All single source procurement and consulting assignments and all TORs for consulting services irrespective of value are subject to prior review.
Selection based on consultants' qualification
-64 -



Disbursement
Allocation of credit proceeds (Table C)
Summary of Financial Assessment
Background
The Government of Ghana is currently undertaking major financial and structural reforms
to improve the control environment of its public sector accounting and reporting systems with the
help of the World Bank. These reforms have resulted in the introduction of the MTEF Budgeting
system in the country and work is progressing to computerise GOG budgeting system.
The Rural Financial Services Project will be implemented by the Rural Finance Inspection
Division (RFID) of the Bank of Ghana (BOG). The RFID unit as part of BOG has no independent
accounting system of its own but uses that of BOG for all its transactions. The BOG, the central
Bank of Ghana has previous experience in the implementation of Bank funded projects, it had the
responsibility for implementing the first Rural Finance Project in Ghana. This new project, will
involve several beneficiary groups (Susu, NGOs Rural Banks, and the new Apex body), and to
ensure that its implementation is devoid of the BOG bureaucracies, a new and separate financial
system within RFID will be set up rather than use BOG's accounting system. This approach will
have the added advantage of ensuring smooth and accelerated implementation process.
Project Implementation and Budgeting
The Director of the department will have the day to day responsibility anrd will report
directly to a Rural Finance Project Steering Committee (RFPSC). The RFPSC will have
representatives from participating agencies, NGOs; Ministry of Finance, and private sector and
chaired by the Governor of BOG or his appointee. RFID will also be responsible for project
co-ordination, maintenance of the projects assets, contract management, monitoring of project
progress and submission of Project Management Reports (PMRs) to the Steering Committee,
IDA and other donors.
Annual budgets will be prepared in accordance with the project implementation manual by
each of the participating and co-operating institutions and approved by the Steering Committee.
The budgets will be the basis of resource releases and reporting to and by the participating
institutions.
Financial Control and Accounting System
Financial control will be centralized and will be the responsibility of the finance unit that
will be created within the RFID of the BOG. RFID will have the responsibility for the
maintenance of the Project books of accounts, the Special Account that will be opened for the
project, and the smooth flow of funds for effective project implementation. The participating
institutions will be provided with working capital for the purposes of meeting their incremental
operating cost, on an imprest accounting basis. The project books of accounts will be kept on
-65 -



cash basis. In addition, a memorandum statement will be kept for all unpaid liabilities to ensure
that all project liabilities are accounted for.
The finance unit should be adequately staffed and trained to be able to carryout these
responsibilities. The BOG will second an accountant from its own accounting unit to head the
finance unit. The accountant will be a professional accountant with the requisite qualification and
experience to manage the financial and accounting functions under the project. If the BOG is
unable to provide RFID with such a staff then the project will recruit such a person for a period of
two (2) years to specifically set up the system, train RFID account staff and hand over the
management to RFID. Two additional accounting staff will be selected from BOG to assist the
accountant in the performance of his duties. In order to mitigate institutional risk, capacity of FM
staff will be built in accordance with the agreed time-bound action plan which will include review
of Curriculum Vitae of staff nominated and training of the key staff.
Detailed procedures will be outlined in the financial procedures manual on the step that
will be adopted by participating agencies to access and account for funds to meet their
incremental operating costs.
Auditing under the Project
The audit of the project will be conducted annually and carried out by independent and
qualified auditors acceptable to the Bank. The selection of auditors shall be on competitive basis
in accordance with the Bank's consultants' selection guidelines. The audit report will be
submitted to the Bank within 6 months after the end of the reporting period.
Project Management Reports (PMRs)
The Bank has introduced a new initiative, the Loan Administration Change Initiative
(LACI). This initiative has been formally launched in Ghana and it is expected that all projects
will comply fully with this new requirement at the start of implementation or put in place an action
plan to ensure compliance in 12 to 18 months of commencement of implementation. LACI
requires projects to prepare quarterly projects management reports (PMRs) in the areas of
finance, procurement, including contract details, and project progress.
The Quarterly Financial Reportwill consist of Sources of funds and their Uses of Funds,
statement of Uses of Funds by Project Activity, Project Cash Withdrawals, Special Account
Reconciliation statement and a six months Project Cash Forecast.
Quarterly Project Progress Report will consist of Output Monitoring Report on contract
Management and on Unit of Output by project activity.
Quarterly Procurement Management Report will consist of procurement process
monitoring for goods and works and that for consultants' services, and contract Expenditure
reports for goods, works and consultants' services.
-66 -



A financial management assessment was undertaken and it was concluded that the RFID
does not have the financial capacity to be eligible for PMR-based disbursements. It was also
concluded that the RFID couldn't produce all the required PMR reports. An action plan has been
put in place to ensure that RFID is able to produce the required reports within 12 months of
effectiveness.
Action Plan Agreed with GOG Team At Anpraisal
Action Plan.
Action Step                  Due Date        Responsibility or    Date Action
Action By       Completed
1.  Agreeing TOR for Project Accountant and   February 28, 2000   Completed, RFID    March 20, 2000
other contract staff.
2.  Secondment of Accountant and other key    May 15, 2000    RFID / BOG
staff completed.
3.  TOR for the design of Financial        February 28, 2000   RFID (in          March 20, 2000
management system.                                       consultation with
IDA)
4.  Selection of consultant for the FM system to April 30, 2000  RFID
be completed.
5.  Consultant completes design, and documents Prior to Board (June  RFID
it in an accounting and procurement manual. 2000)
Manual to include:
- flow of funds anrangements
- chart of accounts
- intemal control measures
- reporting requirements
- procurement processes
6.  Review and Comments by WB on Manual   Prior to Board (June  FMS
2000)              OQKS/LOAAF
7.  Finalization of accounting and procurement Prior to Board  FMS/OQKS/
procedure Manual                                         LOAAF/RFID
8.  Training of BOG staff nominated on WB    May 30, 2000     RFID
___  procedures and reporting requirements.
9.  Selection of appropriate accounting software August 15, 2000  RFID (in
for project.                                             consultation with
___ __ __ __ ___ __ ___ _  _IDA )
-67 -



10. Adaptation of PMRs format to RFSP       July 31, 2000       RFID
project.
* Financial Reports
* Procurement
* Project Progress
11. Draft PMR Formats (Forms) for financial   August 15, 2000   RFID
Reports sent to WB
12. WB review and comments.                 August 30, 2000     IDA - FMS
OQKS/LOAAF
13. Program of software to produce reports and  September 30, 2000  RFID
testing.
14. Training of staff of the project.       September - October RFID
15. Opening Special Account (with signatures
etc)
16. First set of PMRs to be produced        3 months after      RFID
effectiveness October
2000
17. Second set of PMRs                      6 months after      RFID
effectiveness date
18. Third set of PMRs                       9 months after      RFID
effectiveness date
19. Comply fully with LACI -PMR reporting.   12 months after   IDA, MOF (GOG)
effectiveness date    & BOG & RFID
Table C: Allocation of Credit Proceeds
Civil Works                                 0.44            100% of foreign exchange and 90% of
local costs
Vehicles, Goods and Equipment                1.63           100% of foreign expenditures and 95%
of local costs
Consultants Services                         1.34                         100%
Training and Capacity Building              0.94                          100%
Support to Rural Banks                      0.00                   (Financed by AfDB)
Recurrent Costs                             0.78           100% of foreign expenditures and 90 of
local costs
Total Project Costs                         5.13
Total                                       5.13
-68 -



Disbursement
Use of Statement of Expenditures (SOEs)
Disbursements for all expenditures would be against full documentation except for
contracts less than US$100,000 equivalent each for works, goods and US$ 50,000 for consulting
firms and US$ 20,000 for individuals, training and incremental operating costs for which
disbursements would be based on Statement of Expenditures (SOEs). Supporting documentation
for SOEs would be retained by the borrower for review by IDA missions and external auditors.
All expenditures above the threshold indicated above will be eligible for direct payment.
Special Account
To facilitate disbursement, a special account will be established at the Bank of Ghana with
an authorized allocation of US$500,000. An initial deposit of US$250,000 to cover 4 months of
eligible expenditure, will be paid into the special account upon effectiveness of the credit and the
remaining balance paid when aggregate disbursement under the project exceeds US$1.4 million.
Further deposits by IDA would be made into this special account against withdrawal applications
supported by appropriate documents.
Procurement Capacity Assessment
Summary of Findings and Actions
-    smen.                                            Assess Ment
Item Assessed                             Satis.    Major Weaknesses                                      Actions               Proposed
Null  Poor  Fair  factory                             Low    Ave.    High           Proposed           Completion Date
(a) Leeal Aspects        .                       _                                _               _
(i) Laws &                    -                     Procurement Laws &       v                       Procurement Code is
Regulations                                     Regulations are not                              scheduled to be
consolidated.                                    provided under
Procurement practices                            FIMTAP,
are not consolidated                             CD/TTL/PS for
into a procurement                               FIMTAP and MoF
code.                                            are discussing an      Plan will be
action plan for       finalized by
implementation of      5/31/2000
procurement reforms
component of
_______ _______            _____     FIM TAP
(ii) NCB Procedures                          _      No uniform national      V2                            --Ditto-'              --Ditto--
procedures
(iii) Internal codes and   "                        Draft Internal                          "        Procedures should be
manuals                                         operational and                                  operationalized by     6/3012000
administrative manuals                           BoG. Training on
have been orenared,                              torocedures to be held
(bl Proc. Cycle Memo   ._t
(i) General handlirig         -                     Bank procurement                                 Orientation and basic  6/30/2000
procedures are seen by                           procurement training
top officials as a Bank                          for identified staff of
requirement rather than                          BoG, RB, ARB, by
a means to obtain value                          Bank PS
._____________________           _      for money
Bank procurement guidelines will be followed.
2   The Bank's SBDs will be used for NCB. NCB procedures would be subject to confirmation by GoG that: (i) There will be national advertising; (ii) public bid opening; (iii) prior disclosure and
clarity of evaluation criteria; (iv) award to the lowest evaluated responsive and qualified bidder and (v) non-exclusion of foreign bidders who wish to participate.
-69 -



Annex 7: Project Processing Schedule
GHANA: RURAL FINANCIAL SERVICES PROJECT
Time taken to prepare the project (months)       14                           16
First Bank mission (identification)             07/15/99                      07/15/99
Appraisal mission departure                      02/21/2000                   03/20/2000
Negotiations                                    03/13/2000                    04/18/2000
Planned Date of Effectiveness                    01/01/2001
Prepared by:
Rudolph A. Polson (TTL), Bank
Perin Saint Ange (CPM), IFAD
Margaret Karuri (AfDB, Abidjan)
Preparation assistance:
IFAD provided an estimated US$150,000 for preparation assistance as part of a co-financing arrangement.
Bank staff who worked on the project included:
Rudolph Polson                    Sr. Economist
Eustacius Betubiza                Ag. Economist
Patience Mensah                   Operations Officer
Fred Yankey                       Financial Analyst
Kofi Awanyo                       Procurement Specialist
William Steel                     Lead Specialist (Rural/Microfinance)
Bikki Randhawa                    Peer Reviewer
Wendy Wiltshire                   Program Assistant
Patricia Ashby                    Team Assistant
- 70 -



Annex 8: Documents in the Project File*
GHANA: RURAL FINANCIAL SERVICES PROJECT
A. Project Implementation Plan
The project implementation plan (PIP) will be finalized during Appraisal and cleared by Regional
Procurement.
B. Bank Staff Assessments
Ghana; Rural Financial Services Project: Identification Report
Strategy and Business Plan for An Apex Bank for the Rural Banks
Informal Financial Institutions; Technical Report
Capacity Building of Rural and Community Banks
Information Technology for the Rural Banks
C. Other
*Including electronic files
- 71 -



Annex 9: Statement of Loans and Credits
GHANA: RURAL FINANCIAL SERVICES PROJECT
Difference between expected
and actual
Original Amount in US$ Millions         disbursements
Project ID    FY   Borrower                      Purpose                                     IBRD      IDA       Cancel.   Undisb.      Orig  Frrn Revd
P000975       1996 Ghana                     BASIC EDUCATION                                   0.00      50.00       0.00     31.70     23.60       0.00
P040659       1999 Ghana                     COMMUNITY DEV.                                    0.00       5.00       0.00      4.98       0.48      0.00
P000924       1994 Ghana                     COMMUNITYWATER&SA                                 000       21.96       0.00      4.48       4.50      0.00
P050616       2000 Ghana                     COMMUNITY WATER II                                000       25.00       0.00     25.15       0.00      0.00
P000948       1995 Ghana                     EDUCNOC.TRNG                                      0.00       9.60       0.00      3.22       2.62     -0.35
P040557       1999 Ghana                     ERSO II                                           0.00     180.00       0.00     99.10      79.43      0.00
P000962       1995 Ghana                     FISHERIES                                         0.00       9.00       0.00      2.97       1.93      0.00
P000949       1998 Ghana                     HEALTH SCTR SUPPORT                               0.00      35.00       0.00     24.17       6.00      0.00
P000957       1996 Ghana                     HVWY SECT INV.PROG                                0.00     100.00       0.00     39.61      10.40      0.00
P000936       1994 Ghana                     LOCAL GOVTDEV.                                    0.00      38.50       0.00     12.56       8.25      0.00
P000966       1995 Ghana                     MININGSEC.DEV&ENV                                 000       12.30       0.00      3.31       3.07      0.00
P000974       1999 Ghana                     NATFUNCLITPROG                                    0.00      32.00       0.00     31.87       3.09      0.00
P000946       1998 Ghana                     NAT.RES.MANAGEMENT                                0.00       9.30       0.00      8.05       5.95      0.00
P000943       1996 Ghana                     NON-BANKFININSAST                                 0.00      23.90       0.00     15.14      16.55      0.00
P000960       1995 Ghana                     PRIV SECTOR DEV                                   0.00      13.00       0.00      6.71       6.97      0.00
P045588       1997 Ghana                     PUB. FIN. MGMT. TAP                               0.00      20.90       0.00     15.18      12.66      0.00
P050615       1999 Ghana                     PUB.SECTOR MNGT.PROG                              0.00      14.30       0.00     11.99       1.91      0.00
P042516       1996 Ghana                     PUBLIC ENTERPRISE/PR                          .   0.00      26.45       0.00     16.47      10.58      0.00
P000926       1995 Ghana                     THERMAL (P-VII)                                   0.00     175.60       0.00     36.78      40.62     40.66
P000970       1999 Ghana                     TRADE GATEWAY & INV.                              0.00      50.50       0.00     47.03       4.46      0.00
P050624       2000 Ghana                     URBAN 5                                           0.00      10.83       0.00     10.88       0.00      0.00
P000973       1996 Ghana                     URBAN ENV.SANITATION                              0.00      71.00       0.00     40.60      38.73      0.00
P041150       1997 Ghana                     VILLAGE INFRASTRUCTU                              0.00      30.00       0.00     21.70      -0.49      0.00
Total:       0.00      964.14        0.00     513.65    281.31      40.31
-72 -



GHANA
STATEMENT OF IFC's
Held and Disbursed Portfolio
In Millions US Dollars
Committed                       Disbursed
IFC                             IFC
FY Approval        Company                       Loan  Equity   Quasi   Partic   Loan  Equity   Quasi  Partic
1993               AEF Afariwaa                   0.18    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.18    0.00    0.00    0.00
1990               AEF Alugan                     0.05    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.05    0.00    0.00    0.00
1992               AEF BMK                       0.46    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.46    0.00    0.00    0.00
1992               AEF CFL                        0.28    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.28    0.00    0.00    0.00
1995               AEF Dupaul Wood                0.25    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.25    0.00    0.00    0.00
1993               AEF GHUMCO                     0.02    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.02    0.00    0.00    0.00
1998               AEF NCS                        0.00    0.00    0.67    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.67    0.00
1997               AEF PTS                        0.00    0.00    0.31    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.31    0.00
1991               AEF Packrite                   0.05    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.05    0.00    0.00    0.00
1994               AEF Shangri-la                 1.10    0.00    0.00    0.00    1.10    0.00    0.00    0.00
1996               AEF Tacks Farms                0.37    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.37    0.00    0.00    0.00
1988/89/91/93      Bogosu                         4.50    0.00    0.00    9.34    4.50    0.00    0.00    9.34
1989/91/93         Cont Acceptances               0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
1993/96            Ecobank - Ghana                4.10    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
1990/91/96         GAGL                           4.22    0.00    0.00    0.00    4.22    0.00    0.00    0.00
1994               GHACEM                         0.01    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.01    0.00    0.00    0.00
1991               GHANAL                         0.00    0.44    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.44    0.00    0.00
1992/93            Ghana Leasing                  0.75    0.73    0.00    0.00    0.75    0.73    0.00    0.00
1991/92            Hotel Inv. Ghana               0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
1989/92            Wahome Steel                   0.87    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.87    0.00    0.00    0.00
Total Portfolio:        17.21    1.17    0.98    9.34   13.11    1.17    0.98    9.34
Approvals Pending Commitmnent
FY Approval       Company                           Loan    Equity     Quasi    Partic
1995              AEF GHANA PACK                  360.00      0.00      0.00      0.00
1999              AEF Garden Court               1500.00      0.00      0.00      0.00
1999              AEF Japan Motors               1500.00      0.00      0.00      0.00
1999              AEF PharnaCare                  400.00      0.00      0.00      0.00
Total Pending Commitment:     3760.00      0.00      0.00      0.00
- 73 -



Annex 10: Country at a Glance
GHANA: RURAL FINANCIAL SERVICES PROJECT
Sub.
POVERTY and SOCIAL                                              Saharan       Low-
Ghana      Atrica   incorRe       Development diamond
1998
Pnortlation. mid'verarIfmifionsl                         18 4       628      3 5t5                   Life expectancy
(G"P ncrtcanita (Atlas method. USS)                      390        480        520
G4t,P 1AMs method. USS bilosl s                           7-2    i 304       1 44
Averae annualt rowtth 192;-98
Pa nulation fl                                            2 f        2 A        1 7
Labor force (m61                                          2.7        2,8        lg9      GNP                               Gross
Moat recent astimate (latest veartvailIabl. 199298A1                                    per                               primar
i   z~~~~~~~~~~~ : ~~~~~~capita                                                          Aen1rn,AMen
Povertv (% ofaouladion belownational ooverv iinel          31
Urbasnontulation (f oftotalooouff/ionl                    377         33        31l
I lithe exoetancyat birth /deart                           050        51    f    3
tnfantrnortelitvfoerl.OOOl/r,eblrth  :0:js )           0  69          91j       69
C;hild  nalrenutrition     of children underS) 51   0ilf  27  t00 t      i       j; iAccess to safe water
Access to safe wateir    ofqooouliati*                     56         47        74
111iterarns/% of Dooulation ace 15+j                     3as        42         32
Gross orimarv enrollment I% of school-aeo o otulat ioot    76        77        108        - Ghana          Low-income group
MaWlelt i00  W    l:t         ::       t::    X          R83       R4        I1gr
FemAle                                                  70         80        103       :        :
KY ECONOMIC RATIOS and LONG-TERM TRENDS
1977     1987       1997       1998I
Economic ratios*
GOP fUSS billio.ns)                             3.2       5.1        6 9        7.5
Grnss dortetir. invRstment/G fP                11 1      10 4       24 1      22.9                       Trade
Fx>orts of ooods and services/GOP              '1S0    19.7         24.0       26,7                     T
tGross dornestic.'sasvinstGnP                  100        39         9.8       132
Gross national savinns/GI 1)P                    08       58 i f4              19 4
Ctirrent account halance4rGO)P      i4.5                 .44        11.1       -b6 
Interst n nvtslGlP                                 5      II         s1 1fi    2.0s Domeesticstnent
Total debtlGDP                                 33.4      64.6       92.2       92.0      Savings                       I
T1tal dh1t servicef/eonrts                      3 7      4 81       32.8      28.0
Present value of debt/GDP I                                 ,,      54,2     650a
Presentvalu or deh/extonarts.                                      220.3     1886.
Indebtedness
1j7747  1988.98       1997       I99J   199943
(averaae annual orowtf)
enP                                    0.tititX   ::;o4  403  42     4.8        6i              Ghana   -Low-incomegroup
GNP Rner ranita                       -7 7      1 4       1 7        1          3:5                          L
Exoodsl of ooods and services         _47       9. 7     -0,4       14.4        5.6
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
1977     1987       1997       1998      Growth rates of output and investment(%)
/% of GDPJ
Aorirsrlti,re                                  58.2      50.6       35 8       37 6     20
lndtlstrv                                      15.8      16 3       25 7      248 R     1
Manulfactirina                                10 8      0 9        8.2        8.2      0S
Services                                       28.0      33 1       38.5      37 6      -8 o - 93    94  1V    96   97   98
Private consirmotion                           77 4      8S 6       77.8      768.     -209
Genneral nveromment consirmntion               12 6      10.6       12.4       10 3                     GDl    - -GDP
Imoorts of ooods and services                  11.6      26.2       38.4      36.4
1977-87  1988-98       1997       1998      Growth rates of exports and imports (%)
iaveraoe annua/ arowthl
Aoriculture                                     0.8       2.7        4.3        5.3    30
Industrv                                       -4 0       4.8        8.4        2.f     20
Manufacturina                                 -4.0      3.1        7.3        3.0
Services                                         1 9      5.8        3 4        45      1f
Private consumotion                             0.3       3.7       12.1        1.6                                         o
General onvermment consqumntion                  1.4      4.6      -11 7       11 3             93   94           96   97   99
Gross domestic investment                       -4.6      3.8        3 4        2 8     to
Imnorts of onads and services                   -7.o      7 3       14.7        7 9                8xports    -        nmports
Gronss national orndujct                        0.2       4.3        4 3        4.6
Note: 1998 data are preliminary estimates.
The diamonds show four kev indicators in the countrv (in bold) comoared with its income-oroun average. If data are missinog the diamond will
he inromnlAtA.
-74-



Ghana
PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
1977    1987       1997     1998      Inflation (%)
Domestic prices
(Y. change)                                                                      80                   A
Consumer prices                            116.5    39.8       27.9      19.3    60
Implicit GDP deflator                       67.3    39.2       19.5      17.6    40-
Govemment finance                                                                20
(%6 of GDP, includes current grants)                                              0
Current revenue                                ..    14.1      17.8      18.9            93   94   55   ff   97   98
Current budget balance                         ..     2.9       1.6       1.6                   GDP deflator  '     CPI
Overall surplus/deficit                       ..    -5.1      -10.8      -9.7
TRADE
(UIS$ millions)                             1977    1987       1997     1998      Export and Import levels (USS mlillons)
Total exports (fob)                                  824      1,491     1,830    3,000
Cocoa                                        ..    495        470       629
Timber                                       ..      91       172       170     2000
Manufactures                                 .        .
Total imports (cif)                            .    1,009     2,321    2,417
Food                                         ..      73                                       a
Fuel and energy                                     145       240      212
Capital goods                                ..    166 
Exoort Drice index (1995=100)                 ..      97         93       98
mDort orice index (1995=1001                  ..      69         97       81              a Exports     *Imports
Terms of trade (1995=1001                     ..    141          96      121
BALANCE of PAYMENTS
(USS millions)                             '1977    1987      1997      1998      Current account balance to GDP ratio I%)
Exports of goods and services              1,018     903      1,656    2,004      0
Imports of goods and services              1,121    1,203     2,645    2,732
Resource balance                            -103    -300       -989     -728      -4
Net income                                   -35  -127   -134  -142                            11111
Net current transfers                         -6     202        360      378      '8
Current account balance                     -144    -225       -763      -492    -12
Financing items (net)                        254     363        787      591
Changes in net reserves                     -109    -138        -25       -99    l1e
Memo:
Reserves includino aold (USS millions)       182      332       508      502
Conversion rate (DEC. local/USS)             3.5   147.0   2.050.2   2.314.0
EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
1977    1987      1997      1998
fuss millions)                                                                    Composition of total debt, 1998 (US$ millions)
Total debt outstanding and disbursed       1,067    3,280     6,345    6,900
IBRD                                       43      151         30       27               G 737   A:27
IDA                                        -79     700      2,617    2,962
Total debt service                            38     415        552      572
IBRD                                         5      22         15        6         F:842
IDA                                          1       7         31       34                                    8: 2,962
Compositon of net resource flows
Official grants                             65      122       160      230
Official creditors                          70     254        333      295
Private creditors                           22       3         88       -25       E. 1,432
Foreign direct investment                   19       5        110      152
Portfolio equity                             0       0         46       80                  .D, 56s    c: 334
World Bank program
Commitments                                 57     233         54      147      A - IBRD                    E - Bilateral
Disbursements                               30     194       237       261      B - IDA    D - Other multilateral  F - Private
Principal repayments                         3      13         23       19      C - IMF                     G - Short-term
Net flows                                   27     181        214      241
Interest payments                            3      16         22       20
Net transfers                               24      165       192      221
Development Economics
- 75 -



Annex 11: Innovative Pilots Linking Informal and Formal Financial Institutions
A. Innovation Type: Inventory Credit
Promoters: Technoserve (NGO), Natural Resources Institute (NRI) of the UK, and the
ADB.
Approach: Provision of inventory credit (farmers receiving loans against their own produce
stored in cooperatively managed warehouses) to alleviate the traditional post-harvest cash
squeeze which farmers face.
Recent Evaluation: The scheme was successfully operated as a pilot program in Upper
West Region under the IDA-assisted Rural Financial Project (RFP) and later extended to
Brong Ahafo Region, where farmers participating in the program received an effective sales
price premium of 36% over what they would have earned had they sold their produce
(maize) immediately after harvest. The premium of 36% was realized even after retiring
their inventory credit and paying storage/treatment fees. When properly designed and
managed, inventory credit can allow small-scale farmers to progress from being "price
takers" to "price negotiators" and to operate successfully in the local market economy.
B. Innovation type: Group Empowerment and Savings Scheme
Promoters: Nsoatreman Rural Bank in association with as Sasakawa 2000,
AMASACHINA
Approach: Providing micro-credit for off-farm income generating activities and marketing.
Recent Evaluation: Nearly 100 percent recovery, to smallscale producer groups anirnated
and trained by APPLE, an NGO, and mobilizing group savings, under IFAD-assisted
SCIMP. Many other NGOs such have similarly mobilized and developed groups of rural
disadvantaged including women, for linking with rural banks.
C. Innovation Type: Credit Delivery with Associated Technology
Promoters: Sasakawa 2000, MOFA's Department of Agricultural Extension Services and
rural banks.
Approach: Credit delivery combined with dissemination of technology to smallholders such
as agroprocessing or improved varieties/;
-76 -



D. Innovation Type: Credit with Education
Promoters: Freedom from Hunger, an NGO, in association with Nsoatreman and Builsa
rural banks.
Approach: Three key services offered to poor women in rural areas as follows: (i)
group-based financial services, including credit to generate extra household income which
builds self-confidence and opens women's mind to believe that they can change and improve
their lives; (ii) education, delivered non-formally, which stimulates behavior changes that
improve the health, nutrition, and family planning of women and their families; and (iii) a
forum for peer group support to help build women's leadership skills and self-confidence to
make decisions that affect their families' health and well-being.
E. Innovation Type: Mobile Banking
Promoters: Akuapem RB in the Eastern Region
Approach: Useful for reaching remote and isolated areas and extending the outreach of
formal financial services. Rural bank identifies several points or centers for stationing a
mobile unit at a predetermined hour and for specific days, often market days. These
schedules are announced to residents of the villages. The mobile unit also disburses loans
approved at HQ to beneficiaries in the outlying areas.
Recent evaluations. Since its introduction last year, the Akuapem Rural Bank has mobilized
deposits of Cedi 37 million exclusive of deposits mobilized at agencies The Akuapem RB's
plans are to undertake an evaluation of the scheme at the end of the first three years to
ascertain whether income on business handled fully covers the costs of the mobile banking
unit, and if not, to fix and levy an appropriate service charge for door-step deposit and loan
services to make good the shortfall.
- 77 -



Annex 12: Classification of Rural Banks, December 1998
Cbssfircation of Rural Banks, December M9S (000 Cedis, where applicable)
Pad-Up             Networth               Network         Exam.    Loans &                                            Total
Bank                          Capital      Return      Exam Report  Return sam Repo   Date         Advances      lnvestmenUts Liquidity Deposits     Assets
1 UNION RURAL                      61,300       67,315         67,315  150.53%   150.53%   30/06/99       1,086        40,000   129.00.         52,382       129,387
2 MEPE                             20,349      287,160        294,433  115.62%  147.50Yo  31/05199      184,179       510,959   101.74%        546,641       897,105
3 ASSINMAN                          7,865       40,873         35,722   22.91%   73.37%.  31/10/98      60,569        125,360   106.89%        232,986       305,700
4 EASTERN GAMOA ASSIN              21,526       57,081         39,401   87.37%   73.20%   31/10/98       51,655       247,130   111.2S%        364,495       469,644
5 GARURAL                          50,437      175,011        171,038   27.03%    71.90Y.  31/05198     190,204       898,725   101.70%      1,10,427      1,473,S21
6 AGAVE                            60,308      287,259        252,237   49.91%   69.60Y   31/05198      339,934       536,154    91.33%        790,051     11,336,882
7 ENYANDENKYIRA                    61,336      326,989        203,881   59.35%   66.87/.  30/11/98     499,108        386,950    76.00%        692,507      1,060,331
8 UNITY                            10,540      105,995        110,676   45.21%   65.94%   31/05/99     229,983         110,200   103.35%       277,302       510,053
9 NWABIAGYA                        39,241      872,202        720,706   49.00%   64.31%   30/09/98    1,126,731      1,918,915    97.14%      2,414,826    3,798,576
10 MANYAKROBO                       99,951      509,942        496,856   50.80%   63.29%   30/04/99      833,452      1,516,143    94.40%      2,347,306    3,136,204
11 WEST MAMPRUSI                    20,500      163,452        157,973   92.20%   59.70%   29/05198      137,498       304,360   111.30%        363,327       583,754
12 ADA RURAL BANK                   90,964      169,331        291,771   15.77%   54.409.  31/05/98     412,126        550,562    63.22%       1,069,174     1,346,342
13 BRAKWABREMAN                     52,953      377,213        375,999   47.86%   51.82%   30/06/99      598,336       420,450    75.53%        701,630      1,241,083
14 AVENOR                           27,432      186.623         73,677   52.80%   51.40%   31/05/98     298,290        311,000    80.30%        485,001       717,793
15 EAST MAMPRUSI                    37,320       55,662         32,705   39.80%   47.40%   30/06/98      67,092       185,000    92.80%        274,046       378,679
16 KWAHU                            39,649      435,953        348,670   28.60%   46.74%   30/11/98     626,8S1       1,090,625    78.50%      1,553,205     2,194,395
17 NAND3OM                          22,674      15S,656        124,2S0   38.76%   46.17%   31/05/99      384,729       638,550   112.65%        694,200      1,173,651
18 AMANTINKASE1                    108,388      108,455         94,729   25.40%   38.86%   31/12/98      149,535        180,000    89.00%       260,912       499,711
19 3OMORO                           22,882      355,325        252,331   38.50Y%   37.60Y.  30/04/98     814,913       588,267    58.60%       1,361,724     1,904,334
20 BUILSA COMMUNITY BANK            35,787      155,373        144,690   34.80%    34.22%.  31/05/99     370,751       331,600    91.70%        530,041       914,197
21 SHAI                             16,577       74,794         47,573   44.60%    30.58%   30106/99     128,539        240,300    90.40%/6     464,000       553,710
22 ATWIMAKKWANWOMA                 127,507      684,937        568,460   33.00%   30.4 7%   31/05/99    1,302,735     4,020,000    95.16%      5,017,778     6,334,384
23 AKUAPEM                          58,748      468,916        297,713   23.01%   28.26%   30061/90      799,521      1,030,241    84.34%      1,712,571     2,475,826
24 LA COMMUNITYBANK                363,246    2,262,162       1,841,300    8.75%   26.20Y%   30/10/98    1,143,626    2,990,403    82.58%      4,455,841     7,130,334
25 ODOTOBRI                         24,081      168,850        122,140   39.50%   26.1S%   31/05/99      357,102        506,012    80.80%       722,229      1,031,899
26 UPPER MANYA KRO                  13,220      205,530        134,872   20.00%   23.76%   30/04/98      679,570      1,052,750   88.74%      1,754,160      2,511,840
27 SONZELE                          33,137       58,551         36,111   35.00%   23.15%   16/03/98      121,935        240,000   131.53%       259.058       491,459
28 ANUM                             66,365      445,293        383,462    7.60%   20.80%   31/05199      883,904        838,871    73.00%      2,018,999     2,693,640
29 BIATORYA                         35,350      188,670        131,207   19.50%   20.74%   30/11/98      297,006        130,000    64.07%       621,340       916,160
30 AHAFO CUMMUNITY BANK             30,253       29,081         28,996   15.00%.  19.94%   15/03/99       65,622        195,500    80.20%       211,618       258,074
31 KINTAMO                          42,953      182,744        144,763   19.00%    19.61%   31/12/98     562,212        651,818    91.00%      1,100,247     1,793,395
32 TWIFO                            20,608      187,551        107,504   24.60%    17.S4%    26/2/99     408,301        253,000    52.60%        841,313     1,112,501
33 NZEMA MAMLE                                                  78,904             16.82%   30110/98
34 AWUTU EMASA                      25,054       173,890       128,839   10.20/.  15.S4%   30/04198     538,881        879,167   163.20%      1,087,795     2,412,906
35 AKOTI                            19,939       96,623         70,375    6.60Y%   15.42%.  31/05/99     253,243        377,296    59.20%       926,512      1,648,198
36 AKYEMPIM                         37,473      243,315        169,001   12.00%    15.40D!.  31/05/99    571,366        530,075    37.08%     2.420,716      2,745,636
37 NAARA                           105,551      205,818         93,170   27.75%    14.89!. 31105/99      371,382        468,190   102.98%       515,384      1,026,857
38 NAYKROM                          45,827      290,708        248,772   20.53%    14.54%   30/11/98     690,121        500,650    64.38%      1.085,155     1,584,845
39 AWUTUBAWJIASE                    38,364       129,358       108,422   12.10Y.  14.2S%   30/10/98      3S6,214        870,397    78 30/.    1,609,512     1,861,604
40 BESSFA                           38,277      157,916        122,300   22.80%    13.80%   31/05199     465,337        411,500   105.50!.      998,104      1,601,813
- 78 -



41 SOUTHBIRIM                    26,404      67,913        64,862  15.40%   13.80%/  30/06/99    152,987      152,000   68.70%      380,760      472,900
42 ASUBONTEN                     35,280      18,200        15,499  16.81%   13.15%  30/06/99      10,650       38,000   75.70%/.     75,360       95,900
43 WETO                          24,714     108,504        86,445  13.37/.  12.44%   30106/99   522,472       109,150   86.84%      164,794      794,650
44 OTUASEKAN                     34,500     479,400       248,582   18.56%   12.20%  30111/98   1,621,800    1,094,800   71.96%    1,899,420    3,355,980
45 JUABEN                        45,438     337,504       197,422  10.18%   11.64%  31112/98    1,575,466    1,346,721   68.12%   2,506,268     3,590,385
46 KAASEMAN                      34,246     384,023       298,863   7.90%  10.68%   31/08t98    1,555,113    471,038   30.57%     2,418,546    3,492,216
47 MANSOMAN                      42,125     (21,626)      193,983  -7.35%    9.84%  30104/98     488,123       33,275    0.00%     1,336,220    2,167,453
48 BOGOSO                        45,355     705,394       420,949  26.00%    9.53%   26103/99    1,415,600     520,000   44.00%/    1,909,944   2,798,356
49 NSAOTREMAN                    68,410     988,494       336,723  23.09W/.   9.50%   30/09/98    3,062,449    704,300   59.04%    2,504,945    5,088,582
50 WAMFIE                        43,535     123,296        94,713   8.75%    8.86%   30/06/99    597,489       550,300   73.11%    1,103,856    1,515,188
51 ATIWA                         34,988     129,647        96,651   8.72%    7.72%   11/06/98    546,223      919,055   79.57%     2,106,406    2,828,240
52 AHANTAMAN                                              449,058            7.70%  28/02/99
53 ASANTEAKYEM                   32,422     198,005       100,254  20.00%   6.90%/.  30110/98   510,257       739,450   60.00%.    1,298,110    1,588,224
54 SOUTH AKIM                                             245,376            5.77%   30/04/99
55 StMA                          28,570      90,952        61,080   9.60%/   5.46%   30/04/98    749,896       219,040   58.10%/.   1,246,775   1,513,926
56 NKORANMAN                     18,287      41,079        30,588   4.37%    4.03%   30/04/98    345,798       232,370   60.20%/!   773,085      889,970
57 DROBO COMMUNITY               32,202      39,018        14,829  26.20%    3.55%   30/11/98     65,773       147,800   80.20-/A   245,975      293,273
58 BADUMAN                       44,790      130,600       52,700   9.29%    2.82%   30/06/99    1,329,290     389,510   77.50 %    805,890     1,865,970
59 KUMAWUMAN                     35,539      99,719        23,803   10.43%    2.05%   30111198   690,504       781,910   89.00%/    1,553,004  2,111,585
60 LOWER PRA                    119,229     662,535       564,957   7.02%    1.55%   28102199    2,637,588   2,366,620   69.60%/!    5,596,306  7,048,438
61 MUMUADU                       37,515     170,622        95,947   8.50/A   0.56%   30104/99    620,926       540,950   70.40/A    1,495,977  2,340,145
62 NKORANZA KWABRE               22,297      66,650        (3,513)  4.22%   -0.70%   31/08/98    757,633       363,150   95.70%/o   450,932     1,296,872
63 DUMPONG                                                   791            -1.72%   31/10/98
64 AMANSIE WEST                  51,703     267,356       124,042   4.80%   -2.32%   30/11198    1,068,947     930,041   27.10%    2,774,400   3,517,045
65 AYANFURI                      14,671      22,846        (9,482)  6.20%   -3.15%  28/02/99     48,999       10,000   63.80%       45,463      390,171
66 KAKUM                        58,356      242,942      101,321   9.90%    3.17%  31/03/98   1,345,743     1,047,850   43.52%    2,799,354    3,604,735
67 BOSOMTWE                     77,108      327,167      116,472   6.72%   -3.19%  31105/98   1,581,683     1,592,629   82.95%    3,353,361    4,801,121
68 MFANTEMAN                    53.476       23,375        8,191  -5.70%   -3.31%  30/11/98      66,219      111,000   65.00%      316,833      377,519
69 ADANSI                        6,803       18,899         1,609   2.90%   -3.50%  31/12/98    241,813      211,800   58.40%      717,261      758,023
70 AMENFIMAN                    80,650      526,560       102,061  24.42%   -4.17%  31/12/98   1,260,010    1,139,000   67.00%h     222,080    2,960,790
71 ATVW1MA                      25,667       43,656       24,636   4.10%   -5.97%  30/08/98   1,580,620     1,501,150   78.00%    2,364,549    3,588,618
72 NYANKUMSAI AHENKRO            13,702      32,244       (12.257)  3.00%   -6.26%  26/03/99    394,776      234,900   43.34%       865,874     903,086
73 SEKYERE                      87,863      497,954      387,212   4.51%   -6.56%  31/08/98   1,219,985     1,944,350   90.24%    3,559,981    4,878,904
74 ADONTENG COMMUNITY            78,700      44,547        18,252  15.20%   -8.01%  31/12/98    101,940      280,000   85.00%      484,362      576,087
75 AKtM BOSOME                    7,519      44,803        18,006  -3.00%   4.17%  30106/99     253,307      125,821   50.60%       735,025     850,053
76 ODWEN ANOMA                   21,460      90,670        12,048  12.69%   -8.39%  31/10/98    347,618      425,000   58.35%       805,037     923,408
77 ASOKORE                       13,483      69,641       (17,869)  7.70%   -8.40%  30/11/98    332,854      570,150   70.22%       999,319    1,143,213
78 KWAMAMANMAN                   36,610     214,940       (13,549)  2.78%   -8.83%  31/12/98   1,877,400     286,200   26.44%    2,717,950    3,337,480
79 DERMA                        63,604        6,472       (38,236) -1.80%   -8.99%  31/07/98    903,671      350,800   61.20%      797,369    1,421,582
80 MPONUA                       36,914       68,651       (38,850)  4.70%   -9.09%  30111/98    515,138      370,180   47.50%      892,475      997,427
-79 -



81 KWAEBIBIREM                  3,920      64,960         (726)  6.83%  -10.72% 31/05199    197,300       79,160   63.15%     484,830      781,100
82 ABOKOBI                     53,270      45,646        8,303   7.90%  -11.15% 31105/99    289,660      510,600   85.00%     782,088      959,564
83 YAPRA                       18,283     214,875       (56,506)  7.10%  -12.93% 31112198   1,515.255    411,750   65.00%    1,035,980    2,372,186
84 AKATAKYIMAN                 68,400      87,640       54,566   1.16%  -16.49% 31105/99    180,860      141,540   33.04%     451,920      570,615
85 UPPER AMEFI                 14,350      12,590       (14,908) -0.25%  -16.71% 31112/98    65,313       64,470   49.43%     349,734      402,704
86 BONZALI                     10,343      54,643      (14,869)  7.80%  -18.81% 30108198    209,183      118,120   33.44%     595,698      659,773
87 AFRAM                                                (61,591)       -18.94%   30111/98
88 FIAGYA                       22,727     (21,240)     (37,692) -15.70%  -19.66%  28/02/99  208,964      106,575  36.40%      352,609     411,813
89 KWAHUPRASO                   31,251     31,376       (15,051) -5.80%  -21.31%   31/08/98  195,226       59,900  37.00%      540,062     554,592
90 ATOBIASE                                             (93,580)       -22.99%   31/05/99
91 ASAWINSO                     29,100      9,080       (65,924) -2.95%  -33.27%   31/05/98  442,600      112,000  27.00%      754,760     827,670
92 NORTH TONGU                  23,068      3,925      (108,958) -1.40%  -33.37%   31/05/99  283,271      526,725  62.00%      985,212    1,093,325
93 EKUMFIMAN                                           (260,019)       -35.00%   30/04/98
94 GOMOAAJUMAKO                 16,456      14,007      (24,116) 12.26%  -35.75%  30/11/98    92,804      160,050   82.22%     419,265     451,212
95 AGONA                        26,227     106,064      (12,032) 28.20%  -37.86%   31/10/98  219,612      638,024  74.00%      862,693    1,077,971
96 DANGRE                       45,336    (111,451)    (171,035) -10.59%  -42.60%   31/05/98  690,650     690,650  69.50%     1,793,774    1,894,600
97 SEKYEDUMASE                  28,264     60,988      (214,640)  1.30%  -56.45%   30/06/99  605,424      306,401  39.50%     1,073,832    1,828,053
98 AMANANO                      46,969     263,422      175,989   3.59%  -65.05%   31/12/98  543,540      412,950  55.63%     1,610,423    1,974,554
99 TANOAGYA                     23,471     69,226      (128,814)  9.00%  -66.48%   31/12/98  319,480      144,043  34.00%       681,708     889,133
100 GOMAO                        13,229      4,781       (46,018) -0.80%  -67.00%   31/05/99    143,752    244,000   87.20%      309672     468,467
101 AKYEM MANSA                  3,210     (12,200)      (20,116) -23.60%  -69.58%   31/05/99  41,770        4,000  70.30%       145,037     156,875
102 BOMAA                        10,868    (59,963)      (58,937) -41.50%  -72.50%   28/02/99  91,672       53,350  33.40%      262,632      289,951
103 OKOMFO ANOKYE                21,780      7,250      (193,638)  2.30%  -84.67%   31/08/98  276,370      242,870  40.88%       767,590     856,440
104 ASUrIFI                                             (116,814)       -98.59%   31/03/99
105 TANO                                                (176,793)      -131.65%   31/08/98
106 AHAFOANO                     10,751     105,141      (55,877)  1.10% -135.49%   21/02/98  161,219      139,340  47.00%       464,049     596,078
107 GUAMAN                      23,548     (79,085)    (143,475) -20.78% -140.01%  30/0/699    142,664     45,000   62.56%     566,929      548,701
108 ASUOPRA                     11,555      (9,790)     (40,777) -13.90% -142.87%  30/09/98    79,225       85,000  77.50%      142,135     186,329
109 ATWIMA                      86,435     282,911    (1,489,684)  9.05% -156.13%  30/11/98   1,327,728  1,800,950  71.99%    3,690,071    4,149,207
110 AKROFUOM      ID
111 ESIAMA         \D
TOTAL                     4,210,878  19,658,025    10,233,411                          58,123,950    57,024,898         117.460,624  178,443,051
AVERAGE                     37,936     177,099       92,193
Notes:  \D  = Distressed                Classificaton:             Nunber
Salfactoiy                   53
Medvioae                   56
DistBssed                    2
- 80 -



Annex 13: Overview of IT Constraints Facing Rural and Community Banks
Scope of the Problem
The existing communication infrastructure within rural banks vary widely, from slightly
computerized to non-existent. A 1999 survey revealed that there is virtually no network between
the rural banks and the central bank and between rural banks. All communication between the
rural banks and the Bank of Ghana, the central bank, is by weekly returns submitted in paper
form. Only 56 (5 1%) of the existing 110 rural banks have any forrn of telecommunication,
basically telephones. Only 16 (15%) of rural banks have Local Area Networks (LAN), which is
the basis for effective networking of the banks. The rural bank with the biggest LAN is the Lower
Pra Rural Bank in the Western region with 20 computers in a LAN, followed by Nsoatreman
Rural Bank with 18 computers. Most of the LANs run peer to peer networks and one of them is
running Windows NT. To graduate to a scaleable network, TCP/IP should be used as the default
protocol for interconnecting the LANs together. There are only two banks with IT staff who look
after the networks. There is the need to hire and train more IT staff to look after any future
systems that will be employed for the rural banks.
Proposed Architecture
The proposed architecture is designed with the BOG logically and physically at the core,
with the Apex Bank as an intermediary Hub linked to the rural banks. The regional Apex entities
and head offices of the member rural banks are connected to both the BOG and Apex Bank via
VSATs, with a 2MB Back haul connection to the BOG. With this architecture, Rural Bank Head
Offices will be grouped in a manner that ensures that at the minimum all members of the group are
less than 30km away from one member of that group. The idea will be to use spread spectrum
radios to gather data traffic at one of the Rural Banks within the group for onward transmission
through the VSAT network to the Head Office in Accra.
The proposed Rural Bank network will be a private network with a single exit/entry into the
public networks. Hence security would be controlled at this gateway where firewalls and other
monitoring services may be implemented. Within the private network, a properly authorized Rural
Bank staff is able to use all aspects of the private network. Access from outside the private
network will however restricted to specific services and logs necessary for monitoring intrusion
implemented. It is always advisable for the rural banks to maintain and monitor their own
networks in order to guarantee the uptime and availability of the network.
-81 -



Diagram 1: IT Technology Linkage for the Rural Banking System
APEX Reigronal OfcAPEX Reigional Offic  APEX Reigional OficAPEX Rei          fi
0 ~        ~ or
Rural Bank Head 0Th  Rural Bank Head 0 (  Rural Bank Head 0ThA  Ruaa Ban H
APEX Reig ion  A ffic e | APEX Reion  A     ffiRein  A n  APEX Rein        A      n
Office    offr     offc       orfc      orfc      offr     offic     Office      i OffiOce      offic
Rural Bank  Rural Bank  Rural Bank  Rural Bank Rural Bank  Rural Baak   RuralBBank Rural Bank  Rural Bank
Head     Head Off   ead foe  Head OffHea d  ead omce  Head Office  Head Office  H
Recommended Solution
Based on the geographic distribution of the Rural Bank Head Offices through out the
country, the recommended solution for connecting all the Rural Bank Head Offices as well as the
APEX Offices there by providing total data communication between the various Banks and APEX
Offices, is the VSAT option. This option provides a vertical (Bank-to-Bank) as well as horizontal
(Bank-to-APEX) data communication. It is also affords a uniform solution for linking the Rural
Banks to each other as well as to the APEX Offices.
Another solution considered was the use of Spread Spectrum radio technology. This
however requires that the rural banks and APEX offices be clustered such a way that each cluster
has at least one Bank less than 30km away from the remaining banks in that cluster for effective
data communication to take place amongst them (Please refer to Appendix A). In some cases the
topography of the areas did not augur well for the use of this technology. Repeater stations would
have to be setup for retransmission of weak data signals due to the distance/terrain of the Rural
Area.
-82 -



Connectivity for the Bank of Ghana Supervisory Division (BSD) and the Rural Finance
Division (RFD) will be via Spread spectrum radio links. This recomnmendation assumes that the
BSD and the RFD are located in an area less than 30 km away from the APEX Head Office.
Below is a diagram of the recommended connectivity for the project.
Training & Recruitment
The recommended recruitment and training of IT resources to maintain, administer and provide
first level support for the LAN and WAN in the Rural financial services project are as follows.
Training. The approach to training the anticipated large number of IT professionals will be the
train the trainer method. In this a selected number of human resources will be trained as trainers
and these resources will in turn train the users and operators of the system in the Rural Banks and
the other institutions associated with the project.
The recommended protocol for communication within the system is TCP/IP. It is recommended
for its simplicity and its extensive use worldwide. The following training courses are
recommended for the various players of the system.
APEX IT Staff
*  TCP/IP
*  Domain Name Services (DNS)
X  Simple Network Management Protocol (SNMP)
X  WAN Technologies
o  Introduction to Routers
* Satellite Technologies & Diagnostics
Rural Bank Head Offices (IT Staff)
*  Introduction to MS Windows 95/98
*  Introduction to Microsoft Office
*  Introduction to MS Windows NT Administration
*  Introduction to MS TCP/IP
*  Operator Level Training for Satellite Diagnostics
*  Operator Level Training for Routers
Access Restrictions and Protection
Firewalls are part of a good defense in depth strategy. The idea is to place several layers of
protection between machines in a LAN and the potential threats. In this case the threats from the
outside are other Rural Banks in the WAN. A firewall between the outside and the Banks internal
network(s) protects the bank from potential threats. Because a firewall is placed at the
intersection of two networks, it can be used for many other purposes besides simply controlling
access. Firewalls can be used to block access to particular sites in the WAN, or to prevent certain
users or machines from accessing certain services or servers. A firewall can be used to monitor
- 83 -



communications between the banks LAN and other banks LANs. For example it can be used to
log the endpoints and amounts of data sent over every TCP/IP connection between banks and the
APEX offices
Services between Apex and Rural Banks
Based on the geographic distribution of the Rural Bank Head Offices through out the
country, the recommended solution for connecting all the Rural Bank Head Offices as well as the
APEX Offices there by providing total data communication between the various Banks and APEX
Offices, is the VSAT option. This option provides a vertical (Bank-to-Bank) as well as horizontal
(Bank-to-APEX) data communication. It is also affords a uniform solution for linking the Rural
Banks to each other as well as to the APEX Offices.
Another solution considered was the use of Spread Spectrum radio technology. This
however requires that the rural banks and APEX offices be clustered such a way that each cluster
has at least one Bank less than 30km away from the remaining banks in that cluster for effective
data communication to take place amongst them (Please refer to Appendix A). In some cases the
topography of the areas did not augur well for the use of this technology. Repeater stations would
have to be setup for retransmission of weak data signals due to the distance/terrain of the Rural
Area.
Benefits
I1.    Broad and high value range of features:
*  Concurrent multiple protocols and applications
*  Migration from legacy to client/server environment
*  Single platform optimal batch, interactive, voice and broadcast data
*  Added value through voice and video capabilities
2.    High reliability:
*  Better availability
* Smallest lower power indoor/Outdoor equipment
3.    Economical:
* Small antennas
* Low space segment requirement
4.    Network sharing for load over space segment:
*  Greater stability for volatile traffic and better balancing
5.    High throughput due to high loading:
-84 -



* Flexible Network Management System (NMS)
VSAT-based satellite networks generally offer a number of advantages over traditional
networks of terrestrial telephone links:
* Cheap installation cost;
* Large coverage area (satellites can cover a large area);
*  Rapid deployment (it takes only a few days to install a site and it does not depend on
distance. Note that for terrestrial links, time and cost are constraints);
*  Flexibility: new sites can be added or existing connections reconfigured in matter of
hours. Two to three terminals can be installed in a day;
*  High availability: Up to 99.99% transmission uptime, which translates to less than I
hour down time in a whole year.
SATCOM provides:
* Data Broadcast
* Internet/Intranet
* Rural Telephony
Its capabilities are extensive and can provide private/shared networks with future growth in
mind. It has multiple backbone and supports varied system interconnection.
Implementation
The implementation of the Rural Finance Services Project will be broken into phases. The
first phase will be the pilot phase. In the pilot phase the APEX Head Office, the five APEX
Regional Offices, BSD, RFD and ten Rural Bank Head Offices will be interconnected. The ten
Rural Bank Head Offices will be selected based on the level of computerization in the Banks
operations. This phase will take approximately 20 months to be completed.
The second and subsequent phases will be to bring in about ten banks at a time. This will
be ongoing till all the banks, the APEX Offices, BSD and the RFD are all interconmected.
- 85 -



Annex 14: Flowchart of Project management Organization
BO(!
|Progranm Steering Cornmittee (PSC)|
Rulral Finance Inspection -
1 ~~~~~Department (RFID) f 
s                *~~~~~ Project Implementation        BnigSpevso
Microfinance Unit,        *  Financial ManagementDeatn(B)
MOF          *         Procurement                         De* Irspent(fon
*Informal Sector         * Monitoring and Evaluation       *IMnspetintAds
*PromotionalMaaentAds
*Capacity Building.._
/                           _ ~~~~~_
|Apex Bank              /
Apex    1 
Regional/
Clearing Centers/
Infomal inacial Sector   Rural and Community Banks
t JGOs Local ~Communities Rural Private Sector
-86 -



Annex 15: Organizational Chart: Apex Bank for the Rural and Community Banks
Board of Directors
Managing Director
Deputy Mana&gDmcwr]
|  Accra  | |Kumasi | |Takoradi ||Bolgatnmga  n               Sunyani
-87 -






IBRD 30892
3   B U R K IF A S O               X   M%ogS,gB  a 
Nadosli    '5ong.\  . '.                                                    TOGw                           BEN IN
ngan  and-i.
q-     |   -PRIMARY ROADS
/   iy   .  asa  \ Wenchiki  ySECONDARY ROADS
Dori)onA                >    s<ub    gnS                         <         Chere7rM\ N          it  PORTS
10            )              vTenn a                         .   0  a           shiegu 0                        RIVERS                    10-
, 8)                                                                                   /   Wechinu .  .. -i-----7'-----'- RAILROADS
.B paCulSi s   9    Ssols;            *    NATIONAL CAPITAL
\u (  Tuna   <   X  )  cTiia  \%y  {Ss   <    REGIONAL HEADQUARTERS
~~~Tuna  ~ ~ ~     ~     ~     TmleYndi                                         DISTRICT AND SUB-DISTRICT
s2|  {   ; N gnkp         aHEADQUARTERS
S ,, a J b aa Ne/ \, , '7'  gu *Zobzugu                                       a   OTHER SELECTED TOWNS
C,aoch           mango                           ,J                              ./             REGION BOUNDARIES
I.' fBole  Damongo 50rri    ufA                \                      Nakpali            INTERNATIONAL
9'1]    (qheriPe      f   tgkPan             \3>WangosTuru    Bin,                    BOUNDARIES                 9'
C6TE                                                         INak ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ aThe boundaries, caolors,
u umpe  4   ca a   ~ mbulother information shown
D'IVOIRE                            irungo                                          Kp  eimply, on the prt aof
~~, Malsoago       lrekant             The Wor(d Bank Group,
K wadweonany lud?ment an the legal
ngo-      r ~~~~~~~ttus af any territory,
:~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 5
Po  aiI  or acceptAnce of such
-8~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~  ~~~~a~boundaries.                                                                           B
biso~~~~~~~~u                            at          e~  s
"pjAk nt  7a                                                                          TOG'O ,               BENIN
A ~ ~ ~  ~    ~     ~     ~    ~    ~ ~ a
Dorma 0; nkro~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~,a'~l6
.6io ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~MY20



