Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 3374 GH
Project Agreement
(Rural Financial Services Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
and
BANK OF GHANA
Dated October 23, 2001
CREDIT NUMBER 3374 GH
PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated October 23, 2001, between INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
(the Association) and BANK OF GHANA (BOG).
WHEREAS (A) by the Development Credit Agreement of even date herewith between 
the Republic of Ghana (the Borrower) and the Association, the Association has agreed 
to make available to the Borrower an amount in various currencies equivalent to three 
million nine hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 3,900,000), on the terms and 
conditions set forth in the Development Credit Agreement, but only on condition that 
BOG agrees to undertake such obligations toward the Association as are set forth in 
this Agreement;
(B)
by a subsidiary administration agreement to be entered into between the 
Borrower and BOG, the proceeds of the credit provided for under the Development Credit 
Agreement will be made available to BOG on the terms and conditions set forth in the 
Subsidiary Administration Agreement; and
WHEREAS BOG, in consideration of the Association’s entering into the Development 
Credit Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed to undertake the obligations set forth 
in this Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Page  2
Definitions
Section 1.01. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the Development Credit Agreement, the Preamble to this Agreement and in the General 
Conditions (as so defined) have the respective meanings therein set forth.
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project
Section 2.01. (a) BOG declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project 
as set forth in Schedule 2 to the Development Credit Agreement, and, to this end, 
shall carry out the Project with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with 
appropriate administrative, financial, and banking practices, and shall provide, or 
cause to be provided, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other 
resources required for the Project.
(b)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section 
and except as the Association and BOG shall otherwise agree, BOG shall carry out the 
Project in accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement.
Section 2.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, procurement of 
the goods, works and consultants’ services required for the Project and to be financed 
out of the proceeds of the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 2 to 
this Agreement.
Section 2.03. (a) BOG shall carry out the obligations set forth in Sections 
9.03, 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07 and 9.08 of the General Conditions (relating to 
insurance, use of goods and services, plans and schedules, records and reports, 
maintenance and land acquisition, respectively) in respect of the Project Agreement 
and the Project.
(b)
For the purposes of Section 9.07 of the General Conditions and without 
limitation thereto, BOG shall:
(i)
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Association 
and 
furnish to the Association not later than six (6) months after the 
Closing Date or such later date as may be agreed for this purpose 
between the Association and BOG, a plan for the future operation of 
the Project; and
(ii)
afford the Association a reasonable opportunity to exchange views 
with 
BOG on said plan.
Section 2.04. BOG shall duly perform all its obligations under the Subsidiary 
Administration Agreement. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, BOG shall 
not take or concur in any action which would have the effect of amending, abrogating, 
assigning or waiving the Subsidiary Administration Agreement or any provision thereof.
Section 2.05. (a) BOG shall, at the request of the Association, exchange views 
with the Association with regard to the progress of the Project, the performance of 
its obligations under this Agreement and under the Subsidiary Administration 
Agreement, and other matters relating to the purposes of the Credit.
(b) 
BOG shall promptly inform the Association of any condition which 
interferes or threatens to interfere with the progress of the Project, the 
accomplishment of the purposes of the Credit, or the performance by BOG of its 
obligations under this Agreement and under the Subsidiary Administration Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Financial Covenants
Page  3
Section 3.01. (a) BOG shall maintain a financial management system, including 
records and accounts, and prepare financial statements, all in accordance with 
accounting standards acceptable to the Association, consistently adequate to reflect 
in accordance with sound accounting practices its operations and financial condition 
and to register separately the operations, resources and expenditures relating to the 
Project.
(b)
BOG shall:
(i)
have its records, accounts and financial statements (balance 
sheets, 
statements of income and expenses and related statements) 
for each 
fiscal year, including those for the Project Account, 
audited in 
accordance with auditing standards acceptable to the 
Association 
consistently applied, by independent auditors 
acceptable to the 
Association;
(ii)
furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any case 
not 
later than six months after the end of each such year, (A) 
certified 
copies of its financial statements referred to in paragraph 
(a) of 
this Section for such year as so audited, and (B) an opinion 
on such 
statements and report of such audit by said auditors of such 
scope and 
in such detail as the Association shall have reasonably 
requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Association such other information concerning said 
records, accounts and financial statements as well as the audit 
thereof, as the Association shall from time to time reasonably 
request.
Section 3.02. (a) Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.01 of this 
Agreement, BOG shall carry out a time-bound action plan acceptable to the Association 
for the strengthening of its financial system for the Project in order to enable BOG, 
not later than December 1, 2001, or such later date as the Association shall agree, to 
prepare quarterly Project Management Reports, acceptable to the Association. Each such 
report shall:
(i)
set forth actual sources and application of funds for the Project, 
both cumulatively and for the period covered by said report, and 
projected sources and application of funds for the Project for the 
six-month period following the period covered by said report, and 
show 
separately expenditures proposed to be financed out of the 
proceeds of 
the Credit during the six-month period following the period 
covered by 
said report;
(ii)
describe physical progress in Project implementation, both 
cumulatively and for the period covered by said report, and 
explain 
variances between the actual and previously forecast 
implementation targets; 
and 
(iii)
set forth the status of procurement under the Project and 
expenditures 
under contracts financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, 
as at the 
end of the period covered by said report.
(b)
Upon completion of the action plan referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section, BOG shall prepare in accordance with guidelines acceptable to the 
Association, and furnish to the Association, not later than 45 days after the end of 
each calendar quarter, a Project Management Report for such period.
ARTICLE IV
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 4.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect on the date upon 
which the Development Credit Agreement becomes effective.
Page  4
Section 4.02. (a) This Agreement and all obligations of the Association and of 
BOG thereunder shall terminate on the earlier of the following two dates:
(i)
the date on which the Development Credit Agreement shall terminate 
in 
accordance with its terms; or
(ii)
the date 20 years after the date of this Agreement.
(b)
If the Development Credit Agreement terminates in accordance with its 
terms before the date specified in paragraph (a) (ii) of this Section, the Association 
shall promptly notify BOG of this event.
Section 4.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall continue in full force 
and effect notwithstanding any cancellation or suspension under the General 
Conditions.
ARTICLE V
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 5.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to be given or made 
under this Agreement and any agreement between the parties contemplated by this 
Agreement shall be in writing. Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been 
duly given or made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram, cable, 
telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required or permitted to be given or 
made at such party’s address hereinafter specified or at such other address as such 
party shall have designated by notice to the party giving such notice or making such 
request.  The addresses so specified are:
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address: 
Telex:
   INDEVAS
248423 (MCI) or
   Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI)
For BOG:
Bank of Ghana
P. O. Box 2674
Accra
Ghana
Cable address:
Telex:
   GHANA BANK
2541 GHANABANK GH
   Accra
2052
Section 5.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken, and any document 
required or permitted to be executed, under this Agreement on behalf of BOG, or by BOG 
on behalf of the Borrower under the Development Credit Agreement, may be taken or 
executed by the Governor of BOG or such other person or persons as the Governor of BOG 
shall designate in writing, and BOG shall furnish to the Association sufficient 
evidence of the authority and the authenticated specimen signature of each such 
person.
Section 5.03. This Agreement may be executed in several counterparts, each of 
which shall be an original, and all collectively but one instrument.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
Page  5
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
Accra, Ghana, as of the day and year first above written.
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ Peter C. Harrold
Acting Regional Vice President
Africa
BANK OF GHANA
By /s/ Paul Acquah
Authorized Representative
SCHEDULE 1
Implementation Program
1.
(a)
BOG shall prepare and furnish to the Association a Project Implementation 
Manual in form and substance satisfactory to the Association setting out details of 
all procedures, guidelines, timetables and criteria required for the Project.
(b)
BOG shall carry out the Project in accordance with the Project Implementation 
Manual and, except as the Association shall otherwise agree, BOG shall not amend or 
waive any provision of the Project Implementation Manual if, in the opinion of the 
Association, such amendment or waiver may materially and adversely affect the carrying 
out of the Project or the achievement of the objectives thereof.
2.
BOG shall:
(a)
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and 
evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with the indicators set forth in Schedule 
3 to this Agreement: (i) the carrying out by BOG of the Project, and; (ii) the 
achievement of the objectives thereof;
(b)
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Association, and 
furnish to the Association, on or about March 31 and September 30 of each year, a 
report integrating the results of the monitoring and evaluation activities performed 
pursuant to subparagraph (a) of this paragraph, on: (i) the progress achieved in the 
carrying out by BOG of the Project , during the period preceding the date of said 
report and setting out the measures recommended to ensure the efficient carrying out 
of the Project; and (ii) the achievement of the objectives thereof during the period 
following such date; and
(c)
review with the Association by May 31 and November 30 of each year, or 
such later date as the Association shall request, the report referred to in 
subparagraph (b) of this paragraph, and, thereafter, take all measures required to 
ensure the efficient completion of the Project and the achievement of the objectives 
thereof, based on the conclusions and recommendations of the said report and the 
Association’s views on the matter.
3.
(a)
BOG shall, no later than December 31, 2003, carry out jointly with the 
Borrower and the Association, a Mid-term Review of the progress made in carrying out 
the Project. The Mid-term Review shall include: (i) the progress made in meeting the 
objectives of the Project; and (ii) an assessment of the overall performance of the 
carrying out by BOG of the Project.
Page  6
(b)
BOG shall carry out, no later than one month after the completion of the 
Mid-term Review, the recommendations of the Mid-term Review as agreed with the 
Association and set out in an action plan for the Project satisfactory to the 
Association.
4.
BOG shall: (i) maintain BSD and RFID in a form and with functions, staffing and 
resources satisfactory to the Association; and (ii) second to RFID the following 
personnel with qualifications and experience satisfactory to the Association, namely 
(A) a Project Coordinator; (B) a Procurement Management Specialist; and (C) a 
Financial Management Specialist.
SCHEDULE 2
Procurement and Consultants’ Services
Section I.
Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:
General
Goods shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Section I of the 
"Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Bank in 
January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996, September 1997 and January 1999 
(the Guidelines) and the following provisions of this Section.
Part B:
International Competitive Bidding
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods shall be procured 
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of the 
Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto.
2.
The following provisions shall apply to goods to be procured under contracts 
awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Part B.
(a)
Grouping of contracts
To the extent practicable, contracts for goods shall be grouped in bid packages 
estimated to cost $100,000 equivalent or more each.
(b)
Preference for domestically manufactured goods
The provisions of paragraphs 2.54 and 2.55 of the Guidelines and Appendix 2 
thereto shall apply to goods manufactured in the territory of the Borrower.
Part C:
Other Procurement Procedures
1.
National Competitive Bidding
(a)
Goods estimated to cost less than $100,000 but more than $30,000 
equivalent per contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $250,000 equivalent, 
may be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the Guidelines.
(b)
Works estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more per contract 
may be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the Guidelines.
2.
International or National Shopping
Goods estimated to cost less than $30,000 equivalent per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $250,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts 
awarded on the basis of international or national shopping procedures in accordance 
with the provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines.
3.
Procurement from UN Agencies
Vehicles estimated to cost an aggregate amount not exceeding $200,000 equivalent 
may be procured from IAPSO in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 3.9 of the 
Guidelines.
Page  7
4.
Procurement of Small Works
Works estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $460,000 equivalent, may be procured under lump-sum, 
fixed-price contracts awarded on the basis of quotations obtained from three (3) 
qualified domestic contractors in response to a written invitation. The invitation 
shall include a detailed description of the works, including basic specifications, the 
required completion date, a basic form of agreement acceptable to the Association, and 
relevant drawings, where applicable. The award shall be made to the contractor who 
offers the lowest price quotation for the required work, and who has the experience 
and resources to complete the contract successfully.
Part D:
Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
1.
Procurement Planning
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to prequalify for bidding or to bid for 
contracts, the proposed procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to the 
Association for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines. Procurement of all goods and works shall 
be undertaken in accordance with such procurement plan as shall have been approved by 
the Association, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
With respect to: (i) each contract for goods or works, estimated to cost the 
equivalent of $100,000 or more, to be procured in accordance with the international or 
national competitive bidding procedures required under paragraph 1 of Part B and 
paragraph 4 of Part C of Section I of this Schedule; and (ii) each of the first two 
contracts estimated to cost the equivalent of less than $100,000 to be procured under 
paragraph 1 of the said Parts B and C of the said Section I, the procedures set forth 
in paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
Section II.
Employment of Consultants
Part A:
General
1.
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of the 
Introduction and Section IV of the "Guidelines: Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers" published by the Bank in January 1997 and January 
1999 (the Consultant Guidelines) and the following provisions of this Section II.
Part B:
Quality- and Cost-Based Selection
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, consultants’ services 
shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section 
II of the Consultant Guidelines, paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 
thereto, and the provisions of paragraphs 3.13 through 3.18 thereof applicable to 
quality- and cost-based selection of consultants.
2.
The following provisions shall apply to consultants’ services to be procured 
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of the preceding paragraph. 
The short list of consultants for services estimated to cost less than $100,000 
equivalent per contract, may comprise entirely national consultants in accordance with 
the provisions of paragraph 2.7 of the Consultant Guidelines.
Part C:
Other Procedures for the Selection of Consultants
1.
Least-cost Selection
Audit services required for the Project may be procured under contracts awarded 
in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.6 of the Consultant 
Guidelines.
2.
Selection Based on Consultants’ Qualifications
Services estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent per contract may be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 
and 3.7 of the Consultant Guidelines.
3.
Selection of Individual Consultants
Page  8
Services for specific studies and training may be procured under contracts 
awarded in accordance with Part V of the Consultant Guidelines.
Part D:
Review by the Association of the Selection of Consultants
1.
Selection Planning
Prior to the issuance to consultants of any requests for proposals, the proposed 
plan for the selection of consultants under the Project shall be furnished to the 
Association for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines. Selection of all consultants’ 
services shall be undertaken in accordance with such selection plan as shall have been 
approved by the Association, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
(a)
With respect to each contract for the employment of: (i) consulting firms 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more; and (ii) individual consultants 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $20,000 or more, the procedures set forth in 
paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the third subparagraph of paragraph 2 (a)) and 5 of 
Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply.
(b)
With respect to each contract for the employment of individual 
consultants estimated to cost the equivalent of less than $20,000, the qualifications, 
experience, terms of reference and terms of employment of the consultants shall be 
furnished to the Association for its prior review and approval. The contract shall be 
awarded only after the said approval shall have been given.
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall 
apply.
SCHEDULE 3
Performance Indicators
BOG shall carry out the Project in accordance with the performance indicators 
set forth below:
A.
Informal and Microfinance Sector
