Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 3374-GH
Development Credit Agreement
(Rural Financial Services  Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF GHANA
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated October 23, 2001
CREDIT NUMBER 3374-GH
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated October 23, 2001, between REPUBLIC OF GHANA (the Borrower) and 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association).
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and 
priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested the 
Association to assist in the financing of the Project;
(B)
the Project will be carried out by the Bank of Ghana (BOG) with the 
Borrower’s assistance and, as part of such assistance, the Borrower will make 
available to BOG the proceeds of the Credit as provided in this Agreement;
(C)
the Borrower intends to contract from the African Development Bank (the 
AfDB) a loan (the AfDB Loan) in an amount equivalent to $5,000,000 to assist in 
financing the Project on the terms and conditions set forth in an agreement (the AfDB 
Loan Agreement) to be entered into between the Borrower and AfDB;
(D)
the Borrower intends to contract from the International Fund for 
Agricultural Development (IFAD) a loan (the IFAD Loan) in an amount equivalent to 
$10,000,000 to assist in financing the Project on the terms and conditions set forth 
in an agreement (the IFAD Loan Agreement) to be entered into between the Borrower and 
IFAD; and
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, to 
extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement and in the Project Agreement of even date herewith between the Association 
Page  2
and BOG;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit 
Agreements" of the Association, dated October 6, 1999 (the General Conditions) 
constitute an integral part of this Agreement.
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings:
(a)
"Project Agreement" means the agreement between the Association and BOG 
of even date herewith, as the same may be amended from time to time, and such term 
includes all schedules and agreements supplemental to the Project Agreement;
(b)
"Subsidiary Administration Agreement" means the agreement to be entered 
into between the Borrower and BOG pursuant to Section 3.01 (b) of this Agreement, as 
the same may be amended from time to time, and such term includes all schedules 
supplemental to the Subsidiary Administration Agreement;
(c)
"Special Account" means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of 
this Agreement;
(d)
"Apex Bank" means the bank established for the purpose of building 
capacity in the rural and community banks and operating pursuant to the Borrower’s 
Banking Law of 1989 (PNDCL 225), as amended to the date of this Agreement;
(e)
"BOG" means the Bank of Ghana established and operating pursuant to the 
Bank of Ghana Law 1992 (PNDCL 291);
(f)
"Rural Banks" means rural banks (including community banks) established 
and operating pursuant to the Borrower’s Banking Law;
(g)
"Association of Rural Banks" means the association of rural banks;
(h)
"Banking Law" means the Borrower’s Banking Law (PNDCL 225), as amended to 
the date of this Agreement;
(i)
"Certified Agencies" means agencies of the rural and community banks 
certified by the BOG for purposes of the Project;
(j)
"MOF" means the Borrower’s Ministry of Finance;
(k)
"Agricultural Development Bank" means the Agricultural Development Bank 
established and operating under the Agricultural Development Bank Act, 1965 (Act 286) 
and The Agricultural Development Bank (Amendment) Act, 1970 (Act 352) as amended to 
the date of this Agreement;
(l)
"NGO" means a non-governmental organization;
(m)
"Project Account" means the account to be opened pursuant to Section 3.03 
of this Agreement;
(n)
"Initial Deposit" means the initial amount to be paid into the Project 
Account pursuant to Section 3.03 (ii) of this Agreement; and
Page  3
(o)
"RFID" means the Rural Finance Inspection Department of BOG;
(p)
"BSD" means the Banking Supervision Department of BOG;
(q)
"Project Coordinator" means the Project Coordinator referred to in 
paragraph 4 (ii) (A) of Schedule 1 to the Project Agreement;
(r)
"Procurement Management Specialist" means the Procurement Management 
Specialist referred to in paragraph 4 (ii) (B) of Schedule 1 to the Project Agreement; 
(s)
"Financial Management Specialist" means the Financial Management 
Specialist referred to in paragraph 4 (ii) (C) of Schedule 1 to the Project Agreement;
(t)
"Project Implementation Manual" means the Project Implementation Manual 
referred to in paragraph 1 (a) of Schedule 1 to the Project Agreement; 
(u)
"Mid-term Review" means the Mid-term Review referred to in paragraph 3 
(a) of Schedule 1 to the Project Agreement; and
(v)
"IAPSO" means the Inter-Agency Procurement Services Office of the United 
Nations.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Development Credit Agreement, an amount in 
various currencies equivalent to three million nine hundred thousand Special Drawing 
Rights (SDR 3,900,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the Credit 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for 
expenditures made (or, if the Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of 
the reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed 
out of the proceeds of the Credit.
(b)
The Borrower may, for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain in 
dollars a special deposit account in the Bank of Ghana on terms and conditions 
satisfactory to the Association. Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special 
Account shall be made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 3 to this 
Agreement.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 2006, or such later date as 
the Association shall establish. The Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of 
such later date.
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a commitment charge 
on the principal amount of the Credit not withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be 
set by the Association as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of 
one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum.
(b)
The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date sixty days after 
the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to the respective dates on which amounts 
shall be withdrawn by the Borrower from the Credit Account or cancelled; and (ii) at 
the rate set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date and at such 
other rates as may be set from time to time thereafter pursuant to paragraph (a) 
above. The rate set as of June 30 in each year shall be applied from the next date in 
that year specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
(c)
The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as the 
Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of any kind imposed 
by, or in the territory of, the Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this 
Page  4
Agreement for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such other 
eligible currency or currencies as may from time to time be designated or selected 
pursuant to the provisions of that Section.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge at the 
rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of 
the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be payable 
semiannually on May 1 and November 1 in each year.
Section 2.07. (a) Subject to paragraphs (b) and (c) below, the Borrower shall 
repay the principal amount of the Credit in semi-annual installments payable on each 
May 1 and November 1 commencing November 1, 2010 and ending May 1, 2040. Each 
installment to and including the installment payable on May 1, 2020 shall be one 
percent (1%) of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter shall be two 
percent (2%) of such principal amount.
(b)
Whenever: (i) the Borrower’s per capita gross national product (GNP), as 
determined by the Association, shall have exceeded for three consecutive years  the 
level established annually by the Association for determining eligibility to access 
the Association's resources; and (ii) the Bank shall consider the Borrower 
creditworthy for Bank lending, the Association may, subsequent to the review and 
approval thereof by the Executive Directors of the Association and after due 
consideration by them of the development of the Borrower's economy, modify the 
repayment of installments under paragraph (a) above by: (A) requiring the Borrower to 
repay twice the amount of each such installment not yet due until the principal amount 
of the Credit shall have been repaid; and (B) requiring the Borrower to commence 
repayment of the principal amount of the Credit as of the first semiannual payment 
date referred to in paragraph (a) above falling six months or more after the date on 
which the Association notifies the Borrower that the events set out in this paragraph 
(b) have occurred, provided, however, that there shall be a grace period of a minimum 
of five years on such repayment of principal.
(c)
If so requested by the Borrower, the Association may revise the 
modification referred to in paragraph (b) above to include, in lieu of some or all of 
the increase in the amounts of such installments, the payment of interest at an annual 
rate agreed with the Association on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and 
outstanding from time to time, provided that, in the judgment of the Association, such 
revision shall not change the grant element obtained under the above-mentioned 
repayment modification.
(d)
If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant to paragraph (b) 
above, the Association determines that the Borrower's economic condition has 
deteriorated significantly, the Association may, if so requested by the Borrower, 
further modify the terms of repayment to conform to the schedule of installments as 
provided in paragraph (a) above.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is hereby specified 
for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions.
Section 2.09. BOG is designated as representative of the Borrower for the 
purposes of taking any action required or permitted to be taken under the provisions 
of Section 2.02 of this Agreement and Article V of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end, without any 
limitation or restriction upon any of its other obligations under the Development 
Credit Agreement, shall cause BOG to perform in accordance with the provisions of the 
Project Agreement all the obligations of BOG therein set forth, shall take and cause 
to be taken all action, including the provision of funds, facilities, services and 
other resources, necessary or appropriate to enable BOG to perform such obligations, 
Page  5
and shall not take or permit to be taken any action which would prevent or interfere 
with such performance.
(b)
The Borrower shall make the proceeds of the Credit available to BOG under 
a subsidiary administration agreement (the Subsidiary Administration Agreement) to be 
entered into between the Borrower and BOG, under terms and conditions which shall have 
been approved by the Association.
(c)
The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the Subsidiary 
Administration Agreement in such manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower 
and the Association and to accomplish the purposes of the Credit, and except as the 
Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not assign, amend, abrogate or 
waive the Subsidiary Administration Agreement or any provision thereof.
Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, procurement of 
the goods, works and consultants’ services required for the Project and to be financed 
out of the proceeds of the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 2 to 
the Project Agreement.
Section 3.03 The Borrower shall: (i) establish and thereafter maintain, until 
completion of the Project, a Project Account in the Bank of Ghana, into which the 
Borrower shall deposit its counterpart contributions to the costs of the Project; (ii) 
pay into the Project Account an initial amount in cedis equivalent to $100,000 (the 
Initial Deposit); and (iii) thereafter during each following quarter deposit into the 
Project Account the amount required to cover the Borrower’s counterpart contribution 
for each such quarter, as determined by the Borrower and BOG.
Section 3.04. The Borrower and the Association hereby agree that the obligations 
set forth in Sections 9.03, 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07 and 9.08 of the General Conditions 
(relating to insurance, use of goods and services, plans and schedules, records and 
reports, maintenance and land acquisition, respectively) in respect of the Project 
shall be carried out by BOG pursuant to Section 2.03 of the Project Agreement.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from 
the Credit Account were made on the basis of Project Management Reports or statements 
of expenditure, the Borrower shall:
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained in accordance with sound 
accounting 
practices, records and separate accounts reflecting such 
expenditures;
(ii)
ensure that all records (contracts, orders, invoices, bills, 
receipts 
and other documents) evidencing such expenditures are 
retained until 
at least one year after the Association has received 
the audit report 
for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from 
the Credit 
Account was made; and
(iii)
enable the Association's representatives to examine such records.
(b)
The Borrower shall:
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) (i) of 
this 
Section and those for the Special Account for each fiscal year 
audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing principles 
consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the 
Association;
(ii)
furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any case 
not 
later than six months after the end of each such year the report 
of 
such audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such detail as 
the 
Association shall have reasonably requested, including a separate 
Page  6
opinion by said auditors as to whether the Project Management Reports 
or statements of expenditure submitted during such fiscal year, 
together with the procedures and internal controls involved in their 
preparation, can be relied upon to support the related withdrawals; 
and
(iii)
furnish to the Association such other information concerning said 
records and accounts and the audit thereof as the Association shall 
from time to time reasonably request.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Association
Section 5.01. (a) Pursuant to Section 6.02 (l) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified: 
(a)
BOG shall have failed to perform any of its obligations under the Project 
Agreement or the Subsidiary Administration Agreement;
(b)
as a result of events which have occurred after the date of the 
Development Credit Agreement, an extraordinary situation shall have arisen which shall 
make it improbable that BOG will be able to perform its obligations under the Project 
Agreement or the Subsidiary Administration Agreement; and
(c)
(i)
Subject to subparagraph (ii) of this paragraph:
(A)
the right of the Borrower to withdraw the proceeds of any 
grant 
or loan made to the Borrower for the financing of the 
Project 
(including the AfDB Loan and the IFAD Loan) shall 
have been 
suspended, canceled or terminated in whole or in 
part, pursuant 
to the terms of the agreement providing 
therefor, or
(B)
any such loan shall have become due and payable prior to the 
agreed maturity thereof.
(ii)
Subparagraph (i) of this paragraph shall not apply if the Borrower 
establishes to the satisfaction of the Association that: (A) such 
suspension, cancellation, termination or prematuring is not caused by 
the failure of the Borrower to perform any of its obligations under 
such agreement; and (B) adequate funds for the Project are available 
to the Borrower from other sources on terms and conditions consistent 
with the obligations of the Borrower under this Agreement.
Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (h) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified:
(a)
the event specified in paragraph (a) of Section 5.01 of this Agreement 
shall occur and shall continue for a period of sixty days after notice thereof shall 
have been given by the Association to the Borrower; and
(b)
the event specified in paragraph (c) (i) (B) of Section 5.01 of this 
Agreement shall occur, subject to the proviso of paragraph (c) (ii) of that Section.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to the 
effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 
(b) of the General Conditions:
Page  7
(a)
the Subsidiary Administration Agreement has been executed on behalf of 
the Borrower and BOG;
(b)
the following personnel have been transferred by BOG to RFID in 
accordance with paragraph 4 (ii) of Schedule 1 to the Project Agreement, namely: (i) a 
Project Coordinator; (ii) a Procurement Management Specialist; and (iii) a Financial 
Management Specialist;
(c)
the Borrower has paid into the Project Account the Initial Deposit;
(d)
the Borrower has established the financial management system acceptable 
to the Association;
(e)
The Borrower and BOG have submitted to the Association the Project 
Implementation Manual in form and substance satisfactory to the Association; 
(f)
the Borrower has appointed an auditor referred to in Section 4.02 of this 
Agreement in accordance with Section II of Schedule2 to the Project Agreement; and 
(g)
all conditions precedent to the effectiveness of the IFAD Loan Agreement, 
other than those related to the effectiveness of this Agreement, have been fulfilled.
Section 6.02. The following are specified as additional matters, within the 
meaning of Section 12.02 (b) of the General Conditions, to be included in the opinion 
or opinions to be furnished to the Association:
(a)
that the Project Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified by BOG, 
and is legally binding upon BOG in accordance with its terms; and
(b)
that the Subsidiary Administration Agreement has been duly authorized or 
ratified by the Borrower and BOG and is legally binding upon the Borrower and BOG in 
accordance with its terms.
Section 6.03. The date ninety days (90) days after the date of this Agreement is 
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. Except as provided in Section 2.09 of this Agreement, the Minister 
of the Borrower at the time responsible for finance is designated as representative of 
the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Minister of Finance
Ministry of finance
P. O. Box M40
Accra, Ghana
Cable address: 
Telex:
Facsimile:
ECONOMICON
2205 MIFAEPGH
233-21-66709
233-21-663854
233-21-664170
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
Page  8
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
Facsimile
INDEVAS
248423 (MCI) or
(202) 477-6391
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
Accra, Ghana, as of the day and year first above written.
REPUBLIC OF GHANA
By /s/ Yaw Osafo-Maafo
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ Peter C. Harrold
Acting Regional Vice President
Africa
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1. 
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the amounts of the Credit to each Category 
and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated
   % of
(Expressed in Expenditures
Category
SDR Equivalent)
to be Financed
(1)
Works
    290,000
35%
(2)
Goods and vehicles  1,100,000
35%
(3)
Consultants’
    900,000
30%
services and audit
(4)
Training and
    640,000
35%
studies
(5)
Operating costs
    530,000
35%
(6)
Unallocated
    440,000
TOTAL
  3,900,000
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of any 
country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of any country other than that of the Borrower;
(b)
the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of the 
Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower; and
Page  9
(c)
the term "Operating costs" means the incremental operating costs arising 
under the Project on account of maintenance of vehicles, fuel, equipment, office 
supplies, utilities, consumables, travel per diems and allowances, travel and 
accommodation but excluding salaries of the Borrower’s civil servants.
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement 
except that withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not exceeding the equivalent of 
$100,000 may be made in respect of categories 1, 2, 3, and 5 set forth in the table in 
paragraph 1 of this Schedule on account of payments made for expenditures before that 
date but after May 1, 2000.
4.
The Association may require withdrawals from the Credit Account to be made on 
the basis of statements of expenditure for: (a) goods under contracts not exceeding 
$100,000 equivalent each; (b) consultants’ services under contracts not exceeding: (i) 
$100,000 each for consulting firms; (ii) $50,000 each for individual consultants; (c) 
training; and (d) Operating Costs, all under such terms and conditions as the 
Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower.
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objectives of the Project are to promote growth and reduce rural poverty by: 
(i) strengthening the network of Rural Banks; (ii) fostering strong linkages between 
the Rural Banks and the informal financial sector institutions; and (iii) 
strengthening the institutional framework for improved oversight and policy 
formulation in the rural banking sector.
The Project consists of the following Parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Borrower and the Association may agree upon from time to time to 
achieve such objectives:
Part A:
Capacity Building: Informal Financial Sector
1.
The provision of technical advisory services for the strengthening of 
institutions operating in the informal financial sector including:
(i)
the strengthening of the existing linkages between the informal 
financial sector institutions;
(ii)
the identification, development and testing of methods, 
procedures, 
and processes required for the effective integration of the 
rural financial 
system;
(iii)
the carrying out of pilot activities to (A) facilitate the 
generation 
of innovative approaches to rural banking, including the 
handling of 
risks, the building and improvement of group dynamics, the 
packaging 
of financial services (including the appropriate packaging 
of such 
services for entities such as women’s groups, and other 
informal 
micro-finance entities and (B) improve the sharing, 
and availability, 
of information between the informal and formal 
financial sector 
institutions; and
(iv)
the provision of support for the establishment by the Rural Banks 
of 
focal points for dealing, through formal sector activities, with 
their 
informal sector clients.
2.
The carrying out, through the provision of technical advisory services, training 
and the acquisition of equipment, of improvements in the rural and micro-financial 
sector including:
(i)
the organization and training of the informal financial sector 
Page  10
institutions; 
(ii)
the sharing of best practices between the formal and informal 
financial sector institutions;
(iii)
the facilitation of the participation and input of the NGOs, as 
partners, to the improvement of the rural financial sector; and
(iv)
the removal of any administrative and/or regulatory impediments to 
achieving the effective integration of the financial operations in 
the 
rural financial sector.
Part B:
Capacity Building: Rural Banks
1.
Strengthening of the capacity of the Rural Banks including:
(i)
the development and application of policies and procedures that 
will 
ensure greater transparency in the business and operations of the 
Rural Banks;
(ii)
strengthening the capacity of individual Rural Banks to carry out 
rural project appraisal through the provision of training and 
technical advisory services;
(iii)
the provision of logistical support to the Rural Banks;
(iv)
the acquisition for the Rural Banks of simple equipment (including 
communication equipment) to be utilized in the strengthening of 
the 
institutional and operational capabilities of the Rural Banks 
(including internal controls in the Rural Banks);
(v)
the provision of, and support for, new information technologies 
for 
the Rural Banks;
(vi)
the provision of training for staff of the Rural Banks, 
particularly 
in the operation and maintenance of equipment of the Rural 
Banks;
(vii)
the development for the Rural Banks of an improved reporting 
system 
(including training for Rural Bank staff in the operation of 
said 
system) that will ensure timely reporting to the Apex Bank and BOG 
and 
the effective monitoring of banking activities;
(viii)the improvement of the existing linkages (A) between individual 
Rural 
Banks, and (B) between the Rural Banks and their Certified 
Agencies;
(ix)
the development of more efficient intrabank services, including 
the 
improvement of cash movements services;
(x)
the establishment of well-defined criteria for the setting up of 
mobilization centers linked to the performance of the Rural Banks; 
and
(xi)
the updating of the Rural Banks’ operational procedures and 
policies.
2.
(a)
The development of an overall staff development plan for all categories 
of the staff (including senior and managerial staff) of the Rural Banks.
(b)
The carrying out of a review of the policies and procedures of the Rural 
Banks to eliminate any that are likely to impede the efficient carrying out of the 
Page  11
business and operations of the Rural Banks.
3.
Assisting BOG in the carrying out and monitoring of the Project through the 
provision of training, logistics and technical advisory services.
Part C:
Institutional Building: Apex Bank
1.
Strengthening the institutional capacity of the Apex Bank utilizing long and 
short term technical advisory services, including:
(i)
the carrying out of start-up activities of the Apex Bank;
(ii)
the carrying out of consultation workshops, and the provision of 
training for key staff of the Apex Bank, including training 
attachments to suitable overseas banking institutions;
(iii)
the setting up, and definition of the functions, of key units of 
the 
Apex Bank, including the units to be responsible for: (A) check 
clearance; (B) treasury operations; (C) banking; (D) supervision 
and 
monitoring; (E) information services; (F) human resources; and (G) 
the 
rural deposit insurance scheme;
(iv)
the provision to the Apex Bank of (A) a headquarters office and 
Regional offices, (B) equipment and vehicles, and (C) other 
facilities 
required for the purposes of logistics, communications and 
start-up activities;
(v)
the development of procedures and policies of the Apex Bank in 
accordance with the guidelines and policies of BOG; and
(vi)
the development for the Apex Bank of key procedures and processes 
to 
be used in the effective carrying out of its business and 
operations.
Part D:
Institutional Support
1.
Provision of support to BOG, including:
(i)
the strengthening of (A) BOG’s Banking Supervision Department and 
(B) 
BOG’s Rural Finance Inspection Department through the provision of 
technical advisory services; and
(ii)
upgrading of: (A) the staff skills of BOG personnel to enable said 
staff to work more effectively with the Rural Banks and the Apex 
Bank; 
and (B) BOG’s technologies including the restructuring of its 
computer 
database and training of BOG staff in the receiving and 
reviewing of 
electronic reports from the Rural Banks.
2.
Provision of support to MOF, including the strengthening of the Microfinance 
Unit of MOF.
3.
Overall oversight of Project implementation, including oversight of financial 
management comprising:
(i)
the preparation of annual reports for the Project;
(ii)
the carrying out of independent audits of the Project;
(iii)
monitoring and evaluation of the Project; and
(iv)
the carrying out of a study to assess the future role of the 
Page  12
Agricultural Development Bank.
* * *
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 2006.
SCHEDULE 3
Special Account
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the terms "eligible Categories" means Categories (1) through (5) set 
forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(b)
the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Credit allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories 
in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
(c)
the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equivalent to $500,000 
to be withdrawn from the Credit Account and deposited into the Special Account 
pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule, provided, however, that unless the 
Association shall otherwise agree, the Authorized Allocation shall be limited to an 
amount equivalent to $250,000 until the aggregate amount of withdrawals from the 
Credit Account plus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered 
into by the Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions shall be 
equal to or exceed the equivalent of SDR 1,100,000.
2.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible 
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.
After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special 
Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Association a request or requests for deposit into the Special Account of an 
amount or amounts which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized 
Allocation. On the basis of such request or requests, the Association shall, on behalf 
of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit into the Special Account 
such amount or amounts as the Borrower shall have requested.
(b)
(i)
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall 
furnish 
to the Association requests for deposits into the Special 
Account at 
such intervals as the Association shall specify.
(ii)
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the Association the documents and other evidence 
required 
pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment or 
payments 
in respect of which replenishment is requested. On the basis 
of each 
such request, the Association shall, on behalf of the 
Borrower, 
withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit into the 
Special Account 
such amount as the Borrower shall have requested and 
as shall have 
been shown by said documents and other evidence to 
have been paid out 
of the Special Account for eligible expenditures.
All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Association from the Credit Account under 
the respective eligible Categories, and in the respective equivalent amounts, as shall 
have been justified by said documents and other evidence.
4.
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the Borrower 
shall, at such time as the Association shall reasonably request, furnish to the 
Association such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made 
exclusively for eligible expenditures.
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Association 
shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account:
Page  13
(a)
if, at any time, the Association shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Credit Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph 
(a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement;
(b)
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Association, within 
the period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of the 
audit reports required to be furnished to the Association pursuant to said Section in 
respect of the audit of the records and accounts for the Special Account;
(c)
if, at any time, the Association shall have notified the Borrower of its 
intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals 
from the Credit Account pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the General 
Conditions; or 
(d)
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the eligible 
Categories, minus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into 
by the Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to 
the Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized 
Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of 
the Credit allocated to the eligible Categories shall follow such procedures as the 
Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be 
made only after and to the extent that the Association shall have been satisfied that 
all such amounts remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such 
notice will be utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.
(a)
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any payment out 
of the Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible 
pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence 
furnished to the Association, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the 
Association: (A) provide such additional evidence as the Association may request; or 
(B) deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Association shall so request, refund 
to the Association) an amount equal to the amount of such payment or the portion 
thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the Association shall otherwise agree, no 
further deposit by the Association into the Special Account shall be made until the 
Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may 
be.
(b)
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any amount 
outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for 
eligible expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, 
refund to the Association such outstanding amount.
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund to the 
Association all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.
(d)
Refunds to the Association made pursuant to paragraph 6 (a), (b) and (c) 
of this Schedule shall be credited to the Credit Account for subsequent withdrawal or 
for cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, 
including the General Conditions.
