                                  Document of
                                The World Bank




                                                     Report No: ICR00001023




           IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT
                       (COFN-04430 IDA-33740 IDA-3374A)




                                    ON A

                                 IDA CREDIT

                      IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR3.9 MILLION
                        (US$5.13 MILLION EQUIVALENT)

                                     AND

                                  IFAD LOAN

                      IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR8.2 MILLION
                       (US$11.01 MILLION EQUIVALENT)

                                    TO THE

                             REPUBLIC OF GHANA

                                    FOR A

                    RURAL FINANCIAL SERVICES PROJECT

                                MARCH 30, 2009


Agriculture and Rural Development
Sustainable Development Department
Country Department 1, Ghana
Africa Region

                       CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                  (Exchange Rate Effective: March 5, 2009)

                      Currency Unit = New Ghana Cedi
                               1.00 = US$ 0.7170
                              US$ 1.00 = 1.3947

                               FISCAL YEAR
                           January 1 ­ December 31

                   ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

ADB     Agricultural Development Bank
AfDB    African Development Bank
AFSAP   Agricultural Finance Strategy and Action Plan
ARB     Association of rural and community banks
BoG     Bank of Ghana
BSD     Banking Supervision Department
CAS     Country Assistance Strategy
CBO     Community-based organization
CGAP    Consultative Group to Assist the Poor
COSOP   Country Strategic Opportunities Paper
CU      Credit union
Danida  Danish development agency
DO      Development Objective
FA      Facilitating Agency
FM      Financial management
FNGO    Financial non-governmental organization
FSS     Financial self-sufficiency
GCC     Ghana Cooperative Council
GCSCA   Ghana Cooperative Susu Collectors Association
GCUA    Ghana Credit Union Association
GDP     Gross Domestic Product
GHAMFIN Ghana Microfinance Institutions Network
GHAMP   Ghana Microfinance Policy
GLSS    Ghana Living Standards Survey
GoG     Government of Ghana
GTZ     German technical cooperation agency
ICT     Information and communication technology
IDA     International Development Agency
IFAD    International Fund for Agricultural Development
ISR     Implementation Status and Results Report
M&E     Monitoring and evaluation
MASLOC  Microfinance and Small Loans Center

MCA    Millennium Challenge Account
MCC    Millennium Challenge Corporation
MIS    Management information systems
MIX    Microfinance Information Data Exchange
MFI    Microfinance institution
MFU    Microfinance Unit
MoFEP  Ministry of Finance and Economic Planning
MPAT   Microfinance Poverty Assessment Tool
MSI    Microfinance Support Initiative
MTR    Mid-term review
NAMFIC National Microfinance Center
NBFI   Non-Bank Financial Institutions
NGO    Non-governmental organization
OSS    Operating self-sufficiency
PAD    Project appraisal document
RCB    rural and community bank
PDO    Project development objective
PMU    Project management unit
PSC    Project steering committee
RAFiP  Rural and Agricultural Finance Program
RFID   Rural Finance Inspection Department
RFP    Rural Finance Project
RFSP   Rural Financial Services Project
S&Ls   Savings and loans companies
SHG    Self help group
SME    Small and medium-sized enterprise




                        Vice President: Obiageli Katryn Ezekwesili
                      Country Director: Ishac Diwan
                      Sector Manager: Karen Mcconnell Brooks
                  Project Team Leader: Christopher Paul Jackson
                     ICR Team Leader: Christopher Paul Jackson

                                                GHANA
                            Rural Financial Services project




                                             CONTENTS




Data Sheet
   A. Basic Information
   B. Key Dates
   C. Ratings Summary
   D. Sector and Theme Codes
   E. Bank Staff
   F. Results Framework Analysis
   G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs
   H. Restructuring
   I. Disbursement Graph

 1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design............................................... 1
 2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes .............................................. 5
 3. Assessment of Outcomes.......................................................................................... 10
 4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome......................................................... 15
 5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance ..................................................... 16
 6. Lessons Learned ....................................................................................................... 18
 7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners .......... 19
 Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing.......................................................................... 20
 Annex 2. Outputs by Component ................................................................................. 21
 Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis................................................................. 24
 Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes ............ 25
 Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results........................................................................... 27
 Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results................................................... 33
 Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR..................... 34
 Annex 8. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders....................... 39
 Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents ...................................................................... 40
 MAP

A. Basic Information

                                                                       RURAL FINANCIAL
Country:                Ghana                   Project Name:
                                                                       SERVICES PROJECT
                                                                       COFN-04430,IDA-
Project ID:             P069465                 L/C/TF Number(s):
                                                                       33740,IDA-3374A
ICR Date:               03/30/2009              ICR Type:              Core ICR
                                                                       GOVERNMENT OF
Lending Instrument:     FIL                     Borrower:
                                                                       GHANA
Original Total
                        XDR 3.9M                Disbursed Amount:      XDR 3.9M
Commitment:
Environmental Category: F
Implementing Agencies:
Bank of Ghana
Cofinanciers and Other External Partners:
International Fund for Agricultural Development (IFAD)


B. Key Dates

     Process              Date             Process          Original Date    Revised / Actual
                                                                                  Date(s)
Concept Review:        10/21/1999     Effectiveness:                            12/04/2001
Appraisal:             03/20/2000     Restructuring(s):
Approval:              06/08/2000     Mid-term Review:      02/23/2005          02/23/2005
                                      Closing:              12/31/2006          12/31/2007


C. Ratings Summary
C.1 Performance Rating by ICR
Outcomes:                                       Satisfactory
Risk to Development Outcome:                    Moderate
Bank Performance:                               Moderately Satisfactory
Borrower Performance:                           Moderately Satisfactory


C.2 Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance (by ICR)
         Bank                   Ratings                Borrower                Ratings
Quality at Entry:       Moderately Satisfactory Government:            Moderately Satisfactory

Quality of Supervision: Satisfactory            Implementing
                                                Agency/Agencies:       Satisfactory

Overall Bank                                    Overall Borrower
Performance:            Moderately Satisfactory Performance:           Moderately Satisfactory




                                               i

C.3 Quality at Entry and Implementation Performance Indicators
    Implementation                              QAG Assessments
      Performance               Indicators           (if any)                Rating

Potential Problem Project Yes                  Quality at Entry
                                                                     None
at any time (Yes/No):                          (QEA):
Problem Project at any                         Quality of
                          No                                         None
time (Yes/No):                                 Supervision (QSA):
DO rating before
                          Satisfactory
Closing/Inactive status:


D. Sector and Theme Codes
                                                              Original          Actual
Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Banking                                                         64                64
Central government administration                                4                 4
Micro- and SME finance                                          32                32


Theme Code (Primary/Secondary)
Legal institutions for a market economy                       Secondary        Secondary
Rural markets                                                  Primary          Primary
Small and medium enterprise support                            Primary         Secondary


E. Bank Staff
         Positions                     At ICR                          At Approval
Vice President:           Obiageli Katryn Ezekwesili        Callisto E. Madavo
Country Director:         Ishac Diwan                       Peter C. Harrold
Sector Manager:           Karen Mcconnell Brooks            Jean-Paul Chausse
Project Team Leader:      Christopher Paul Jackson          Rudolph A. Polson
ICR Team Leader:          Christopher Paul Jackson
ICR Primary Author:       Christopher Paul Jackson



F. Results Framework Analysis

Project Development Objectives (from Project Appraisal Document)
RFSP seeks to strengthen rural financial institutions in order to deepen services and
enhance the efficiency of rural financial intermediation leading to accelerated growth and
poverty reduction. (The PAD includes two formulations of the PDO: a longer wording in
the text and this, shorter, formulation taken from Annex 1 of the PAD.)

  Key indicators at the PDO level were:


                                              ii

  #     Total annual savings mobilized by rural banks;
  #     Total number of clients of rural banks; and
  #     Total annual loans and advances of rural banks.

Revised Project Development Objectives (as approved by original approving authority)
The PDO was not revised.

(a) PDO Indicator(s)

                                           Original Target      Formally        Actual Value

   Indicator         Baseline Value          Values (from        Revised         Achieved at
                                              approval           Target         Completion or
                                             documents)          Values         Target Years
Indicator 1 :   20% annual increase in number of new clients (depositors and borrowers)
Value
quantitative or 1,268,641                 3,900,000                          3,260,779
Qualitative)
Date achieved 12/31/2001                  12/31/2007                         12/31/2007
Comments        The actual value implies an average annual increase in the number of clients of
(incl. %        17% per annum which is marginally below the target growth rate. Growth rates
achievement)    for borrowers and savers are 27% and 15% respectively.
Indicator 2 :   30% annual increase in deposits in rural banking system
Value
quantitative or 38.13 million new Ghana 300.00 million                       314.51 million new

Qualitative)    cedis                     new Ghana cedis                    Ghana cedis

Date achieved 12/31/2001                  12/31/2007                         06/30/2008
Comments
(incl. %        The actual value implies an average annual rate of increase of 40% per annum, in

achievement)    excess of the target.

Indicator 3 :   Annual loan advances in rural banking system 50% or more of annual deposits
Value
quantitative or 14.49 million new Ghana 200.00 million                       172.12 million new

Qualitative)    cedis                     new Ghana cedis                    Ghana cedis

Date achieved 12/31/2001                  12/31/2007                         12/31/2007
Comments
(incl. %        Loans from RCBs were equivalent to 59% of desposits, above the target of 50%.
achievement)

(b) Intermediate Outcome Indicator(s)

                                           Original Target      Formally        Actual Value

   Indicator         Baseline Value          Values (from                        Achieved at
                                              approval           Revised        Completion or
                                             documents)      Target Values      Target Years
Indicator 1 :   Enhanced capacity of increasing number of MFIs
Value                                                                        465 MFIs receieved
(quantitative   0                         500 MFIs trained                   training and 348
or Qualitative)                                                              received repeat



                                              iii

                                                                           training.
Date achieved 12/31/2000                  12/31/2007                       12/31/2007
Comments       465 MFIs received training from the project (93% of target) comprising 10,687
(incl. %       end users. 17 Good Practice manuals were deployed which have been used by
achievement)   other training providers.
Indicator 2 :  Improved capacity of network of RCBs
Value
(quantitative   48% RCBs rated            100% RCBs rated                  88% RCBs rated

or Qualitative)'satisfactory'             'satisfactory'                   'satisfactory'

Date achieved 06/30/2000                  12/31/2007                       12/31/2007
Comments
(incl. %       At the end of the project only 15 of 127 (12%) RCBs were rated unsatisfactory.

achievement)   Moreover, only 80% meet full capital adequacy ratio (CAR) requirements.


G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs

                                                                                 Actual
 No.     Date ISR
         Archived                DO                         IP              Disbursements
                                                                            (USD millions)
  1     12/18/2000           Satisfactory               Satisfactory                     0.00
  2     06/28/2001           Satisfactory               Satisfactory                     0.00
  3     12/18/2001           Satisfactory               Satisfactory                     0.00
  4     05/09/2002           Satisfactory               Satisfactory                     0.25
  5     11/27/2002           Satisfactory               Satisfactory                     0.33
  6     05/20/2003           Satisfactory               Satisfactory                     0.62
  7     07/09/2003           Satisfactory               Satisfactory                     0.71
  8     01/30/2004           Satisfactory               Satisfactory                     1.10
  9     06/18/2004           Satisfactory               Satisfactory                     1.49
  10    06/30/2004           Satisfactory               Satisfactory                     1.66
  11    12/15/2004           Satisfactory               Satisfactory                     2.39
  12    05/12/2005           Satisfactory               Satisfactory                     2.95
  13    12/03/2005           Satisfactory               Satisfactory                     4.00
  14    06/30/2006           Satisfactory               Satisfactory                     4.79
  15    01/04/2007           Satisfactory               Satisfactory                     5.42
  16    06/15/2007           Satisfactory               Satisfactory                     5.42
  17    12/20/2007           Satisfactory               Satisfactory                     5.55



H. Restructuring (if any)
Not Applicable




                                                iv

I. Disbursement Profile




                           v

1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design

1.1 Context at Appraisal

The Rural Financial Services Project (RFSP) was consistent with the Bank's Country
Assistance Strategy (CAS) of March 2000 which supported overall economic growth and
sustainable poverty reduction through macroeconomic stability, fostering an enabling
environment for broader private sector participation in economic development, and
ensuring broad-based socioeconomic development through decentralization of core
services. It was also consistent with the 1998 IFAD Country Strategic Opportunities
Paper (COSOP) which aim was to enhance food security and increase incomes of rural
poor households through improvements in small-scale farming and rural enterprises
including better access to financial services.

Rural financial institutions were perceived as primary vehicles for providing critically-
needed financial services to rural people including the poorer and more vulnerable groups.
By helping to better integrate the informal and formal financial sectors, strengthen
capacity of participant institutions, empower rural groups and associations, and provide
the institutional framework for addressing generic constraints, the proposed investment
program would help to unleash rural economic growth. It would also help to broaden and
deepen coverage of rural financial services to a larger number of rural dwellers and
improve overall efficiency of financial service delivery.

The evidence for these presumptions was compelling: According to a national living
standards survey undertaken in the year immediately prior to appraisal (GLSS IV,
1998/99) two-thirds of Ghana's population (of 18.5 million) resided in rural areas. Of
these, 63% were employed primarily in agriculture, with 12% in manufacturing and a
further 15% on trading. Agricultural GDP accounted for one-third of the national
economy. Only 0.3% of households were employed in financial services. Moreover,
poverty was broader and deeper in rural areas compared to urban areas: headcount
poverty rate among rural households was 50% against 19% for urban households (with
the national average being 40%).

Thus efforts to improve the competitiveness and productivity of the rural economy
remained crucial for sustained growth and poverty reduction. With small farming
households dominating the landscape, rural economic development was largely
synonymous with improved agricultural growth, which in turn required improvements in
competitiveness and productivity. Progress on these dimensions was severely constrained
by limited use of improved inputs (high yielding seeds and fertilizers) and modern
production processes and methods as a result of poor agricultural services and inadequate
access to financial services.

The lack of access to credit to purchase inputs (fertilizer, seeds and hired labor) and basic
processing equipment, as well as for working capital for farm-based trading not only
constrained agricultural productivity and value-addition, but simultaneously stymied



                                              1

ancillary services in rural-based agricultural and non-agricultural sectors. Moreover,
parallel Government interventions were undermined by the absence of institutional credit
upon which such programs were predicated, thereby limiting their development impact.
With less than 10% of formal sector credit going to the rural sector, informal sources
gained greater prominence. The existing small community-owned rural banks and small
informal microfinance organizations (including non-governmental organizations [NGOs])
that could potentially fill this void were weak, fragmented and operated with out-dated
technologies. These factors led to a strong rural financial sector ­ or, more accurately, the
absence thereof ­ being perceived as the critical `missing link' of an integrated rural
development strategy. Strengthening the rural financial system would therefore put into
place the third pillar needed for rural economic growth and poverty reduction.

The rural financial sector featured the following typology of actors: (i) the rural and
community banks (RCBs); (ii) financial NGOs (FNGOs) and other NGOs not explicitly
to be MFIs but with micro-finance ancillary activities; (iii) credit unions (CUs); (iv)
saving and loans companies (S&Ls); and (v) the susu collectors who accumulate daily
savings from members. Individual entities were affiliated to umbrella organizations,
including the Association of Rural and Community Banks (ARB), Ghana Cooperative
Susu Collectors Association (GCSCA), Ghana Cooperative Council (GCC), Ghana
Microfinance Institutions Network (GHAMFIN), Ghana Credit Union Association
(GCUA).

Government Strategy

The Government of Ghana (GoG) had a number of policies and strategies in pursuit of
economic growth and poverty reduction, many of which included elements pertaining to
rural finance. Rural finance constituted an outcome for some strategies, while for others it
provided an instrument for achieving separate goals; other strategies presumed a
functioning rural finance sector as a necessary but secondary precondition for achieving
objectives but did nothing to ensure such a condition came about. Similarly, Government
sponsored a number of credit programs, although there was no central coordinating body
or established procedures for implementation.

This fragmentation was reflected in the policy arena too: while many sector policies
included reference to rural- and micro-finance, there was not single overarching policy
framework or strategic approach. Relevant policies applicable at appraisal included
Vision 2020 (from 1996), the Accelerated Agriculture Growth and Development Strategy
(draft at time of appraisal) among others. There was no sector strategy or policy for the
rural or microfinance, although the precursor to the Ghana Microfinance Policy
(GHAMP) was under preparation.

Sector Issues to be addressed by the Project and Strategic Choices

Strong macroeconomic performance and burgeoning micro-finance initiatives:
economic growth combined with political and macroeconomic stability in years
immediately preceding the project were seen as conducive to a large expansion of the



                                             2

rural finance sector. Similar conditions encouraged a plethora of microfinance
interventions. Absent a coherent framework within which to operate, there was a risk of
fragmented and divergent rural finance and microfinance sectors emerging. A strategy of
supporting the rural microfinance within the wider framework of rural finance while
simultaneously fostering linkages between mainstream microfinance and rural finance
would mitigate this risk.

Presence of apex organizations: Most front-line actors in rural- and micro-finance were
members of apex organizations, although many of these umbrella associations were yet to
define or fulfill their potential role in providing coordination and oversight. Nevertheless,
the presence of a nascent hierarchical structure presented a strategic opportunity to avoid
create new institutions by building on existing frameworks.

Weak Rural Banks: Many RCBs were financially weak, with limited skilled staff and
outmoded technologies to adequately deliver financial services to rural clientele. Of the
134 rural banks in existence as at December 31, 1998, 23 were classified distressed and
subsequently closed by Bank of Ghana (BoG). Fifty-six of the remaining 111 RCBs were
rated as mediocre, defined as rural banks with capital adequacy between 1 % and 6%.

Thin and over-extended oversight capacity: BoG had the statutory mandate to monitor
rural bank operations (as is the case for other, mostly urban based commercial banks).
However, this task was made very difficult by the large number of RCBs spread over a
large geographical area. As a result, poorly performing banks that needed oversight did
not often receive the intense supervision required and some banks might not have been
supervised in a given financial year.

Poor integration of informal and formal sectors: There was little real formalized
relationship between formal and informal financial sector entities. Since formal financial
institutions prevailed in the urban areas, and vice versa, this relative isolation of the two
sectors impeded effective integration of the rural and urban economies necessary to attain
sustainable impact on rural poverty reduction.

Uncoordinated nature of past donor efforts: Past donor assistance to the rural financial
sector had often been piece-meal, driven by each donor's narrow interests. IFAD had in
the past focused largely on grassroots microfinance institutions; IDA on the larger
financial sector and some rural banks; and AfDB on lines of credit channeled largely
through the Agricultural Development Bank (ADB).

1.2 Original Project Development Objectives (PDO) and Key Indicators

RFSP seeks to strengthen rural financial institutions in order to deepen services and
enhance the efficiency of rural financial intermediation leading to accelerated growth
and poverty reduction. (The PAD includes two formulations of the PDO: a longer
wording in the text and this, shorter, formulation taken from Annex 1 of the PAD.)

Key indicators at the PDO level were:



                                               3

     Total annual savings mobilized by rural banks;
     Total number of clients of rural banks; and
     Total annual loans and advances of rural banks.

1.3 Revised PDO (as approved by original approving authority) and Key Indicators,
and reasons/justification

The PDO was not revised.

1.4 Main Beneficiaries,

Project beneficiaries were identified as rural households who would avail themselves of
new employment opportunities and income-generating investments resulting from
enhanced rural financial services. More specifically, 330,000 rural clients would benefit
directly as clients of RCBs or through membership of 8,000 self help groups (SHGs) or
susu groups. Women would benefit disproportionately since they were reckoned to
constitute 60% of SHGs and 70% of susu clients.

The PAD also identified the target population as including officials working within the
111 RCBs including 220 accountants, 500 ­ 800 managers and directors, as well as their
shareholders.

1.5 Original Components

Component (i): Capacity-building ­ Informal Sector was to focus on strengthening
informal and microfinance entities by developing, organizing, and training community
groups and associations; training and capacity-building for microfinance institutions,
developing and testing various instruments and products that would foster stronger
linkages between formal RCBs and informal financial sector entities; and removing any
administrative and/or regulatory impediments to achieving effective integration.
Activities under this component were to build upon existing initiatives such as the
GHAMFIN, susu groups, women's banking initiatives, cooperatives and credit unions.

Component (ii): Capacity-building ­ Rural and Community Banks was to focus on:
(i) restructuring weak RCBs and strengthening their operational effectiveness; (ii)
strengthening internal controls of all rural banks including provision of new information
technologies, logistics and training of key staff; (iii) rationalizing the approach to agency
banking by improving communication and logistics and better defining criteria for setting
up such centers that are linked to individual RCB capacity; (iv) updating rural banks
operational procedures and policies; (v) providing support for information technologies
for more efficient electronic reporting to the apex and BoG; (vi) developing an overall
staff development plan for all categories of rural bank staff; (vii) strengthening rural
bank-to rural bank communication to facilitate greater operational linkages; and (viii)
reviewing and removing residual policies that may impede rural bank efficiency.




                                             4

Component (iii): Institution-building ­ Apex was to: (i) finance technical assistance
needed to set up, train and operationalize an Apex Bank for the network of then 111 rural
and community banks, including the key units/departments of the apex; (ii) provide
support for initial capacity building activities, logistics (facilities, communications, etc.)
and other start-up activities; (iii) support development of operational procedures and
policies for the apex consistent with the requirements of Banking Law; and (iv) finance
short-term technical assistance of trained and experienced international experts to assist
the RCBs in establishing and operating the apex initiative.

Component (iv): Institutional Support was to provide support to upgrade staff skills
and improve technologies. This support would be critical in enabling the Banking
Supervision Department (BSD) to modify its current approach to supervision of the rural
banks and shifting to greater standardization and electronic reporting, retrieval and
analysis of returns, and more targeted supervision of banks based on assessment of the
returns submitted prior to going to the field. Support was also to be provided to Rural
Finance Inspection Department (RFID) to strengthen its capacity for rural finance policy
and strategy formulation, as well as for program implementation and monitoring.
Support to the MoFEP would ensure continuity in ongoing microfinance initiatives such
as coordination of various programs and donor initiatives and development of training
programs and funds being supported under the NBFI project.

1.6 Revised Components

Component (i) was revised at mid-term in order to focus on training and capacity
building proven most likely to achieve results in improving performance and outreach of
rural MFIs and linking them to CBOs and SHGs. This revised component would:
     Improve and expand training for rural MFIs;
     Restrict training of CBOs to those directly concerned with micro-finance;
     Launch a microfinance support initiative (MSI) to build the capacity of 10 ­ 15
       RCBs and apex MFIs to deliver and sustain microfinance services to the rural
       poor in their catchment area; and
     Update the feasibility for capacity building fund to draw lessons from the pilot.

1.7 Other significant changes

None.

2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes

2.1 Project Preparation, Design and Quality at Entry

Project preparation and design was moderately satisfactory. Project design originally
focused on the rural banks (see below) and incorporated the lessons learnt by BoG, other
local stakeholders and from earlier donor supported projects, including prior Bank
experience (e.g. IDA-financed RFP and NBFI, AfDB's four successive lines of credit to
the ADB, as well as Danida's rural bank capacity building project). The inclusion of



                                              5

other development partners who had been active in the rural finance sector (IFAD as co-
financier; AfDB as parallel financier and GTZ's technical assistance) served as an
excellent basis to address donor coordination as well as ensure divergent technical inputs
during preparation. In general, the concept was well thought out and based on
international best practice available at the time, as reflected in the following design
elements (inter alia): (i) a holistic approach that encompassed the spectrum of rural
finance actors from the central bank, apex bodies down to SHGs and other MFIs; and (ii)
explicitly fostering linkages between these actors. However, the microfinance component
(i) was added after the design of the project was essentially completed and was not well
integrated into the overall project, and this was reflected during implementation. This
omission was also mirrored in the composition of the design team which could have
benefitted from inputs from social development specialist.

As well as being somewhat of an afterthought, component (i) required the organizing and
training a large number of CBOs, NGOs and FNGOs and then linking them to rural banks.
As such, it was based on experience in India where such SHGs are indeed quite
successful in several Indian States. However, conditions and local traditions in Ghana are
quite different and this was not sufficiently considered nor was local input being
incorporated for that aspect of the design of the microfinance component. In addition, the
concept to link existing rural microfinance institutions (credit unions, susu collectors,
etc.) to rural banks was flawed in that these institutions are operating in the same markets
as RCBs and see themselves as competitors rather than being in a complementary
position. So there was no demand for such linkages.

The decision to locate the project implementation within the BoG proved to be a good
one. BoG was committed to the transformation of the rural finance system and proved to
be a strong supporter of the network of rural banks and the Apex Bank throughout
implementation. Support to the microfinance component was less forthcoming as this
component was implemented by the Microfinance Unit (MFU) in MoFEP. The use of a
Facilitating Agency (FA) to manage implementation of this component could not offset
the limited capacity and experience of the MFU.

As discussed below, monitoring and evaluation (M&E) was poorly designed, with no
quantifiable targets either for Output and Impact indicators.

There was no formal Quality at Entry review.

2.2 Implementation

Project start-up was hampered by the electoral cycle. A new Government was sworn-in in
early 2000, and they naturally wanted to re-evaluate all donor-funded projects agreed by
its predecessor. The result was that conditions for project effectiveness (for IFAD and
IDA) were met only after significant delays. For the IDA financing, this meant a lag of 16
months between approval and effectiveness. A second consequence was that what started
out as joint financing ended up being somewhat out-of-step (see Table 1), a situation




                                              6

compounded by different approaches to project duration that meant IFAD and IDA
projects closed at different times.

Table 1 Key Dates

          Board      Signed Credit    Declared    Original    Original    Actual
        Approval      Agreement       Effective Completion    Closing    Closing
IDA       8 June 00       23 Oct 01    4 Dec 01    30 Jun 06  31 Dec 06  31 Dec 07
IFAD       5 Mar 00       25 Oct 01   29 Jan 01   31 Mar 08  30 Sept 08  31 Dec 08
AfDB      8 June 00        8 Mar 01   27 Mar 02   30 Sept 04  31 Dec 04  31 Dec 07

Recognizing design weaknesses, particular viz. Component (i) and the M&E
arrangements, the supervision team initiated remedial efforts soon after the project
became effective. Their efforts were inhibited by initial confusion amongst the Apex
bodies regarding who was responsible for collecting specific financial data and this
hindered agreement on a revised M&E framework (concluded in 2004, albeit in advance
of mid-term review [MTR])

The Bank and IFAD conducted a MTR in early 2005, justifiably two years later than
scheduled because of the slow start. A key task was to address weaknesses in the
component (i) Capacity Building ­ Informal Financial Sector. Based on positive
experience to date, the use of a FA was continued. Prior to MTR, the selection of
beneficiaries to be trained was insufficiently focused on CBOs with existing links to
formal financial institutions and training was inefficient and excessively supply driven.
The MTR made recommendations to refocus this component by (i) establishing
qualifying criteria for client selection including the need for them to be linked to RMFIs;
and (ii) recruiting additional facilitating agencies to screen the requests for training and
technical support and by launching the MSI. This bolstered the linkages between the
formal and informal actors by working with a smaller group of RCBs in developing
profitable business products to expand into the microfinance arena

Establishing financial discipline to rural finance was consistently undermined by the
GoG's continued use of ad hoc micro-credit programs employing subsidized interest rates
that undermined profitable lending by RCBs and MFIs. Some schemes were administered
by RCBs and MFIs who were unable to select their own clients based on robust risk
profiling, leading to suspicions that such schemes were politically directed. This added to
public perceptions in which government credit was seen as a grant not a loan; attitudes
borne out by extremely low repayment rates. The project supported studies to investigate
this phenomenon and used the results strategically as a basis for policy dialogue with
Government. Spurred by this operation, GoG established a unit in the President's Office
to oversee these schemes (initially known as National Microfinance Centre [NAMFIC]
and later the Microfinance and Small Loans Center [MASLOC]) and the project sought
to build linkages with the apex body for micro finance, even proposing co-location at one
point. However, GoG ultimately decided against such a move and MASLOC remained
divorced from the rural finance infrastructure.

Project at Risk and other Performance Ratings



                                               7

At no stage was the project DO at risk. Implementation performance scores were mainly
satisfactory. Episodes of components rated marginally unsatisfactory relate to the M&E
and micro-finance component (i) and were addressed expeditiously through normal
supervision arrangements including the MTR.

2.3 Monitoring and Evaluation Design, Implementation and Utilization

Monitoring and evaluation arrangements were considered moderately satisfactory overall.
There were significant design weaknesses in M&E arrangements. Quantitative targets
were omitted from the logframe and the inclusion of some targets in the text proved
confusing. Baseline data was not available until two years into the project. Supervision
missions highlighted these issues early on and initiated an intensive dialogue with
stakeholders resulting in a dramatic improvement in the range and quality of indicators as
well as structure and design of data collection (including the monitoring and information
system [MIS] modules) in mid-2004. These were quickly formalized in all subsequent
supervision reports.

Thereafter collection of appropriate data was reasonably effective. The project
strengthened the MIS by adjusting the key modules, rendering the MIS fully operational
covering project process and results ranging from input, output, outcomes and results.
This MIS should form the foundation of on-going monitoring. The core implementing
agencies including the Apex Bank, GCSCA, CUA and GHAMFIN were adequately
collecting and monitoring data related to their respective component activities. Trained
M&E focal persons were assigned to these agencies to coordinate data collection and
monitoring with the Project M&E office. The Apex Bank and BSD actively monitored
portfolio performance of RCBs and timely information has facilitated early remedial
measures in distressed RCBs. The M&E system provided important inputs to: (i) cleaning
the share registers of rural banks; (ii) preparation of a code of conduct for directors and
staff of RCBs; and (iii) the design of a financial literacy program for women clients of
MFIs. The extent of data evaluation and in-depth analysis of the data generated by the
M&E system has been weak, however, in part because of the inability of PCU M&E
office to lead and commission profound data evaluation.

Project reporting has been good, with regular periodic progress reports submitted to the
Bank and GoG in a timely manner. Other qualitative evaluation reports have been
prepared, including a beneficiary assessment and end-of-project reports of capacity
building of RCBs and the MFIs and the institutional building of the ARB Apex Bank.
The introduction of the Microfinance Information Data Exchange (MIX) in collaboration
with GHAMFIN established a national performance monitoring system for MFIs; that the
MIX methodology is internationally recognized allows for regional and global
comparisons.

Three factors mean these achievements are likely to be sustained: First, delegating
responsibility to the various apex bodies was fully consistent with their role as
associations. Second, these responsibilities have been integrated into their respective



                                             8

supervision functions (even if these supervision functions have evolved de facto as in
CUA and GCSCA rather than de jure as is the case for the Apex Bank). Third, by
adopting internationally recognized methodologies, there is a demand for credible data
from analysts thereby generating opportunities for cost-recovery. On the negative side,
comprehensive data often was available only after substantial lag.

2.4 Safeguard and Fiduciary Compliance

The project did not trigger any of the Bank's safeguard policies.

Fiduciary Issues
The Project Steering Committee (PSC) acting through the RFSP Project Management
Unit (PMU) was responsible for the implementation of the project. Financial
management (FM) arrangements were handled by the Finance Director of the PMU
supported by a Finance Manager attached to BoG. The PMU was responsible for all
aspects of financial management and operated the Designated Account for IDA, AfDB
and IFAD funding.

At inception the project's FM assessment noted that the RFID lacked the requisite
capacity for implementation. An action plan was developed to address these weaknesses,
which was successfully implemented. The projects FM rating has consistently been
`satisfactory' including ISRs for the last two years of the project (December 2006 and
2007). BoG ensured a sound control environment and all financial covenants were
complied with. All project audits were submitted within the deadline of six months
following the end of the fiscal year.

2.5 Post-completion Operation/Next Phase

The Bank decided not to proceed with a second phase operation. IFAD, on the other hand,
has recently approved its Rural and Agricultural Finance Program (RAFiP) to continue
support to the sector. RAFiP builds on RFSP and in particular the institutions
strengthened under the project. However, RAFiP embodies an important evolution in
several ways:
     It is based on the Agricultural Finance Strategy and Action Plan (AFSAP) which
        has emerged organically from stakeholders as the defining strategy for rural
        finance in the future;
     The underlying paradigm is of value chain financing, thereby recognizing the
        mutual benefits from linking improved finance with investment decisions and
        technical support; and
     RAFiP is a costed program extending beyond IFAD's own resources, thereby
        representing something akin to a sector wide approach to which others can
        contribute.

Other donors currently considering contributing to RAFiP either through pooled or
parallel funding include the Government of Italy, AfDB and Danida. The Bank will




                                            9

contribute to AFSAP objectives through two concurrent operations supporting SME
development and financial sector reform.

3. Assessment of Outcomes

3.1 Relevance of Objectives, Design and Implementation

The objective was highly relevant. As essentially an institutional strengthening operation,
the operation focused on existing front-line organizations and established apex bodies,
thereby avoiding the difficulty of creating new institutions. Contemporary approaches to
value chain financing to improve access to agricultural credit ­ as exemplified in RAFiP
­ depend on the existence of robust and well-tooled rural finance institutions such as
RCBs; if not for RFSP these would now have to be developed. The operation remained
consistent with Bank and IFAD strategies as evidenced by subsequent CASs and COSOP.
Bank CASs indeed highlight private-sector led economic growth, agricultural
development and the need to address lagging regions in particular the Northern areas of
Ghana, while IFAD COSOP focuses on achieving improved, diversified and sustainable
livelihoods for the rural poor, including inter alia the development of pro-poor rural
enterprise and rural finance in the context of an inclusive private sector.

3.2 Achievement of Project Development Objectives

The RFSP has contributed significantly to the expansion of rural financial services and a
more robust rural finance sector.

According to the PDO indicators:
     Savings mobilized by RCBs increased from Gh¢39.13m in 2001 to Gh¢314.51m
       in June 2008;
     The total number of clients (borrowers and savers) of RCBs increased from 1.3
       million in 2001 to 3.3 million at the end-2007;
     Total annual loans and advances of RCBs increased from Gh¢14.49m in 2001 to
       Gh¢172.12m at the end-2007.

In the absence of target values in the PAD, these were eventually specified and agreed at
an M&E workshop held in October 2004. Indicators were specified as proportionate
increases (in the case of the first two) and as a proportion of savings (in the third).
Absolute targets were also set in advance of baselines being known and have been
rendered inappropriate (see Table 2).




                                             10

   Table 2 Original and Updated Outcome Indicators


        PDO indicator               PAD                      Revised Indicators
                                                 Proportionate target     Target value*
   Total    annual  savings    Increase          30% annual increase     Gh¢300m
   mobilized by RCBs           achieved          achieved                achieved
   Total no. of clients of     Increase          20% annual increase     3.9 million
   RCBs                        achieved          almost achieved         not achieved
   Total annual loans and      Increase          50% of deposits         Gh¢200m
   advances of RCBs            achieved          achieved                not achieved
   Note:.(*) nominal target set without reference to a baseline.

   Table 3 reports annual performance of key indicators over the period 2001 ­ 2007.
   Compared with the PDO indicators, the total annual savings mobilized by RCBs
   increased by an annual average of 40% per annum (p.a.) which is in excess of the target
   of 30% per annum [p.a.]) while the total number of clients increased overall by 17% p.a.
   (against a target of 20% p.a.) with figures for borrowers and savers of 27% and 15%
   respectively. Similarly total annual loans amounted to 59% of deposits, above the 50%
   target.

   Table 3 Key Performance Indicators 2001 ­ 2007 (nominal figures)

                          2001          2002         2003         2004      2005       2006      2007
Total No. of RCBs              115          115          117         119        121       122       125
Total No. of
Agencies                       228          317          400         425        460        463       455

Total Assets
(Gh¢'M)                      51.82        86.38      127.54        179.86    226.08     298.75    385.96

Total Deposits
(Gh¢'M)                      38.13         66.7        94.92       136.33     168.8     226.46    293.23

Total Loans (Gh¢'M)          14.49        22.56        34.84        56.77     77.52      115.1    172.12
Short-term
investments (Gh¢'M)          24.73        38.32        52.47       71.96      83.06     84.63     91.94

Networth (Gh¢'M)              7.33        10.77        12.04       24.09      32.09     38.43     48.33
Paid-up capital
(Gh¢'M)                       0.96         1.41         2.23         3.52      5.41       9.35     11.35

Total Profit (Gh¢'M)          3.63         3.75         6.78         7.74        9.2      8.87     12.69
Total No. of
Depositors              1,129,316    1,187,366    1,456,987     1,720,731 2,182,559  2,493,004 2,670,618

Total No. of
Borrowers                139,325       148,271      194,804      234,159    280,280   358,092   590,161

Non Performing
Loans (%)                    19.81        15.92        14.65       10.43      12.29     11.34     11.18

Memo: GDP Deflator
2000 = 100                 134.82       165.58       213.11       243.69     280.16    315.81    362.62


   Under Component (i) capacity building for the informal financial sector, only 10,687
   end users were trained ­ about one-quarter of the revised target set at MTR ­ due to the
   exhaustion of the training fund. A total of 465 MFIs benefited from training under the
   project, of which 348 received repeat training. A total of 17 good practice manuals have
   been developed. Nevertheless, the number of clients of rural MFIs, excluding clients of



                                                        11

susu collectors, increased from 1.3 million in 2001 to 1.5 million in 2003 and then rapidly
to 3.2 million in 2006. Estimates suggest rural MFIs now reach 15% of the population;
45% are women and 30% in the lower two poverty quintiles. Total savings and number of
clients of susu collectors increased 410% and 261% respectively from 2002 ­ 2007.
Similarly, total assets of CUs increased by 248% and membership rose by 60%, while
loans (624%) and deposits (307%) also increased. Average loan and deposit size also
increased. The MIX tool was adopted to allow international comparisons, and shows that
MFIs in Ghana have deeper outreach in lending than their neighbors. ICR background
assessments report that stakeholders attribute both to the project activities. Nevertheless,
MFIs still depend on external financial support. The MIX methodology for operational
self-sufficiency (OSS) reveals an index of 98% for the CUs compared to 118% for
comparator MFIs in the region. Consequently, this component is judged moderately
satisfactory.

Component (ii) provided capacity building of RCBs, and aimed to increase outreach of
RCBs. The number of RCBs increased from 115 to 125 and there are now 564 networked
business points across Ghana. Training was provided in customer care, treasury and
credit management, anti-money laundering, internal controls, and check clearing. In all,
over 8,000 staff were trained. In addition, the AfDB project provided hardware support in
the form of computers, safes etc. In addition to the PDO-level indicators already reported,
project achievements include: the reduction in check clearing from two weeks to five
days, and the approval of advances to salaried workers from 14 days to 3 days. An over-
the-counter withdrawal now takes less than 9 minutes compared to almost 20 minutes
previously. Non-performing loans are less than 12% of total lending portfolio (down
from 20% at the start of the RFSP) and 99% of RCBs are profitable.

The MSI aimed to improve links between formal and informal financial institutions by
training RCBs to expand their microfinance portfolios. Strategic business plans were
developed for the 15 selected RCBs and three training manuals developed. Ten RCBs
reported putting their plans into action with a resultant increase in the number of
microfinance clients and size of microfinance portfolios. All participating RCBs are
operationally self sufficient, with 12 exhibiting an OSS score in excess of international
norms; similarly all RCBs are financially self-sufficient (FSS) and all in excess of the
international norm, suggesting that extending product lines into microfinance does not
undermine financial stability. Based on the outcomes of the RCBs and the results of the
MSI launched at MTR, this component is judged satisfactory.

Component (iii) established the Apex Bank to provide the institutional framework and
facilitate the provision of common services. The Apex Bank was established and offices
constructed (two offices were refurbished at its own expense). It provides specie to all
127 RCBs and has introduced a system of money transfers between members. The
passing of the necessary legislation by Parliament provides a secure legal basis for RCBs.
A tension exists between the desire to support the members and the need for a financially
sustainable Apex Bank: services to RCBs are yet to be delivered at full cost-recovery,
reflected in a steady decline of the OSS index over 2004 ­ 2007. RFSP initiated a
computerization program which has subsequently been picked up by Millennium



                                             12

Challenge Account (MCA). Experience this far suggests that while this has generated
labor-saving efficiencies and makes oversight by the Apex Bank easier, the full
management potential has yet to be realized by RCB managers. BoG is expecting the
Apex Bank to be responsible for inspection of RCBs and it remains unclear who will bear
the costs of this function: estimated costs are too high for individual RCBs to bear from
current profit margins. This component is judged satisfactory, given the achievements in
establishing a professional and functioning Apex Bank; the remaining uncertainties are
captured in risk to DO.

Institutional support to MoFEP and BoG under component (iv) has improved the ability
of the MFU and BSD to oversee the microfinance sector. BSD staff have been trained.
Supervision of the Apex Bank and associated RCBs has improved, with 16 unsatisfactory
(in terms of capital adequacy) RCBs (of 127 total) at project-end compared to 28 (of 105)
in 2001. Remedial measures have been taken to address distressed RCBs (including the
closure of some failed RCBs) which would have taken longer to put in to place prior to
project interventions. The FA effectively supported the MFU in setting down procedures,
standards and best-practice techniques for MFIs (as discussed under Component (i)).
Policy coordination has lagged, with GHAMP still not approved by Government.
However, at the technical level, the MFU has nevertheless driven forward the
microfinance agenda by providing leadership to the AFSAP process and has constituted
the Microfinance Forum as an effective stakeholder consultation mechanism. Overall,
this component is judged satisfactory.

3.3 Efficiency

The economic justification at appraisal adopted a cost effectiveness approach, positing
that project resources will result in large increase in deposits (of 100%), an increase in the
share of credit in RCB assets (rising from 33% to 40% on average and to 50% among
satisfactory-rated RCBs), and an increase in the cost-recovery of training provision from
25% to 75%. With the exception of the cost-recovery ratio, which remains somewhat of a
concern, these parameters have all been surpassed by project-end.

3.4 Justification of Overall Outcome Rating

The overall rating for the project is satisfactory. It was not surprising that difficulties
were encountered in linking formal and informal rural finance sectors, but the project
responded pragmatically by narrowing focus. The same pragmatism ensured results were
attained among MFIs despite poor design. Improvements have been recorded across all
dimensions including client base, deposits and lending, financial governance, and
efficiencies in service provision. Notwithstanding the initial flaws in the results
monitoring, achievements against indicators is substantial.




                                              13

3.5 Overarching Themes, Other Outcomes and Impacts

(a) Poverty Impacts, Gender Aspects, and Social Development
It is not possible to accurately discern the poverty impacts of RFSP. No baseline study
that linked financial services and rural poverty was undertaken, although such links are
well known from empirical studies elsewhere. However, the project commissioned the
Poverty Assessment Report which applied the Microfinance Poverty Assessment Tool
(MPAT) developed by the Consultative Group to Assist the Poor (CGAP) to assess the
poverty reach of project interventions and found that 30% of clients of a sample of rural
MFIs were in the lowest two quintiles according to the national poverty line. While
attribution is difficult, it can be noted that living standards surveys undertaken around the
start and end of the project period (GLSS IV in 1998/99 and GLSS V in 2005/06) report a
reduction in the rural poverty rate of 50% to 39%.

Gender issues did not feature prominently in the PAD ­ only one output indicator had a
gender dimension ­ but these were expanded upon early during implementation. First, a
concerted effort was made to disaggregate data by gender, with results reported below.
Second, the poverty outreach study (above) and the assessment of financial performance
of rural MFIs included gender aspects. Third, following the recommendation at MTR, the
Bank secured trust fund resources to develop a methodology for capacity building in
financial literacy for women which was subsequently adopted by the Facilitating Agency
under the MSI. M&E data shows that women consistently accounted for 45% of
depositors and about 40% of borrowers of RCBs. By the end of the project, women
accounted for 40% of members of CUs and 60% of clients of susu collectors.

The 2006 Beneficiary Assessment sought to elicit views from stakeholders on project
outputs, reporting for instance a much higher satisfaction rate among female clients of
RCBs. Moreover, by assessing qualitative dimensions of client services it captured a
number of socio-cultural factors that, unchecked, could inhibit access to financial
services. (An example is the quicker service provided to the elderly, and the general
positive attitude of RCB staff to the poorest clients.)

(b) Institutional Change/ Strengthening

Institutional strengthening was the main focus of RFSP and thus is covered extensively
elsewhere. Two additional points are worth noting: First, the patterns observed in the
rapid expansion of commercial banks in recent years suggests that successful RCBs are
demonstrating the commercial viability of banking services in rural areas (although
facing competition by doing so).

(c) Other Unintended Outcomes and Impacts (positive or negative)

It is doubtful whether the redenomination of the cedis in July 2007 would have been such
a smooth process without the contribution of the Apex Bank. The facilities for specie
movement established under RFSP allowed rapid and safe substitution of old currency for
the new across the wide network of RCBs (at no cost to the RCBs). In addition, existing



                                                14

training capacity (venues and staff) was fully deployed to train RCB staff in the new
currency and the ARB Apex Bank's ICT department assisted the RCBs in converting
their accounting systems to the new denomination, a Herculean task that subsequently
resulted in delays in the ambitious plan to computerize the RCB network.

3.6 Summary of Findings of Beneficiary Survey and/or Stakeholder Workshops

A Beneficiary Assessment was commissioned by the project in 2006 and concluded that
RFSP had resulted in a significant improvement in performance of RCBs, although this
remained fragile and that the outreach and quality of services provided by RCBs had
improved substantially to the general satisfaction of RCB clients. It also noted that
membership of credit unions expanded particularly amongst women, although members
remain frustrated at the small loans available and interest rates charged but that susu
collectors remained outside regulatory structures rendering vulnerable clients open to
fraud and cheating.

This beneficiary survey resulted in a number of recommendations and lessons learned
that were applied during the remainder of the project period. The most pertinent included:
     RCBs need to continue to improve their services and efficiency to ensure financial
        sustainability and to cope with competition from other commercial banks.
     The        Apex Bank could extend some of its core functions such as specie
        movement to other financial institutions such as MFIs, CUs and S&Ls.
     The costs of training need to be reduced by consolidating courses/ training
        audiences to increase efficiencies. Cost recovery in training provision needs to be
        reconciled with the fact that many RCBs and other institutions are in remote
        locations and face higher costs in accessing training opportunities.

4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome

The risk to development outcome is rated as moderate. Factors that contribute to this risk
rating include:
     The uncertain future of the Apex Bank which is seeking to reconcile its role as an
        association of RCBs with a degree of social function on the one hand with an
        ambitious commercial aspirations comparable to those of commercial banks on
        the other;
     The transfer of responsibility without commensurate resources from BoG to Apex
        Bank for the supervisory functions of RCBs;
     The continued financial viability of the apex associations which lack core
        funding;
     Continued deployment of government credit schemes that distort incentives
        undermine financial discipline amongst borrowers; and
     The absence, still, of a comprehensive policy for microfinance passed by
        Government.

Factors which militate against these risks include:




                                             15

     Strong apex organizations have been established among MFIs, susu collectors and
        credit unions with clear roles and mandates and strongly supportive
        constituencies;
     Similarly, the production of 17 good practice training manuals to be utilized by
        future private- or public sector training providers will sustain best practice
        principles developed under RFSP;
     The exact nature of formal financial services in rural areas will continue to evolve,
        with new commercial banks likely to `cherry pick' more profitable rural locations
        at the expense of existing RCBs. While this poses a threat to the specific RCBs it
        constitutes a further deepening of rural financial services;
     Ongoing computerization of RCBs facilitates real-time off-site inspection and
        regulation thereby strengthening financial performance and facilitating early
        response to distressed RCBs; and
     Ongoing support from the Millennium Challenge Corporation (MCC) and RAFiP
        will continue the capacity building agenda started under RFSP.

5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance

5.1 Bank Performance

(a) Bank Performance in Ensuring Quality at Entry

The quality at entry of the Bank's performance is rated moderately satisfactory. In the
main the project was well designed, and reflected international best practice as well as
experience with prior Bank operations. Appraisal was done jointly with co-financers
(IFAD) and parallel financers (AfDB). On the other hand, inappropriate design and lack
of integration of the component supporting the informal financial sector was a serious
flaw. The delays associated with the change of government might have been foreseen.

(b) Quality of Supervision

The quality of supervision is rated satisfactory. The Bank task team was appropriately
skilled and extremely highly regarded by project partners. The team undertook regular
supervision missions, was pro-active in identifying and addressing challenges at an early
stage and provided comprehensive and action-oriented aide memoires. The Bank
effectively supervised both IDA and IFAD financing (it was designated cooperating
institution by the latter). In addition, the majority of supervision missions included either
IFAD-appointed consultants and/or the Country Program Manager, which contributed
significantly to implementation support and helped build a strong unity of purpose
between partners. Cooperation with AfDB supervision missions was difficult due to their
lack of country presence and ad hoc timing of supervision missions. A strong rapport was
established with GoG, BoG and other counterparts and sensitive institutional concerns
affecting project performance were raised with authorities with tact and diplomacy,
resulting in the necessary changes being made. By pro-actively addressing the
weaknesses of design, remedial measures were put in place early and project outcomes
secured. From the revision of the M&E and preparation of the MTR onwards, supervision



                                              16

standards were exemplary and judged to be best practice within the , Bank. (RFSP was
nominated for the 2006 ARD "Golden Plough" Award for good practice in project
supervision.)

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Bank Performance

Overall Bank performance is rated moderately satisfactory. This takes into account
weaknesses in quality at entry despite integration of internationally recognized best
practice, but compensated by strong supervision and donor coordination efforts as well as
achievement of PDOs and the continued role of the Bank in the sector.

5.2 Borrower Performance

(a) Government Performance

Government performance is rated moderately satisfactory. On the positive side, overall
commitment to the operation remained strong. Second, once problems with the MFU
were raised with MoFEP, appropriate action was taken resulting in marked improvements
in that component. Third, once this change occurred, the MFU quickly broadened its role
from a narrow project-related unit to one which took the initiative for policy dialogue
with stakeholders on rural and microfinance issues.

Three factors militate against a higher rating: First, the substantial delays from approval
to effectiveness following the inauguration of the new government. No doubt it could be
argued that these were due to legitimate due diligence functions to ensure commitments
of the previous regime are consistent with the agenda, although the 16 months delay
appears more than sufficient. Second, presumably for its own political reasons, GoG
chose not to fully integrate NAMFIC (and its successor MASLOC) into the apex
structures, while at the same time continuing to implement credit programs that distort
the finance sector and undermine the sustainability of project outcomes. Third,
Government failed to approve the GHAMP and the microfinance sector still lacks a clear
policy framework. The absence of a policy framework adds to risk to sustainability of
outcomes more than the achievement of projects per se.

(b) Implementing Agency or Agencies Performance

Implementing agency performances is rated satisfactory. BoG remained committed to
project objectives throughout implementation, although its role was primarily one of
oversight rather than active leadership. The BSD effectively hosted the PCU and assigned
necessary staff early on. Coordinating the co-financing from IFAD and IDA with the
parallel financing from AfDB was a particular challenge.

Although strictly an output of RFSP rather than an implementing agency, the Apex Bank
deserves a mention because of the crucial role it played as a conduit for project activities
directed at its members (i.e. the RCBs) without which project objectives would not have




                                            17

been achieved. Similarly, the other apex bodies in the microfinance sectors were
instrumental in coordinating project activities with their members.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Borrower Performance

In projects that set out to achieve systemic improvements in national institutions, strong
performance in project implementation cannot compensate for lack of progress in the
policy environment, since the latter is critical for sustainability of project outcomes.
Therefore, overall borrower performance is rated moderately satisfactory.

6. Lessons Learned

RFSP was recognized as a pioneering intervention to improve access to rural financial
services and has hosted international study tours to allow others to learn from its
experience. The following key lessons emerge from project experience: (Note that these
are also reflected in the RAFiP design documentation.)

     Improving financial services to the poor requires substantial effort to strengthen
       rural MFIs including RCBs in order to expand their outreach. A comprehensive
       competency profile is required to understand their capacity building needs, and to
       tailor training appropriately;

     RCBs operate in an increasingly competitive environment, and do not have a
       hallowed right of existence. Building their long-term sustainability requires them
       to become more efficient, commercially oriented and able to provide an
       increasing range of financial products to their clients. Support needs to build this
       dynamic capacity to allow RCBs to continue to innovate; building capacity to
       deliver a certain set of services at one point in time is insufficient and ineffective;

     There is a tension in the appropriate role of the Apex Bank. It has an important
       role to play in monitoring the performance of its member RCBs, and in promoting
       deepening of links between the RCBs with other MFIs to expand access of the
       poor to financial services. At the same time, it needs to enhance commercial
       viability and move away from its reliance on government and donor funding;

     Apex organizations have a crucial role to play in expanding various segments of
       the financial sector, monitoring and evaluation of performance, and providing
       advocacy services on behalf of their constituencies and their clients. However,
       funding these `public good' elements remains problematic and needs to be
       addressed to ensure long term viability. They also need to improve their strategic
       planning and member services and to become more results-oriented;

     Given Ghana's experience and public attitude to credit programs, rural MFIs and
       NGO- and donor-sponsored programs have a better record of reaching the poor as
       well as recovering loans, compared to government programs. Moreover,




                                             18

       subsidized credit programs do not reach the poor and undermine the sustainability
       of the financial sector in the medium to long-run.

     The quality of training providers and business development services for rural
       MFIs cannot be assumed. Development of curricula and the constant screening of
       capable training providers is required and must be constantly updated to reflect
       evolving best practice and the dynamic needs of the sector;

     Where markets for technical and business services are weak and the capability of
       apex organizations is constrained, contracting independent agencies or firms to
       oversee these activities is an effective mechanism of achieving project objectives
       and obtaining feedback for mid-course corrections. Done well, this need not
       retard the development of capacity within the primary implementing institutions.
       Clear performance based contracts with these agencies is critical to success.

     Robust and efficient project management is more likely with strong state
       institutions that have an existing compliance ethos. This can be further supported
       by ensuring internal control systems for the project are based on those prevailing
       in the implementing institution, thereby being familiar to project staff.

In addition, the operation provides two contrasting experiences of donor collaboration,
with the IDA/ IFAD cooperation proving exemplary. The Bank enjoyed a strong and
highly competent field presence, and was able to bring in other highly experienced staff
for scheduled supervision assignments (supplemented by IFAD staff in most supervision
missions and especially at MTR). This allowed the Bank to leverage substantial
additional resources ­ over twice the IDA contribution ­ while IFAD benefited from a
successful project despite not having a local presence in Ghana. This contrasts with the
anticipated collaboration with AfDB parallel financing, which was implemented
separately and managed from Tunis because AfDB lacked a country presence.

Finally, there is clearly a lesson reiterating the importance of well thought-out M&E
systems, with clear, well defined quantitative targets.

7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners
(a) Borrower/implementing agencies

The Borrower and Implementing Agency contributed to the Borrower's ICR. Both were
invited to comment on a draft ICR and confirmed no additional comments.

(b) Cofinanciers

Comments from IFAD are reported in Annex 8.

(c) Other partners and stakeholders
(e.g. NGOs/private sector/civil society)




                                             19

Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing

(a) Project Cost by Component (in USD Million equivalent) (total project costs)
                                    Appraisal    Actual/Latest
         Components               Estimate (USD  Estimate (USD      Percentage of

                                    millions)        millions)        Appraisal

CAPACITY BUILDING FOR
THE INFORMAL                               5.43                        23.6%
FINANCIAL SECTOR
CAPACITY BUILDING -
RURAL AND COMMUNITY                        4.31                        18.8%
BANKS
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE
FOR THE APEX BANK                          8.69                        37.8%

INSTITUTIONAL SUPPORT
TO BANK OF GHANA AND                       1.40                        6.1%
MINISTRY OF FINANCE

         Total Baseline Cost              19.83
Physical Contingencies                     1.86                        8.1%
Price Contingencies                        1.27                        5.5%
          Total Project Costs             22.96                        100%
Front-end fee PPF                          0.00                        0.0%
Front-end fee IBRD                         0.00                        0.0%
   Total Financing Required               22.96                        100%

(b) Financing
                                               Appraisal Actual/Latest   Percentage
        Source of Funds             Type of Co- Estimate      Estimate
                                     financing   (USD          (USD           of

                                                millions)     millions)   Appraisal

African Development Bank                         5.01                       21.8%
International Development
Association (IDA)                                5.13                       22.3%

International Fund for Agriculture
Development                                      10.12                      44.1%

Local Govts. (Prov., District, City)
of Borrowing Country                             1.95                        8.5%




                                           20

Annex 2. Outputs by Component

Objectives and outputs     Outcome/ Impact          Baseline           Status as project end
                           indicators.

PDO
Strengthen rural financial Total annual savings     38.13 GH¢ (2001)   GH¢314.51m
institutions in order to   mobilized by RCBs;                          (June 2008)
broaden and deepen
services and enhance the
efficiency of rural        Total no. of clients of  1,268,641          3,260,779 (Dec 2007)
financial intermediation   RCBs;                    (2001)
leading to accelerated
growth and poverty         Total annual loans and   GH¢14.49m (2001)   GH¢172.12m (Dec
alleviation.               advances of RCBs;                           2007)

Outputs from each          Output indicators        Baseline           Status at project end
component
Component 1.
Empower rural informal     No. of informal groups   N/A                10,687 end users
financial institutions to  organized and trained                       trained (46 % female &
expand services to rural   (by gender)                                 54 % male)
clients, including the
disadvantaged and          No. of clients reached   N/A                Number of clients of
women.                     by rural MFIs.                              the major MFIs namely
                                                                       Susu collectors
                                                                       association (GCSCA)
                                                                       and Ghana Cooperative
                                                                       Union (CUA) reached
                                                                       to 525,000 of which
                                                                       242,890 were CUA
                                                                       members and 281, 197
                                                                       Susu clients.

                           Total deposits           GCSCA: GH¢75,614   GCSCA: GH¢38.54m
                           mobilized by rural       (2002)             (Dec 2007)
                           MFIs                     CUA: GH¢15.02m     CUA: GH¢61.24m
                                                    (2002)             (Dec 2007)

                           No. of rural MFIs        N/A                33 MFIs accessing
                           groups accessing credit                     credit from RCBs
                           from RCBs;

                           No. of clients and % of  N/A                59% of clients were
                           women as total                              women (Dec 2007)
                           borrowers;




                                                  21

Component 2.
Restructure and            No. of RCBs               N/A                 N/A
strengthen the network of  successfully
rural banks with effective restructured;
internal control and
management.                No. of clients and % of   No of depositors    No. depositors
                           women as total            1,129,316 (2001)    2,670,618 (2007)
                           borrowers                 No. of borrowers    No. of borrowers
                                                     139,325 (2001)      590,161 (2007)
                                                     of which 40% were   of which 41% were
                                                     women.              women.

                           No. of RCBs operating     N/A                 99% operating
                           profitably;                                   profitably (June 2008)

                           Percentage increase in    N/A                 N/A
                           annual profitability of
                           RCBs

                           Percent increase in loan  N/A                 Loan repayment rate of
                           recovery rates among                          30 days overdue
                           RCBs;                                         averaged 88.82% (Dec
                                                                         2007)
Component 3.
Establish the Apex Bank    Percent increase in rural Deposits: GH¢66.7m  Deposits: GH¢324.3m
as a broad institutional   savings and deposit of    (2002)              (Sept 2008) ­ increase
framework for provision    member RCBs;                                  of 286%
of common services to
RCBs.                                                Loans: GH¢22.56m    Loans: GH¢202.2m
                                                     (2002)              (Sept 2008) ­ increase
                                                                         of 796%
                           No. of RCBs meeting
                           capital adequacy ratios   87 (of 121)         109 RCBs (80%) out of
                           (CAR);                                        the total of 127 meet
                                                                         10% CAR requirement
                                                                         (Dec 2008)

                           Level of profitability of Net profits of      Net profits of
                           Apex Bank;                GH¢272,669 (2006)   GH¢621,242 (2007)

                           No. of RCBs with full     N/A                 116 RCBs out of the
                           share subscription in                         total of 127 have fully
                           the apex;                                     subscribed (Dec 2007)

                           No. of RCBs receiving     N/A                 All 127 RCBs.
                           specie from Apex;




                                                    22

Component 4.
Support specialized       No. of RCBs             N/A    All 127 RCBs.
department of the BoG     supervised annually;
for timely supervision
and oversight             No. of BSD staff        N/A    Not done
                          trained in use of IT
                          based monitoring
                          program.

Support MoFEP for more    No. of microfinance     N/A    Network members,
effective coordination of entities assisted by           including GCSCA,
microfinance initiatives, GHMFIN;                        CUA, Apex Bank,
including GHAMFIN                                        Saving and loans
                                                         companies and FNGOs.

                          No. of members of rural N/A    About 460 members
                          MFI's trained                  benefited from various
                                                         training topics.




                                                23

Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis

The economic justification at appraisal adopted cost effectiveness approach, positing that
project resources will result in large increase in deposits (of 100%), an increase in the
share of credit in RCB assets (rising from 33% to 40% on average and to 50% among
satisfactory-rated RCBs), and an increase in the cost-recovery of training provision form
25% to 75%.

Regarding deposits and the share of credit in RCB assets, the assumptions in the
economic analysis have been exceeded.

The cost-recovery ratio assumed in the cost effectiveness analysis of 75% is being met in
some instances, and the Apex Bank in particular is seeking to increase the cost recovery
element. However, there is a resistance among RCBs to accept the principle of
differential pricing based on the ability of each RCB to bear the cost of training. Given
the fragile financial status of some RCBs ­ who often constitute the priority target
audience for training ­ universal pricing with a significant element of cost recovery is not
acceptable.

The financial analysis in the PAD simulated incomes for the Apex Bank as well as RCB
performance. The relevance of these simulations for ex poste comparison has been
undermined because of the rapid transformation of the cost structures and revenue
streams of RCBs and the Apex Bank. This is due to several factors, including inter alia:
(i) the dramatic decline in treasury bills (see below); and (ii) the expansion of commercial
banks into more prosperous rural areas that has led to allegations of `cherry picking' of
more profitable away from RCBs.

The return on treasury bills was hypothesized as being an important source of income for
RCBs and the Apex Bank in particular. In fact, successful macroeconomic stabilization
led to a dramatic fall in Treasury bill rates far below those assumed in the PAD. This
undermined revenues and forced the Apex Bank and RCBs to seek alternative sources of
revenues, thereby encouraging them to increase lending to clients.

Table 3 Trends in Treasury Bill Rates and Project Assumptions

Year Project Financial Analysis      182 day Treasury Bill
2001                        25.0                          --
2002                        24.0                       27.2
2003                        23.0                       20.3
2004                        22.0                       17.9
2005                        20.0                       12.8
2006                        19.0                       10.7
2007                          --                       10.8
2008                          --                       26.2




                                              24

Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/ Supervision Processes

(a) Task Team members

            Names                        Title              Unit     Responsibility/
                                                                       Specialty
Lending

Supervision/ICR
Beatrix Allah-Mensah        Social Development Spec.       AFTCS
Rose Abena Ampadu           Program Assistant             AFCW1
Ferdinand Tsri Apronti      Procurement Specialist         AFTPC
Benedictus Kwame Atitsogbui Information Analyst           AFCW1
Henry K Bagazonzya          Sr Financial Sector Spec.      SASFP
Samuel Bruce-Smith          Consultant                    AFTFM
Christopher Paul Jackson    Economist                     AFTAR
Renate Kloeppinger-Todd     Rural Finance Adviser          ARD
Anthony Mensa-Bonsu         Consultant                     AFTPC
Lydia Sam                   Procurement Asst.             AFCW1
William F. Steel            Consultant                    AFTEG
Huong-Giang Lucie Tran      Operations Officer            MNSSD
Frederick Yankey            Sr Financial Management Spec. AFTFM
Azeb Fissha                 Consultant                    AFTAR
Renée Chao-Beroff           Consultant, IFAD               IFAD
Mohamed Manssouri           Country Programme Manger       IFAD



(b) Staff Time and Cost
                                      Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)
Stage of Project Cycle
                                   No. of staff weeks     USD Thousands (including
                                                          travel and consultant costs)
Lending
  FY00                                     18                         54.09
  FY01                                                                 0.00
  FY02                                                                 0.00
  FY03                                                                 0.00
  FY04                                                                 0.00
  FY05                                                                 0.00
  FY06                                                                 0.00
  FY07                                                                 0.00
  FY08                                                                 0.00
                         Total:            18                         54.09

Supervision/ICR
  FY00                                                                 0.00
  FY01                                     20                         23.62


                                         25

FY02               16     32.16
FY03               22     41.07
FY04               18     88.15
FY05               20     45.05
FY06               35     85.08
FY07               31     66.86
FY08               16     40.18
        Total:    178    422.17




                 26

Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results

Executive Summary of 2006 Beneficiary Assessment

                                  EXECUTIVE SUMMARY

INTRODUCTION

In June 2006, GIMPA Consultancy Services was contracted to undertake a beneficiary
assessment of the Rural Financial Services Project (RFSP). The overall objective of the
assignment was to obtain the views of the project beneficiaries on the values and impact
(effectiveness) of the activities and any concerns they had with regards to project design
and implementation.

The general approach adopted in undertaking the assignment was participatory, using
the process consulting methodology. Consequently, there was active engagement of
various stakeholders in critical discussions and reflection at all stages of the assignment.
Within the participatory framework, specific methods and techniques that were employed
included review of relevant documents and interviewing various beneficiaries in all the
ten regions of the country, using a semi-structured questionnaire. In all, the interview
covered 31 Rural and Community Banks (RCBs), 218 clients of the RCBs, 12 Credit
Unions, 8 Co-operatives, 7 susu collectors and 10 self-help groups.

FINDINGS

The following were the major findings in relation to the perspectives of the major
beneficiaries interviewed.

(a) Rural and Community Banks (RCBs)

     RFSP has resulted in a rapid expansion of the RCBs over the period 2001 to
        2005, with growth rates around 300% of assets. The provision for bad debt was
        generally high for many of RCBs interviewed.
     RCBs gave good rating for the equipment support in general, but below average
        marks for cash counting machines, safes and radio communication equipment.
        Remote banks had generally the least support, which may negatively impact on
        their ability to catch up.
     Generally, RCBs were very satisfied with the training courses provided to staff
        and management. However, there was a grave concern that the high cost of
        training could prevent smaller banks from participating.
     There was good rating of the manuals and handbooks provided, with the
        exception of those on financial management and cash flow projections.


                                             27

     RCBs gave very good ratings to the new products introduced during the course of
       the project, with the exception of "Home Cash", which was generally seen as a
       failure at this point of time.
     There was generally an improved outreach to clients, in terms of loans, but bank
       managers were reluctant to give loans to farmers due to the high default of loan
       repayment by farmers.
     RCBs were not happy with the compulsory transfer of 5% of deposits to the ARB
       Apex Bank at no interest to the RCBS.
     RCBs were concerned that the loan approval ceiling of ¢20million was low.

(b) Clients of RCBs

     Clients of RCBs generally showed a very high degree of satisfaction with the RCB
       services, in particular salary advances and fund transfer, and a slightly lower
       satisfaction with current account, savings account, loans and salary payment
       services received.
     The vast majority of clients found that the services had significantly improved
       over the past four years; the rate was even higher for women and illiterate clients.
     A majority found that access to loans had improved over the past four years. The
       rate was higher for men and illiterate clients than for women. Most of the clients
       interviewed had received a loan from their rural banks.
     Client confidence in their banks had significantly improved over the past four
       years, in particular in the case of women.
     Time required for transactions had been cut down by about half as regards:
       (i) Cheque clearing; (ii) Withdrawal of small amount from savings accounts;
       (iii) Approval of salary advances; (iv) Approval of micro loans below 3 million
       cedis; and (v) Approval of loans above 20 million cedis.
     Clients gave their RCB good marks as regards: (i) Friendliness of staff;
       (ii) Willingness of staff to address issues and concerns raised by clients;
       (iii) Patience; and (iv) Equal attention to all clients.

(c) Apex Institutions

     All the Apex institutions interviewed (CUA, GCC, GCSCA and GHAMFIN) were
       very satisfied with the equipment received from RFSP except the motor bikes.
     The equipment and budgetary support enabled these apex institutions to deliver
       improved services to their primary societies or members
     In nominal terms, the credit unions have shown good progress during the past 3
       years: the number of societies grew by 11% to 273, deposits by 231% and loans
       outstanding by 193%.
     Due to the membership of GCSCA sponsored by RFSP, membership has
       increased by 23% and the Association is better organized than before.
     There is growing public confidence in susu collectors as evidenced by the growth
       of their clients by 440% over the last three years.
     With the support from RFSP, GHAMFIN was able to organize training for its



                                             28

       members and also established benchmarks to ensure high professional standards
       among members.

CONCLUSIONS

The following conclusions may be drawn from the study:

  i.   RFSP has resulted in improved performance of RCBs as reflected in growth in
       their key financial indicators.     However, it is worth noting that these gains
       achieved over the past four years remain quite fragile. The recent decline of
       yields of TBs has led to a decline of revenues since TBs was a major source of
       revenue to many RCBs.

 ii.   RCBs have very much enhanced outreach and improved the range and quality of
       their services. Bank clients were very much satisfied with the services they
       received, in virtually all dimensions. The areas considered critical by clients were
       mainly the delays experienced during peak periods, like end of month when many
       workers flock the banks for their salaries, as well as the high interest rates on
       loans, but low interest payment by bank on savings.

iii.   The credit union movement has also done well over the past four years. The
       system has substantially expanded its membership. It is quite interesting that
       much of the numerical growth came from the participation of women, who were
       practically the drivers of growth.

 iv.   There can be little doubt that most of the credit union members want more and
       bigger loans at reasonable interest rate, which is a source of dissatisfaction with
       CUA. The viability of CUA depends on its ability to satisfy its members with
       loans, since primary societies are likely to turn to other institutions that are able
       to offer them quicker and cheaper loans.

 v.    Susu Collectors have a critical role in making micro financial services accessible
       to the very poor and difficult to reach clients by traditional banks. However, most
       of these susu collectors operate informally without proper regulation which can
       lead to fraud and cheating of these vulnerable clients.

LESSONS LEARNED

Some lessons distilled from the findings include the following:

  i.   Given the state of rural finance before the RFSP, capacity building measures
       were certainly the appropriate activities in order to build viable rural financial
       institutions, which are capable of expanding their services to the rural poor and
       financing their expansion from the profits earned.           Targeting all relevant
       institutions and actors in rural financial services in the capacity building process
       greatly enhanced project success.



                                            29

 ii.  Active consultation and joint decision making with key stakeholders at all stages
      of project design and implementation is critical for effectiveness. This is even
      more needed in a project, whose effectiveness and efficiency of reaching the set
      goals depends heavily on other collaborating institutions.

iii.  The survival of apex bodies such as GCSCA and CUA depends ultimately on their
      ability to attract a sufficient membership that also pays dues and pays for the
      provision of relevant services. Apex bodies can only accomplish this when they
      offer services that are considered relevant and beneficial to their members.

iv.   The capacity of rural banks to survive in the market and stand the competition
      from other financial institutions depends on a functional apex financial institution
      that provides relevant services.

 v.   Although the promotional efforts under the RFSP has made the network of RCBs
      more alert and active, many banks have remained somewhat complacent as
      regards lending, and have relied heavily on the zero-risk investment opportunity
      in TBs. The drastic fall of yields of TBs has more than any other single factor
      woken up bank managers and owners, and currently drives them to find new
      investment opportunities for the surplus funds.

vi.   Subsidised loans emanating from government to disadvantaged groups, such as
      farmers, tend to undermine the stability of the financial sector and make the
      disadvantaged groups assume that loan repayment is not really needed and
      thereby contribute to corruption in the system.

vii.  With over 60% of the people in rural areas engaged in agriculture, investment in
      this sector is indispensable to fuel the rural economy and bridge the gap between
      the poor and the better-off.

RECOMMENDATIONS

Based on the findings, the following recommendations are made:
   i.     In a rapidly changing environment with increasing competition, there will be
          need for RCBs to continuously improve their services and efficiency, and price
          products according to costs. It would therefore be appropriate to commission
          client surveys more regularly as a means of gauging the satisfaction of clients
          and seeking ways for improvements.

   ii.    In response to the outcry of clients interviewed on the high interest rates on
          loans, there will be need for RCBs to review their conditions of loans to
          reflect the general improvements in the money market as well as ensure that
          the savings made from improved operational efficiency due to RFSP are
          passed on to clients.




                                            30

iii.  Speed up the computerization process of RCBs and ensure that there is
      accessible follow-up support. This may imply the need to decentralize and
      outsource ICT installation and maintenance services with overall supervision
      and guidance from the Apex Bank.

iv.   To ensure synergy and take advantage of economies of scale, the Apex Bank
      should explore the possibility of extending some of its services such as specie
      supply and refinance to other MFIs, like Credit Unions as well as Savings and
      Loans Companies.

v.    Due to low capitalization of many credit union societies, there will be a need
      for CUA to find ways and means to help these societies have access to
      loanable funds at a reasonable interest rate. Access to such facilities should
      however be dependent on the financial performance of the primary societies,
      in particular their recovery rates. Improvements of the loan management by
      primary societies is therefore one of the critical issues that the network has to
      address.

vi.   The loan sanctioning limit of ¢20million across board for all RCBs is
      inappropriate as the RCBs have different sizes, capabilities, resources, scale
      of operation and needs. The operating environments are also not the same for
      all of them. It is therefore advisable for BOG to fix sanctioning limits to each
      RCB based on an evaluation of various factors including portfolio quality,
      networth and economic potential in a respective catchment area of the bank.

vii.  Some apex institutions were supplied with items without their prior request.
      The result is that institutions have equipment and machines which are not in
      use and lying idle or have been over subscribed. To avoid such a situation in
      future, it is recommended that an effective needs assessment be done before
      the procurement of such items. There should also be follow-up checks from
      the project to ensure that the items supplied are effectively deployed.

viii. The need to prepare a Training Needs Assessment (TNA) with every training
      event can be expensive and unduly drive up the cost of delivering training. It
      may be better for organizations with the necessary capacity, like CUA, to
      undertake a comprehensive Training Needs Assessment (TNA) of their
      members, based on which a composite training plan is developed which RFSP
      could buy into. In the situation where participating organizations do not have
      the requisite capacity to develop their own composite training plans, a one-off
      training workshop on how to conduct TNA of their members should be
      conducted for all such organizations.          Subsequently, they would then
      undertake their own TNAs and shop around for the right Training Provider
      (TP) to offer the training to them. This will make it possible to contextualise
      the TNA within the overall staff training needs for the year and not treat TNA
      with respect to the specific training being offered by the TP.




                                        31

ix.   The current practice of training individual MFIs may not be cost effective in
      some situations. It would be more suitable to offer training on call up basis
      whereby staff from various RCBs can sign to a programme if relevant to their
      needs in accordance with the training needs assessment. Such an approach
      will ensure that the trainer is able to reach larger numbers at the same time.

x.    The Apex Bank should discuss with RCBs on ways of reducing cost of training
      so as to make it possible for many RCBs to participate.

xi.   There is a strong need for the generation of accurate and reliable data that
      can give a total picture of the performance of micro-finance indicators over
      the years in the country. To this end, it is recommended that GHAMFIN, as
      an umbrella body of apex microfinance institutions, be supported financially
      to effectively operationalize the data aggregation methodology which is being
      finalized.

xii.  Best practice manuals have been developed under the project. These would
      have been very useful for the beneficiary institutions in their own in-house
      staff training activities. Unfortunately, although the institutions were aware of
      the existence of these manuals, not many of them had received copies or knew
      where to get them. We recommend that these manuals be made available to all
      institutions to promote in-house staff training as a cost effective way of staff
      performance improvement.

xiii. The Credit Union Bill has been in discussion for far too long. Absence of a
      bill specific to the operations of the credit unions is adversely affecting their
      operations. It is recommended that the PMU assists in the process to the
      extent possible.
xiv.  The negative effects of subsidised loan funds with different terms and
      conditions and operational methodologies has been noted throughout this
      report. We recommend that the project should take a deeper look at this and
      find appropriate ways to assist MFIs, especially RCBs, to deal with this
      situation. For example, loanable funds from some government agency could
      be given to RCBs at, say 10% interest, but the participating RCB should be
      allowed to appraise the loan applications and also offer the credit at the
      prevailing interest rate at the participating bank.

xv.   In view of the critical role of susu collectors in micro finance, it is desirable to
      assist them access loanable funds for their clients. This may be done through
      linkage banking between MFIs and susu collectors.

xvi.  Since remote RCBs have a lower capacity for savings mobilization, they are
      often not in a position to pay for some of the training and equipment supplied
      under the project. To ensure some equity, it may be appropriate to offer
      concessions to such RCBs located in remote areas.




                                        32

Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results

The project organized a workshop of key stakeholders to discuss the borrowers ICR.
Feedback was incorporated into a revised draft of the document.




                                          33

Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR

Executive Summary of the Borrower's ICR

                             EXECUTIVE SUMMARY
  1. The RFSP was IFAD's 12th loan to the GOG while that of IDA was one of the
      various projects approved since the eighties. It aimed at promoting growth,
      reducing poverty and deepening rural financial intermediation. The specific
      objectives of RFSP were to: (i) strengthen operational linkages between informal
      and semi-formal MFIs and RCBs to enable them expand their services to a large
      number of rural clients; (ii) build capacity of the RCBs in order to enhance the
      effectiveness and quality of services to rural clients; (iii) support the
      establishment of an Apex structure for the rural banking network to provide them
      with common services; and (iv) strengthen the institutional and policy framework
      of the BOG and MOFEP for improved oversight of the rural financial sector. This
      report describes the experiences of the RFSP from design to completion. It is
      backed by the results of a participatory project evaluation workshop held on 9-10
      October 2008. The objective of the workshop was to assess the achievements of
      project development objectives (PDO) and to chart a path for the future operation
      of similar projects/ programmes.

  2. The RFSP's goal was to be achieved through the following instruments: i)
      institutional capacity building largely through training, ii) adoption of best
      practices, and iii) providing technical and logistic support. The project design
      took into full account the experiences of previous projects funded by the IDA and
      IFAD in Ghana and elsewhere, particularly, in the WCA region. The
      implementation arrangements assured that project management within the BSD of
      BOG was autonomous within the limits of its approved AWPBs.

  3. Resources were devoted to the M&E during project implementation for training
      of staff, equipment, etc. TA was also provided to establish the M&E and MIS. As a
      result of the support, the M&E did achieve the primary objective of such a
      system: the collection and analysis of the information necessary for tracking
      progress and impact, enabling decision­makers to diagnose and resolve
      problems.

  4. The following evidence suggests that RFSP did impact positively on the
      operations of key beneficiaries: i) RCBs: a) Total assets showed a change of
      about 715.6% while Net-worth % change was about 631.1%,. b) the change in
      loans and advances (gross) was 1257.4%, c) deposits registered a change of
      about 722.6% compared with a change of 291.1% for short term investments ,ii)
      Apex Bank: a) a total of 436,507 cheques cleared with a cumulative value
      of ¢13,548 billion by end 2007, b) specie supply to RCBs amounted to ¢ 5.606
      billion, c) about 1,800 staff of the RCBs of various categories trained from 2003
      to June 2006, and d) a total of about ¢135.92 billion channeled through the Apex
      Bank to RCBs for on lending to their clients



                                           34

5. Through capacity building support to CUA and its affiliates under the project, the
   CUs have shown good progress during the past 6 years as follows: i) membership
   has increased by 59.37%ii) deposits increased by 307%iii) loans increased by
   624%and iv) total assets of all credit unions increased by 248%Similarly, the
   impact of RFSP on Susus included: i) the number of susu collectors increased
   from 828 in 2002 to 1259 in 2007, representing an increase of about 52%ii) their
   clients increased from 50,386 to 181835, an increase of about 261%% within the
   same period, and iii) short-term deposits mobilized by susus increased by about
   174% from Ghc7.56million to Ghc 38.54million (equivalent to about USD 19.28
   million).

6. Impact on GHAMFIN's activities included: i) enhanced national capacity to
   provide and or supervise training of its members and others, ii) enhanced
   capacity for information dissemination by establishing resource centres both in
   Accra and Tamale, and iii) the establishment of benchmarks to ensure high
   professional standards and best practices among members. While the impact on
   BSD was an enhanced capacity to make more frequent on-site visits to RCBs, the
   preparation of the GHAMP was coordinated by the MFU.

7. The rating of Component 1 is moderately satisfactory based on: i) training of
   10,687 clients, and ii) substantial deposits mobilized by CUs and Susus. Other
   outputs achieved under the component were: i) the preparation of 17 good
   practice manuals, ii) training for selected TPs, iii) the preparation of the
   GHAMP, and iv) technical support to Apexes. These achievements albeit outside
   the original objectives of the component were made thanks to the collective
   ingenuity of project implementers and funding agencies.

8. The overall rating of Component 2 is highly satisfactory, based on: i) the total
   number of RCB deposit accounts has grown from 1,129,316 in 2001 to 2,670,618
   as of December 31, 2007, ii) the number of borrowers though significantly less
   grew from 139,325 in 2001 to 590,161, iii) total deposits grew from
   Ghc64.1million in 2002 to Ghc 291.6 million, iv) on average, cheque clearing,
   that took about two weeks in 2001, had been reduced to about five days, v) RCBs
   have deeper outreach to the poor, reaching the two bottom quintiles, vi)
   profitability/or sustainability of RCBs indicated that only 17 of the 120 RCBs
   reporting could not cover their expenses at the end of 2007. The main identified
   weaknesses for the component that need to be addressed to ensure sustainability
   are: i) poor loan quality assets reflected in higher Loans Loss Provision (LLP) of
   about 5.5%, and ii) high operating costs

9. The output of component 3 is ranked satisfactory based on the following: i) the
   RCBs really appreciate the services provided by the Apex Bank; ii) the completion
   of the Apex Bank's Headquarters on time, and iii) refurbishing of Wa and Tamale
   regional branches from its own resources. The main weakness identified in
   delivery of outputs is some occasional delays concerning Apex Link fund transfers
   that do not seem to reach the retail end-customers. However, the outcome of


                                        35

    component 3 is rated moderately satisfactory in view of the declining trend of the
    OSSs for the Apex Bank. This puts the Apex Bank's sustainability in jeopardy. In
    view of the satisfactory rating for output and moderately satisfactory rating for
    outcome, the overall rating of component 3 is moderately satisfactory.

10. The output of component 4 regarding BSD is satisfactory on the following basis:
    i) the training received under the Project has enhanced the knowledge and skills
    of the supervisory staff, .ii) the logistics supplied have facilitated on-site and off-
   site examination of the RCBs. The output of the MFU is also rated satisfactory
    largely based on: i) the development of 17 good practice manuals for use by
    various MFIs even beyond the RFSP, ii) the coordination and the preparation of
    the GHAMP document. However, the outcome of the MFU is highly
    unsatisfactory since the GHAMP is yet to be approved by GOG for
    implementation despite all the efforts. The outcome of the BSD is rated
    satisfactory, since the number of RCBs being rated satisfactory has substantially
    increased due to enhanced supervision.. While in 2001 there were 87 satisfactory
    and 28 unsatisfactory RCBs, the satisfactory RCBs numbered 112 with 15
    unsatisfactory at the end of June 2008. In view of the above expose, the overall
    rating of Component 4 is moderately satisfactory. The main weakness for the
    component is the Government's inability to approve the GHAMP for
    implementation.

11. The performances of BOG-BSD and the PSC are rated satisfactory based on: i,
    they did not micro-manage the project, ii) the approval of AWPBs in
    November/December enabled the project to operate with approved budgets at the
    beginning of each Project Year (PY). The PCU's performance including the M&E
    is also rated satisfactory on the following basis: i) high outputs by the highly
    qualified staff, and ii) availability and quality of data on the project was
    satisfactory.

12. The performance of the FA for the RMFI component is satisfactory based on : (i)
    over 10,000 RMFIs clients trained (ii) capacity of 19 microfinance service
    providers out of initial 70 selected built,. (iii) 17 "Good Practice" manuals to
    harmonize training activities and reduce cost developed. (iv) refocused
    component implementation from entrepreneurship training to MFIs training. (v)
    the development of the GHAMP Document. Similarly, the performance of the FA
    that managed the Microfinance Support Initiatives (MSI) for 15 selected RCBs is
    also satisfactory based on increased deposits, growth in loans and clientele
    outreach during September 2006-June 2007.

13. Main design assumptions found to be faulty were i) the appraisal target of
    training of 300 000 RMFIs' clients was without strong basis, ii) the non-
    recognition of TSPs lacking capacity to achieve training               target without
    compromising quality of training, iii) the unambiguous definition of RMFIs'
    clientele in the PAD opened the floodgates of training artisans, self-help groups,
    etc with no focus in microfinance, iv) the non-clear cut design of the component in



                                           36

    the PAD culminated in some `try and error' methods in the implementation of the
    Pilot Training Fund(PTF).

14. The main instruments for enhancing replicability of the RFSP include: i) using the
    RMFIs to enhance the rural poor access to financial services in breadth and
    depth; ii) using Apex bodies of RMFIs to provide common services such as
    capacity building through training, products development, specie movement, etc
    iii) engaging private sector entities and or NGOs to provide technical services to
    project implementing partners in areas where the latter lack capacities, and iv)
    building capacity at all levels: macro; meso, and micro. On the other hand,
   factors for non-replicability include: i) developing products that are urban biased
   and therefore do not meet the needs of rural clients, and ii) pricing of common
    services below cost recovery does undermine financial sustainability of apex
    bodies such as the Apex Bank.

15. The potential for sustainability of RFSP's achievements is high, in view of the
    following i) majority of RCBs, in particular, have achieved OSS and are striving
    to achieve FSS, ii) outreach levels for deposits and loans are being grown
   continuously with a view to enhancing profitability, iii) capacities of the staff of
    RMFIs are being built in credit management to minimize default rates and loan
    failures, iv) financial products are being developed to meet the needs of rural
    clients, and v) development of financial infrastructure (e.g. credit reference
    bureaus, e-zwich smart card,) to minimize transaction costs in delivering rural
    financial services as well as reducing loans default risk. Meanwhile, the
    constraining factors militating against sustainability and or replicability would be
    addressed under the upcoming Rural and Agricultural Finance Programme
    (RAFiP).

16. The performances of IDA and IFAD are rated satisfactory since the IDA facility
    was fully disbursed while that of IFAD was about 99.14% disbursed both as of
    05-November-2008. The performance of GOG as Borrower of the loan funds is
    rated satisfactory on the following grounds :i) counterpart funding was provided
    as anticipated in terms both of amounts and timing, ii) GOG did not interfere in
    the implementation of the project by the BOG. The only sore point is the inability
    of the Government to approve the GHAMP for implementation.

17. On the basis of the high outputs, outcomes and substantial impacts attributable to
    the project, its overall rating is satisfactory.

18. The main lessons learned include: i) project completion dates of co-financiers
    need to be harmonized in order to minimize the revision of completion dates. ii)
    capacity building of RMFIs, especially the RCBs, should be based on a
    comprehensive competency profile to make it more effective, iii) building the
    long-term sustainability of RCBs requires that they become more efficient,
    commercially oriented, and able to provide a broader range of financial products
    and services demanded by their clientele, iv) assistance to RCBs should be



                                           37

    holistic and well integrated with support to other segments of the system, iv) for
    the ARB Apex Bank to continue to play its important role in the rural banking
    sector, it too, must focus increasingly on becoming a commercially viable entity
    and moving away from reliance on the government and donor funding that
    supported its creation and capitalization,

19. Other lessons learned are: i) funding of the "public goods" aspects of Apex
    bodies remains problematic and need to be addressed to make them more viable
    in the long term; ii) RMFIs and NGO- and donor-sponsored programmes are
    better performers than Government in reaching the poor, as well as recovering
    loans; iii) subsidized credit does not really reach the rural poor, and tends to
    undermine the sustainability of the financial sector. iv) targeting is most
    successful when products are designed to fit the needs and circumstances of the
    groups concerned. v) the quality of training and BDS for RMFIs and their clients
    cannot be assumed. vi) for effective project implementation in a situation of weak
    markets for technical and business services and lack of capacity in apex
    organizations, contracting independent agencies or firms to oversee these
    activities has proved to be an effective strategy, and vii) the exhaustion of the
    PTF about      two years before project closure needs to addressed in future
    projections for similar funds.




                                        38

Annex 8. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders

IFAD

IFAD considers that this operation has made a critical contribution in terms of building
sustainable rural financial institutions, improving their outreach to the rural poor people
and especially to rural women and other vulnerable groups, as evidenced by the Poverty
Outreach Study. Key to these achievements were the very strong unity of purpose and
sense of commitment among the Bank-IFAD team, which supported GoG and the rural
finance community in building a strong momentum for growth and development. IFAD
has built on these achievements in preparing the RAFiP to support rural and agricultural
finance within the framework of AFSAP. It is hoped that the Bank and IFAD pursue
their successful partnership to scale up their support within the scope of RAFiP and
AFSAP.




                                             39

Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents


  1. Report on RFSP Beneficiary Assessment, GIMPA Consultancy Services,
      October 2006

  2. Performance Evaluation of the Microfinance Products of RMFIs and
      Government Credit Program in Ghana, Asamoah and Williams Consulting,
      December 2004

  3. Spatio-temporal Dimensions of Clients of Microfinance Institutions in Ghana,
      K. Awusabo-Asare, S. K. Anim and D. Asare-Mintah, mimeo, n.d.

  4. Microfinance Poverty Outreach and Performance Assessment: A Study of
      Rural Microfinance Institutions and Government Programs in Ghana, CGAP
      and CERISE, 2005

  5. Project Completion Report/ Implementation Completion Report of the Rural
      Financial Services Project, Asamoah and Williams Consulting, November, 2008
      [the borrower's ICR]

  6. IFAD Project Document, May 2000

  7. AfDB Project Completion report, July 2008

  8. Computer Automation in the Rural Banking Network in Ghana: A Status
      Assessment, World Bank, 2008

  9. Implementation Status and Results Reports, various years

  10. Aide memoires from supervision missions, various years

  11. Interim Project Reports submitted by Facilitating Agency




                                       40

                                                                                                                                                                                                                        IBRD 33411

                                                                            2°W                                                                           0°                                                                   2°E
                                                                                                          To
                                                                                                       Tenkodogo
                                                          BURKINA FASO


                      To                    Hamale                                                      Navrongo     U P P E R E A S T
Bobo-
Diolasso                                                                      WalewaleTumu                       Bolgatanga                                                                            GHANA

                                                                                                                                                    Nakpanduri
                                                             U P P E R W E S T

                                                                                                                                  Walewale                                                 To
                                                                                                                                                                                       Dapaong



             10°N                      Black Volta                           Kolpawn
                                                             Wa
                                                             Wa                                                                                                                                                                10°N
                                                                                                                                                    Gushiegu


                                                                                                         White Volta
                                                                                                                                                                                                                To
                                                                                                                                                                                                              Djougou
                                                                                           N O R T H E R N
                                                                                                                                                           Yendi
                         To                                                                                          Tamale
  Ferkéssédougou                                                                                                                                                                                                     BENIN
                                                               Sawla


                                                                                                    Fufulsu
                                                             Bole                                                                              Daka                                                            To
                                                                                                                                                                                                             Djougou
                         CÔTE                                                                                                                    Nakpayili        Oti                         TOGO
                      D'IVOIRE

                             To                                                 BlackVolta                                         Salaga


                           Bouna
                                                                                                                                         Makongo
                                                                                                                                Yeji

                                                                                               Kintampo                                                       Dambai
             8°N                                                                                                                                                                                                                8°N
                                                                                            Jema                                                            V O L T A
                                                         B R O N G - A H A F O                                 Atebubu
                                                                                                                                         Kwadwokurom
                                                              Tain    Techiman                      Pru
                                                        Berekum                                                                                                                                        To
                                                                                                                                                                                                      Sokodé

                                                         Sunyani                                                                                                Mount Afadjato
                                                                                                                                                                      (880 m)
                                                                   K      w
                                    Bia                                     a   h                                       Afram
                                                                                          u                                                        Lake
                                                                                                                                                            Kpandu                nges

  AgbovilleoT                                                                                     P                                                Volta                                                     To
                                                                                                     l           Agogo                                                          Ra                         Abomey

                                            Goaso                                                       a   t   e  a   u
                                                                                          Kumasi


                                                               Bibiani                                                                 E A S T E R N                       -Togo      Ho

                         Krokosue                                             A S H A N T I                  Anum                                                        im                                       To
                                                                                                                                                                                                                 Porto-

                                                      no                               Obuasi
                                                                       Diaso                                                  Birim                                     p                                        Novo
                                                                                                                                                                       a
                                                      aT                                                               Kade                        Koforidua         kw               Volta           Aflao
             6°N                                                                                                   Oda
                                 W E S T E R N                                                                                                                   A                                                              6°N
                                                                           Dunkwa
                              Enchi                                                                                                                        GREATER                                                             2°E
                                                                                                                                                           ACCRA
             AbidjanoT                                                                                                                                      Tema
                                                                                                    Twifo Praso
                                                                                                                                                     ACCRA
                                                                Prestea                                    C E N T R A L                                                                       GHANA
                                                                   Ankobra                   Pra
                                                                                Tarkwa                                             Winneba                                                        SELECTED CITIES AND TOWNS

                                                                                                                 Cape Coast                                                                       REGION CAPITALS
Newtown
                                                                                                                                                                                                  NATIONAL CAPITAL
 This map was produced by                                                                      Sekondi
 the Map Design Unit of The                                    Axim                         Takoradi                                                                                              RIVERS
 World Bank. The boundaries,                                                                                                    Gulf of G uinea
 colors, denominations and
 any other information shown                                                                                                                                                                      MAIN ROADS
 on this map do not imply, on
 the part of The World Bank                                                                  0     20     40     60    80 Kilometers                                                              RAILROADS
 Group, any judgment on the
 legal status                 of any territory,                                                                                                                                                   REGION BOUNDARIES
 or any endorsement or                                                                       0         20         40       60 Miles
 a c c e p t a n c e              o f   s u c h
 boundaries.                                                                2°W                                                                           0°                                      INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES

                                                                                                                                                                                                                        SEPTEMBER 2004

