                                 Document of
                               The World Bank




                                                 Report No.: 87105




             PROJECT PERFORMANCE ASSESSMENT REPORT

                                  BRAZIL

   ECOSYSTEM RESTORATION OF RIPARIAN FORESTS IN SÃO PAULO
                         (TF-55091)

                                April 16, 2014




IEG Public Sector Evaluation
Independent Evaluation Group
                                               ii


Currency Equivalents (annual averages)

Currency Unit = Real (R$)

2005                     US$1.00                R$2.43
2006                     US$1.00                R$2.18
2007                     US$1.00                R$1.95
2008                     US$1.00                R$1.83
2009                     US$1.00                R$2.01
2010                     US$1.00                R$1.65
2011                     US$1.00                R$1.58


Abbreviations and Acronyms
APP    Areas of Permanent Preservation
BNDES National Development Bank
CATI State Rural Extension Company
CBRN Coordination for Biodiversity and Natural Resources (of SMA)
GEF    Global Environment Facility
GEO    Global Environmental Objective
ICR    Implementation Completion Report
IEG    Independent Evaluation Group
IEGPS IEG Public Sector Evaluation
MTR Mid-term Review
PDO    Project Development Objective
PEMC Riparian Forest Restoration Program
PES    Payment for Environmental Services
PMU Project Management Unit
PRMC Riparian Forest Restoration Project
PROANG State Program of Support for NGOs
GoSP State Government of Sao Paulo
LM III Land Management III Project: Sao Paulo
PPAR Project Performance Assessment Report
SAA    State Secretariat of Agriculture and Supply
SAF    Agro-forestry System
SEE    State Secretariat of Education
SIG    Geographic Information System
SLM    Sustainable Land Management
SMA State Secretariat of Environment
UC     Conservation Unit (Protected Area)



Fiscal Year

Government:              January 1 to December 31


Director-General, Independent Evaluation                 :   Ms. Caroline Heider
Director, IEG Public Sector Evaluation                   :   Mr. Emmanuel Jimenez
Manager, IEG Public Sector Evaluation                    :   Ms. Marie Gaarder
Task Manager                                             :   Ms. April Connelly
                                                                  iii


Contents
1. Background and Context................................................................................................. 1
2. Objectives, Design, and their Relevance ........................................................................ 3
   Design ............................................................................................................................. 4
   Relevance of Design ....................................................................................................... 6
   Safeguards category and requirements ........................................................................... 7
   Monitoring and Evaluation Design ................................................................................. 8
3. Implementation ............................................................................................................... 8
   Changes in scope of activities ......................................................................................... 8
   Planned vs. Actual Expenditure by Component ............................................................. 9
   Implementation Experience .......................................................................................... 10
   Implementation of Monitoring and Evaluation............................................................. 12
   Safeguards compliance ................................................................................................. 13
4. Achievement of the Objectives ..................................................................................... 13
   Objective 1 .................................................................................................................... 14
   Arrest and reverse land degradation processes in riparian ecosystems and adjacent
   agro-ecosystems by increasing on-the-ground investments to encourage sustainable
   land management .......................................................................................................... 14
   Objective 2 .................................................................................................................... 17
   Arrest and reverse land degradation processes in riparian ecosystems and adjacent
   agro-ecosystems by strengthening the policy, regulatory, economic, and institutional
   incentive framework to encourage sustainable land management ................................ 17
5. Efficiency ...................................................................................................................... 20
6. Ratings .......................................................................................................................... 21
   Outcome ........................................................................................................................ 21
   Risk to Development Outcome ..................................................................................... 22
   Bank Performance ......................................................................................................... 23
   Borrower Performance .................................................................................................. 24
   Monitoring and Evaluation ........................................................................................... 25
7. Lessons .......................................................................................................................... 25




This report was prepared by April Connelly, with input from Eraclito Neto who also provided support for
the IEG mission to Brazil in March 2013. The report was peer reviewed by Ken Chomitz and panel
reviewed by Ridley Nelson. Marie Charles provided administrative support.
                                                 iv


Tables
Table 1. Project Cost by Component (in USD million equivalent) .................................... 9
Table 2. Project Financing by Source (in USD million equivalent) ................................ 10
                                                               v


Principal Ratings
Ecosystem Restoration of Riparian Forests in São Paulo Project
                                      ICR*                          ICR Review*                          PPAR
Outcome                            Satisfactory                      Moderately                        Moderately
                                                                    Unsatisfactory                    Unsatisfactory
Risk to                         Negligible to low                      Moderate                          Moderate
Development
Outcome
Bank Performance           Moderately Satisfactory                   Moderately                        Moderately
                                                                    Unsatisfactory                    Unsatisfactory
Borrower                           Satisfactory               Moderately Satisfactory Moderately Satisfactory
Performance
* The Implementation Completion Report (ICR) is a self-evaluation by the responsible Bank department. The ICR Review is an
intermediate IEGWB product that seeks to independently verify the findings of the ICR.



Key Staff Responsible
                                                                Division Chief/
Project                 Task Manager/Leader                     Sector Director                    Country Director
Appraisal                   Isabel Braga                          Abel Mejia                        Vinod Thomas
Completion                Erick C. Fernandes                   Ethel Sennhauser                      Makhtar Diop
                                                           vi


      IEG Mission: Improving World Bank Group development results through excellence in evaluation.


About this Report
       The Independent Evaluation Group assesses the programs and activities of the World Bank for two purposes:
first, to ensure the integrity of the Bank’s self-evaluation process and to verify that the Bank’s work is producing the
expected results, and second, to help develop improved directions, policies, and procedures through the
dissemination of lessons drawn from experience. As part of this work, IEG annually assesses 20-25 percent of the
Bank’s lending operations through field work. In selecting operations for assessment, preference is given to those that
are innovative, large, or complex; those that are relevant to upcoming studies or country evaluations; those for which
Executive Directors or Bank management have requested assessments; and those that are likely to generate
important lessons.
      To prepare a Project Performance Assessment Report (PPAR), IEG staff examine project files and other
documents, visit the borrowing country to discuss the operation with the government, and other in-country
stakeholders, and interview Bank staff and other donor agency staff both at headquarters and in local offices as
appropriate.
      Each PPAR is subject to internal IEG peer review, Panel review, and management approval. Once cleared
internally, the PPAR is commented on by the responsible Bank department. The PPAR is also sent to the borrower
for review. IEG incorporates both Bank and borrower comments as appropriate, and the borrowers' comments are
attached to the document that is sent to the Bank's Board of Executive Directors. After an assessment report has
been sent to the Board, it is disclosed to the public.

About the IEG Rating System for Public Sector Evaluations
     IEG’s use of multiple evaluation methods offers both rigor and a necessary level of flexibility to adapt to
lending instrument, project design, or sectoral approach. IEG evaluators all apply the same basic method to arrive
at their project ratings. Following is the definition and rating scale used for each evaluation criterion (additional
information is available on the IEG website: http://worldbank.org/ieg).
     Outcome: The extent to which the operation’s major relevant objectives were achieved, or are expected to
be achieved, efficiently. The rating has three dimensions: relevance, efficacy, and efficiency. Relevance includes
relevance of objectives and relevance of design. Relevance of objectives is the extent to which the project’s
objectives are consistent with the country’s current development priorities and with current Bank country and
sectoral assistance strategies and corporate goals (expressed in Poverty Reduction Strategy Papers, Country
Assistance Strategies, Sector Strategy Papers, Operational Policies). Relevance of design is the extent to which
the project’s design is consistent with the stated objectives. Efficacy is the extent to which the project’s objectives
were achieved, or are expected to be achieved, taking into account their relative importance. Efficiency is the
extent to which the project achieved, or is expected to achieve, a return higher than the opportunity cost of capital
and benefits at least cost compared to alternatives. The efficiency dimension generally is not applied to adjustment
operations. Possible ratings for Outcome: Highly Satisfactory, Satisfactory, Moderately Satisfactory, Moderately
Unsatisfactory, Unsatisfactory, Highly Unsatisfactory.
     Risk to Development Outcome: The risk, at the time of evaluation, that development outcomes (or
expected outcomes) will not be maintained (or realized). Possible ratings for Risk to Development Outcome: High,
Significant, Moderate, Negligible to Low, Not Evaluable.
     Bank Performance: The extent to which services provided by the Bank ensured quality at entry of the
operation and supported effective implementation through appropriate supervision (including ensuring adequate
transition arrangements for regular operation of supported activities after loan/credit closing, toward the
achievement of development outcomes. The rating has two dimensions: quality at entry and quality of supervision.
Possible ratings for Bank Performance: Highly Satisfactory, Satisfactory, Moderately Satisfactory, Moderately
Unsatisfactory, Unsatisfactory, Highly Unsatisfactory.
     Borrower Performance: The extent to which the borrower (including the government and implementing
agency or agencies) ensured quality of preparation and implementation, and complied with covenants and
agreements, toward the achievement of development outcomes. The rating has two dimensions: government
performance and implementing agency(ies) performance. Possible ratings for Borrower Performance: Highly
Satisfactory, Satisfactory, Moderately Satisfactory, Moderately Unsatisfactory, Unsatisfactory, Highly
Unsatisfactory.
                                             vii


Preface
This is a Project Performance Assessment Report (PPAR) of the Ecosystem Restoration
of Riparian Forests in São Paulo Project (TF-55091). The project was approved on June
21, 2005 and became effective on September 8, 2005. The total project cost at appraisal
was US$ 19.52 million. It was financed by a Global Environment Facility Grant of
US$7.75 million. At project closure the full grant amount had been disbursed. The project
closed on April 27, 2011, 15 months after the original closing date of January 31, 2010.
The closing date was extended to compensate for implementation delays caused by
staffing challenges and enable completion of key activities.

This report is based on a review of project documents, including the Implementation
Completion and Results Report, the Project Appraisal Document, legal documents and
project files, and on discussions held with Bank staff involved in the project. It is also
based on an IEG assessment mission to Brazil that was conducted from February 25 to
March 8, 2013. IEG held meetings in São Paulo and conducted site visits in Piracicaba,
Garça, Jaú, Joanópolis, and Bragança Paulitsta to interview beneficiaries and partner
organizations. The mission expresses its appreciation for the generous time and attention
of the Borrower and all concerned parties. A list of persons met during the IEG mission is
in Annex B.

IEG selected this project for a field assessment in order to verify its results and assess
their sustainability. The evaluation also provided input into the IEG Country Program
Evaluation of Brazil.

Following standard IEG procedures, copies of the draft report have been sent to
government officials and agencies for their review and comment. No comments were
received.
Summary
The purpose of this report is to assess the development effectiveness of the Ecosystem
Restoration of Riparian Forests in Sao Paulo Project (2005-20 11 ). Sao Paulo is
Brazil's richest state and has an important agriculture sector. Expansion of intensive
agro-industry in the last fifty years, however, has reduced the coverage of native
vegetation, increased the strain on natural resources and contributed to severe land
degradation. The objectives of this stand-alone GEF financed project were to anest
and reverse land degradation processes in riparian ecosystems and adjacent agro-
ecosystcms by increasing on-the-ground investments and strengthening the policy,
regulatory, economic, and institutional incentive framework to encourage sustainable
land management.

The project generated a large volume of studies, reference materials and tools to
support riparian forest restoration . These studies contributed to changes in public
policies that are expected to have a positive role in promoting forest restoration in the
future. One of the most notable public policy achievements was the development of
the legal amendment to the existing Climate Change Law that laid the basis for the
Payments for Environmental Services, previously not permitted. This is important
because restoration is costly and many landholders in degraded riparian areas do not
have sufficient resources to bear such costs on their own. However, there is spotty
evidence on the application or use of the project's too ls and reference materials and
there is no systematic evidence of outcome level achievements. The project was also
expected to contribute to the application and multiplication of restoration practices by
working through NGOs at the grassroots level. While the project helped to strengthen
the capacity of some participating NGOs, it is not possible to systematically assess the
extent to which the project methodology is being continued by participating NGOs
with additional resources or the extent to which the project has had a demonstration
effect on non-participants. Some NGOs that participated in the project have continued
to utilize the approaches ·piloted under the project while there has been no continuity
by others. The total area of forest restored under the project was less than anticipated
at appraisal but was considered to be sufficient for piloting and demonstration
purposes. Ilowcver, at project closure there was little evidence that land degradation
was arrested or reversed and there has been no follow on monitoring to demonstrate
progress on this front since.

The project outcome rating is moderately unsatisfactory, based upon high relevance of
the objectives but negligible relevance of design, and modest achievement in reversing
or arresting land degradation . Efficiency is also modest. The risk to development
outcome is moderate due to uncertainty of the extent to which landholders wiII
maintain on farm investments and how far other initiatives will carry eco-system
restoration towards the ambitious GEO. The performance of the Bank is rated
moderately unsatisfactory at entry, moderately satisfactory during supervision, and
moderately unsatisfactory overall. Project preparation drew on lessons from similar
Bank projects but the project design was overly complex and required excessive
coordination. The M&E framework was also tlawcd and was not sufficiently
addressed during supervision. The borrower's performance is rated moderately
satisfactory overall. The Government demonstrated a high degree of commitment to
the project, providing counterpart financing that exceeded appraisal estimates and was
supportive of important policy reforms. The implementing agency was highly
committed and proactive in project management but there were weaknesses in
coordination, partly arising from the project's complexity, and M&E was weak.

Lessons

Based on the experience of this project, several lessons can be drawn:

    •   In land or forest management projects that aim to induce a change in land use
        practices and scaling up, it is impmtant to gain an understanding of the motives
        different types of landholders have to adopt and maintain such practices in
        addition to technical dimensions of restoration. In this case, the project
        documented some comparative evidence on the cost and etiectiveness of
        alternative riparian forest restoration technologies that may be of use to future
        restoration efforts. But there was less attention to the incentives or disincentives
        that different land owners have to adopt and sustain such practices or to
        overcoming barriers to participation, which is equally important for scaling up.

    •   Consistency between the objectives statements and the scale of investments and
        associated indicators is essential to avoid incongruities between investment
        strategy and project intent. In this case the project's ofticial objectives were stated
        in terms of ambitious global environment objectives. But the project was designed
        as a pilot to meet the de-facto objective of providing the State of Sao Paulo with
        the capacity and tools to tackle future restoration, as opposed to being designed to
        meet its actual declared objective statement and it did not include intermediate
        outcomes that could enable an assessment of the likelihood of meeting longer
        term expectations.

    •   Working through multiple institutional players can enhance policy and
        operational outcomes but it requires that mechanisms are developed to formalize
        institutional partnership with clearly defined common targets and timetables to
        reduce delays. Such mechanisms need to be agreed among all partners upfront
        and tailored to their own bureaucratic, managerial and operational structures. In
        this case, project implementation relied upon various institutions but there were
        difficulties in aligning priorities, timetables and information flow between
        different institutional teams who followed their own institutions procedures and
        timetables, contributing to implementation delays.

   •    Early consensus on coordination ofM&E between institutions and sectors within
        government is crucial in order to ensure alignment of objectives and targets and to
        achieve the t1ow of M&E data between entities. This is particularly important for
        projects with an experimental focus and widely dispersed activities that can make
        data collection, storage and usage more of a challenge. In this case, the project
        management unit was established in the Secretary of Environment and was
        charged with preparing semiannual reports that were to be made available to
project executors at all levels. But monitoring of field activities was carried out by
the State's Rural Extension Agency. Incompatibilities between the operational
structures of the two agencies led to bottlenecks in information flows that made it
difficult for the project management team to detect and respond to issues as they
arose and provide timely feedback to other project executing enti ties.      )     ..---


                                                              (~_ <-._-Lc.- ~. /(2.__L v-
                                                                         -f;-.
                                                              Caroline Heider
                                                              Director-General
                                                                 Evaluation
                                                        1


1. Background and Context
1.1     São Paulo is Brazil’s richest and most populous state with a large industrial sector and
an important agriculture sector that contributes to about 15% of national agricultural output.
Agriculture in the state is mostly based on sugarcane that is cultivated under an extensive
agro-industrial, export oriented system of production. Such production occupies
approximately 5.5 million hectares. The state also contains thousands of small farms (under
50 ha.) with mixed production systems that produce most of the agricultural products
consumed internally. These small farms represent 78 percent of the total number of farms in
the state but only 20 percent of total area under cultivation. (Rodrigues et al. 2011)

1.2      The State contains two major biomes: the Atlantic Rainforest and the Cerrado 1. Both
biomes are among the 25 priority hotspots for world biodiversity conservation, designated by
Conservation International. (World Bank 2005) Expansion of intensive agro-industry in the
last fifty years has resulted in increased strain on the State’s natural resources and severe land
degradation. Less than 13% of its land area is currently occupied by native vegetation. The
lack of forest cover makes the soil susceptible to erosion and gully formation that leads to
less productive soils and carries organic matter and sedimentation into the aquatic ecosystem
and contributes to the sedimentation of reservoirs, headwaters and springs. About 60% of the
state territory is classified as highly or very highly susceptible to erosion and the official
estimated annual soil loss is about 200 million tons. (World Bank 2005)

1.3      The restoration of degraded riparian vegetation is a critical component of sustainable
land management due to the important role that these areas play in maintaining overall
ecological balance. Riparian forests provide habitat and refuge for terrestrial and aquatic
organism, their shade keeps the water at temperatures more appropriate for fish and other
aquatic organisms. They are also important for water quality and flood control due to the role
they play in runoff control, water uptake, storage and release, and water filtering. Riparian
areas are considered to be legally protected under Brazilian legislation (Federal Law
4771/65) as “permanent preservation areas” but enforcement has been weak 2. At the same
time policies directly or indirectly promoting the cultivation of flood plains and other riparian
areas to boost crop productivity had resulted in the disappearance or degradation of virtually
all native riparian vegetation in productive agricultural areas. (World Bank 2005, Rodrigues
et al. 2011) Subsequent concerns over water quality, aquatic ecosystems, and the cost for

1
 The Cerrado is the most extensive woodland-savanna in South America. The region is made up of a mosaic of
different vegetation types: wooded savanna habitat, grassland with scattered trees, occasional patches of dry,
closed canopy forest, and strips of gallery forest (closed canopy tall forest) that occur along streams. It is the
second largest of Brazil's major habitat types, after The Amazonia, and is one of the most threatened and over-
exploited regions in Brazil, second only to the Atlantic Forests in vegetation loss and deforestation. Despite its
environmental importance, it is one of the least protected regions in Brazil. (WWF, Conservation International)
2
 Permanent Preservation Areas (PPA) are land portions that must be set aside with the exclusive goal of
conserving biodiversity and ecosystem services for society at large, and cannot be used for direct economic
benefit by land owners. The width of the dual riparian corridors established by PPA depends on the width of the
water course or size of water reservoirs and a circular PPA with a radius of 50m is required around all springs.
Since the legislation has not been fully respected, most of the PPAs are now degraded and the majority of
ecological restoration activities in Brazil are taking place in these riparian areas. (Rodriques et al. 2011)
                                                 2


water treatment and flooding have led to an increased interest in the state for riparian
restoration at a watershed scale.

1.4     For decades the World Bank had supported efforts aimed at addressing land
degradation through micro-watershed development projects in several states in southeastern
Brazil. Among these was the Third Land Management Project in São Paulo (LM III) (1997-
2008), implemented by the State Secretariat of Agriculture, which aimed to increase and
sustain agricultural production, productivity and farm incomes and support the conservation
of natural resources by providing incentives to adopt sustainable land management practices.

1.5     The GEF Riparian Forests Restoration Project was developed by the State Secretariat
of Environment and was intended to complement the agricultural land restoration efforts of
the LM III project with a dedicated effort to address degradation of riparian forest areas. The
GEF project marked the first occasion that the State Secretariat of Environment worked with
the World Bank. When the Secretariat of Environment first approached the Bank to propose
this operation, it intended to prepare a fully-blended project including IBRD loan and GEF
financing. But they were informed by the Secretary of Finance that the State had reached its
borrowing ceiling. The operation was thus prepared as a GEF stand-alone project with 100%
financing from the State that included parallel financing from the LM III project.

1.6     Both operations (GEF riparian restoration and LM III) covered the same geographic
areas and beneficiary populations, and aimed to foster close collaboration across a range of
technical and operational elements but there would be no overlap in the activities supported
by the two projects. The LM III project would provide co-financing to the GEF operation, for
the adoption of sustainable land management practices, using the same incentives scheme,
the provision of seedlings of native tree species to build long-term supply, and
training/capacity building for project executors/rural extension agents in the rehabilitation
and restoration of riparian forests.

1.7      The Riparian Forest project was intended to support the Environment Secretariat’s
interest in developing a program that would build on the already existing activities
supporting restoration of productive agricultural lands, and would aim to restore native
riparian habitats as a way to restore and preserve ecosystem stability, functions, and services,
including carbon sequestration, and stabilize sediment storage and release in the state’s water
bodies. The project sought to systematically address the following constrains to the adoption
of effective measures to rehabilitate and restore riparian forests on a large-scale and long
term basis: (i) rural landowners, especially small farmers, have little interest and incentive for
participating in projects aimed at restoration and conservation of riparian forests because,
broadly speaking, they understand that an obligation to conserve riparian forests results in
loss of farm productivity due to productive areas within their properties being taken out of
cultivation; (ii) insufficient mechanisms to raise and channel funds for restoration of riparian
forests, and inefficient use of the resources that already exist; (iii) qualitative and quantitative
deficit in the supply of seeds and seedlings of native species, resulting in an inability to
respond to increased demand from state-wide initiatives for restoration of riparian forests;
(iv) insufficient on-the-ground knowledge of methodologies for restoration of riparian forests
in the various ecological and socio-economic rural realities present in the State; (v) lack of
efficient instruments for integrated planning and monitoring of riparian forest restoration
                                               3


programs; and (vi) lack of recognition by society in general of the importance of riparian
forests, and incipient status of current mobilization, technical capacity, and training programs
for those involved in restoration and conservation programs.

2. Objectives, Design, and their Relevance
Objectives
2.1     This was a stand-alone GEF project and had both global environment objectives and
project development objectives. The Global Environment Objectives (GEOs), as stated in
Project Appraisal Document (pg. 5) were: "to arrest and reverse land degradation processes
in riparian ecosystems and adjacent agro-ecosystems by increasing on-the-ground
investments and strengthening the policy, regulatory, economic, and institutional incentive
framework to encourage sustainable land management, hence increasing carbon sequestration
and restoring ecosystem stability, functions and services."

2.2     The project development objectives, as stated in the grant agreement (schedule 2, pg.
24), were “to support long-term and large-scale restoration of riparian forests of the
Recipient’s Cerrado and Atlantic Forest biomes in the Project River Basins through the
development and harmonization of the Recipient’s policy, regulatory, economic and
technological frameworks, while providing opportunities for improved livelihoods and
economic well-being of rural communities.” A similar statement of the project development
objectives is found in the project appraisal document (pg. 5) “to support long-term and large-
scale restoration of riparian forests of the Cerrado and Atlantic Forest biomes through
development and harmonization of policy, regulatory, economic and technological tools and
mechanisms, while providing opportunities for improved livelihoods and economic
wellbeing of rural communities”.

2.3     This review used the global environment objectives as the basis of assessment as the
project was a stand-alone GEF-financed project implemented by the World Bank but
received no IBRD finances, in accordance with OPCS/IEG harmonized guidelines.

Relevance of the Objectives
2.4     The project's objectives were substantially relevant to past and current World Bank
country assistance strategies, the operational strategies of the Global Environment Facility
and national priorities set forth in national strategies and international conventions to which
Brazil is a signatory.

2.5    The GEOs are aligned with the pillar for improving environmental sustainability in
both the FY 2004-2007 and FY2008-2011 Country Partnership Strategy. As well as the long-
term country strategy goals of better water quality and water resource management, and more
sustainable land management, forests and biodiversity. The objectives remain relevant to the
FY2012-2015 Country Partnership Strategy objective of furthering improvement of
sustainable natural resource management and enhanced climatic resilience.
                                                4


2.6    The GEOs were also consistent with the GEF Operational Strategy and the
Operational Program for Sustainable Land Management (OP 15) and they were relevant to
GEF Operational Policy Statement (OP 3) on Forest Ecosystems.

2.7     With respect national priorities, the GEO is consistent with the country's priorities for
sustainable development, including those related to commitments to address land degradation
and to implement International Conventions ratified by Brazil such as the UN Framework
Convention on Climate Change, the Convention on Biological Diversity. The project also
supports the implementation of the National Biodiversity Strategy which indicates the
importance of restoring degraded forests. The project area overlaps with Brazil's national
priority areas for the conservation of biodiversity in the Atlantic Forest and Cerrado biomes,
established under the National Program for Biological Diversity.

2.8    Relevance of objectives is rated substantial.

Design
Components
2.9    The project had 5 components, 13 subcomponents:

2.10 Component 1. Policy Development. (Appraisal US$1.67 million; Actual US$0.92
million). This component supported the establishment of realistic legal, technical, financial
and economic frameworks for the future implementation of a statewide riparian forests
restoration program.

2.11 Component 2. Support to Sustainable Riparian Forest Restoration. (Appraisal
US$1.76 million; Actual US$1.05 million). This component supported the development and
field testing of techniques for riparian forest rehabilitation and restoration and improved
market supply of native seeds/seedlings to achieve long-term restoration goals.

2.12 Component 3. On-the-Ground Investments in Sustainable Land Management (SLM)
Practices. (Appraisal US$10.38 million; Actual US$12.73 million). This component financed
the promotion and dissemination of tested sustainable land management practices, including
zero till agriculture and terracing, and to pilot riparian forest restoration activities through
investments in selected micro watersheds.

2.13 Component 4. Environmental Education and Training. (Appraisal US$2.52 million;
Actual US$1.06 million). This component supported establishment of the basis for
participation of local populations in planning and implementing local/regional development
and conservation activities focusing on better quality of life from the use of SLM.

2.14 Component 5. Project Management, Monitoring and Evaluation, and Information
Dissemination. (Appraisal US$3.19 million; Actual US$6.01 million). This component
financed the coordination, management and monitoring of project activities at the state,
regional and national levels.
                                                        5


Geographic scope of the operation
2.15 The project was carried out in five priority river basins (Paraiba do Sul, Piracicaba,
Mogi-Guaqu, Tiete-Jacare and Aguapei) which, as a whole, represent the diversity of
physical, biotic and socioeconomic situations found in the State. 3 Collectively the five river
basins encompass an area of 113,000 km2 with a population of 9.3 million people. The river
basins are classified into four groups according to their principal socioeconomic and soil use
characteristics: Agricultural and Livestock, Conservation, Industrialization and Industrial. 4
The selection of priority river basins for implementation of project activities was made to
avoid the scattering of resources and concentrate direct investments on restoration and
reforestation in regions where the benefits of this action may be maximized.

2.16 Within each selected river basin 15 demonstrative micro watersheds 5 (three in each of
the five basins) were selected for the implementation of on-the ground investments in
riparian forest rehabilitation. The micro watersheds comprised 30,000 ha and involving 1,500
families. The specific criteria for selection of micro catchments were defined jointly the
respective River Basin Committee of each of the five priority basins. 6

Implementation arrangements

2.17 The borrower was the State of São Paulo. The main implementing agency was the
Secretariat of Environment for the State of São Paulo (SMA). The project involved several
institutions and agencies both within and outside SMA and State Secretariat of Agriculture
(SAA) as co-executors and depended heavily on partnerships. The most important
partnership was between the Secretariat of Environment and Secretariat of Agriculture,
supported by close collaboration between the proposed project team and the implementation

3
  The selection of priority river basins was based on three general criteria: (i) Priority river basins for
biodiversity conservation, in that they overlap with Brazil’s national priority areas for the conservation of
biodiversity in the Atlantic Forest and Cerrado biomes; (ii) A set of area basins that would ensure inclusion of
the various different bio-physical characteristics of the state forest ecosystems, in terms of biome (Atlantic
Forest and Cerrado), soil conditions (particularly susceptibility to erosion) and geomorphology; (iii) A set of
area basins that are representative of various land use and poverty levels in rural Sao Paulo.
4
  Agricultural and Livestock - predominance of pastureland; industrial activity is strongly linked to the
processing of agricultural and livestock products (foods, leather tanning, and sugar and alcohol production); a
large part of the urban area is comprised of municipalities with fewer than 40,000 inhabitants; Conservation -
with the State’s principal Atlantic Rainforest remnants; industry and agriculture are under-developed; tourism is
the principal economic activity; low demographic density; Industrialization - sugar-alcohol is the most
important industrial sector; traditional agriculture is making way for the planting of sugar cane and oranges;
well-structured network of cities; Industrial - with the State’s principal industrial pole and 3 metropolitan
regions; agricultural and livestock activities have diversified characteristics in this river basin.
5
 A micro-watershed is a geographical unit of an average size of 3,000 ha, with an average of 90 families that
provides a convenient forum for local participation in setting priorities for the technical, economic, social,
cultural and political aspects of natural resource management and poverty alleviation.
6
  The selection criteria in each basin was based on five parameters: soils (erosion potential, soil management,
sedimentation), socio-economy ( existence of active farmer organizations, farmers willingness to participate in
the project, farm size with priority to work with small farmers, integration of micro-watershed with parallel land
management III project, existence of related initiatives), water (location within basin with priority on those
located in headwater areas), biodiversity (potential for connection of forest fragments in biodiversity corridors)
                                               6


team for the São Paulo Land Management III Project. This partnership was mainly through
collaborating on the implementation of on-the-ground activities involving individual farmers
and micro-watershed associations. The State Secretary of Agriculture’s Rural Extension
Company (CATI), was a key partner in providing technical assistance for the execution of
sustainable land management activities. It was the primary implementation entity responsible
for similar activities under the LM III project.

2.18 Other project co-executors included the regional offices of participating State
agencies such as the Forest Institute, and SMA's Environmental Planning and Education
Department. The State Botanical Institute played a key role as the entity responsible for the
project’s efforts to improve the market supply of native seeds/seedlings to achieve long-term
restoration goals. Non-governmental institutions such as The Nature Conservancy and SOS
Mata Atlantica and Universities also participated.

2.19 The Project Management Unit was established in the Secretariat of the Environment
within the structure of the Landscape Projects Department. The PMU was responsible for
managing project execution and budgetary and financial funds, accounting for their
application and the results achieved (both to the State Government and the World Bank),
promoting institutional cooperation, and for preparing managerial reports for the Secretariat
of the Environment and the Project Steering Committee, and monitoring and evaluation of
project results.

2.20 At the state level, the project was to receive coordination support from a Project
Steering Committee with the participation of the State Government and representatives of
society. At the watershed level, this participatory management structure was to be guided by
the existing River Basin Committees - RBCs (one committee for each of the five project
watersheds). At the local level, and in those municipalities with pilot micro-watershed sites,
the existing Municipal Councils for Rural Development would follow up on the
implementation of the pilot activities at the micro-watershed level.

Relevance of Design
2.21 The project’s ambitious objectives statement was inconsistent with its design.
Arresting and reversing degradation is a slow and complex process. Many of the activities
financed, and the corresponding output and outcome targets, were inappropriate to achieving
the Global Environmental Objectives as stated. There was insufficient time for results to
appear from the planned interventions, particularly treatments such as the planting of
indigenous species that take many years to mature.

2.22 The following statements in the project’s completion report illustrates the disconnect
between the project’s design and its declared statement of objective: “The fundamental
objective of this project was to provide the State of São Paulo with the capacity and tools to
tackle future restoration of about 1.0 million ha of degraded riparian forests by establishing
an appropriate legal and technical foundation – and that was very clear to the State and Bank
teams. It was an experimental operation which never intended, despite its ambitious
objectives, to demonstrate the actual impact of riparian forest restoration on water quality or
aquatic eco-systems biodiversity, or the actual socio-economic impact of adopting SLM
                                                7


practices on the livelihoods and wellbeing of poor farming communities. All the pilots and
demonstration projects were meant to test, never to show the full impacts of, these activities
since those could only come in the longer run.” (World Bank 2011a)

2.23 Another example is found on page 15 “From the beginning, the objective of this
project was to prepare the State of São Paulo to tackle the future challenge of restoring 1.0
million ha of degraded riparian forest areas. It was well understood by the Bank and
counterpart teams that the amount of riparian forests actually restored under the Project
would be insufficient to show actual impact on water quality or biodiversity. Further, the
project implementation time would not be sufficient for those areas to grow into well-formed
forests.” (World Bank 211a)

2.24 The project appraisal document (pg. 81) notes that “The project's actual main
objectives are (i)to find ways to reduce the current costs of restoration, and determine the
most cost-effective ways, from the financial, economic, technical, institutional, and legal
perspectives, to restore riparian forests while also achieving biodiversity objectives, and (ii)to
establish effective methodologies and legal, financial and institutional mechanisms to allow
for future, cost-effective, large-scale restoration of degraded riparian forests in the State of
Silo Paulo - with models and lessons learned that can be adapted to other states in Brazil or
other countries in Latin America." (World Bank 2005)

2.25 In short, the project was designed as a pilot to meet the de-facto objective of
providing the State of São Paulo with the capacity and tools to tackle future restoration, as
opposed to being designed to meet its declared objective statement. OPCS/IEG harmonized
evaluation criteria calls for assessing relevance of design, as well as the achievement of
outcomes, against the formal statement of objectives.

2.26 Other shortcomings in design that made it difficult to achieve the objectives as stated
were the unrealistic phasing of project activities. The project’s completion report candidly
notes that expecting that the pilot testing of restoration techniques would present lessons in
time for scaling up was too optimistic. In addition, the project’s heavy reliance on
partnerships resulted in coordination challenges that impacted the phasing of activities such
as environmental education with field activities. Some activities also called for more
flexibility to respond to learning during implementation. Finally, given the long term nature
of land management approaches to sustainability, more attention to intermediate outcomes,
such as tree seedling survival rates, would have better enabled an assessment of the longer
term expectations.

2.27   Relevance of design is rated negligible.

Safeguards category and requirements
2.28 The project was classified as category B under the Bank‘s environmental and social
safeguards framework and triggered the following safeguards policies: OP4.01 on
Environmental Assessment, OP4.09 on Pest Management, and OP 4.37 on forests.
                                                8


Monitoring and Evaluation Design
2.29 The project appraisal document contained a detailed plan for M&E and a set of
detailed, predominantly output level, indicators. The Project Impact Monitoring Plan was
intended to provide information on the results and effectiveness of activities under each
component and lead to conclusions on the methodology needed for large-scale restoration of
riparian forests. The project’s completion report (pg. 6) notes that the output indicators were
too numerous and some were of limited utility, many of the indicators were redundant or
conflicting, and dispersed in different official documents (Project Appraisal Document,
Operational Manual). This made the monitoring of targets and activities difficult. The
monitoring and evaluation system was also designed on the premise that it was important to
integrate project M&E with the State Rural Extension Company’s system. In practice,
however, this arrangement proved incompatible with the project complexity and the
Secretariat of Environment’s management structure and according to the project completion
report this significantly weakened the ability of the PMU to detect and respond to issues as
they arose. M&E design envisaged that the PMU would prepare semiannual reports that
would be made available to project executors at all levels and to the River Basin Committees.
There was to be an initial diagnostic study with the participation of the community, and then
follow-up to assess a number of indicators including social organization, land structure
evolution, soil changes, surface and groundwater quality, and flora and fauna changes. It was
proposed that an independent external consulting firm would evaluate the results obtained
from impact monitoring against the project objectives. This design proved to be
overambitious.


3. Implementation
Changes in scope of activities
3.1    The project’s objectives and components were not formally revised during
implementation but there were some deviations from the activities outlined in the project
appraisal document.

3.2      During implementation the government changed its strategy for meeting
demand for native species seeds for restoration. It determined that large scale seed
production was a private sector activity and that the role of the State was as a market
regulator that guarantees minimum quality standards and genetic species diversity.
Accordingly project resources that had been designated for seed production were reallocated
to strengthen the existing state structure for seed collection and processing. In line with this
new policy, and as an attempt to reduce costs, the number of seed production centers
financed by the project was reduced from two to one.

3.3    The grant agreement was amended once in 2009 to reflect revisions to World
Bank procurement guidelines, extend the project closing date, and reduce some targets:
the number of seed production centers was reduced from two to one; and, the area of
                                               9


sustainable riparian forest rehabilitation was revised from 1,500 ha to 500 ha. The
amendment was considered a Level II restructuring and did not require Board approval.

Planned vs. Actual Expenditure by Component
3.4    Total project cost was US$19.52 million at appraisal and US$21.77 million at
closing, an overrun of about 11.5 percent. The project was to be financed by a US$ 7.5m
GEF Credit and US$11.7 counterpart contribution from the Government of the State of São
Paulo. At closing the dollar-denominated GEF credit was 102 percent of the appraisal
amount due to US Dollar/Real exchange rate fluctuations. The Government of São Paulo
counterpart contribution exceeded the appraisal estimate by 20 percent due to an under-
estimation of Component 3 activities at appraisal and cost inflation in Brazil in the final years
for materials and equipment.

3.5     The project completion report indicates that devaluation of the Real through mid-
2009 increased the value of the grant resources. However this was offset by domestic
inflation that resulted in a net decline of the projects purchasing power. After June 2009
devaluation of the USD coupled with continued domestic inflation further reduced resources
available to the project. This was partly responsible for reductions in project targets for seed
distribution centers and in the area targeted for riparian forest restoration. Restoration costs
were higher than expected at appraisal and contributed to the higher than anticipated costs of
component 3. There was an approximate doubling of the project management costs, and
some reduction in the costs of the policy development, sustainable restoration, and
environmental education components.

Table 1. Project Cost by Component (in USD million equivalent)

                                                                  Actual/Latest
                                          Appraisal Estimate        Estimate        Percentage
Components                                 (USD millions)        (USD millions)     of Appraisal
1. Policy Development                            1.67                 0.92               55
2. Support to Sustainable Forest                   1.76               1.05               60
Restoration
3. Investments in Sustainable                      10.38              12.73             123
Land Management
4. Environmental Education and                     2.52               1.06               42
Training
5. Project Management, M&E,                        3.19               6.01              188
and Information Dissemination
Total project costs                                19.52              21.77             112
Source: World Bank 2011a.
                                                                  10



Table 2. Project Financing by Source (in USD million equivalent)

                                                                                            Actual/Latest
                                                            Appraisal Estimate                Estimate                Percentage
Source of Financing                                          (USD millions)                (USD millions)             of Appraisal
Borrower                                                         11.77*                        14.02                      119
Global Environment Facility                                            7.75                        7.75                     100
Total                                                                19.52                        21.77
Source: World Bank 2011a.
*The Borrower contribution was to include US$7.34 million of parallel financing from the São Paulo Land Management Project III.

Implementation Experience
3.6       Project implementation was affected by the following factors:

3.7      Implementation was delayed due to staffing and capacity issues within
government agencies and among local partners. Project files indicate that the SMA
initially had insufficient technical and administrative personnel and its strategy to mitigate
this by hiring specialized consultants could not be implemented. At the time the State was
under pressure from labor unions to stop hiring long-term consultants to implement
government activities. There was also a decree prohibiting non-government staff from
driving State owned vehicles in response to accident liabilities and abuse of vehicle use. As a
result implementation was delayed. Few of the institutions or technicians contracted had
prior experience with riparian forest restoration and many were not experienced in rural
extension. The project completion report indicates that the implementing agency tried to
alleviate this problem by moving some of its staff to regional centers with appropriate skills
but their time was divided by other SMA activities. In addition, since there were few local
entities with the skills or structure to qualify under public management rules to become
project partners, the project had to find and train the local skills it needed. The project
employed various strategies to compensate including training NGOs to contract local labor,
contracting local facilitators with strong community roots in local agricultural activities and
stimulating farmers and communities to prepare technical projects for the areas to be
restored. The lack of social organization among farmers further constrained progress of on-
the ground investments. Lack of local skilled labor, equipment, as well as the delayed arrival
of seedlings and disease hampered the project’s ability to cover the targeted area planned at
appraisal.

3.8     Project implementation was also impacted by strong coordination challenges.
Project design was complex and involved multiple agencies in implementation. Design called
for the project to be decentralized by components but there would be both vertical and
horizontal inter-institutional and inter-sector integration. This required strong coordination.
The project completion report and IEG interviews indicate that the evolution of synergies and
organized interaction between agencies was slow. Working inter-institutionally was an
unfamiliar business model. There were difficulties in aligning priorities, timetables and
information flow between teams. Even within SMA, the need to work across departments
                                                     11


and with decentralized units was challenging. The project completion report notes that
alternative strategies were adopted and overtime conflicts were reduced or mitigated.

3.9      Implementation of the projects field activities entailed a participatory process
whereby local stakeholders and project facilitators prepared a management plan for
the entire Micro-catchment as well as Individual Property Plans. But landholder’s
direct involvement in implementing restoration activities was limited. The project
provided funding and technical assistance to implement both sustainable land management
activities for productive portions of the farm and restoration activities in the riparian areas
individual property plans. The budget for each subproject was financed by project funds and
a beneficiary contribution (including in kind contributions). The funds were channeled to the
local association in charge of project implementation in each project area. The local
association procured the materials and carried out most of the restoration activities with their
own technicians and hired labor. The project initially planned to test whether landholders
undertake restoration themselves at a lower cost than contractors. This was not possible
because of legal constraints that prevented the Secretariat of Environment from making direct
payments to landholders. 7

3.10 The distinction between the different types of on the ground investments was lost
during implementation and the entire project came to be seen as demonstration areas
for forest restoration. Component three “On-the Ground Investments in SLM Practices”
was designed with two distinct subcomponents: 3.1 supporting sustainable land management
practices; and 3.2 pilot projects for on-the-ground adoption of riparian forest rehabilitation.
The project completion report (pg. 31) points out that in practice there was significant
overlap of the two components and the project as a whole came to be viewed as
“Demonstration Projects”. IEG interviews indicate that the project’s field efforts were
primarily focused on developing forest restoration and other sustainable land management
activities were viewed as secondary, if they were identified with the project at all.

3.11 Collaboration with the LMIII project, which was responsible for the sustainable
land management investments, was more challenging than anticipated. The project
completion report notes that most of the co-financing provided by the LM III project was
concentrated in only five micro-catchments and assistance offered to farmers was variable in
quality and quantity and lacked a coherent strategy or standard set of practices. IEG
interviews confirmed this view. Interviewees also indicated that initially there were turf
battles between CATI extension agents and the Environmental Secretariat’s field agents who
were supposed to be working together. The project completion report also points out that
there were initial difficulties in implementing and testing innovative restoration models as a
result of the difficulties in achieving smooth integration with CATI whose systems,
methodologies and agenda were already well established. Several measures were
implemented to improve integration between the two projects: emphasis was placed on
ensuring that technical and operational interventions proposed by the two projects were
complementary and synergistic; joint teams were used for planning, implementation,
monitoring, supervision and communications, and training of beneficiaries and other
stakeholders was jointly-organized. The closing date of the LMIII project was extended to
7
    This may be possible in the future as a result of the PES legislation developed by the project.
                                                       12


allow more time in which the Riparian Forest beneficiaries could access the LM III
Incentives Fund which “incentivizes” landholders to take up sustainable land management
practices by financing a portion of upfront costs. IEG interviews indicate that the extent to
which sustainable land management activities were implemented under the GEF project
varied across micro-catchments and most interviewees associated sustainable land
management activities exclusively with the LMIII project.

3.12 Sequencing of some activities proved to be problematic, adversely impacting
implementation and outputs. It was expected that pilot testing restoration models under
component 2 would yield lessons in time for scaling up under the project through activities
implemented under component 3. This proved to be overoptimistic. In addition, the project
completion report notes that lack of personnel and planning delayed local mobilization and
organization activities under the environmental education and training component. 8 As a
result implementation of these activities, which aimed to overcome the lack of engagement of
rural landowners and the general population, were out of sync with on the ground
investments. The project completion report notes that this contributed to a lack of genuine
participation by some landholders in sustainable land management activities. A lack of
prioritization early on for participation, social mobilization and environmental education is
also reported to have limited dialogue with local society on public policy formulation.

3.13 Debate over proposed changes to the forest code affected the participation of
some landholders. Project staff and associations involved in implementation reported to the
IEG mission that implementation of on the ground investments was impacted by uncertainty
around proposed changes to the forest code. The original version of the forest code, in place
at project appraisal, required 30 meters of riparian area to be under permanent preservation.
During project implementation a high profile debate was carried out nationally that, among
other issues, contemplated changes to the size of corridors required to be reforested. IEG
interviews with the project team and implementation partners revealed that uncertainty
surrounding the changes to the forest code caused some landholders to pause in participating
in project activities on their land. Many of the large landholders in the project areas
reportedly attempted to discourage smallholders from participating in the project, arguing
that they would be effectively giving away part of their farm. This issue largely affected
landholders who did not yet have any restoration activates on their farm. Restoration efforts
that had already begun on the ground continued. After the Forest Code debate ceased
participation was reported to have picked up.

Implementation of Monitoring and Evaluation
3.14 The project completion report notes that monitoring of activities and results was done
in an unsatisfactory way during the initial phase of the project but improved by the end of the
project. The project MIS was established and included financial management, managerial

8
  The project completion report notes that environmental education activities fell short of their goals. This was
attributed to a host of implementation issues and the lack of personnel and of proper planning, which delayed
local mobilization and organization activities, and disrupted the necessary synergy/synchronization with other
components such as the Demonstration Projects. Planning for SLM agro-systems courses was delayed and they
were not inserted into the Annual Operating Plan until 2009. Consequently very few were conducted.
                                             13


and progress data. However, weaknesses in M&E design carried over into implementation.
Implementation of the monitoring plan was delayed and information was not easily retrieved.
The first real attempt to improve project indicators was not until 2008. The SMA eventually
gained control of the M&E system and monitoring improved. The project produced a Mid-
Term Review that resulted in certain agreed revised targets and design changes, a final
report, an environmental perception study and a final evaluation. The project carried out
several activities in addition to its formal M&E system to distill information and lessons
generated by the various project. For example Payment for Environmental Service (PES)
practitioners were brought together to share lessons from other parts of the country. A book
on the PES experience is to be published. An impressive body of research studies and
guidance notes, monitoring methodologies and policy formulation were also generated in the
course of implementation. However, the project completion report points out that the
dissemination framework was flawed and that dissemination of M&E results could have been
improved by more strategic differentiated approaches to communicating results to segmented
"markets" of stakeholders.

Safeguards Compliance and Fiduciary Issues
Safeguards
3.15 No significant safeguard issues were reported in the course of implementation and the
IEG mission across any issues in the field. The project completion report (pg. 12) notes that
"(s)supervision found that the identification and implementation of activities on the ground
followed recommended practices consistent with the project's Environmental Management
Plan, reduced the need for pesticides and fertilizers, avoided further deforestation of
riparian/other areas within the 15 pilot micro-catchments and promoted re-planting of these
same areas”.

Financial Management and Procurement
3.16    Supervision reports indicate that financial management supervision missions were
conducted on a regular basis and no significant issues were detected. Audit reports were
delivered on time, with two exceptions. Most audits were unqualified and all issues that
arose were reported to have been addressed in a timely manner. The final audit was
unqualified. Procurement was rated satisfactory by supervision missions throughout
implementation.
                                                14


4. Achievement of the Objectives
Objective 1
Arrest and reverse land degradation processes in riparian ecosystems and adjacent
agro-ecosystems by increasing on-the-ground investments to encourage sustainable land
management

4.1     This objective was pursued through the support of on farm investments to pilot
restoration techniques and support for the adoption of sustainable land management and
restoration activities, as well as facilitating the availability of native species seedlings. Areas
with on the ground investments were intended to have a demonstration effect. Each of the 15
demonstration micro-catchments was to share its experience with farmers in nine
neighboring micro-catchments. It was estimated that by the end of the 13,500 families would
have received some exposure to the alternative technologies for restoration. Due to the
piloting nature of on the ground activities and associated uncertainties the original PAD
Results Framework flagged the potential for target shortfalls and need for adjustments, by
setting project year milestones by which to re-evaluate targets. For example, it was intended
to re-evaluate the number of micro-catchments by Project Year 2 had the target lagged the
original 150 (it did not). There was an intent to re-evaluate the number of farmers
participating by Project Year 2 if, by then, less than 50% of the target had been achieved (this
turned out to be the case). It was also the intention to re-evaluate the sustainable land
management area target by Project Year 4 (not necessary).

4.2    Outputs.

•        150 communities in 150 micro-catchments were reached with investment and training
support to carry out sustainable land management or forest restoration activities (100% of
target).

•       317 farms adopted sustainable land management (35% of the target of 900). The
project’s completion report indicates that the number of families benefitting was lower than
anticipated, due to high average cost of restoration projects complexity of the issues faced
and slower pace of execution than envisaged at appraisal.

•       Riparian forest rehabilitation was adopted on 401 ha (27 percent of the original target
of 1,500 ha; 80 percent revised target 500 ha). The original target of 1,500 ha. was reduced to
500 ha mainly due to a consensus that this was a sufficient scale to test each of the 10 model
riparian restoration technologies. In addition the project completion report notes that about
7,200 people were trained in restoration techniques and 255,000 were reached by newsletters,
radio programs, and workshops.

•       The project completion report notes that sustainable land management was adopted
on 32,868 ha, slightly exceeding the target of 30,000 ha. However, the land area figure of
38,868 ha is somewhat misleading as it represents the amount of land a farmer committed to
managing in a sustainable manner in the individual property plans prepared during the
project’s diagnostic phase, not necessarily how much each actually managed sustainably
                                               15


during the project period. It was also reported that, in addition to the direct project
achievements, the adoption of sustainable land management practices went beyond the
targeted areas through individual farmers, producer cooperatives, associations, NGOs and
agro-industrial interests. Thus, it is plausible the reduced number of farmers was at least
partly compensated for by an additional larger number outside the project. While some of
this may be attributable to the project through the demonstration effect, the IEG mission was
unable to verify the extent to which that was the case. The IEG mission was unable to verify
the number of catchments in which sustainable land management activities actually occurred,
the different techniques that were adopted, or resulting outcomes. Project M&E did not
provide information beyond the aggregate number of hectares noted above. IEG interviews in
the field indicate that in some project areas the intended synergies with the LMIII project did
not occur, thus no sustainable land management activities were implemented. In the other
project areas where there was overlap between the two projects, most of the project
participants associated sustainable land management activities with the LMIII project and
only identified forest restoration activities with the GEF project. The only investment on
productive lands that interviewees identified with the GEF project was the provision of wells
so that livestock would no longer need to drink from rivers and streams thereby releasing
riparian areas for restoration. It is possible that some of the sustainable land management
activities that interviewees associated as being provided by the LMIII project were in fact
part of the GEF project but they were unaware of the co-financing arrangement.

•       There was an awareness target of 48,000 people, and a capacity building target of
4,800 people. Output achievement is not reported. The relevant project component was
delayed and the State Secretariat for Environment's final report notes "duplication,
fragmentation and redundancy" in many sub-components. The delays in implementing the
training in schools meant that it was too late to achieve a mass impact. Only 42% of the
funds allocated for the component disbursed.

•       The project also had a target of collecting 25,000 kg of native species for use in
restoration. The project renovated the seed production center in São Paulo and by project
closure 11,545 kg of seeds of native species were collected and made available by the project
funded seed center. Supervision reports and the project’s completion report indicate that the
seed production target was unrealistically high. However, the key reason that this target was
not met is that during implementation the government revised its stance on the State’s role in
seedling production, determining that the role of seed collection is better suited to the private
sector and that the state should act as a market regulator. Consequently the State began to
focus more on quality control via the establishment of designated seed collection areas to
match the tree species to their appropriate eco zone in the state and by targeting the collection
of and distribution of seed from rare and difficult to reproduce species. The project
completion report notes that statewide seedling output over the project period increased
substantially due to increased private production. By project closure private seed companies
were providing 40,000 kg of native species seed. The project completion report states that
some of this private sector activity was attributable to project-supported demonstrations and
dissemination. Although this is plausible, no evidence is offered to substantiate this
statement. Moreover, IEG interviews in the field as well as the literature indicate that the
uptick in seed production in the State began in 2003, prior to the project implementation
period. The literature also points to the 1998 environmental crimes law as a possible catalyst
                                                   16


of the increase in seed production. 9 Regardless of the primary cause, seedling production has
increased and IEG recognizes that the project’s shift away from seed collection to other
activities was an appropriate adjustment to this development. The project completion report
indicates, however, that distribution of seeds remains a bottleneck in need of improvement.


4.3     Outcomes.

4.4    At project closure there was little evidence that degradation was arrested or reversed
on any scale. There has been no follow up monitoring to demonstrate project progress
towards this objective since the project’s closure.

4.5     The project completion report pointed to evidence from the (earlier, but similar) Land
Management III project to argue that the outputs achieved could be expected to lead to
reversal of degradation once land management treatments mature. For example, it is known
that the benefits of zero tillage typically take about five years to start to become apparent
(with declines in yield sometimes experienced in the initial years). Forest restoration with
seedlings and management takes more years than the project lifetime to yield measurable
outcomes, particularly in terms of erosion reduction or hydrology enhancement. The project
completion report points out that, even at the modest scale of the micro-catchments treated
under the project, there would have been some possibility of finding some early measurable
impact if all restored areas had been concentrated in the same micro-catchment. However,
they were, in fact, dispersed across river basins for the purpose of testing restoration under
different conditions. No data was available for intermediate indicators like seedling survival
rates, changes in vegetation cover, or initial soil loss measurements which would have
offered some evidence on which to base expectations

4.6     The project’s completion report also notes that “numerous NGOs and municipal
governments are, post-closing, developing riparian forest restoration projects based on
project experiences and models, while Watershed Committees and the State Government
have programs for riparian forest conservation including participation by SMA in the
national movement “Pact for the Restoration of the Atlantic Forest (PACTO).” No systematic
evidence is available to verify the extent to which the projects methodologies have, in fact,
been utilized by these or other entities. The IEG assessment mission found that continuity
among the NGOs that participated in the project varied. Some participating NGOs had an
impressive level of capacity, were staffed with forest engineers, and continue to implement
project models with resources leveraged from other sources. 10 While others were less
9
  "It is not possible to affirm that the increment of seed production resulted directly from SMA
08/2008 resolution, as over the past decade the obligation to restore forests has been extended
throughout Brazil since enactment of the country's first environmental Crimes Law in 1998. Before
1998, most environmental damages were considered as misdemeanors, and guilty parties were liable
to a fine or administrative procedures at most. Under the new law, however, these damages are
considered under the penal code, and guilty parties are subject not only to penalties but also to arrest
and imprisonment, or at least to be obliged to restore or compensate in some active way" (Aronson et
al. 2011).
10
   The Municipality of Garca obtained resources through the FEHIDRO Program of Riparian Forest Restoration
in the Aguapei and Peixe River Basins, as well as the Petrobras Environmental Program for to continue such
                                                    17


successful. Interviews indicate that at least one association lost interest and has not
continued. It is unclear the extent to which the project tools and models have reached beyond
those that participated directly in the project. The mission was not able to get a
comprehensive assessment of the extent to which reforestation has expanded or treatments
carried out under the project have been maintained because since the project’s closure it has
not been monitored. The raising of awareness and education programs were expected to
contribute to the expansion of on the ground investments in restoration but the numbers
trained appear to be modest in relation to the needs of the State.

4.7    Due to the lack of sufficient outcome level evidence, achievement of the objective is
rated modest.

Objective 2
Arrest and reverse land degradation processes in riparian ecosystems and adjacent
agro-ecosystems by strengthening the policy, regulatory, economic, and institutional
incentive framework to encourage sustainable land management

4.8     Outputs.

4.9     The project generated a large volume of studies and reference materials that are
accessible to the public at http://www.sigam.ambiente.sp.gov.br . The Project also supported
the incorporation of riparian forest issues in State legislation. This included work related to
the operation and management of the project; regulations on new methodologies; financial
incentives facilitating and requiring collaboration between government, municipalities and
civil society on forest restoration; and improvements to existing laws and regulations to
establish riparian forest issues within a legal framework. The project completion report is
candid in acknowledging that not all legal instruments can be attributed exclusively to the
project but states that it was “frequently the proponent, convening agent, catalyst and
organizing force.”

4.10 Eleven innovative norms were established creating new pathways to promote riparian
forest restoration:

4.11 (i) Banco de Areas para Recuperacao Florestal (SMA 30, 2007): A mechanism to
identify, register and disseminate information about areas available for restoration to persons
or institutions interested in or legally obligated to restore forests. At project closure 3.4
million hectares were registered. An estimated R$1.0 million was mobilized to finance the
recovery of about 92 ha.

4.12 (ii) Riparian Forest Communication (SMA 42, 2007): a register of riverine areas of
permanent preservation (APPs) stimulating farmers and rural landowners to inform SMA
about the situation of riparian areas under their control. This tool allows farmers to
voluntarily register riparian areas on private properties, whereby they commit that, at a

works; (ii) an NGO in Joanopolis Municipality obtained resources from the National Social and Economic
Development Bank (BNDES) to restore 580 ha of riverine Protected Area in the Atlantic Forest.
                                              18


minimum; they will leave them unutilized to enable regeneration. At project closure it
400,000 ha were registered.

4.13   (iii) Voluntary Restoration Communication (SMA 42, 2007): an instrument to reduce
bureaucratic and financial barriers for those interested in voluntary reforestation.

4.14     (iv) Strategic Riparian Forest Project (SMA 42, 2007): forerunner of the State
Riparian Forest Program. The project completion report notes that a Riparian Forest
Restoration Program system was designed and was instituted by a State Resolution and that
an implementation plan was developed and applied. It is unclear what this “program”
constitutes. IEG interviews with government staff indicate that the government does not
intend to staff a program that will carry out restoration itself. Rather it intends to create
incentives for restoration that will be carried out, and financed, by others. The State
Government’s Multi-year Development Plan (2008-2011) identifies riparian forest
restoration as a critical strategic environmental element with the potential for obtaining
funding support from carbon credits or voluntary compensation. This was also included the
new draft Multi-year Development Plan for 2012/2015.

4.15 (v) Strategic Project for Green Municipalities: intended to contribute to
decentralization of environmental policy, with economic incentives for municipalities with
good environmental management policies;

4.16 (vi) Regulation to Implement Agro-forestry Systems (SAF) including in Areas of
Permanent Preservation: The procedures of this norm were not established until the second
semester of 2010, too late to have much impact within the Project. However, it is expected to
be an incentive to future recuperation of degraded areas as it allows for some productive
uses within legally protected areas as opposed to strict conservation;

4.17   (vii) Regulations for Seed Collection in Conservation Areas (SMA 68 2008);

4.18 (viii) Induced demand for projects financed by the State Water Resources Fund
(FEHIDRO) in 2009, to revitalize water catchments (CRH Deliberation 95, 2009);

4.19 (ix) Inventory of emissions from voluntary planting of forests for partial or total
compensation of gas emissions (SMA 30, 2009);

4.20 (x) Targets for riparian forest restoration in municipalities participating in the Waters
Pact, a commitment by municipal mayors to improve water quality and availability
associated with the World Water Forum of 2009;

4.21 (xi) State Climate Change Policy (State Law 13.798, 2009). The project made an
important contribution to the development of the legal amendment to the existing Climate
Change Law that laid the basis for procedures for Payment for Environmental Services
(PES). By the end of the project, there were 21 pilot municipalities testing the development
of a PES system with project support. Key project staff were actively involved in crafting the
legal amendment and used the lessons being learned in the project to provide evidence of the
importance of the PES legal and fiscal issues to support riparian zone rehabilitation.
                                              19


4.22 In addition to legislative tools, new institutional partnerships were established
supporting the integrated conservation, socioeconomic and sector goals. Key partner
agencies in investments included BNDES (National Development Bank), FEHIDRO (the
State Water Resources Fund), and PETROBRAS (the semi-public Brazilian multi-national
energy corporation).

Outcomes

4.23 One of the more significant changes that the project has made to the institutional
incentive framework was the legal amendment to the Climate Change Law, which laid the
basis for Payments for Environmental Services (PES). Establishment of the legislation is in
itself an important step forward. Without such legislation the state was unable to develop a
PES program. Practitioners active in the restoration of riparian forest in the State but who
were not directly involved in implementation of the project confirmed to IEG the
significance of having State Policy that allows for payments to be made to landowners. The
cost of riparian restoration is high and financial incentives are important. Although
landowners are required by law to bring their property in compliance with the forest code
there are no government provisions to assist smallholders with the cost of compliance and the
cost of restoration (which often requires active intervention as opposed to natural
regeneration) is out of reach of many of the state’s smallholders. Actual payments, however,
were only tested on a small scale during the life of the project and development of a full scale
program was at an incipient stage at the time of the assessment mission. The Bank
operational team provided IEG with additional information that that shows the issuance of
payments for carbon credits for reforested areas since the project’s closure. The credits were
provided to a private company for the reforestation of 2,000 hectares of riparian areas along
the banks of ten hydropower reservoirs with over 200 native forest species.

4.24 The project completion report states that the project had a marked and durable impact
on institutional capacity, and that a collaborative dialogue evolved between the agriculture
and environment sectors. It also states that a new management culture evolved in the State
Environment Secretariat, including greater control over the timing of activities and the
quality of projects’ physical and financial management. Little evidence was presented in the
project completion report document to support these statements or about the impact of the
enhanced frameworks on practices and processes. IEG interviews indicated that previously
the topic of restoration was overlooked within the Secretariat of Environment. In this respect
the projects outputs are important in terms of ensuring that the topic is now officially
reflected among state environmental concerns. Interviews with government staff also suggest
that the project fostered changes in how the government works. This includes greater
collaboration between the Secretariat of Environment and the Secretariat of Agriculture that
has extended beyond joint implementation of project activities. For example, the
Environment Secretariat is attempting to transmit environmental education through
agriculture technicians, as the Agriculture Secretariat has a larger outreach structure. One
Agriculture Officer in each region is now trained in environmental topics, including riparian
restoration. It was also reported that the in the past the field staff of the Secretariat of
Environment, who are largely involved in issuing environmental permits and levying fines
for violations of environmental laws, had no knowledge of riparian restoration. They now
receive training in restoration and utilize the monitoring tools developed under the project to
                                                      20


assess restoration progress. It is expected that this will enhance their capacity to assess
whether farmers are complying with environmental law and if the efforts of those found to be
in violation of the law are sufficient to restore degraded forest to areas.

4.25 The extent to which changes to the enabling environment and government capacity
are in fact catalyzing riparian forest restoration, and in turn arresting and reversing land
degradation processes, remains an open question. There is little evidence of the extent to
which the studies and tools generated under the project are being utilized by different actors
to carry out restoration. Or the extent to which awareness of these tools has reached beyond
the projects direct participants.

4.26    Overall achievement of the objective is rated modest.

5. Efficiency
5.1      In terms of formal efficiency calculations, there is very little evidence on the
efficiency of specific land management interventions and none on that of the project as a
whole. An ex post internal rate of return (IRR) was not estimated. 11 The project appraisal
document included a cost effectiveness analysis and a partial IRR but the project completion
report points out that although the IIR at appraisal is stated as being for the whole project, in
fact it only covered the sustainable land management component and was taken from the
project appraisal document of the Land Management III project. The project completion
report notes that proxy measurements from the Land Management III project carried out by
the Food and Agriculture Organization (FAO) on similar types of intervention suggest
satisfactory rates of return, although these appear to refer mainly to agricultural activities and
are not the results of this project. There is no evidence on maintenance costs.

5.2     The project completion report also reports on the potential reduction in restoration
costs that the testing of the project achieved. It notes that the total savings from the lowest
cost restoration option, assuming a state wide target of one million hectares, would
eventually be about US$2 - 3 billion. However, in terms of attribution of such savings, it is
not easy to see how application of the lower-cost options would not have evolved without the
project. IEG interviews indicate that many of the technicians that worked on the project, as
well as technicians of other agencies active in restoration in the State, were already aware of
these techniques and applying them where appropriate. Moreover, the selection of restoration
technique is determined to a large extent by the degree of degradation. The project
completion report acknowledges that many of the riparian areas in the state are degraded to
the point that the total planting technique (the more costly option) remains the only viable
option. The project also intended to test whether farmers could undertake restoration
themselves at a lower cost than contractors. This was prevented by the legal inability of the
State Secretariat of Environment to make direct payments to landholders.

5.3    During preparation the following factors were taken into account with the aim of
contributing to the cost effectiveness of project design. It was assumed that integrating
11
 As noted by the ICR, (footnote, page 17), "It was not possible to provide an IRR as benefits were not
measured, only costs, as is typical in GEF projects".
                                                21


implementation with the São Paulo Land Management III project would reduce costs by
building on that project's M&E system and benefitting from the rural extension services and
community capacity building activities. Project implementation was deliberately limited to a
few 'pilot' micro-watersheds in five river basins, sufficient to provide a minimum diversity of
situations to test enough restoration models for future replication all over the state. In
addition the selection of pilot micro-watersheds for project implementation was to take into
consideration the cost of supervision of on-the-ground pilot activities.

5.4     The following factors, related to the efficiencies in the use of project funds, suggest
that actual efficiency was less than anticipated at appraisal. Complexity of the project and
weak capacity led to many implementation delays in the initial years of the project. Project
coordination was more burdensome than anticipated. Integrating project M&E with the
CATI's M&E system proved to add to the coordination challenges. The project completion
report states that due to the unanticipated complexity of implementing the M&E system,
costs were almost double the appraisal estimates. The project completion report also points
out that there was "duplication, fragmentation and redundancy" in many of the awareness-
building and training activities. The unrealistic phasing for the findings of tested technologies
to influence subsequent project activities suggests some costs in terms of reduced or delayed
benefits. Finally, there was a substantial reduction in the original targets for forest restoration
and the number of families benefitting was lower than anticipated, due to high average cost
of restoration projects, complexity of the issues faced, and slower pace of execution than
envisaged at appraisal.

5.5     Overall, efficiency is rated modest due to limited evidence, lack of data on operation
and maintenance at the farm level, and the reduced scale of achievement measured against
the original investment-related indicators.

5.6    Overall efficiency is rated modest.

6. Ratings
Outcome
6.1     While the Global Environmental Objectives were substantially relevant, the scale and
timing of project activities were out of step with the development objectives as stated, and
there were other weaknesses in design relevance, which is assessed as negligible. Efficacy is
also modest. The attainment of outputs against targets was variable with shortfalls in some
important areas. By project closure there was no evidence that degradation was arrested or
reversed on any scale and there has been no systematic monitoring since project closure to
assess subsequent progress. Efficiency is modest given the lack of attributable evidence on
cost effectiveness and project management inefficiencies.

6.2    The overall project outcome is rated moderately unsatisfactory.
                                              22


Risk to Development Outcome
6.3     The main risk to the project’s on farm investments is the lack of certainty that they
will be maintained by landowners. No formal data captured the extent to which beneficiary
farmers were maintaining or intended to maintain actual improvements introduced on their
land by the project. The project completion report (pg. 30) notes that during implementation
“(t)here was a difference between adherence and genuine participation, the latter suffering
among communities which had not grasped the substance or significance of the forest
restoration processes underway in their areas.” The IEG mission also found that landholder’s
commitment to project investments varied. In some sites farmers were enthusiastic about the
project investments and were not only maintaining the areas restored under the project but
were expanding areas under restoration. In other cases farmers were less actively maintaining
their investments. There were anecdotal reports of some landholders having lost interest even
during the project’s implementation, including an extreme case in which the landholders
extracted the trees that had been planted. The IEG mission also found variation in the extent
to which participating NGOs and other local associations are continuing to utilize the
project’s methodologies. Some of the NGOs visited had a very high capacity, were staffed by
forest engineers and have successfully continued employing the projects methodologies with
funding from other sources. Others have discontinued working on restoration efforts. The
mission was unable to assess the extent to which the large volume of studies and information
generated by the project is being utilized by relevant stakeholders who did not participate in
the projects implementation.

6.4     Brazil’s national environmental legislation now requires landowners to register their
property in a rural environmental registry and comply with the provisions of the forest code
within five years, including ensuring that riparian areas are forested. Failure to comply will
make landowners ineligible for state credit and other forms of government support. Once all
of the country’s rural properties are registered in the system, in theory, Brazil’s government
will be able to (a) more easily identify and track illegal deforestation through satellite
monitoring, and (b) develop land use plans, creating alternatives for farmers and ranchers
thereby contributing to the protection of land and waters. The registry represents a
significant step forward in enforcing compliance with environmental legislation. It could also
drive an increase in demand for restoration in the future, which may in turn lead to an uptake
in the use of the tools and studies developed by the project.

6.5     However, restoration is costly and most medium and smallholders do not have
sufficient resources to bear this cost on their own. The State’s efforts to develop a payment
for environmental services scheme could potentially offset some of this cost for qualifying
landowners. But the program is in incipient stages and it is not clear how many of the
landholders with riparian areas in need of restoration will in fact benefit.

6.6      The project’s completion report noted that the ongoing Sustainable Rural
Development and Access to Markets Project approved in May 2010 is now effective and is
expected to continue support for the improvement of environmental sustainability. However,
IEG interviews indicated that the follow project does not continue with the model or
activities carried out under the riparian restoration project. The current project focuses on
increasing the competitiveness of family agriculture in priority areas of the State of São
                                              23


Paulo. The main implementing agency is the Secretariat of Agriculture. While the Secretariat
of Environment is also participating in this project, the activities it supports are related to
ensuring that agricultural production is environmentally sustainable. Moreover, only farmers
who are members of agricultural cooperatives or other producer associations are eligible to
participate. Interviews with project staff suggest that many of the landholders who
participated in the Riparian Restoration project may not meet the eligibility requirement of
the current project.

6.7     The risk to development outcome is assessed as moderate.

Bank Performance
6.8    Ensuring quality at entry.

6.9     Positive aspects of quality at entry include the preparation of a project to address the
relevant area of land degradation and build on the government’s increasing interests in
modern land management technologies. The project preparation team comprised an
appropriate mix of technical skills. Preparation drew on lessons of previous sustainable land
management projects in Brazil. Lessons reflected in the project’s design were: (1) the
inclusion of a defined set of micro-catchments; (2) the use of incentives to promote the
adoption of sustainable land management practices on farmer’s land; (3) legislative changes
designed to institutionalize sustainable land management and biodiversity conservation in the
long term; and (4) the use of environmental education programs and wide dissemination of
project findings as a means of building long term adherence to conservation.

6.10 However, there were also a number of significant shortcomings in quality at entry.
There was a disconnect between project design and its formal objectives. The project
timetable was too short for most intended outcomes to become evident. The GEF Scientific
and Technical Advisory Panel Reviewer identified a number of fundamental flaws in the
project’s design in terms of its underlying theory of change as well as the indicators selected
to measure results but the project was approved without addressing them. The project was
overly complex and required an unrealistically demanding level of coordination. The risk that
stakeholders involved with implementation would not effectively collaborate due to
differences in their approach, relative capacity, or varying levels of commitment was not
identified. The M&E framework was also flawed.

6.11 Accordingly, the Bank’s performance in ensuring quality at entry is rated moderately
unsatisfactory.

6.12   Quality of Supervision

6.13 There were a total of four TTLs in five years which made continuity challenging. But
IEG discussions with the project team indicate that the Region was able to mitigate this with
good information retention and coordination. The project completion report indicates that
there were frequent supervision missions, aided by São Paulo’s location as a first stop off
point for Bank missions to Brazil which facilitated shorter informal visits with state project
counterparts in addition to regular supervision missions. Other positive aspects of supervision
                                                    24


include the strong technical collaboration provided by the Bank on the Payment for
Environmental Services activities, an area where skills and experience are in short supply
globally. The Mid-term Review tackled relevant emerging issues there were no significant
issues with fiduciary or safeguard aspects. However, some of the weaknesses in quality at
entry carried over into supervision. Notably confusion over what the project would ultimately
be held accountable for. The final project completion report reflects the project team’s focus
on the project’s de facto pilot objective instead of its formally stated objectives. In addition
M&E weaknesses were not sufficiently addressed including incompatibility between the
project's M&E system and that of the extension system.

6.14    Accordingly, supervision is rated moderately satisfactory.

6.15 Taking into account the ratings for quality at entry and supervision, the overall Bank
performance is rated moderately unsatisfactory. 12

Borrower Performance
6.16    Government Performance

6.17 The Government of São Paulo demonstrated a high degree of commitment to the
project, providing counterpart contributions that were 20 percent higher than what was
planned at appraisal and approximately double the financing from GEF. Its commitment to
the projects goals was also exhibited through its support for a legal and regulatory framework
to promote forest restoration on a larger scale. The project’s completion report points out that
this was a significant political achievement given the status of the State as an agricultural
powerhouse with potential political costs to sweeping conservation reforms impacting land
use on potentially productive land. The State further demonstrated its commitment to project
goals through the creation of the State Forum for Climate Change and Biodiversity in early
2005 with a technical chamber dedicated to defining the methodology for preparing riparian
forest rehabilitation projects that could also generate carbon sequestration credits. However,
there were weaknesses in coordination and the capacity of the multiple agencies involved in
implementation, partly arising from project complexity.

6.18    Overall government performance is rated satisfactory.

6.19    Implementing Agency Performance

6.20 The key implementing agency was the State Secretariat of Environment (SMA). The
project completion report notes that the SMA was highly committed to project preparation
and implementation and was pro-active in the promotion of important policy reforms. Local
capacity was supported by ensuring that project management and coordination was
mainstreamed within SMA rather than through an isolated temporary PMU. Implementation
relied heavily on partnerships with other agencies. The State Secretariat of Agriculture,

12
   In keeping with OPCS / IEG harmonized rating criteria, when one dimension of Bank performance is in the
satisfactory range and the other unsatisfactory the overall Bank performance rating follows the projects’
outcome ratings.
                                                 25


including the State Rural Extension Company, played a key implementing role. The project
completion report notes that this was a pioneering effort in institutional collaboration
between the two agencies and the associated dialogue was important for longer-term
conservation. However there were a number of issues in coordination particularly on M&E.
There were also initial problems in implementation due to the complexity of the project and
weak capacity. These were partly addressed by the restructuring in 2008/2009. Compliance
with the World Bank’s safeguards policies was satisfactory as were procurement and
financial management. The project completion report notes that audit reports were submitted
on time and any qualifications were quickly resolved. However, monitoring and evaluation
was weak throughout implementation.

6.21    Overall implementing agency performance is rated moderately satisfactory.

6.22 Taking into account the satisfactory government performance rating and moderately
satisfactory rating for implementing agency performance, the overall Borrower Performance
is rated moderately satisfactory.

Monitoring and Evaluation
6.23 Design. The project appraisal document included a comprehensive M&E plan and a
set of detailed output indicators. However, design proved overambitious. In addition the
indicators were too numerous and some were of limited utility, and many were redundant or
conflicting, and dispersed in different official documents, making the monitoring of targets
and activities difficult.

6.24 Implementation. The project MIS was established and the Mid-Term Review, an
environmental perception study and a final evaluation were carried out. PES practitioners
were brought together to share lessons from other parts of the country. A book on the PES
experience is to be published. However, the weaknesses in design negatively impacted the
effectiveness of M&E. Integration of the project’s M&E system with the State rural
Extension Company’s system weakened the PMUs ability to respond to issues as they arose.

6.25 Utilization. Information from the mid-term review was used to amend the credit
agreement. Project supervision documents and the project completion report also indicate
that adjustments were made during implementation and that these drew at least partly from
the documented project learning experience.

6.26    Overall, the quality of M&E is rated modest.

7. Lessons
Based on the experience of this project, several lessons can be drawn:

    •   In land or forest management projects that aim to induce a change in land use
        practices and scaling up, it is important to gain an understanding of the motives
        different types of landholders have to adopt and maintain such practices in addition to
        technical dimensions of restoration. In this case, the project documented some
                                            26


    comparative evidence on the cost and effectiveness of alternative riparian forest
    restoration technologies that may be of use to future restoration efforts. But there was
    less attention to the incentives or disincentives that different land owners have to
    adopt and sustain such practices or to overcoming barriers to participation, which is
    equally important for scaling up.

•   Consistency between the objectives statements and the scale of investments and
    associated indicators is essential to avoid incongruities between investment strategy
    and project intent. In this case the project’s official objectives were stated in terms of
    ambitious global environment objectives. But the project was designed as a pilot to
    meet the de-facto objective of providing the State of São Paulo with the capacity and
    tools to tackle future restoration, as opposed to being designed to meet its actual
    declared objective statement and it did not include intermediate outcomes that could
    enable an assessment of the likelihood of meeting longer term expectations.

•   Working through multiple institutional players can enhance policy and operational
    outcomes but it requires that mechanisms are developed to formalize institutional
    partnership with clearly defined common targets and timetables to reduce delays.
    Such mechanisms need to be agreed among all partners upfront and tailored to their
    own bureaucratic, managerial and operational structures. In this case, project
    implementation relied upon various institutions but there were difficulties in aligning
    priorities, timetables and information flow between different institutional teams who
    followed their own institutions procedures and timetables, contributing to
    implementation delays.

•   Early consensus on coordination of M&E between institutions and sectors within
    government is crucial in order to ensure alignment of objectives and targets and to
    achieve the flow of M&E data between entities. This is particularly important for
    projects with an experimental focus and widely dispersed activities that can make
    data collection, storage and usage more of a challenge. In this case, the project
    management unit was established in the Secretary of Environment and was charged
    with preparing semiannual reports that were to be made available to project executors
    at all levels. But monitoring of field activities was carried out by the State’s Rural
    Extension Agency. Incompatibilities between the operational structures of the two
    agencies led to bottlenecks in information flows that made it difficult for the project
    management team to detect and respond to issues as they arose and provide timely
    feedback to other project executing entities.
                                                   27


References
James Aronson, Petro H.S. Brancalion, Giselda Durigan, Ricardo R. Rodrigues, Vera L. Engle, Marcelo
        Tabarelli Jose M. D. Torezan, Sergius Gandolfi, Antonio C.G. de Melo, Paulo Y. Kageyama,
        Marcia C.M. Marques, Andre G. Nave, Sebastio V. Martins, Flavio B. Gandara, Ademir Reis,
        Luiz M. Barbosa, and Fabio R. Scarano. 2011. “What role should government regulation play in
        Ecological Restoration? Ongoing debate in São Paulo State, Brazil.” Restoration Ecology Volume
        19(6): 690–695.
Joly CA, Rodrigues RR, Metzger JP, Haddad CF, Verdade LM, Oliveira MC, Bolzani VS. 2010. “Ecology.
        Biodiversity conservation research, training, and policy in São Paulo.” Science 328(5984):1358-9.
Rodrigues, R. R., Ranato A. F. Lima, Sergius Gandolfi, Andre Gustavo Nave. 2009. “On the restoration of
        high diversity forests: 30 years of experience in the Brazilian Atlantic Forest.” Biological
        Conservation 142: 1242-1251.
Rodrigues R.R., Sergius Gandolfi, Andre Gustavo Nave, James Aronson, Tiago Egydio Barreto, Cristina
        Yuri Vidal, Pedro H.S. Brancolion. 2011. “Large scale ecological restoration of high-diversity
        tropical forests in SE Brazil.” Forest Ecology and Management 261: 1605-1613.
World Bank. 2003. Country Assistance Strategy 2003-2007 for the Federative Republic of Brazil in
       Support of a More Equitable, Sustainable, and Competitive Brazil. Washington, DC: World Bank.
______. 2005. Project Appraisal Document. Ecosystem Restoration of Riparian Forests in São Paulo
        (GEF) Project Report No: 32151-BR.
______. 2008. International Bank for Reconstruction and Development and International Finance
        Corporation Country Partnership Strategy for the Federative Republic of Brazil for the Period
        FY2008-2011. Washington, DC: World Bank. Report # 42677.
______. 2011a. International Bank for Reconstruction and Development and International Finance
        Corporation Country Partnership Strategy for the Federative Republic of Brazil for the Period
        FY2012-2015. Washington, DC: World Bank.
______. 2011b. Implementation and Results Report State of São Paulo Ecosystem Restoration of Riparian
        Forests (GEF) Project Report No: ICR00001994.
                                           29                                      ANNEX A


Annex A. Basic Data Sheet
ECOSYSTEM RESTORATION OF RIPARIAN FOREST IN SÃO PAULO
(TF-55091)
Key Project Data (amounts in US$ million)
                                         Appraisal         Actual or        Actual as % of
                                         estimate       current estimate   appraisal estimate
Total project costs                        19.5               21.8               111.5
Loan amount                                 7.8               7.8                 100


Cumulative Estimated and Actual Disbursements
                      FY06       FY07     FY08       FY09        FY10      FY11         FY12
Appraisal estimate
(US$M)                  .6        2.4      4.4         6.2          7.8     7.8         7.8
Actual (US$M)          1.3        2.6      3.3         5.1          6.1     7.6         7.5
Actual as % of
appraisal             216.7       41.6     75          82.3         78.2   97.4         96.2
Date of final disbursement: 09/15/2011


Project Dates
                                              Original                       Actual
Concept Review                               01-29-2004                    06-23-2004
Negotiations                                 01-14-2005                    04-15-2005
Appraisal                                    01-18-2005                    03-15-2005
Board approval                               04-15-2005                    06-21-2005
Signing                                           NA                       06-27-2005
Effectiveness                                     NA                       09-08-2005
Closing date                                 01-31-2010                    04-27-2011
ANNEX A                              30


Staff Time and Cost
                                     Staff Time and Cost (Bank budget only)
                                                               US$ Thousands
                                No. of Staff Weeks          (including travel and
Stage of Project Cycle                                         consultant costs)
Lending
FY04                                    8.86                       54.73
FY05                                   10.23                       70.85
Total:                                 19.09                       125.58
Supervision/ICR
FY06                                   11.11                       58.81
FY07                                   12.84                       69.02
  FY08                                 15.88                       73.03
FY09                                   19.54                       92.96
FY10                                    8.72                       57.70
FY11                                    7.97                       61.59
FY12                                      n/a                        n/a
Total:                                 76.06                       413.11


Task Team Members
                                                                   Responsibility/
Name                                    Title            Unit        Specialty
Lending
Maria Isabel Junqueira Braga     Sr. Env. Specialist    AFTEN      Environmental
Jose Augusto Carvalho               Consultant          LCSPT          Lawyer
Tulio Henrique Lima Correa     Fin. Mgmt Specialist     LCSFM         Financial
Judith M. Lisansky               Sr. Anthropologist     LCSSO          Social
Anemarie Guth Proite           Procurement Specialist   LCSPT       Procurement
Loretta Sprissler               Soc. Dev. Specialist    LCSSO          Social
Supervision
Susana Amaral                  Fin. Mgmt Specialist     LCSFM         Financial
Maria Isabel Junqueira Braga     Sr. Env. Specialist    AFTEN      Environmental
Laurent Debroux                Sr. Nat. Res. Econom.    LCSAR    Natural Resources
Nicolas Drossos                     Consultant          LCSFM         Financial
Alvaro Soler                   Rural Dev. Specialist             Rural Development
Erick C.M. Fernandes                  Adviser           LCSAR    Natural Resources
Carolina J. Cuba Hammond         Program Assistant      LCSAR      Team Support
Jose C. Janeiro                Senior Finance Officer   CTRFC         Finance
                                         31                                ANNEX A


Grace Menck De Oliveira Figuero   Jr. Professional Assoc.   MNSEN   Project Analyst
Marta Elena Molares-Halberg           Lead Counsel          LEGES      Lawyer
Anemarie Guth Proite              Procurement Specialist    LCSPT    Procurement
Karen J. Ravenelle-Smith          Sr. Executive Assistant   GFDRR   Team Support
Timothy S. Valentiner              Jun. Prof. Associate     LCSAR   Project Analyst
Luciano Wuerzius                  Procurement Specialist    LCSPT    Procurement
Diana Rebolledo                   Language Prog Assist.     LCSAR   Team Support
ANNEX B                                    32


Annex B. List of Persons Met
World Bank

Isabel Braga, TTL at appraisal
Erick Fernandes, TTL at project closure
Marianne Grosclaude, Senior Agriculture Economist, TTL São Paulo Sustainable Rural
Development and Access to Markets Project
Adriana Moreira, Senior Environmental Specialist

Global Environment Facility

Carlo Carugi, GEF Evaluation Office

National Government

Rodrigo Martins Vieira, General Coordinator for External Financing Ministry of Planning
and Budget Management, Secretariat for International Affairs

State Government

Helena Carrascosa von Glehn, State Secretariat of Environment
Rubens Naman Rizek Júnior, Deputy Secretary – State Secretariat for the Environment
Daniela Petenon, Technical manager of the PRMC
Paulo Roberto Torres Ortiz, Assistente Técnico de Pesquisa Científica e Tecnológica na
Coordenação Especial para Restauração de Áreas Degradadas (CERAD)
Regina Tomoko Shirasuna, Assistente Técnico de Pesquisa Científica e Tecnológica na
Coordenação Especial para Restauração de Áreas Degradadas (CERAD)
Carlos Eduardo Beduschi and Araci Kamiyama, Director of the Center of Sustainable Use –
SMA/SP
Cristina Azevedo, Coordinator of Biodiversity and Natural Resources - CBRN
Pedro S. De Castro, Pact for The Atlantic Forest Restoration
Dagoberto Meneghini, Technical Coordinator for Matacilar project
Marina Eduarte, Environmental education and outreach coordinator for Mataciliar project


Project partners and Local Beneficiaries

Joao Brunelli, Technical manager of the PDRS – CATI/SAA, Botanical Institute
Dr. Luiz Mauro Barbosa, Technical Director of department of the Instituto de Botânica de
São Paulo
Dr. Nelson Augusto dos Santos Junior, Director of the Center for Ecology and Phisiology
Research
Dra. Marina Crestana Guardia, Director of the Center for Seed research
Ulisses Bottino Peres, Director of Environment of Graça/SAAE
José Alcides Faneco, Mayor of Garça
                                           33                                  ANNEX B


Vitor Lopes Braccialli, Technical Coordinator of the Rural Association of Barreiro micro-
catchment
Rodrigo Bernardes, Technician of CBRN (during GEF Project) for Garça, Pacaembu and
Gabriel Monteiro
Marcio Kataiama, President of association in Pacaembu municipality
Nilton Steiq, Rural producer in Pacaembu – restored a ripariam area
Maria Venina, CATI Technician in Gabriel Monteiro municipality- Agronomist
Maria Aparecida, Secretary of the Association in Gabriel Monteiro
Mario Silva, President of the association in Gabriel Monteiro during GEF project
Luis Tavares, Technician AVALON contracted to monitor during GEF project
Eduardo Abussamra, Secretary of Environment of Jau municipality
Amilcar Marcel de Souza, Pro Terra NGO
Marcio Cesarino, Sub-mayor of Potunduva District
Antonio Carlos Botelho Müller Carioba, Farm owner
Juliano Leite, CATI/SAA
Claudia Aparecida Faria, CATI/SAA
Edwaldo L. Oliveira, Terceira Via
Gianmarco Bisaglia, Terceira Via
Maria Fernanda Magione, Terra Roxa Consulting/TNC
Pedro Matarazzo, Joanópolis Local Government

Other Technical Experts

Carlos Nobre, Presidente da Comissão de Coordenação das Atividades de
Meteorologia,Climatologia e Hidrologia Esplanada dos Ministérios
Ricardo Rodrigues, ESALQ/USP
Pedro Henrique Santin Brancalion, ESALQ/USP
Sergius Gandolfi, ESALQ/USP
Eduardo Ditt, IPE NGO
Rafael E. Chiodi, IPE NGO
Oscar Sarcinelli, IPE NGO
Roberto de Lara Haddad, IPE NGO
34
