Updated Project Information Document (PID)
Report No: AB122
Project Name               AFRICA-Senegal River Basin Water and Environmental Management Project
Region                     Africa Regional Office
Sector                     General agriculture, fishing and forestry sector (50%); General water, sanitation
and flood protection sector (50%)
Theme                       Water resource management (P); Environmental policies and institutions (S)
Project                    P064573
Borrower(s)                OMVS
Implementing Agency(ies)   ORGANISATION POUR LA MISE EN VALEUR DU FLEUVE SENEGAL
(OMVS)
Address:
46 Rue Carnot
BP 3152 Dakar
Senegal
Contact Person. Mr Mohamed Salem Ould Merzoug, High Commissioner
Tel. (221) 823-45-30  Fax: (221) 822-01-63    Email:
omvs-ccc@sunumail sn
Environment Category        B (Partial Assessment)
Date PID Prepared          June 12, 2003
Auth Appr/Negs Date        January 13, 2003
Bank Approval Date          October 3, 2003
1. Country and Sector Background
I.     The river basin. The Senegal River flows for 1,800 km, making it the second longest river in
West Africa. This river, an international basin, covers 300,000 km2 extending across four riparian
countries, Guinea (11% of the Basin area), Mali (53%), Mauritania (26%) and Senegal (10%). The
Senegal River Basin (henceforth referred to as Basin) has three distinct geographic regions (i) the Upper
Basin, a mountainous area between the Fouta Djallon and Bakel, (ii) the Valley, featuring a flood plain
varying in width from 10 to 20 km between Bakel and Dagana, and (iii) the Delta between Dagana and
the Atlantic Ocean. The river's three principal tributaries - the Bafing, the Bakoye and the Faleme - all
originate in the Fouta Djallon mountains in Guinea and together produce over 80% of its flow. The rains
falling in the Fouta Djallon region from April until October produce a flood season beginning in July and
ending in October.
2.     Socio-economics. Approximately twelve million people live in the Basin, 85% of which live near
the river The regional population growth rate is high (approx. 3% per year), due partly to in-migration.
The Upper Basin remains dependent upon subsistence agriculture which is based on shifting cultivation.
In the Valley and the Delta, traditional production systems (flood-recession cropping, livestock raising,
fishing) and the practice of modem irrigation with water pumped from the river exist side by side Within
the Basin, four Ramsar Convention protected wetland sites exist and are located in the Diawlng
(Mauritania) and Djoudj (Senegal) national parks.
3.     Regional instiltulonal framework. The Senegal River's development potential and regional
importance have long been recognized, and has engendered cooperation in the Basin since 1972 when
Mali, Mauritania and Senegal fonned a basin management institution Organisation poiur la Mise en
Valeutr diu Fleuve S6negal (OMVS). In addition, in 1992, OMVS and Guinea signed the Protocole



2
PID
d'accord-cadre de coop6ration entre la Republique de Ginne et l'OMVS which created a framework for
cooperation in actions of mutual interest concerming the Basin. This objective was greatly strengthened in
May 2002 with the ratification of the Water Charter by the Heads of State of Mali, Mauritania and
Senegal - the three member countries of OMVS. The Water Charter addresses the management of the
countries' shared water resources and acknowledges Guinea's interests in the Senegal River basin.
4.     Basin-wide and national priorities. As part of the Project's design a preliminary analysis was
done, based upon stakeholder consultations, of priority issues in the Senegal basin. The following
priority issues were identified: (i) abating land degradation and its related impacts (i.e. deforestation,
erosion, overgrazing and desertification), (ii) improving data collection and sharing, (iii) reducing point
and non-point source pollution, (Iv) enhancing food security through improved irrigation and land
management, (v) sustaining efficient hydropower production, (vi) conserving biodiversity and improving
wetland management practices, (vii) strengthening institutional capacity and policy, and (viii) developing
participatory practices to increase public awareness and outreach.
2. Objectives
5.     Project development objective. The Project's primary objective is to address the Basin's priority
concerns by providing a participatory strategic environmental framework for the environmentally
sustainable development of the Basin and to launch a basin-wide cooperative program for transboundary
land-water management.
6.     Global project objective. The Project design conforms to Global Environmental Facility (GEF)
Operational Program Number 9, 'Integrated Land and Water Multiple Focal Area Operational Program'.
The proposed Project anticipates achieving global enviroiunental benefits through broad, basin-wide
participation in the development and implementation of measures that lead to sustainable transboundary
management of the Basin's land and water resources.
3. Rationale for Bank's Involvement
7      OMVS requested the Bank and UNDP to assist with the preparation of the GEF Project due to
the Bank's technical and fiscal know-how and its convening power, and UNDP's strong on-the-ground
presence and long tern experience in capacity building. By working jointly with UNDP and the Bank,
OMVS is offering the Project a greater chance of success.
4. Description
8      To successfully achieve the development objective the Project proposes to strengthen local,
national, and regional institutional capacity to enable these institutions to address the basin-wide, priority
issues regarding transboundary water and environmental management. The Project is designed as a
four-year project with five component activities with the two GEF implementing agencies responsible for
different components:
Component 1 Environmental Management Capacity Building (World Bank)
9.     This component seeks to strengthen regional, national and local institutional capacity by building
expertise on transboundary environmental management in each of the national institutions associated
with OMVS and Guinea. Specific activities will: (i) establish a dialogue with Guinea to harmonize
environmental management and legislation with OMVS, (ii) strengthen national and regional institutional



3
PID
and legislative capacity to enable the riparian countries to address pnority transboundary water and
environmental issues, (iii) support local Project management and operations of the regional project
management cellule (CRGP) within OMVS, (iv) promote and facilitate, through a regional forum, the
exchange of experiences with other GEF international waters projects in Sub-Saharan Africa, (v) support
technical capacity building to address invasive species management, and (vi) organize a donor
conference to secure financing for actions needed to address the Basin's priority issues.
Component 2. Data Knowledge and Management (World Bank)
10.    Component 2 aims to strengthen local and regional data and knowledge bases with an emphasis
on developing and integrating Guinea's technical capacity and networks with the existing OMVS
network. This collaboration is expected to lead to a basin-wide compatible data management network.
The component will: (i) provide Guinea with an opportunity to participate within OMVS' technuical
network, and (ii) promote collaboration at the basin-level in establishing a data management protocol that
will facilitate the collection and exchange of infornation.
Component 3: Transboindary Diagnostic Analysis and Strategic Action Plan (World Bank)
11.    A full Transboundary Diagnostic Analysis (TDA) will be done based upon the preliminary
transboundary analysis carried out during Project preparation. The TDA will examine existing conditions
and management of the Basin's environment and water resources. It will identify and analyze the Basin's
transboundary issues, relating to water and resource management, and propose options to address them.
Based on the TDA, a Strategic Action Plan (SAP) will be prepared. A plan of action will be determined
in consultation with local stakeholders to deal with these priority issues The SAP will provide a
framework within which environmental management can be improved by: (i) introducing the appropriate
environmental protection policies, (ii) providing opportunities for microgrant supported interventions and
future investments, (iii) and increasing public awareness of environmental issues
Component 4: Microgrants Program - Priority Actions (UNDP)
12     Based upon the preliminary TDA key focal areas have been identified which are eligible for
community-based inicrogrant interventions. The microgrants will serve to pilot local-level good
management practices of environmental issues at selected transboundary sites. The priority actions will
include, but not be limited to. (i) land degradation and desertification, (ni) water quality enhancement,
and (iii) wetland restoration and management. A draft Microgrant Program Operational Manual will be
prepared based upon the experience of the GEF-Small Grants Programme and other micro-finance
programs. The Manual will identify selection criteria, outline the basic procedure for grant applications,
and provide guidelines for adhering to the Environmental Management Framework, designed to comply
with World Bank and national environmental and social safeguard policies
Component 5 Public Participation Program (UNDP)
13.    The Project's impact depends upon the full participation of all the stakeholders, from the regional
level with all the riparian countries to the local level and community-based organizations. This
component proposes to engage broader public participation through a public awareness and public
education programs. It builds on the public participation which took place during Project preparation and
was coordinated by IUCN. This process included national meetings in each country aimed at ensuring
grass-roots level participation.



4
PID
5. Financing
Source (Total ( US$m))
BORROWER/RECIPIENT ($0.00)
GLOBAL ENVIRONMENT FACILITY ($5 62)
UN DEVELOPMENT PROGRAMME ($1 63)
Total Project Cost $7 25
6. Implementation
14.   Executing agency. OMVS is executing the Project with the assistance of the regional project
management cellule (Cellule regionale gestion du projet, CRGP), established as an integral part of the
High Commission in Dakar, Senegal. The CRGP is responsible for managing the Project across all four
participating countries, and will recruit a Regional Project Coordinator, technical specialists,
admintstrative, procurement and disbursement staff.
15.   Implementation arrangements. The Project will be implemented over four years. Activities,
which have a regional scope, are managed from the CRGP and fully involves the four countries' national
actions. The Project activities, which are national and local in scope, are managed by nationally-based
Project management offices (the National Cellules) with support from the CRGP. The National Cellules
work at the local level through various NGOs and community organizations in coordination with the
Local Coordination Committees. The proposed Senegal River Basin Steering Committee provides
regional guidance with national guidance being provided by the National Coordination Committees.
7. Sustainability
16.   Government commitment. All four governments have endorsed the Project. During the Project
preparation process, National Project Planning Committees were established in each riparian country
which have been responsible for coordinating the Project's preparation with active participation by the
OMVS. With Guinea's participation to date, it is anticipated that in due course an inclusive framework
for the Basin's management may be established. Country officials have provided continual assistance,
with the involvement of national water and environment authorities coupled with stakeholder
consultation, which participated in nattonal and regional workshops, workgroups and steering
committees, and prepared the Project documents.
17.   Financial Sustainability The OMVS governments' financial commiltment is reflected in their
contributions to the High Commission. The long-tenn financial sustainability of this Project is
strengthened by UNDP's and the World Bank's ongoing work in regional projects which form the
baseline for this intervention. The Project also complements ongoing regional actions, and many donors
are actively supporting OMVS, its member countries and Guinea.
8. Lessons learned from past operations in the country/sector
18.   The GEF Senegal River Basin Water and Environmental Management Project is designed as an
integrated, inclusive and sustainable project prepared by local counterparts with guidance from UNDP
and the World Bank Lessons learned from other GEF projects were drawn upon in preparing the Project.
The key lessons are identified below:
*   Inclusivitv and ststainabdlity The engagement of local counterparts was vital in defining a realistic
Project objective Multi-country, regional projects require additional attention to address all national
concerns in an integrated coherent manner and a realistic implementation schedule and budget. A



5
PID
community-based microgrants component will engage communities in the areas where priority issues
have been identified. Using community-based knowledge and experiences has proven to be critical to
successful project implementation and sustainability Creating stakeholder awareness is the first step
to allow communities to be involved in decision making for water resource management to tackle
priority issues.
*   Strengthening institutional capacity and partnerships. Regional projects bring their own challenges
with the need for greater cooperation and collaboration which is made more difficult when countries
have different degrees of capacity. To facilitate regional cooperation, it becomes important to foster
an environment of trust, equity and dialogue within which all riparians can engage. The Project is
looking to help foster such an environment or 'levelling the playing field' by strengthening
institutional capacity across all four Basin countries It also recognises the need to build broad
partnerships within and among the riparian countries and their partners if this project is to contribute
to the Basin's sustainable development.
* Integrated land and water management. Optimal water resources management depends on good land
management practices since the elements of a watershed are inter-related and need to be seen as an
integrated but multifaceted system.
* Monitoring and evaluation. The importance of ensuring an effective and participatory monitoring
and evaluation process was highlighted at the GEF International Waters conference in 2000. This
includes the collection of baseline and temporal data to evaluate the dynamics of the land and water
ecosystems. The inclusion of the local scientific and research communities into the Project is
designed to broaden participation in the Basin's decision-making processes. A congruous data
collection and compatible data management network will help the monitoring and evaluation process
which in turn is linked to successfully achieving the Project objective.
9. Environment Aspects (including any public consultation)
Issues:
23.    The Project's environmental classification is "B" (potential adverse impacts). The Project
activities will improve environmentally sustainable development through increased participatory
framework and infonnation exchange. Of the Project's five components, Components 1, 2, 3 and 5 will
not have any environmental impacts. However, in Component 4 Microgrant Program there remains a
possibility that unintended impacts may occur. This is because local communities implementing the
microgrants will undertake activities that they have selected from a range of eligible activities. To ensure
that the microgrant applicants comply with appropnate environmental and social safeguard policies, an
"Environmental Management Framework" has been prepared as part of the Project preparation process,
and will be used to screen all applications for microgrants.
24.    A number of national and local institutions, stakeholders and NGOs contributed to the Project's
design, and are expected to participate in the Project's implementation The microgrant program
specifically targets the involvement of local communities and nationl NGOs. Component 5 'Public
Participation and Awareness' activities will be implemented by NGOs from the region.
Program Objective Categories
25.    The Project meets the following Bank Program Objective Categories Environmental policies and



6
PID
institutions (S), Institutional development (BI), Water resource management (P), Environmentally
sustainable development (EN), Natural resources management (VM).
10. List of factual technical documents:
- Senegal River Basin Water and Environmental Management Project, Project Concept Document
- Senegal River Basin Water and Environmental Management Project, Project Appraisal Document
- Senegal River Basin Water and Environmental Management Project, Integrated Safeguards Data Sheet
(Updated)
11. Contact Point:
Task Manager
Ousmane Dione (Email: odione@worldbank.org)
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington D.C. 20433
Telephone. +1-202-473-3574
Fax: +1-202-473-8249
12 For information on other project related documents contact
The InfoShop
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington, D C 20433
Telephone (202) 458-5454
Fax    (202) 522-1500
Web. httpl// www.worldbank.org/infoshop
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain components may not be necessarily
included in the final project.



