GEF SENEGAL RIVER BASIN WATER AND ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT PROJECT
MICROGRANT PROCRAM - PRIORITY ACTIONS
ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT FRAMEWORK
For Local and National
Compliance with Environmental and Social Safeguard Policies
Revised Date: November 18, 2002
Water and Urban 2 Sector
Africa Region Office



List of Acronyms
Basin       Senegal River Basin
°C       centigrade
CARPE         Centre d 'Action Regional et Participative pour I 'Environnetnent
CBO        Community-based Organization
CDD         Community Drive Development
CLC        Local Coordination Committee
CNC        National Coordination Committee
EA        Environmental Assessment
EMF        Environmental Management Framework
GEF        Global Environmental Facility
ha       hectare
TBRD        International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
ICC        Information Communications Coordinator
IEA        Initial Environmental Assessment
km        kilometer
m        meter
NGO         Non-government Organization
NPC        National Program Coordinator
OD        Operational Directive
OMVS         Organization pour la Mise en Valeur du Fleuve Senegal
OP        Operational Policy
PASIE        Plan d'Attenuation et de SUivi des Inpacts sur l'Environnement
micro-       Microgrant funded activities in the Basin
activity
Program       Component 4 Microgrant Program
Project      Senegal River Basin Water and Environmental Management Project
PVO        Private-volunteer Organizations
River       Senegal River
RPC        Regional Project Coordinator
s       second
SAP        Strategic Action Plan
TDA        Transboundary Diagnostic Analysis
TEA        Transboundary Environmental Analysis
UNDP         United Nations Development Program
2



TABLE OF CONTENTS
1    INTRODUCTION .................................4
1.1    Introduction ................................                                               4
1.2    Organization of the EMF Document .................................                          4
2    GEF PROJECT DESCRIPTION .................................5
2.1     GEF Project Summary ............................................ ...                        5
2.2     Overview of the Regional Institutions and the GEF Project's Institutional Arrangements ................6
2.3     Regional Policy and National Legislation ........................................................................... 7
2.3.1   Regional Policy ..........................................................................  7
2 3.2   National Legislation .........................................................................  9
3    DESCRlPTION OF SENEGAL RIVER BASIN .........................................................................   10
3.1     Socio-Economic Characteristics ......................................................................... 10
3.2     Senegal River Basin Hydrology and Ecology ............................................................... .......... 10
3.3     Environmental Priority Issues .........................................................1................  1
4    MICROGRANT PROGRAM: DESCRIPTION .......................................................................  11
4.1     Program Objective and Summary of Micro-activities .......................................................  11
4.2     Potential Beneficiaries, Applicants And Participants ........................................................ 12
4.3     Program Compliance With National Legislation and World Bank Policies ..................................... 13
4.4     Operational Manual ........................................................ 14
4.5     Budget ........................................................                            15
5    MICROGRANT PROGRAM: IMPLEMENTATION PROCESS                             .       ................................. 15
5.1    Institutional Arrangements ............................................................................................................... 15
5.1.1 Regional Level ...                                                                        15
5.1 2 National Level ..                                                                         16
5.1.3 Local Level                  ..                                                           17
5.2 Program Implementation Process ..                                                              17
5.3     Local Environmental and Social Design and Screening .19
5.4     National Environmental and Social Review .20
Annexes           1. Summary of Riparian Countries Environmental Legislation
2. Priority Issues in Senegal River Basin



GEF SENEGAL RIVER BASIN WATER AND ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT PROJECT
MICROGRANT PROGRAM - PRIORITY ACTIONS
ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT FRAMEWORK
I INTRODUCTION
1.1  Introduction
Introduction. As part of the GEF Senegal River Basin Water and Environmental Management Project (hereafter
referred to as the Project), Component 4, the Microgrants Program, provides opportunities for local sustainable
development and economic opportunities through the implementation of small-scale microgrant funded activities. The
Project's other components focus on regional and national institutional entities, whereas the Microgrants Program
(hereafter referred to as the Program) component focuses on local, community-based efforts. Each microgrant activity
will be prepared locally to comply within design criteria, which takes into consideration environmental and social
impacts. The Environmental Management Framework (EMF) identifies the process to implement microgrant-funded
activities (micro-activities) within the parameters of national environmental policies and Safeguard Policies, and
provides a mechanism to assess both the individual and cumulative micro-activity Impacts at the national level.
Inherent in the Program process are community driven development (CDD) principles emphasizing the strengthening
of regional, national and local institutions and expanding social capacity for improved decision-making and
collaborative management of the Senegal River Basin's water and environmental resources. The EMF is a working
document that will be adapted as the project develops.
Community Driven Development. CDD is the process by which community groups assume control and authority over
decisions and resources in development projects, with goals to' respond to local priority needs, build problem-solving
skills, and promote ownership and care of local assets and resources. Community engagement is the key building
block for achieving these goals. This is most appropriately used for the provision of local goods, basic services and the
management of natural resources. The CDD participation process involves informnation dissemination, consultation,
and collaboration to support community-based empowement and control over decisions and resources.
Environmental Management Framework and Microgrant Program Operational Manual. The EMF together with the
Microgrant Program Operational Manual (Manual), are designed to comply with national environmental legislation
and the World Bank's (Bank) environmental and social safeguard policies. The EMF identifies an understandable and
logical overview of the Program and the environmental and social review process. The Manual provides the specifics
on the Program implementation, local level guidance for environmental and socially responsible micro-activity design,
and a sourcebook of best management practices and mitigation measures, and a format for the national screening
process.
1.2  Organization of the EMF Document
This document, the EMF consists of five sections that provide a summary of the GEF Project, an overview of the Basin
to understand the context of the issues being addressed, and an outline of the Program implementation cycle. This
document consists of the following sections:



Section 1   Introduction             * Introduces the Program and provides and overview of the EMF
Section 2   GEF Project Description  * Summarizes the GEF Project components
* Provides a review of the relevant regional policies and national
legislatures
* Provides an overview of the Projects institutional arrangements
Section 3   Description of the Senegal  * Reviews the Basin's physical and socio-economic conditions
River Basin               * Recapitulates the preliminary findings from the priority actions
identified during Project preparation
Section 4   Microgrant Program        * Provides the Program objective and activities summary
Description               * Identifies the potential communities and organizations encouraged
to participate in the program and those who will benefit from the
program
* Identifies the Banks Safeguard Operational Policies
* Outlines the Microgrant Operational Manual
* Summarizes the budget
Section 5   Program Implementation    * Summarizes the regional, national, local institutional arrangements
Process                   * Outlines the Program and EMF implementation cycle
2 GEF PROJECT DESCRIPTION
2.1  GEF Project Summary
The primary development objective of the Project is to provide a participatory strategic environmental framework for
the environmentally sustainable development of the Senegal River Basin and to launch a basin-wide cooperative
program for transboundary land-water management. To successfully achieve the development objective the Project
proposes to strengthen regional and national institutional capacity to enable these institutions to address the priority
basin-wide, transboundary water and environment management issues. Thus enabling the Senegal Basin's four riparian
countries, Guinea, Mali, Mauritania, and Senegal to jointly build on ongoing initiatives in the Basin; develop a
cooperative regional approach to the environmental management of the Basin; and contribute to effective operation of
the Basin's water resource, providing benefits beyond the Basin's boundaries.
This four-year project is being jointly implemented by the World Bank and UNDP, and executed by Organisation pour
la Mise en Valeur du Fleuve Senegal (OMVS). OMVS is the Basin's water commission with Mali, Mauritania, and
Senegal as its member states. Guinea, a willing observer in the OMVS, will be engaged, as part of the Project process,
to participate in the decision-making and water and resource management of the Basin. The Project is one of a number
of activities in the Senegal River Basin, therefore, care is being taken to ensure that it complements rather than
duplicates those extemal activities by building on existing institutional arrangements and OMVS' institutional and
technical network. Equally, care has been taken to ensure that intemally the Project's activities are complementary
and coordinated. The Project activities are interrelated and build upon each other. The inter-linkages between the
Project's components are significanit not only in the institutions that are being established and/or strengthened, but also
because one activity's output is the input into another.



The Project's activities focus on strengthening the Basin-wide regional, national, and local institutional and technical
environmental management capacities, while providing socio-economic benefits to the rural communities while
managing their local resources. Strengthened capacity then provides opportunities to understand the Basin's dynamics
and the critical land and water issues and cooperate in responding appropriately to improve the management of the
Basin's resources. This understanding will also generate local opportunities to engage the communities in taking
responsibility at the local level and provide opportunities for community driven development, for improved
environment and livelihood. The Project Appraisal Document and the Project's Implementation Plan will detail the
Project activities and implementation. Specifically, the Project components include:
*  Component 1 Environmnental Managemenit Capacity Buillding (WB implenmented). Activities strengthen the
institutional capacity of the OMVS and Guinea national and regional structures, providing a broader
cooperative platform for resource management and decision-making. Emphasis will be placed on Guinea, who
is not a member of OMVS, to strengthen their institutional capacity supporting a more inclusive and
collaborative process.
*  Component 2. Data Knowledge and Management (WB implemented). Activities strengthen the technical
capacity, expanding the regional and national technical network. This includes providing Guinea technical
support to understand the Basin's environmental dynamics, building on the existing network, expanding the
information, data collection, and technical network through the entire Basin, strengthened technical capacity
will provide data and information to enable sound resource management and decision-making.
*  Component 3: Transboundary Diagnostic Analysis and Strategic Action Plan (WB implemented). Activities
strengthen the collaborative capacity, this effort builds on a national and regional baseline of information
collected during project preparation, engages at the national and local levels to further define the
transboundary land and water concems and issues, and generates a strategic action plan for management of the
Basin's resources, and future investments.
*  Component 4: Microgrants Program - Priority Actions (UNDP implemented). Focusing on strengthening
local capacity, the Program utilizes the findings from the TDA and SAP, to develop national priority action
plans identifying local concerns and issues and providing an opportunity for community driven development to
invest, through microgrant funded micro-activities, in their communities and improve their livelihoods through
local approaches to best management practices. The Program is further detailed in Section 4 of this EMF.
*  Component 5. Public Participation Program (UNDP imlplemented). The public participation and outreach
program provides the mechanism to expand the knowledge base in the Basin, edify communities on1 best
management practices for water and resource use and management, and supports a network for the exchange
of Basin information. This takes into consideration the entire Project, and will complement the public
information and outreach program implemented as part of Microgrant Program.
2.2  Overview of the Regional Institutions and the GEF Project's Institutional Arrangements
OMVS In 1972, Mali, Mauritania and Senegal established a Senegal River development organization, the
Organisation pour la Mise en Valeur du Fleuve Senegal (OMVS) by Mali, Mauritania and Senegal to promote the
economic development of the Senegal River Basin for irrigation, power supply and navigation sectors. Guinea and
OMVS signed the Protocole d'accord-cadre de coop6ration entre la Republique de Guinee et I'OMVS with a view to
creating a framework for cooperation in actions of mutual interest concerning the Senegal River and its basin,
including a provision allowing Guinea to attend OMVS meetings as an observer. Though the OMVS's original
mandate was to promote economic development, with recent developments, more recently, OMVS countries have
agreed upon a Water Charter for the share of basin water resources, which broadens the responsibility to Basin
resource management.
6



PASIE The PASIE is a multi-donor program addressing the environmental issues related to the Regional Hydropower
Project, and the optimization of benefits for various water users in the OMVS member countries. The Project hopes to
build on the PASTE initiatives and institutional arrangements established for the OMVS, and not duplicate the efforts.
The Project will complement the PASTE by extending institutional capacity building activities primarily expanding
efforts to include Guinea in the process.
Project 's Institutional Arrangements The already established Senegal River Basin Project Steering Committee
(SRBSC), transformed from the project preparation committee, will have oversight of the project and will provide
policy advice and guidance as needed. Direct and ongoing management of Project activities will be the responsibility
of OMVS. The OMVS will be the Project's executing agency. Within the OMVS, the Centre d'Action Regional et
Participative pour l'Environne;nent (CARPE), will serve as the Project management unit, will be responsible for
Project activities at the regional level and will be fully involved the four countries' national actions. OMVS will
assign, from its staff, a Regional Project Coordinator (RPC) whose tasks and time will be entirely devoted to the
Project. An Administrative and Financial/Procurement Assistant will support the OMVS RPC. To support component
implementation, specific Project funded experts will also be recruited. Specifically a Regional Microgrant Expert will
be hired by the CARPE to manage Program implementation. Table 1 illustrates the Projects institutional organizationi.
At the national level, in the three OMVS countries, National Coordination Committees (CNCs) have already been
established under the PASIE project. In Guinea, a National Coordination Committee will be established, drawing on
the already established National Project Preparation Committee. The Project draws on the established CNCs and will
further build on this structure to oversee Project at the national level. The nationally based, OMVS National Cellules
and through a newly formed National Cellule in Guinea (all the Cellules are hereafter referred to as the National
Cellules) will be responsible for Program management at the national and local level.
Currently there are fourteen Local Coordination Committees (CLCs), established as part of the PASIE program, and an
additional fourteen, as part of the Project, will be established to cover the Basin's sub-regions and Guinea. The CLCs
will work directly with the rural communities during the preparation of the TDA/SAP, through the community
outreach efforts, and implemenitation of the Microgrant Program activities.
2.3  Regional Policy and National Legislation
2.3.1 Regional Policy
Senegal River Basin Cooperation - Challenges and Opportunities. Confronting the challenges of Basin management,
in addition to having the wherewithal to do so, requires an understanding of the challenges. Preliminary assessments
have identified degradation of the water and land resources, and the limited capacity to address the issues as the
primary challenges. However, recently, there have been new developments in the Senegal River Basin. A newly
adopted Water Charter will enable cooperative management of Basin-wide resources. Guinea even though not a
member of OMVS has actively participated in the OMVS since 1992 expressing willingness to cooperate in actions of
mutual interest, both legal, technical, and institutional, conceming the Senegal River and it's Basin, including
attending OMVS meetings as an observer. The Bank has embarked on upon a strategic vision to support the riparian
countries in Basin-wide development through the Water Charter. To build on ongoing Basin projects and initiatives,
the riparian countries have recognized the need to take tangible steps to manage Basin land and water resources in a
sustainable manner. This commences with strengthening the regional, national, and local capacity to embrace the
responsibility for decisive decision-making for priority actions to improve land and water management in the Basin.
7



Table 1 GEF Project Organizational Chart
Council of Ministers
Senegal River Basin
Project Steering
Committee
(SRBSC)
OMVS
High
Commission
(OMVS H.C.)
Deatments      Deatets          Departments       PSL
CARPE staff
*   Regional Project Coordinator (RPC)
*   Administrative and Financial Assistant
*   Strategic Environmental Planner
*   Water Resources Expert
Regional Microgrant Expert
*   Public Participation & Information Expert
A
National Cellules                                    Nationial Cellules staff
OMVS National Cellules                        National Project Coordinator (NPC)
GuieaNaioalCellule                    *   Information and Communications Coordinator (ICC)
Program NGO-manager
1Je            Natioa  ondatlo
Lee-al  ~ordnato         28 CLCs
CL&                              &mmitstees (ML,s              Total



The Water Charter. The riparian countries have recognized the need to take tangible steps to manage
Basin land and water resources in a sustainable manner. The newly adopted Water Charter approved by
the three OMVS Heads of State in May 2002, will enable cooperative management of Basin-wide
resources. Guinea even though not a member of OMVS has actively participated in the OMVS since 1992
expressing willingness to cooperate in actions of mutual interest, both legal, technical, and institutional,
concerning the Senegal River and it's Basin, including attending OMVS meetings as an observer.
2.3.2  National Legislation
The need for strengthening the riparians institutional capacity necessary to support policy and institutional
reforms is addressed directly by the Project. For many policies, this will entail a refinement of existing
policies and structures rather than substantial change. A comparison of national environmental legislation
between the three OMVS countries is already being carried out under the Plan d'Attenuation et de Suivi
des Impacts sur l'Environnement (PASIE). Environmental requirements and appropriate legislation, for
each riparian country, is overseen by the following ministries, the Project's national counterpart agencies,
and relevant legislation summarized in Annex 1:
* Guinea: Ministere des Mines et de la G6ologie et de l'Environnement;
*  Mali: Ministere des Mines de l'Energie et de l'Eau;
*  Mauritania: Ministere de l'Environnement et du Developpement Rural; and
*  Senegal: Ministere des Mines, de l'Energie et de Hydraulique.
National Environmental Action Plans (NEAP). At the national level, Guinea, Mali, and Senegal have
prepared NEAPs, and commenced in establishing the necessary institutional, legal, and technical
framework for implementation. In addition, to the NEAPS, under the United Nations Convention to
Combat Desertification (UNCCD) National Action Programmes (NAP) or National Reports have also
been prepared.
*  Guinea developed a NEAP in 1994. The plan defines a set of integrated sectoral initiatives, some
of which are currently being implemented, the UNCCD National Report was recently completed
in April, 2002;
*  Mali's effort on the original NEAP started in 1994 and the document was endorsed in May 1998.
The UNCCD NAP was prepared in 2000 integrating actions responding to wide-ranging
consultations at the national, regional and local levels;
*  In Mauritania, a study supported by UNDP, in 1997, contributed to the formulation of an
environmental management and protection program reiterated this concem and stressed the
urgency of developing a NEAP the UNCCD National Report was recently completed in April,
2002; and
*  In Senegal, the NEAP was completed in 1997 and is the result of the consolidation of a series of
regional environmental action plans developed in a decentralized and participatory manner. A
UNCCD NAP was prepared more recently in 2000.



3      DESCRIPTION OF SENEGAL RIVER BASIN
3.1    Socio-Economic Characteristics
Population. Based on the 1988 general population census, the Basin includes some 2,565,000 inhabitants
of which 1,070,000 (or 42%) in Mali, 800,000 (or 31 %) in Senegal and 695,000 (or 27%) in Mauritania.
The Malian population living in the basin constitutes the most important one with about I million
inhabitants whereas development prospects for irrigated agriculture in the framework of current projects
are the lowest (about 10,000 ha). Notwithstanding, there are rain-fed agricultural possibilities that are not
found in the other countries. Although assessed to stand at 800,000 inhabitants, Senegalese populations
living in the basin enjoy the most promising prospects in relation to agricultural development (about
240,000 ha) This reality, marked by the urban population's importance and growth makes it a particular
issue forjob opportunities in urban areas and underscores the importance of the development of service
and manufacturing activities.
3.2  Senegal River Basin Hydrology and Ecology
Hydrology. The riparian states (Guinea, Mali, Mauritania and Senegal) are located in the West African sub-
region. The Senegal River Basin covers over 290,000 km2 [31,000 km2 Guinea (11%); 155,000 km2 in Mali
(53%); 76,000 km2 in Mauritania (26%); and 28,000 km2 in Senegal (10%)]. Map IBRD No. 31612,
included as part of the PAD document, details the physical and political geography of the Basin, and below
is a summary of the Basin's characteristics.
*  The Senegal River flows for 1,800 km. It consists of two major streams, the Bafing River (760
km) and the Bakoye River (560 km). The confluence of these two rivers is near Bafoulabe in
Mali, 1,083 km upstream from the mouth of the River. From western Mali, downstream, it
constitutes the natural border between the territories of Senegal and Mauritania.
*  The Bafing River, with origins beginning at an altitude of 800 m in the Fouta Djalon Mountains in
Guinea and flows heads northwards through the plateau of the soudantian region before merging
with the Bafoulabe River. With an average annual flow of 430 m3 /s, it constitutes more than half
the inflows into the Senegal River and its course is characterized by quite a large number of falls
and rapids.
*  The Bakoye River, at its source rises at an altitude of 706 m near the southern limit of the
Mandingo plateau in Guinea.
*  Downstream from Bafoulabe, the Senegal River receives the inflows of a number of tributaries, of
which on the right bank: the Kolombine River, the Karakoro River and the Gorgol River; and on
the left bank: the Faleme River.
*  The Upper Basin (extends from the Fouta Djallon heights in Guinea as far as Bakel in Senegal).
This sub-region contains almost all the river inflows. It is relatively humid with annual rainfalls
ranging between 70 and 200 cm, occurring between April and October. The upper basin
corresponds to the Fouta Djallon highlands and is characterized by different landscapes ranging
from a mountainous ecosystem to savannah and steppe vegetation, with an elevation ranging from
500 to 1350 m (Mount Tinka at Dalaba: 1320 m and Mount Loura in Mali: 1538 m). The
highlands are also significant for their biological diversity, which comprises 41 animal species
including 3 rare species (small wild goat, crocodile and hippopotamus) and 3 threatened species,
and 33 tree species including 4 threatened species.
*  The Valley Floodplain (extends from Bakel to Dagana). This sub-region is an alluvial plain
limited by two semi-desert type regions, the first constitutes a 10 to 20 km wide floodplain, and
rich agricultural area, and the second under a slight slope, is a whole system of tributaries going
out of its 200 to 400 m-wide main channel, fills a number of clay depressions called "oualo" on
which traditional flood recession crops are practiced The bottom of the main riverbed, there are a



number of rock and sand shoals that impede navigation during low water periods. The operations
of the Diama and Mananali dams, built for hydropower, were completed in 1985 and 1987
respectively, completely modified the River's flow regime and floodplain hydrology irrigated
agriculture in the valley and delta, has also modified the flow regime.
The Delta (extends downstream from Dagana to the coast). In this sub-region, the Senegal River
is 400 to 500 m wide and is relatively deep; the influence of tides is rather strong here.
Ecology. The Basin climate is a range of humid to dry tropical-subtropical zones. The Guinean climate
characterized by its high rate of humidity, abundant rainfall, temperatures around 26°C and dense forests.
The Basin's predominant sudano-sahelian climate characterized by two distinct tropical seasons, namely,
an 8-9-month dry season and followed by a 3-4 month rainy season. Temperatures can reach maximum
values of 40°C except on the coastline where a cold current ensures a rather mild climate.
The vegetal cover is forested, scrubland, savanna/grassland and wetlands. The Senegal River has
distinctly different ecology in the upper, middle and lower reaches. In the alluvial valley natural
vegetation consist of seasonally flooded areas which are uniformly occupied by gallery forests where
Acacia nilotica; areas of semi-deciduous forests occur on laterite or sandstone, and in the sub-Guinean
domain, sparse woods slowly transforming to savannah trees in the Sudano-Sahelian domains, and shrub
steppes in the Sahelian domain.
Since these dams have been operational, the ecology of the floodplain has changed drastically. From salty
and brackish water, ecology with marked seasonal changes to a low flows perennial freshwater ecology,
prompting an increase of invasive species. The natural vegetation has been profoundly degraded due
particularly to impacts from the expansion of agricultural and resident and migratory herds of grazing
animals. The clearing of gallery forests has been most extensive in the alluvial area, not only for
agriculture but also for fuel wood.
The region is important for migratory birds, notably water birds, which arrive in large numbers during the
European winters to wetlands in the Senegal valley and delta. There are protected areas of international
significance such as the Djoudj National Bird Sanctuary on the Senegalese side of the delta, which is a
World Heritage Site, and the Diawling Strict Nature Reserve on the Mauritanian side. Annex 6 provides
more details on each countries: (a) geographic location; (b) ecology and environmental issues; (c) policies
legislation and institutions; and (d) environmental plans and sustainability.
3.3    Environmental Priority Issues
From the preliminary transboundary environmental analysis (TEA), prepared during Project preparation
and documented in Project Appraisal Document (PAD, Annex I 1), it is anticipated the microgrant funds
will support a variety of community-based activities. The propped micro-activities hope to demonstrate
feasible local-level approaches to implement best practices in water and environment conservation at
competitively selected transboundary sites. The proposed activities would address local issues pertaining
to (i) land degradation and desertification, (ii) water quality, and (iii) wetland management. Annex 2
provides a summary of the predominant environmental issues and preliminary findings from the TEA.
4 MICROGRANT PROGRAM: DESCRIPTION
4.1  Program Objective and Summary of Micro-activities
Objective. The Objective of the Microgrant Program is to strengthen local capacity to manage
environmental resources through community-based microgrant funded activities. The Program hopes to
engage the regional-national-local instititions to understand and assist rural community's in addressing the
11



local environmental concerns. Under the GEF Project, the Program will provide local community groups,
NGOs, and other community-based organizations with opportunities and training to improve their
livelihoods through the implementation of better local environmental management practices. Best
management practices, which are sustainable not only because of the incremental effort to improve the
environment but also because it provides opportunties to increase and enhance the local skill and
knowledge base. The Program draws on experiences of existing programs such as the UNDP-GEF Small
Grants Programme, and microgrant programs of the African Development Bank, the World Bank, Social
Funds, and other applicable programs. The Program activities will:
*  Establish administrative actions necessary to define, review and disburse microgrants;
*  Define, at the national-level, from the Transboundary Diagnostic Analysis (TDA) and Strategic
Action Plan (SAP), the baseline for microgrant priorities and potential activities in each country;
*  Identify community groups, community-based organizations' (CBOs), private-volunteer
organizations (PVOs), non-government organizations (NGOs), and women's groups to participate
in the Program;
*  Prepare, at the regional level, training and public information outlining the Program goals and
activities;
*  Assist local counterparts/beneficiaries in preparing activity designs and completing microgrant
application;
*  Supervise, monitor and evaluate the micro-activity implementation;
*  Ensure immediate and effective on-the-ground micro-activity for the benefit of communities and
their environment; and
*  Strengthen the environmental management institutional framework from local to national levels.
Micro-activities. As a means by which to strengthen national-level capacity and cooperation, each
participating country will use the TDA and SAP findings to develop country specific National Microgrant
Priority Action Plan, thus providing a substantive framework for allocating resources, for micro-activities,
on spatial and thematic country priorities. The basin-wide Program is designed to interact with Basin
communities to engage them in understanding the issues affecting their immediate environment and
natural resources. The Program will provide fiscal opportunities, through community-based microgrant
funded activities, to strengthen local community capacity to mitigate the transboundary priority issues in
the community.
4.2  Potential Beneficiaries, Applicants And Participants
The direct beneficiaries are organized groups that live in areas where the Program National Priority Action
Plans have identified important transboundary environmental and water issues together with locally
important issues. Benefits are expected to accrue to communities living on or near the Senegal River, and
indirect benefits will accrue to comnmunities who may benefit from improved land and water resource
management micro-activities. Organized beneficiaries, not individuals, are the target communities for
micro-activity implementation. The Project's Local Coordination Committees (CLCs) will assist the
beneficiaries in preparing the microgrant application. Possible applicants would include but not be limited
to:
* Local NGOs in the Basitn including private volunteer organization, community-based village level
organization, and women associations These groups have the weakest link to current economic
activities in the Basin and are the more vulnerable stakeholders with regard to their potential and
efficiency in environmental conservation. These groups can play an important role in
implementing micro-activities that address both transboundary and local environmental issues yet
provide local benefits. The skill level in these groups may be weak, especially in telrms of
financial management. The CLCs, through community outreach, will work closely with these
12



groups. The microgrants will provide economic incentives to these groups for improved living
conditions and livelihood.
Community professional groups, socio-professional organizations, farmer's cooperatives, cattle
herders, andfishermen. This group of community professional organizations is active in the
community and could contribute to the rural communities, in addition, socio-professional rural
organizations that have been identified as main economic actors by previous studies. These
groups are more organized and are active in utilizing the Basin's resources. Though some effort is
being made to expand the skill-base and knowledge of these groups to promote sustainable and
ecologically friendly production systems, these groups should also be exposed to information,
training, and awareness. The microgrants will provide economic incentives to these groups to
utilize sustainable resource use practices.
4.3   Program Compliance With National Legislation and World Bank Policies
This EMF, designed to fully comply with national environmental codes and legislations; and World Bank
Operational Policies (OP), Operational Directives (OD), and environmental and social Safeguard Policies.
Within the overall set of OP, Bank management has identified ten key safeguards. The objective of the
World Bank's environmental and social safeguard policies is to prevent and mitigate undue harm-to people
and their environment in the development process. Recognizing the paramount importance of safeguard
policies, the Bank is making major efforts to further strengthen their implementation.
The 10 safeguard policies are:
I. Environmental Assessment       6. Pest Management
2. Forestry                       7. Cultural Property
3. Involuntary Resettlement       8. Natural Habitats
4. Indigenous Peoples             9. Disputed Areas
5. Safety of Dams                 10. Intemational Waterways
As part of the EMF process, proposed micro-activities will be designed at the local level to ensure they
meet the design and selection criteria and will not cause any effects that might trigger Safeguard Policies.
The preparation process will be a collaborative process between applicants and the CLCs. When proposed
micro-grant activities are aggregated for review and approval at the National Cellules, the will be screened
individually and/or as a packaged group. The proposed micro-activities will be classified into one of three
categories, depending on the type, location, sensitivity, and scale of the micro-activities and the nature and
magnitude of its potential environmental or social impacts:
*  Category A: A full EA is required, as the micro-activities may have diverse and significant
environmental impacts.
*  Category B: Although a full EA is not required, environmental analysis is appropriate, as the
micro-activities may have specific environmental impacts.
*  Category C: Environmental analysis is normally unnecessary, as the micro-activities are unlikely
to have significant environmental impacts.
The Senegal River Basin riparian countries are committed to demonstrate excellence in implementing
cooperative micro-activities. Intensive EA training has taken place in most of the Basin countries and
enhancing capacity on all aspects of project cycle management within the capacity building component of
this Project.
13



4.4   Operational Manual
The EMF is a stand-alone document providing an overview of the environmental and social review
process, and will be complemented by the Programs Operational Manual. The Manual and the EMF, both
prepared as part of the Project documents, provide guidance for Program implementation. The Manual,
prepared drawing on the best practice of the UNDP Small Grants Programme and other micro-finance
programs, will outline and detail the basic procedure for microgrant applications and the environemental
and social screening process. Guidance will include adherence to specific basin-wide guidelines,
microgrant selection criteria, and terms and conditions of the Program. This includes adherence to
financial management guidelines outlined in the overall Project Implementation Plan as well as standard
UNDP and World Bank policies. No microgrant will be disbursed unless it has been approved according
to the requirements and criteria outlined in the Manual. Specifically the Manual will include:
1) Introduction A brief introduction to the Program, Program objective, implementation cycle,
summary of national action plans;
2) Institutional and Administrative Arrangements Details of the implementaiton and adminstrative
process which details the management responsibilities, the regional, national and local
implementation arrangements and responsibilities, and reporting requirements;
3) Information Campaign Guidelines for information and outreach campaign and the implemention
of the public information campaign which will include information on the Basin issues and the
specifics of the Program;
4) Design and Selection Criteria. An outline of the micro-activity desing and selection criteria.
Precedence will be given to micro-activities that tackle the relevant substance issues (i.e land
degradation, water quality, and wetland management), demonstrate commitment and support
viable economic, social and environmentally sustainable practices. The eligibility criteria
confirms that the proposed activity:
*  engages the community and provides socio-economic justification;
*  addresses both the priority actions in the national plan and a local priority needs of the
community;
*  designed pragmatically utilizing best management practices to minimize social and
environmental impacts;
*  provides environmental and socio-economic benefit,
*  maintains effectiveness and sustainability for the post-Project period.
5) Program Sumimary Application Procedures. The basic procedures and requirements for a
microgrant application, this will include identifying the micro-activity objective, a description of
the proposed activity and proposed interventions, anticipated costs, the socio-economic and
environmentally beneficial jsutification;
6) Environmental Screening The national screening process for the environmental and social
elements of the micro-activity proposals as they pertain to national legislations and the
environmental and social safeguards policies, a detailed sourcebook designed within the context of
Safeguard Policies will provide a reference for the screening process;
7) Program hinplementation. Supervision requirements, disbursement of funds, monitoring and
evalaution and progress and financial reporting requirements.
8) ManualAnnexes:
a) Terms of Reference for Regional, National, Local Implementers
b) Program Adminstrative Requirements
*  Peformance and Progress Reporting Requirements
*  Sample Format for Memorandum of Agreement
c) National Priority Action Plan Requirements and Outline
d) Environmental and Social Design and Screening Checklist
e) National Environmental and Social Review
14



f) Intervention Sourcebook: Priority Issues-Micro-activity-Impacts-Measures
g) Environmental Assessment Requirements and Outline
h) Terms of Reference for Information and Promotional Campaign
i) Terms of Reference for Mircrogrant Training Program
j) Program Procurement and Disbursement and Financial Reporting Requirements
4.5  Budget
The total budget for the Program is US$ 1.66 million; approximately 16% (US$ 270,000) will support
consultants' services and personnel costs, training and workshops, and operational costs. The remaining
funds will be designated for community-based microgrants. Individual microgrants will have a ceiling of
US$50,000, though it is expected that many grants will be much smaller and the average size will
probably be around US$10,000 per grant.
5      MICROGRANT PROGRAM: IMPLEMENTATION PROCESS
Introductioni The EMF provides an effective, coherent, and interdependent mechanism for environmental
screening at both at the local and national levels. Efforts at the local level will strengthen local capacity
for a better understanding and use of the tools and techniques necessary for improved sustainable local-
level environmental management. At the national level, the evaluation process is essential to assess the
compliance with Safeguard Policies and assess the cumulative benefits and impacts from the micro-
activities as a whole, and recommend mitigation measures as needed.
5.1  Institutional Arrangements
Introduction. To successfully achieve the development objective the Project proposes to strengthen
regional and national institutional capacity to enable these institutions to address, in a collaborative and
cooperative manner, the priority basin-wide, transboundary water and environment management issues.
An interactive cooperative process, between the regional, national and local institutions, is essential to
maintain a stream of two-way communication achieved through the training program, regular
communications, regular meetings and staff/community visits. This Program builds on the existing
institutions at the regional level will use the existing OMVS/PAISE program management structure. The
composition of the regional, national, and local institutions is detailed in the PAD, and the responsibilities
will be outlined in terms of reference in the in the Program's Operational Manual.
5.1.1  Regional Level
Senegal River Basin Steering Committee. At the regional level, the SRBSC will provide transparent
impartial oversight of both Project and Program implementation.
CARPE In implementing the Microgrant Program, the OMVS will draw on experiences and best
practices of existing programs such as the UNDP/GEF Small Grants Programme, and microgrant
programs of the AfDB, the World Bank, AGETIP, Social Funds, and other applicable programs. Table 2
illustrates the Microgrant Program implementation process, and the institutional responsibilities. At the
regional level the Centre d 'Action Regional et Participative pour 1 'Environnement (CARPE) serving as
the Project's implementation unit will:
Identify in consultation with the Senegal River Basin Steering Committee (SRBSC) priority
actions from the TDA and SAP;
15



*  Recruit a Microgrant Expert to serve as the regional coordinator who will work closely with the
National Cellules, the Regional Project Coordinator, and collaborate with the regional Public
Participation and Information Expert;
*  Prepare and implement environmental and social safeguards and Program training for local and
national level implementers;
*  Formulate the framework for the national and local information and promotion campaign;
*  Issue a "No Objection" and approval for disbursement of funds, from National Cellule's
recommendations.
Based at the CARPE, the Regional Microgrants Expert, will:
* Be recruited to manage the Program, under guidance of the RCP and in close collaboration with
the Public Participation and Information Experts;
* Organize, together with the national ICCs the public infonrnation and promotional campaign;
*  Organize and implement the Program training courses;
• At the national level work with the National Cellule's, National Project Coordinator (NPCs) and
Information and Communication Coordinator (ICCs), and NGO-manager recruited to works
specifically to work on Program activities at the national level
*  Ensure a participatory, impartial, and transparent procedure is established and adhered to for
microgrant proposal review and short-listing; and
• When necessary, seek guidance from the CNCs, on Program progress.
5.1.2  National Level
National Coordination Committee The CNCs will provide a transparent impartial oversight of the
Microgrant Program implementation and, and review the recommendations from the environmental and
social safeguards screening.
National Cellules anid Subcontracted NGO- Manager The four National Cellules will work closely with
the CARPE and will be responsible for implementing the Project at the national level. As part of the
Project, two experts will be recruited by the Project to work at the National Cellules to assist in the
implementation of the Project at the national level; they include National Project Coordinator (NPC) and
the Information and Communications Coordinator (ICC). The National Cellules will be pivotal in
conducting the environmental screening, determining the need for an EA of the proposed individual or
packaged micro-activities, and preparing the environmental assessments, if deemed necessary, with
assistance from outside expertise.
Microgrant Program implementation, at the national level, will be subcontracted, by the National Cellule,
to a NGO or association to manage the individual national programs. This institution will be selected
based on transparent, competitive process. Eligibility criteria and TOR for the selected organization are
outlined in the Manual. Within the NGO, a National Microgrant Coordinator (NGO-NMC) takes the lead
responsibility to implement the Program at the national level. The NGO-NMC will have institutional and
administrative support from the National Cellules staff, and work closely with the ICC and will be
responsible to actively outreach to the communities, and provide support to CLCs in preparing and
submitting pilot activity proposals. The National Cellules, together with the NGO-NMC will review,
prioritize the microgrant proposals, screen and establish a shortlist of recommended micro-activities. At
the national level the NGO-NMC, NPC, and ICC, at the National Cellules will:
* Ensure that appropriate, participatory, transparent and impartial procedures are established for the
screening and selection of micro-activities;
*  Prepare together with the National Coordination Committees (CNCs) the National Program
Priority Action Plans;
16



*  Prepare national and local media and information promotional campaign which will be supervised
and implemented by the national Information and Communications Coordinator (ICC);
*  Subcontract an independent NGO, who will serve as the Program manager, and work with the
CLCs, in preparing and reviewing the microgrant proposals;
*  Screen for environmental and social safeguard compliance, and identify micro-activities that will
be submitted for approval at the regional level;
*  Prepare environmental assessments, or recommend appropriate mitigations if either is required;
*  Prioritize proposals and prepare recommendations for regional approval;
*  Manage, together with the NGO-managers, the Program's implementation, meet regularly and
coordinate with other Cellules to review Program progress;
*  Collaborate closely with the CLCs at the local level and the Regional Microgrant Expert at the
regional level.
5.1.3  Local Level
Local Coordiznation Commzttees (CLCs). Fourteen CLCs have been established in the three OMVS of the
countries as part of the PASTE activities. The initial thrust of the CLCs was to act as a conduit for
community representation as the compensation to communities for the right of way of the transmission
line. Therefore, the CLCs are not established throughout the basin, and no CLC exists in Guinea. An
additional fourteen CLCs will be established as part of the Project to ensure that the entire basin is
covered. Working closely with the National Cellules, CLCs will work with and inform rural communities
on all aspects the Program, and assist the interested stakeholders in preparing and completing the
microgrant application.
CLCs will be active during the TDA/SAP process engaging the local stakeholders and will be responsible
in implementing the Microgrant Program at the local level. The PASIE experience has determined that the
CLCs have been extremely positive. By assisting local communities organizing themselves, the
communities have found a voice and a channel of communication, which did not exist previously. At the
local level, the CLCs will:
*  Manage the Program tasks at the local-level, with assistance from the national managers;
*  Implement the Program tasks at the local-level;
*  Work with the national Information and Communications Coordinator (ICC) to promote the local
media campaign and provide outreach to communities;
*  Assist applicants in preparing microgrant proposals in accordance with the selection criterion and
environmental design screening checklist;
*  Screen the proposals and prepare recommendations for national-level review;
*  Monitor and evaluate the implemented micro-activities;
*  Coordinate with the National Cellules, NGO-manager, in conjunction with the National Project
Coordinator (NPC) and Information and Communications Coordinator (ICC).
5.2  Program Implementation Process
Implementation process. The four-year Program will be implemented as an integrated interactive process
with ongoing communication between the local, national, and regional implementers. The first year will
include the preparation phase for developing the individual National Plans, completion of necessary
training programs for regional, national, and local implementers, and the implementation of the
information and promotion campaign. The proceeding three years the Program, at the local level, will be
ongoing to ensure a dynamic and quick response to the communities.
17



The Program's implementation cycle has ten basic steps that are gathered in three defined phases 1)
preparation, 2) implementation, and 3) monitoring and evaluation. Table 2 illustrates both the Program's
implementation process and responsibilities.
Preparation
1) Identfyj Regional Priority Actions. A collaborative effort by the CARPE staff, together with the
National Cellules, and CLCs will identify the regional Basin priority actions and possible
interventions and mitigation measures, from the TDA and SAP, applicable to the Microgrant
Program.
2) Prepare National Microgrant Action Plans. From the preliminary findings of the TEA, the TDA
and the SAP, and the identification of regional priorities for the Program, each riparian country
will prepare a National Program Priority Action Plan. This action plan will highlight priority
issues and areas, and provide a strategic framework for resource allocation that includes spatial
and thematic priorities for microgrant-funded activities.
3) Training and Review of Safeguards Policies The Regional Microgrant Expert will organize
training workshops for those responsible for managing, preparing, reviewing, or implementing the
Program. The training will to provide, the participants (the RPC, the Public Participation, and
Information Expert; National Cellules participants, NPC, ICC, the NGO-manager, and CLCs)
information on the environmental and social design and screening process and develop an
understanding among the training participant on the roles and responsibilities to implement the
Program successfully. The training workshops will focus on the Program goals and issues,
specifically: (i) identify the Program's objective and details; (ii) review the Program components,
implementation process, monitoring and evaluation; (iii) examine safeguard policies and micro-
activity compliance; (iv) give an overview of the administrative elements of the Program's
implementation; and (v) introduce social intermediation and effective community participation.
4) Implement National and Local Promotional Campaign. The information and promotional
campaign will complement the efforts of the Projects basin-wide program, however this effort will
focus on Program specifics. The CARPE's Microgrant Expert, the Public Participation and
Information Expert, together with the national ICCs will implement a media and information
campaign at the national and local levels. In addition to informing the public on transboundary
environmental issues and priorities, the campaign will also familiarize stakeholders with the
Program's objectives, micro-activity requirements, and application process. The campaign will
provide a framework for understanding the issues, those identified in the national action plans, and
the range of interventions activities (see item 5 below), which would be beneficial to the rural
communities and supported by the GEF supported Program. This effort intends to engage the rural
communities in the edification of issues and mechanisms and means to utilize resources in a
sustainable manner. Opportunities for the exchange of ideas and best practices will be made
available during this process.
5) Anticipated Interventions. Possible, community-based, micro-activity interventions could include
but not limited to: (i) address land degradation and desertification problems by installing soil
erosion control measures, regenerate and reforest degraded areas, implement best management
farm practices, or improve pastoral land management; (n) enhlance water quality by restoring
stream banks, controlling water weeds and invasive species, or improving flow from irrigation
ditches; and (iii) improve wetland management by restoring local wetland habitats, establishing
community wetland protection and surveillance, protecting community nature reserves,
18



establishing a protected area; or conducting small-scale research on wildlife and habitats. These
interventions are further developed in the Manual.
Implementation
6) Prepare Microgrant Application. Through the public information campaign and community
outreach by the CLCs, the rural communities will be encouraged to identify necessary action for
their community. The CLCs will be intinately engaged in this process, working with
communities, assisting them in the planning and design of projects. The CLCs will be vital in
working with interested communities, assisting them in communicating their ideas, translating
them to a design and completing the microgrant application for a micro-activity These activities
are intended to be beneficial to both the community and environment. Assistance and guidance
will be provided to minimize the environmental and social impacts, and to adopt best management
practices. Following the initial environmental screening, the CLC will provide recommendations
to the National Cellule.
7) National Review. The CLCs will also assist the National Cellules/NGO-manager in screening and
prioritizing the proposals, and in determining which mitigation actions are required. If no actions
are required, the proposals will be sent to CARPE for final approval and disbursement of funds.
The National Cellule/NGO-manager will assist in the preparation of a memorandum of agreement,
or any legal and tender documents if required.
8) Prepare Environnmental Assessment. It is anticipated that the micro-activities will have minimal
environmental or social impacts. However, if it is determined that a group of activities might have
some cumulative impact then an EA is recommended. The National Cellule together with, the
CNCs' local experts will draft an EA for individual or cumulative impacts. Once completed, it
will be reviewed by the CNC and then forwarded to the regional level for final approval.
9) Micro-activity Implementation The CLC will supervise the implementation of the micro-
activities'. Some negotiation sessions might be necessary. The activities will be implemented
based on a signed memorandum of agreement. The designated community-leader and project
manager will be responsible to ensure successful micro-activity implementation, including any
measures to mitigate environmental or social impacts.
Moonitorintg and Evaluation
10) Monitoring and Evaluation. A monitoring and evaluation (M&E) procedure will be outlined in
the Program's Operational Manual. Monitoring and evaluation of the micro-activities will occur
at a number of levels. The primary responsibility will be with the CLCs who will be assisted by
the National Cellules and the NGO-manager. If best practices or mitigation measures are
recommended, the CLCs together with the National Cellules will monitor their implementation.
The CLCs together with National Cellules will complete Program reporting as outlined in the
Manual. Environmental requirements and performance for solving transboundary issues will be
important parameters in the M&E system.
5.3  Local Environmental and Social Design and Screening
As part of the microgrant application process, both the CLC and the applicant will complete an
Environmental and Social Design and Screening checklist The checklist will serve as a planning and
decisions-making tool to determine if actions need to be taken to improve tithe micro-activity design. The
19



Checklist will be based on the principles of national environmental codes, best management practices, and
environmental and social Safeguard Policies.
The CLC will work closely with the applicant to ensure that the design is satisfactory, consistent with the
community needs and meets the Program design and selection criteria. The CLC will guide the applicant
to ensure that the micro-activity can be implemented to avoid social and environmental impacts. An
Environmental and Social Design Sourcebook, will provide both the CLCs and applicant with possible
intervention or mitigating measure that can be included in the micro-activity design to minimize or avoid
impacts, and avoid triggering the Safeguard Policies. The Environmental and Social Screening Checklist
and Environmental and Social Design sourcebook are tools to assist the CLCs and applicant s ensure that
micro-activities benefit the target population, avoid adverse impacts and support a learning process on
environmental sustainability for the community groups.
The Program's Manual will provide guidance for the CLC on assisting in micro-activity design, and in the
screening process. Both the Checklist and Sourcebook will be included in the Manual.
Micro-activity proposals that do not satisfy the Screening Checklist, or are likely to cause unwarranted
environmental or social impact, will normally not be considered further by the CLCs. If situations arise
where environmental or social impacts are unavoidable and may be justified in the circumstances, the
CLCs may forward the proposal to the National Cellule for further consideration.
5.4  National Environmental and Social Review
At the national level, the review will take into consideration both the impacts of potentially problematic
micro-activities, and the cumulative impacts of number micro-activities in the same area. The CLCs will
compile the individual proposals, and will provide recommendations to reviewers at the national level in
the National Cellules. The environmental and social safeguards polices review, formatted and based on
the World Bank safeguards matrix, and national environmental policies, identifies the triggers that would
warrant additional review. The national reviewers will determine if any further mitigation actions are
needed for proposed micro-activities. Most proposals will be reviewed and cleared, requiring no further
action other than complying with relevant interventions, mitigation measures or best management
practices. Micro-activities that are deemed to be beneficial but have an accumulative impact, or other
micro-activities that may require a substantive review may undergo an Environmental Assessment to meet
both World Bank and national EA requirements.
20



Table 2 Schematic Representation of Microgrant Management Process
* Serves in oversight capacity for Project and
SRBSC                                   Program implementation
* Review and approves Natinal Cellule
recommendations
CARPE                                 * Procures material and disburses funds
* Reviews final EA
*   Supports National Microgrant Coordinator and
Information and Communications Coordinator
Regional Microgrant                        *  Provides Training on Program and Safeguard
Expert                                 Policy
* Coordinates National and local efforts;
* Provides guidance in preparation and review of
microgrant proposals
* Assists. Public Participation and Information Expert
in Public Information Campaign
National Coordination Committees
* Provides independent review of the environmental
assessments
*   Provides oversight for national Program
* Prepare National Action Plan
* Manage subcontract with NGO for implementation
Natioiial-CeIhiles                       of Microgrant Program the National level
* Assist in preparing EA if required
National -nformati_n&  Sub.contracted            * Provides outreach to communities;
National lfmi-&        .O at                    * Assists in environmental and social design and
Communications Coodrinator            National                   screening of micro-activities;
Microgrant                *Management at the national level;
Coordinator               * Assists in the EA process
* Assest i monitorbng and evaluation
Works with Public\
Informnation Expert,\
Supports Component_
4 and 5 activitiesl
\ X ~~Community-based
a   Works a the local level to promote in community outreach          \Micro-activities
* Assists communities in preparing proposals based on 
environmental and social design and screening guides
*   Conducts monitoring and evaluation for Program activities



ANNEX 1
Summary of Riparian Countries Environmental Legislation
MAURITANI A
Paucity of resources, and the absence of an operational regulatoryframework. The
"environment" part of the Ministry of Rural Development and the Environment was created only
recently, in 1992. It has few means at its disposal and the regulatory framework peculiar to it,
which is also recent (and is embodied in the Loi-cadre, dated July 27, 2000), is not yet operational
despite the creation of consultative agencies such as the CNED (Comite national pour I
'environnement et le developpement) and the CTED (Comite technique de I 'environnement et du
developpement). Draft decrees are said to be under preparation. Among these, procedures and
modes of implementation of environmental impact studies seem to be a priority, in order to put
the Environmental Directorate on a legal footing on the one hand and, on the other, to inject
environmental concerns into the day-to-day management of works and infrastructures.
Conflict of authority and conflict of interest. The Ministry of Rural Development and the
Environment has no authority over the maritime environment (or the coastline), which is
managed by the Ministry of Fisheries. This national idiosyncrasy underscores the need to
introduce the regulatory mechanism of impact studies, so that environmental concems are
integrated into development/equipment projects planned by the Ministry of Fisheries which,
although it takes these concerns into account, is still both judge and party within its special
preserve. The same remark applies to the Ministry of Rural Development and the Environment
itself, since this ministry's Agriculture Directorate does not necessarily pursue the same interests
as the Environmental Directorate, especially with regards to the urban environment.
SENEGAL
Regioinal Conventtionis
Senegal has ratified the following intemational conventions concerning nature protection and
Management (Ministry of Environment, 1997). The African convention regarding the protection
of nature and natural resources (Alger), ratified in 1972, others include:
* Protection of wetlands (Ramsar), ratified in 1977
* Protection of cultural and natural world heritage (Paris), ratified in 1975
* Protection of migratory species (Bonn), ratified in 1983
* Protection of species and habitats (Bem), ratified in 1987
* Convention on international trade in endangered species (Washington), ratified in 1977
* The conventions regarding sustainable development, climate changes, protection of the
biodiversity, and the fight against desertification (Rio).
The area where the proposed seismic acquisition will be perfomied includes several sites that are
protected under the Ramsar and Paris conventions, as well as important habitats for endangered
native and migratory species.
Nationial Legislation
The following law govem nature management in Senegal:
-  The Environmental Law, with the Environmental Code (1983). The law is currently being
revised. It is assumed that the new law will enter in to force in December 1999. The
environmental law embraces national legislation concerning nature management and
22



protection, soil, water and air pollution, noise, handling of hazardous substances and
chemicals, waste management, and requirements and procedures related to environmental
impact assessments.
Additional regional legislation applicable for nature management comprises:
-  The Vegetation (flora) Law, with the Forest Code (1993)
- The Wildlife Law, with the Hunting Code (1986)
- The Environmental Code
GUINEA Relevant national information will be updated from the Ministere des Mines et de la
Geologie et de l'Environnement;
MALI: Relevant national legislation information will be updated from the Ministere des Mines
de l'Energie et de l'Eau;
23



Annex 2
Priority Issue in the Senegal River Basin
1. Land Degradation
a) Land degradation  Land degradation processes severely impact the stability of the physical
environment, agricultural production systems, and people's livelihoods. The effects on the
regional environment can run deep in the longer term. Unfortunately, land degradation has
long been neglected and has not been regarded as a priority action by the national
governments Due in part to a lack of hard evidence on degradation's perverse effects, the
processes, and the problem's magnitude. Another contributing factor is that the often it is the
poorest and least voluble people that are affected.
Land degrades due to a number of reasons which all contribute to its interdisciplinary nature,
which in turn hampers the collection of adequate data. This has made it difficult for
governments to plan projects on the ground. At the basin level, changes in the hydrological
cycle and /or availability of water resources have been linked to land degradation. This is
particularly so in the Senegal River basin. Although flow regimes in the basin have been
recorded for over a hundred years, data on land degradation are site specific and have been
collected by national bodies, without any attempt to collect or analysis, this data at the basin
level.
By analyzing the four intertwining processes (deforestation, soil erosion, overgrazing and
desertification) involved in degrading land, a better understanding of the nature and impact of
land degradation may be gained. Desertification is the sum of these processes and a final
stage of land degradation.
b) Deforestation. Deforestation continues in the basin due to increased competition for
agricultural land and firewood. This is especially so in the upper basin highlands in Fouta
Djallon and around the Manantali dam. Yet, once soil fertility decreases on the area being
cultivated, the land is abandoned for new more fertile land. However, this often results in the
clearing of marginal land such as riverbanks and slopes of the basin thereby, triggering soil
erosion. Increasing demand for fuel wood and charcoal, also from the urban areas, is
encouraging uncontrolled logging and the abandonment of degraded areas without any
attempt to reforest. The inadequacy of existing forestry policies and services contribute to
this problem.
c) Soil Erosion. Agriculture in sub-Saharan Africa is extensive rather than intensive and does
not maintain soil fertility. With increased demographic pressures and demands for food, the
soils are being mined for their fertility, which is rapidly lost. Even in irrigated areas, fertility
reduction is accompanied by rapid erosion and/or soil compaction. The land is then
abandoned for newly cleared land where the organic matter and mineral content is still high.
This clearing and abandoning cycle leaves vast areas exhausted, denuded and uncultivated.
This situation derives from a lack of water and soil conservation practices, inadequate
agricultural practices, and from a lack of awareness on land- water linkages.
The importance of controlling erosion in the Senegal River Basin is evident from the
configuration of rainfall and runoff coming mainly from the Fouta Djallon highlands.
Depletion of resources in the Fouta Djallon highlands is of major significance not only to the
24



river system and its infrastructure, but also to the water systems and environment at the
regional level.
In the floodplain ecosystems, land fertility, productivity and wetland maintenance occurred
with the supply of organic matter from productive land in the upper basin. With the
ecological degradation of highland ecosystems and damming of the river, morphological
processes in the floodplains have turned from accretion and sedimentation to erosion,
compaction and salinization. Due to a reduced hydraulic force induced both naturally and by
the dams, sediment deposition is confined to the main river channel.
d) Overgrazing. Drought, desertification and the need for more agricultural land has gradually
pushed livestock into marginal lands just as the number of cattle are growing. Even in areas
that are intended to be used for grazing, the resources are usually inadequately managed.
Overgrazing leads to the destruction of topsoil by hydraulic and aeolian erosion, degradation
of vegetative cover which is aggravated by use of tree canopy as fodder, and growing
conflicts between farmers and herders, and among the herders themselves for the control of
these scarce resources. Large areas of the basin have been denuded due to overgrazing,
thereby changing completely the runoff and river regime.
Though large numbers of people within the Senegal River Basin depend completely upon
livestock, and large areas are therefore being utilized, the riparian governments have not
given their full consideration to fomulating policies to better manage livestock. Therefore,
the root causes of overgrazing which include population increase, increasing competition
between agriculture and pastoralism, and abandonment of traditional transhumance practices
have not yet found their way into the basin's management.
e) Desertification. Desertification is the degradation of drylands, which involves the loss of
biological productivity and complexity in croplands, pasture and woodlands, and
consequentially a loss in economic productivity. It is due mainly to climate variability and
unsustainable human activities leading to the overexploitation of natural resources. In the
Senegal River Basin desertification is mainly occurring in the marginal areas surrounding the
dry ecosystems of Trarza, Ferlo and Yelimane, and is due to rainfall shortages, water
resources depletion, drought, and land and flora destruction. The major impacts of
desertification are lower soil productivity, destruction of vegetative cover, a re-activation of
aeolian processes, watershed degradation and water scarcity, disturbance of fauna an'd flora
and soil resources depletion (salinization, compaction etc.).
Some of desertification's consequences and impacts are bome by people living outside the
area immediately affected. In the Senegal River Basin, away from the immediately affected
areas, the main impacts of the land degradation accompanying desertification are downstream
flooding, reduced water quality, sedimentation in rivers and lakes, and the silting up of
reservoirs and navigation channels. In addition, the floodplains experience dust and
pollution, damage to machinery, mental stress and worsening health problems. There are also
social costs aside from the environmental impacts due to decreasing food production leading
to malnutrition and famine, civil unrest and conflicts over access to, and control of,
increasingly scarce resources.
2. Water Resources Management
a) Water Quantity Management. Paradoxically, as rivers are controlled more through barrages
and other infrastructure, the riverine response becomes increasingly unpredictable. The
25



unpredictability produces unfavourable conditions for communities living along a river, the
environment and natural resources upon which they rely for their survival.
*Information and data collection. Many of the negative consequences of river
manipulation, such as ground and surface water quality deterioration or depletion, health
risks and food production disruption derive from the use of inadequate data for planning
purposes. Where data does exist it is either confined to sub-basins that generally
correspond to national limits, or only a specific aspect of the resource is considered.
Rarely do complete historical records exist from which patterns can be elicited.
*  Groundwater Resources Despite the presence of a potentially large groundwater supply,
riverine communities throughout the Senegal River Basin remain dependent
economically and socially upon the river's floods. Though the Maastrichtien and other
Cretaceous sub-surface water bodies have started to be studied, the process is
unsustainable Groundwater monitoring in the valley has long been abandoned despite
possible benefits from its use, and this should be rectified. From the limited data that is
available on water quantity and quality, negative changes such as salinization and
lowering of the water table have been detected over the past decades. This is mostly
attributed to a lack of groundwater recharge due to the reduction of flood areas.
Underground and surface exchanges and lateral sub-surface interflows are found between
the river, floodplains and deep aquifers.
*   Water availability and needs. It was acknowledged during the Manantali dam's planning
and management for power generation that there is insufficient water to meet the energy
needs of the member states without placing major economic, environmental and social
burdens upon the communities and national economies. Recent studies of water
availability have demonstrated that it will be necessary to reconcile all the potential uses
and make a political choice as to how to utilize the resource. This includes reducing the
forecasted yield of hydropower despite the present and acute energy crisis that results in
frequent power failures, the unsatisfied energy demand in all the countries, and low
connectivity in the rural areas.
This situation arises from inadequate energy policies, hydrodam planning and
interconnection at a regional level, and a lack of financial resources to conduct hydrodam
studies, planning and construction. Though Guinea has a large potential, it is limited in
its capacity to exploit the opportunity because of a deficient energy transport and
marketing system that would allow it to sell electricity to other countries where demand is
very high. Therefore, the upper basin, despite its potential for hydropower remains
highly dependent upon traditional energy sources such as kerosene, fuel wood and gas.
*   Water Quality. Water quality degradation can result from eutrophication processes due
to reduced velocity and oxygenation present in bodies of stagnate or slow moving water
reservoirs produced by damming and diking water bodies. Chemical and biological
contamination through discharges of wastewater and agricultural water pesticide loaded
can also degrade water quality. In Guinea, small-scale mining is a particular threat to
water quality.
Water quality problems are due entirely to a lack, or weak implementation, of water
standards and regulation, the absence of treatment facilities, and a low environmental
awareness and value for environmental protection. Water pollution occurs from point
sources such as cities and irrigated areas, and non-point sources such as the Fouta Djallon
26



highlands and delta. The impacts of pollution are a seasonal shortage of drinking water,
waterweed infestation, a year-round increase of diarrhoeal diseases, and a serious threat
to plant and animal ecology, and human health.
Environmental Health There is increased concern over issues of health and sanitation.
Poor water management results in pollution of sources and public health risks. Poor
water management refers to inappropriate planning of the water regime, a lack of secure
water supply systems, and inadequate management of floods. The direct consequences of
inadequate management include flooding and changes in the abundance and distribution
of disease vectors. The indirect consequences of poor management can include
malnutrition, contaminated drinking water, injury, stress, communal violence and a loss
of well-being.
Communicable diseases such as diarrhoea, malaria and schistosomiasis (bilharzia) remain
considerable problems and are strongly associated with a lack of infrastructure and
poverty. Any immunity that a community develops to infection can be destroyed by
malnutrition. Improved planning and communication between the principal proponents
and the health sector can avoid these diseases and other health impacts. Any water
management plans that ignore the issue of health may be simply transferring hidden costs
to the health sector, which is often already under-funded and stretched to capacity. This
can lead to economic consequences such as lost productivity.
Malaria is the most important vector-borne disease and is likely to more breeding grounds
with the decisions being made regarding flood management. Bilharzia is found on many
floodplains, and its transmission depends on contact with water through fishing, bathing,
farming, and washing. This is a chronic disease with relatively little apparent morbidity
for many years, though with possibly high morbidity rates in later life.
Dam construction changed the Senegal River Basin's floodplain ecology from a salty and
brackish aquatic environment with marked seasonal changes to a low-flow perennial
freshwater ecology. Apart from urinary bilharzia which was already endemic, other
water-borne diseases where not as common. Seasonal fluctuations in water level and
water quality prevented any particular species from dominating. Malaria was cyclical,
arriving with the rains and disappearing in the dry season. Incidences of malaria varied
across the basin, it was low in the delta, medium in the middle valley and high in the
upper valley. Onchocerciasis was an important public health concern for riverine
communities while tripanosomiasis, skin leishmania and Guinea worm cases were rare.
3. Wetland Management
a) Biodiversity Conservation Fauna and flora diversity has decreased because of drought and
impacts from development of dams and irrigation. Riverine forests that constituted habitats
for fauna have been cleared in many parts of the basin for irrigation and fuel wood. In some
parts species have disappeared because of unsuitable modification of flow regimes or
improved accessibility has led to increased hunting in those areas. While protection remains
insufficient in most of the basin, the loss of rare species justifies the creation of protected
areas around the Manantali reservoir in the upper basin, and the Djoudj and Diawling in delta.
The evolution of fish diversity is less evident though studies have shown that there is a loss of
some species, though other species are simultaneously being found.
27



Wetland Degradation Due to the construction of the dams and irrigation infrastructure and
drought, the wetlands have diminished. With conversion to agricultural land, deforestation and
overexploitation of water resources, some wetlands in the basin have dried out. This is
principally because of a lack of awareness of the role wetlands' play in the ecosystem and their
value to the ecological and economic processes depending upon them. Throughout the basin,
poverty continues to put pressure on natural resources, especially on wetland products due to a
shortage of land, water and wood. Visible deterioration is occurring in confined ecosystems such
as the Magui and Lere ponds, cuvettes around Kayes, deltaic and lacustrine environments in the
lower valley and delta (Lake de Guiers and Rkiz and floodplain cuvettes).
28



