                                Document of
                             The World Bank



                                                         ReportNo: 26632 - AFR




                       PROJECTAPPRAISAL DOCUMENT

                                    ONA

                         PROPOSEDGRANT FROMTHE

                GLOBAL ENVIRONMENT FACILITY (GEF) TRUST FUND

                INTHEAMOUNT OFUS$5.26MILLIONEQUIVALENT

                                  TO THE

            ORGANISATIONPOUR LA MISEENVALEUR DUFLEUVE SENEGAL
                            (OMVS, Dakar-Senegal)

                                  FORTHE

     SENEGALRIVERBASINWATER AND ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENTPROJECT

                                October 3,2003




Water andUrban2 Sector
AFC11, AFC14, AFC15
Africa Region

                            CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
                              (Exchange Rate Effective )

                           CurrencyUnit = US$

                                     FISCAL YEAR
                                January 1 -- December 31

                        ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

AAF      Assistant administratif etfinancier (Administrative and Financial Assistant)
AfDB     Afncan Development Bank
AFD      Afncan Development Fund
ALWMI    African Land and Water Management Initiative (a World Bank-GEF Program)
AWRMI    African Water Resources Management Initiative (World Bank Thematic Group)
Bank     World Bank
CAS      Country Assistance Strategy
CBO      Community-based Organization
cc       Consultative Committee (OMVS)
C C N    Coordinateur de la cellule nationale (National Unit (Cellule) Coordinator)
C D D    Community-driven Development
CESP     Country Environmental Strategy Paper
CFAA     Country Financial Accountability Assessment
CIDA     Canadian International Development Agency
CILSS    Comiti inter-;tats de lutte contre la skcheresse au Sahel (Inter-ministerial Committee to
         Combat Drought inthe Sahel)
CLC      Comitk local de coordination (Local Coordination Committee)
cm       Centimeter
CNC      Comitis nationaux de coordination (National Coordination Committees)
C O M    Council of Ministers
CPAR     Country Procurement Assessment Review
CPBFS    Comite de pilotage du Bassin du fleuve Sdndgal (Senegal River Basin Steering
         Committee)
CQ       Selection Based on Consultant Qualifications
CRGP     Cellule r6gionale de gestion du Projet (Regional Project Management Unit [Cellule])
CRP      Coordinateur rdgional du Projet (Regional Project Coordinator)
DPP      Detailed Procurement Plan
EA       Environmental Assessment
ECOWAS   Economic Community of West Afncan States
EIP      Expert en information etparticipation (Public Participation and Information Expert)
EMF      Environmental Management Framework
EMP      Environmental Management Plan
ENM      Expert national en micro-finance (National Microgrants Expert)
EU       EuropeanUnion
FA0      United Nations Food and Agriculture Organization
FCFA     Franc de la Communaut&financidre Africaine (African FinancialCommunity Franc)
FMA      Financial Management Assessment
FMR      Financial Management Reports

                                                               FOROFFICIAL USEONLY

          FSP        Fond de Solidaritk Prioritaire (Priority Solidarity Fund)
          FY         Fiscal year
          GEF        Global Environment Facility
          GEF PDF    Global Environment Facility Project Development Facility
          GEF PIR    Global Environment Facility Project Implementation Review
          GIS        Geographic Information System
          GPN        General Procurement Notice
          GTZ        German Technical Cooperation Agency
          ha         hectare
          H.C.       HighCommission
          IBRD       Intemational Bank for Reconstruction and Development
          I C B      Intemational Competitive Bidding
          I C R      Implementation Completion Report
          IDA        Intemational Development Agency
          IDB        Intemational Development Bank
          IDF        Institutional DevelopmentFund
          IFAD       Intemational Fundfor Agricultural Development
          ISDS       IntegratedSafeguards Data Sheet
          IUCN       World Conservation Union (previously the Intemational Union for the Conservation of
                     Nature)
          IW         Intemational Waters
          IW:LEARN   Intemational Waters: Leaming Exchange and ResourcesNetwork
          km         kilometers
          kwh        kilowatt hours
          m          millions
          LCS        Least-Cost Selection
          M&E        Monitoring and Evaluation
          MDG        Millennium Development Goal
          MW         Megawatts
          NAP        National Action Program
          N.B.F.     Not Bank Financed
          NBS        National Biodiversity Strategy
          N C B      National Competitive Bidding
          NEAP       National Environmental Action Plan
          NEPAD      New Partnership for Africa's Development
          N G O      Nongovernmental Organization
          NPPC       National Project Planning Committee
          O A U      Organization o f African Unity
          OERS        Organisation des Etats riverains rill flezive Sknkgal (Organization o f Senegal River
                     Riparian States)
          OMVS        Organisationpour la mise en valetir dufleuve Sknkgal (Senegal River Basin Authority)
          OMVS H.C.  OMVS HighCommission
          OP         Operational Program (of the GEF)
          OPP         Overall Procurement Plan
          PAD        Project Appraisal Document
          PASIE      Plan d'atttnuation et de suivi des impacts sur l'environnement (Environmental Impacts
                      Mitigation and Monitoring Plan)
          PDF-B       Project Development Facility-B
          PDLG       Programme de dkveloppement local et de gestion (Guinea) (Local Development and



This document has a restricted distribution andmay beused by recipients only in
the performance of their official duties. I t s contents may not be otherwise disclosed
without World Bank authorization.

           Management Program)
PDRG       Plan directeur rive gauche (Management Plan for the Development of the Left Bank)
PIP        Project Implementation Plan
PMF        United Nations-Global Environmental Facility
PNIR       National Rural Infrastructure Project
POPS       Persistent Organic Pollutants
Project     Senegal RiverBasin Water and Environmental Management Project
PRSP       Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper
PVO        Private Volunteer Organization
PWC        Permanent Water Commission
P Y        Project Year
QBS        Quality-Based Selection
QCBS       Quality- and Cost-Based Selection
RAMSAR     Ramsar Convention: 1971I U C N Convention on the Conservation o f Wetlands o f
           International Importance
RAP        Regional Action Program
RRA        Rapid Rural Appraisal
SAP        Strategic Action Plan
SDP        Standard DisbursementPercent
SDR        Special Drawing Rights
SFB        Selection under a Fixed Budget
SGP        UnitedNations Small Grants Programme
SOE        Statement o f Expenses
SOGED      Societe de gestion du barrage de Diama (Diama DamManagement Company)
SOGEM      Societe de gestion du barrage de Manantali (Manatali Dam Management Company)
SONADER    Societe nationale de dkveloppement rural (Mauritania) (National Company for Rural
           Development)
SPN        Specific Procurement Notices
STAP       GEF Scientific and Technical Advisory Panel
TDA        Transboundary Diagnostic Analysis
TEA        Transboundary Environmental Analysis
TF         Trust Fund
TRAC       UNDP Target for Resource Assignment from the Core
UN         United Nations
UNCCD      UnitedNations Convention to Combat Decertification
UNDB       UnitedNations Development Business
UNDP       United Nations Development Programme
UNDP-CCF   UnitedNations Development Programme Country Cooperation Framework
UNEP       United Nations Environment Programme
US$        UnitedStates Dollars
WB         World Bank
WWF        World Wildlife Fund

                            Vice President:     Callisto Madavo
                Country ManageriDirector:       JohnMcIntire, David Craig, MamadouDia
                  Sector ManagedDirector:       Inger Andersen
          Task Team Leader/Task Manager:        Ousmane Dione

                                                AFRICA
  SENEGAL RIVERBASINWATER AND ENVIRONMENTALMANAGEMENT PROJECT


                                               CONTENTS




A. Project Development Objective                                                        Page

   1. Project development objective                                                       2
   2. Keyperformance indicators                                                           2

B. Strategic Context

   1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project      3
   2. Mainsector issues and Government strategy                                           5
   3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices                  8

C. Project Description Summary

   1. Project components                                                                   8
   2. Key policy and institutional reforms supportedby the project                        10
   3. Benefits and target population                                                      11
   4. Institutional and implementation arrangements                                       12

D.Project Rationale

   1. Project alternatives considered andreasons for rejection                            13
   2. Major relatedprojects financed by the Bankand/or other development agencies         14
   3. Lessons learned and reflected inthe project design                                  17
   4. Indications of borrower and recipient commitment and ownership                      18
   5. Value added o f Bank and Global support inthis project                              19

E.Summary Project Analysis

   1. Economic                                                                            19
   2. Financial                                                                           20
   3. Technical                                                                           20
   4. Institutional                                                                       20
   5. Environmental                                                                       22
   6. Social                                                                              24
   7. Safeguard Policies                                                                  25

F. Sustainability and Risks

   1. Sustainability                                                                           26
   2. Critical risks                                                                           26
   3. Possible controversial aspects                                                           29


G. Main Conditions

   1. Effectiveness Condition                                                                  29
   2. Other                                                                                    30

H. Readiness for Implementation                                                                30

I.CompliancewithBankPolicies                                                                   30



Annexes

Annex 1: Project Design Summary                                                                31
Annex 2: Detailed Project Description                                                          38
Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs                                                               59
Annex 4: Cost-Benefit Analysis Summaryhncremental Cost Analysis                                60
Annex 5: Financial Summary                                                                     69
Annex 6: (A) Procurement Arrangements                                                          70
           (B) FinancialManagement and DisbursementArrangements                                80
Annex 7: Project Processing Schedule                                                           81
Annex 8:   Documents inthe Project File                                                        83
Annex 9:   Statement o f Loans and Credits                                                     85
Annex 10: Senegal River Basin at a Glance                                                      89
Annex 11:Preliminary Findingso fthe Transboundary Analysis                                     91
Annex 12: Public Involvement Summary                                                           109
Annex 13: Institutional Arrangements for Project Implementation                                117
Annex 14: OMVS Mandate and Institutional Structure                                             128
Annex 15: The Regional Hydropower Project and the Plan d'AttCnuation et de Suivi des Impacts   132
           sur 1'Environnement (PASIE)
Annex 16: Water Charter Summary                                                                137
Annex 17: Letters of Endorsement                                                               138
Annex 18: STAP Roster Technical Review                                                         144
Annex 19: Responseto STAP                                                                      148




MAP(S)
IBRDMapNo. 31612R Senegal River Basin

                                                   AFRICA
                         SenegalRiver BasinWater andEnvironmentalManagementProject
                                     Project AppraisalDocument
                                            Africa RegionalOffice
                                                   AFTU2

Date: October 3,2003                                   Team Leader: Ousmane Dione
Sector Managermirector: Inger Andersen                 Sector(s): Generalagriculture, fishingandforestry sector
Country Managermirector: John McIntire                 (50%), Generalwater, sanitationandfloodprotectionsector
Project ID: PO64573                                    (50%)
FocalArea: I- Internationalwaters                      Theme(s): Water resourcemanagement(P),
                                                       Environmentalpoliciesandinstitutions(S)



For LoanslCreditslOthers:
Amount (US$m): 5.26
                                                                                   Foreign           Total
                                                                     0.88                0.00            0.88
AFRICAN DEVELOPMENT BANK                                             3.22                0.80            4.02
FRANCE: FRENCHAGENCY FOR DEVELOPMENT                                 0.32                1.26            1.58
GLOBAL ENVIRONMENT FACILITY                                          3.56                1.70            5.26
INTERNATIONALDEV.ASSOC. - INSTITUTIONALDEV.                          0.06                0.25            0.31
FUND
NETHERLANDS: MIN.OF FOREIGNAFFAIRS / MIN.OF                          1.43                5.73            7.16
DEV.COOP.
UNDEVELOPMENT PROGRAM- GEF                                           1.60                0.39            1.99
-
Borrower/Recipient: OMVS
Responsible agency: ORGANISATION POURLA MISEENVALEUR DUFLEWE SENEGAL(OMVS)
Address:
46, Rue Camot
BP 3152, Dakar
SCnCgal
Contact Person: Mr.MohamedSalem OuldMerzoug, HighCommissioner
Tel: (221) 823-45-30              Fax: (221) 822-01-63              Email: omvs-ccc@sentoo.sn

  A. Project Development Objective

  1. Project development objective: (see Annex 1)
  1. Development Objective. The development objective o f the Senegal River Basin Water and
  Environmental Management Project (herein referred to as the Project) is to provide a participatory strategic
  environmental framework for the environmentally sustainable development o f the Senegal River Basin and
  to launch a basin-wide cooperative program for transboundary land-water management.

  2. Achieving the Development Objective. To successfully achieve the development objective, the Project
  proposes to strengthen regional and national institutional capacity to enable these institutions to address
 priority basin-wide, transboundary water and environment management issues. This will allow the Senegal
  Basin's four riparian countries - Guinea, Mali, Mauritania, and Senegal - to jointly build on ongoing
  initiatives in the Basin; develop a cooperative regional approach to the environmental management o f the
  Basin; and contribute to effective operation o f the Basin's water resources, providing benefits beyond
  national boundaries. The above-mentioned objective was greatly strengthenedinMay 2002 when the three
  Heads o f State o f the Organisation pour la mise en valeur dufleuve Sinigal (OMVS)     - Mali, Mauritania,
  and Senegal - approved the Water Charter (Annex 16). The Charter specifically addresses the issue o f
  sound environmental management and acknowledges the need for public participation inthe management o f
  shared water resources.

  3. Global Objective and Global Environment Facility (GEF) Operational Strategy. The Project design
  conforms to the GEF Operational Program Number 9 (OP-9), "Integrated Landand Water Multiple Focal
  Area Operational Program," supporting the GEF's commitment to provide "support for preparation o f
  water resources management strategies by riparian countries for a transboundary basin...to allow
  harmonizing of sectoral water uses among basin countries in an environmentally sustainable manner." The
 proposed Project will achieve global environmental benefits through promoting broad, basin-wide
.participation in developing and implementing measures that will lead to sustainable, transboundary
  management of the Senegal River Basin's land andwater resources.

  2. Key performance indicators: (see Annex 1)
  4. Outcome indicators. To present a full overview of the Project, the Project Appraisal Document (PAD)
  identifies both the World Bank (Bank) and United Nations Development Programme (UNDP) implemented
  components, for which the respective responsibilities are clearly differentiated in this document. The
  following outcome indicators willjudge the successful achievement o fthe Project's development objective:

 Implemented by the Bank:
  0     Provided tools for strengthened decision-malung capacity in the riparian countries and at the regional
        level (OMVS), to address transboundary land and water management issues, through a defined
        inclusive mechanism;
  0     Improved data collection and established data exchange mechanisms in all four countries, and agreed
        on cooperation protocols for greater knowledge of Senegal River data and information, and o f its
        relation to ecological and social processes; and
  0     Completed and adopted the Transboundary Diagnostic Analysis (TDA) and Strategic Action Plan
        (SAP) with identifiedpriority actions for the Basin.




                                                       - 2 -

 Implemented by W D P :
 0    Together with the Bank, organized and implementedtraining and workshops for the river management
      institutions to strengthennational and local institutional capacity;
 0    Executed a minimum o f 20 community-based microgrant-supported activities to address community
      priority actions;
 0    Increased annually the number o f stakeholders involved and trained in local and transboundary water
      resource management issues; and
      Increased annually the number o f communities informed andor stakeholders involved in the public
      information and participation process.

 B. Strategic Context
 1.Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported bythe project: (see Annex 1)
 Document number:          Date of latest CAS discussion:


    Guinea           CASDocument                    NO.25925-GUI          Date   June 10,2003
    Mali             CASDocument                    No. 25663-MLI         Date July 31, 2003
  I Mauritania I CASDocument                                               Date June 18.2002
    Senegal          CASDocument                  1 No. 24122-MAU I
                                                    No. 25498-SE          Date \April 17,2003     I

 5. Sector-Related CAS Strategy and Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper (PRSP) Objectives. For all
 recipient countries, the Project is consistent with the CAS'S general sector goal to strengthen govemance
 and institutional capacity and increase sustainable management practices to reduce poverty; in the same
 way conform to the PRSP goals for good govemance and sustainable development, which collectively
 should make progress towards meeting the Millennium Development Goals (MDGs) to promote capacity
 building for sustainable development. Individual country CAS goals, as they relate to the Project, are
 identifiedbelow.

0   Guinea. The CAS notes that the Bank fully supports the government's development strategy through
    both lendingand non-lending services directed at select activities inrural development, govemance, and
    improved service delivery. Further, this includes building broad-based support for the creation o f
    income-earning opportunities, particularly for the rural poor, and more emphasis on improving
    govemance and capacity building. Specifically, the CAS states that the Bank will continue supporting
    the water sector through a grant from the IDF to support Guinea's participation in the Senegal River
    Basin Authority. The PRSP (January 2002) recognizes that Guinea's successful economic development
    relies on the rural and mining sectors and that the need for improving living conditions must ensure the
    sustainability o f this resource base, by improving governance and institutional and building human
    capacity.

0    Mali. The CAS supports the government's development strategy to reduce poverty through sustained,
     rapid, and broad-based economic growth. Ths includes efforts to encourage private-sector growth and
     support for growth o f the rural sector with focused attention on sustainable agricultural and imgation
     practices and efforts to promote good practices to reduce soil erosion. The Manantali hydropower dam,
     on the Senegal River in Mali, is the most significant project under way in the Basin and efforts related
     to Basin water management will be coordinated with the GEF Project. The PRSP (May 2002), stresses
     the importance promoting institutional development while improving governance andparticipation.




                                                      - 3 -

     Mauritania. The CAS highlights the environment sector's crosscutting issues requiringthe government
     to address desertification and deforestation issues and sustainable natural resource development. The
     CAS specifically notes Mauritania's cooperation with the O W S on sustainable development o f the
     Senegal River Basin. The PRSP (December 2000), within the context o f the country's National
     Environmental Action Plan (NEAP), identifies development o f agriculture, livestock, forestry, and
     fisheries as some o f the priority areas for intervention to address the national challenges for preserving
     natural resources while achieving sustainable development.

     Senegal. The CAS specifically identifies support for sustainably managing the Senegal River Basin
     with continued assistance for the Senegal River Basin Charter through capacity building and
     knowledge transmission; joint advisory and analytical activities (with Mali, Mauritania and Senegal)
     would identify core measure to strengthen national and civil society institutions so as to preserve
     environment resources in the Basin; and support the GEF Project. The PRSP (November 2002) fits
     harmoniously with New Partnership for Afnca's Development (NEPAD) strategic guidelines to pursue
     rational management o f natural resources and the environment with a view toward sustainable
     development.

la. Global Operational strategymrogram objective addressed by the project:
6. GEF OP-9. This Project provides a sound technical basis for, and country commitments to,
participation in GEF OP-9 as it relates to the international waters component. The objective o f OP-9 is to
support "better use o f land and water resource management practices on an area-wide basis." Under this
OP, supported activities are those that have "an area-wide focus" and include measures that are "proactive
interventions aimed at protecting international waters, which integrate the use o f sound land and water
resource management strategies as a result o f changes in sectoral policies and activities that promote
sustainable development." The Project specifically addresses the goal to assist a "group o f countries to
utilize the full range o f technical, economic, financial, regulatory, and institutional measures needed to
operationalize sustainable development strategies for international waters and their drainage basins."
Special attention is given to integrated land and water resource management and the protection o f sensitive
areas because "land degradation resulting in damage to the water resource" i s often a transboundary
problem that requires "political commitments on the part o f the neighboring countries to work together,
establish factual priorities, and decide onjoint commitments for action."

7. Global and Regional Strategies. The llnkages between environmental degradation and poverty are
clearly established, and combating the former will result effectively inreducing the latter and vice versa.
Conforming to the UNDP-Bank International Waters Partnership, the Bank's Environmental Strategy, the
CASs, and the UNDP/Country Cooperation Framework (CCF), the Project has been designedto be inline
with supporting sustainable development, reducing poverty, and improving the quality o f life by providing
economic opportunities to empower people to manage their environmental resources.

8. Reflecting Both MDGs and NEPAD Goals. The Bank has embarked on a strategic vision with the
riparian countries to support sustainable basin-wide development, in accordance with the MDGs and those
o f the NEPAD, which are designed to provide a framework for a program o f actions for sustainable
development o f the African continent and to engage commitments from the Afncan leadership and
international community. The UN MDG No.7 promotes integrating the principles o f sustainable
development into country policies and programs to reverse the loss o f environmental resources. Similarly,
within the environmental priority o fthe NEPAD framework, there is importance placed on the environment
in the context of sustainable socio-economic development. And specifically within the context of water
resources, the NEPAD objective is to create a "framework for regional cooperation in integrated



                                                       - 4 -

sustainable water resources management, harmonization o f water polices, and regulations." Environmental
and financial govemance have been identified as critical strategies within the framework.

2. M a i n sector issues and Government strategy:
9. Senegal River Basin Cooperation-Challenges               and Opportunities. In meeting the challenge to
sustainably develop the Senegal River Basin, the four riparian countries have committed themselves to
establishing an inclusive framework to jointly manage their shared resources. Thus far, this has included:
(i) negotiating and ratifying the Water Charter, which outlines state-of-the art principles on intemational
water allocations and management; (ii)     Guinea's endorsement o f OMVS as the sole GEF grant recipient for
this Project, even though it is not a member country; and (iii)  continuing, inparallel to this Project and with
the Bank's facilitation o f inter-riparian dialogue, ongoing discussions among all four Basin countries on the
mechanisms necessary to establish an inclusive framework to enhance national and regional capacity in
formulating an integrated development action plan for the entire Basin.

2a. M a i n RegionalSector Issues

10. TheSenegal River. The Senegal River flows for 1,800 km, making it the second longest river inWest
Africa. The river basin is intemational, covering 300,000 km2that extend across four riparian countries:
Guinea (11 percent o f the Basin area); Mali (53 percent); Mauritania (26 percent); and Senegal (10
percent). The Senegal River Basin has three distinct geographic regions: (i)the Upper Basin, a
mountainous area between the Fouta Djallon and Bakel; (ii)the Valley, featuring a floodplain varying in
width from 10 to 20 km between Bakel and Dagana; and (iii) Delta between Dagana and the Atlantic
                                                                  the
Ocean. The River's three principal tributaries-the     Bafing, the Bakoye, and the Faleme-each originate in
the Fouta Djallon Highlands in Guinea and together produce more than 80 percent o f its flow. The rains
falling in the Fouta Djallon region from April through October produce a flood season beginning in July
and ending inOctober. The IBRDMap No. 31612R, as part o f this PAD, illustrates the Basin's geographic
characteristics; and the socio-economic characteristics are summarized inAnnex 10 (Country at a Glance).

11. Main Regional Sector Issues. Regarding the main sector issues, a preliminary Transboundary
Environmental Analysis (TEA, refer to Annex 11) identified key environmental issues and threats to
biodiversity, land, and water resources. These issues are summarized below:

     Management capacity and institutional strengthening. The TEA identified major needs to improve the
     institutional capacity of the OMVS and the riparian states to address transboundary environmental
     issues. OMVS was initially established to manage specific water management works, but as such is not
     equipped to deal with broader basin management, environment, and social issues. Equally, the national
     govemments are still weak in the areas o f water resources and environment management and their
     efforts naturally tend to be focused on immediate national concems. There is a need to enhance the
     national capacity to deal with transboundary and intemational issues that are inherent in the
     management o f the Basin, so that a regional approach can be articulatedwith enhanced coordination.

     Creating an inclusive framework. Cooperative management o f the Basin necessitates building and
     strengthening an inclusive cooperative framework that includes all the riparian states. The involvement
     o f Guinea in the preparation o f the present Project proposal has been an important first step toward
     establishingthis framework. The benefits o f riparian cooperationprovide a common inclusive platform
     for dialogue necessary for sustainable cooperative development and decision-malung.

     Priority environmental concerns. The environmental concerns identified and summarized in the TEA



                                                       - 5 -

include: (i)land degradation and its related impacts (deforestation, erosion, overgrazing, and
desertification); (ii)inconsistent and less-efficient water resources management associated with
incomplete information and data collection; (iii)water pollution impacts from point and non-point
sources; (iv) pervasive invasive species contributing to biodiversity and water quality degradation; and
(v) the impacts resulting from the current inconsistent and non-inclusive management approach.

Civil society priorities. During the Project preparation process, an inclusive consultative process was
coordinated and managed by the World Conservation Union (IUCN) to ensure that civil society
priorities and concems were heard and reflected in the Project's design. Issues raised through this
consultative process include: (i)safeguarding regionally important environmental sites regardless o f
their formal protection status; (ii)  planning and managing these sites in a sustainable manner; (iii)
developing a comprehensive environmental management approach; (iv) maintaining wetlands areas for
migrating birds; (v) adopting a basin-wide and holistic action program for the environment; (vi)
improving coordination among the officials, nongovernmental organizations (NGOs), and people's
representatives; (vii) strengtheninginstitutional capacity for sustainable basin-wide management; (viii)
addressing transboundary environmental health concerns from waterbome diseases; (ix) coordinating
OMVS committees at the local, national, and intemational levels; and (x) ensuring that the OMVS
Obsewatoire (Environmental Observatory) is a center o f technical excellence.

Impacts from dams. The construction o f the Manantali and Diama dams has modified the Senegal
River's flow regime; adequate information and data are essential components to improve flow
management. To assist inimproving the management o f the dams, there is an urgent need to strengthen
the means o f communication between the local communities and the agencies managing the river. The
current management o f dams and associated dikes on the floodplain has brought about major ecological
changes in the floodplain on both the Mauritanian and Senegalese sides o f the river. In the upstream
end o f the Basin, filling the reservoir behind the Manantali dam reduced the volume and duration o f the
annual floods. This, in turn, diminished inundation o f the floodplain and resulted in weakened
ecosystems. I t also reduced the area suitable for flood-recession cropping and curtailed groundwater
recharge. The downstream Diama dam has created a permanent and fairly stable freshwater body
whose shores have been invaded by a dense growth o f unwelcome aquatic plants (Typha australis,
Pistia startioles, and Salvinia molesta). These plants proliferate in the river's tributaries and in the
irrigation canals, decreasing flow velocities, encouraging insects and disease, displacing other species,
reducing fish production, and impeding fishing. Recent efforts in combating the Salvinia molesta
biologically have shown dramatic results and the Salvinia infestation has subsided. Studies on effective
means to combat Typha australis are underway, but no effective solution has been identified thus far.

Environmental health issues. The dams have greatly modified and affected the River's flow regime; as
noted above, there has been an influx o f fresh water, an increase o f non-point source pollutants, and a
subsequent increase o f invasive species. The invasive plants' most damaging effect is the habitat they
offer for vectors o f waterbome diseases. An explosion o f mosquito and snail populations has brought
malaria and bilharzia to epidemic proportions. Despite efforts by the intemational aid community and
national public health services, the re-infection process causes the prevalence o f these diseases to
remain at an unacceptably high level. The GEF operational program does not provide funding for
health projects, though these health issues have been identified as a priority concern. This Project,
through Component 3, the TDNSAP process, will further identify root causes o f these problems and
through priority actions pursue linkages with current activities from relevant health-sector Bank
operations, this includes the IDA-funded Integrated Health Sector Development Project and Endemic
Disease Control Project in Senegal; and coordinating efforts to address and monitor waterborne
diseases through the Integrated Development Program and Health Sector Investment Project in


                                                  - 6 -

     Mauritania.

2b. Government Strategy

12. Regional Institutional Framework. The Senegal River's development potential and regional
importance have long beenrecognized. Beginning in 1968, Guinea, Mali, Mauritania, and Senegal created
the Organisation des Etats Riverains du Fleuve Sknigal (OERS) with a view to realizing the potential
offered by the Basin's land and water resources in a framework o f regional economic integration. In 1972
Mali, Mauritania, and Senegal created the OMVS. In 1992, Guinea and OMVS signed the Protocole
d'accord-cadre de coopkration entre la Rkpublique de Guinie et I'OMVS,allowing Guinea to participate
as an observer and providing an opportunity for cooperation on issues o f mutual interest conceming the
Senegal RiverBasin.

13. OMVS Scope and Challenges. As noted earlier, the OMVS was mandated to manage specific water
management works as they relate to: (i)the imgation, energy, and navigation sectors; and (ii)the
management o f river resources. With this mandate, OMVS manages river works on behalf o f the three
member states. For these reasons OMVS has been executing and overseeing the overall development
program, focusing on irrigation, energy (dam operations), and water resources management (i.e., river flow
management to prevent major floods and droughts). The negative impacts o f the dams progressively led
OMVS to evolve and commit itself to acknowledging the consequences o f its development program. The
implementation o f the Plan d'attknuation et de suivi des impacts sur l`environnement (PAS1E)--an
environmental impacts mitigation program jointly financed by the Afncan Development Bank (AfDB),
Afncan Development Fund(AFD), Canadian International Development Agency (CIDA), and OMVS--and
the recently approved Water Charter have been milestones inrecognizing the need for a more cooperative
effort in the management o f the Basin's resources. Furthermore, Guinea's willingness to participate inthe
management process represents a new situation that OMVS has to take into account. In this context, the
new challenges for OMVS are to:

0    Improve river flow management and in so doing, try to meet the needs o f the population, respecting
     traditional uses while recognizing the new demands on the environment;
0    Acknowledge the environmental and social problems resulting from the former water resources policy
     and take mitigatory steps to resolve the problems, such as actions which have already started with the
     implementation o f the PASIEprogram;
0    Operate and manage existing assets efficiently;
0    Function as an inclusive and comprehensive river basin management organization, to include all the
     Basin's riparian countries, and deal with all issues while addressing transboundary water resources
     management such as water quality and water quantity monitoring, pollution control, action planning,
     environmental protection, andpublic involvement;
0    Implement the terms o f the Water Charter; and
0    Establish a mechanism for financial "inability,     which may require recruitingnew personnel.

14.Regional Efforts and NEAPS.A regional management effort was initiated with the preparation of the
"Management Plan for the Development o f the Left Bank" (Plan directeur rive gauche, PDRG) supporting
rehabilitation o f the natural environment; management o f natural and human resources; optimization o f
traditional systems o f production, both in the floodplains and the rain-fed zones; rehabilitation where
feasible; extension o f irrigation by promoting investments by farmers and the private sector; and adoption
o f necessary policy measures to facilitate the plan's objective. Approved by the Senegalese authorities, the
PDRG became a plan for integrated development over 25 years (1992-2017). The plan covered four
administrative districts (Dagana, Podor, Matam, and Bakel). However, it soon became clear that the plan


                                                      - 7 -

would only succeed if similar plans were implemented on the right bank in Mali and Mauritania. The
regional action plan for the Senegal River valley (Rkgion de Saint-Louis) essentially represents the
environmental management measures first introduced by the PDRG. At the national level, as part o f Bank
requirements, Guinea, Mali, and Senegal have prepared NEAPS, and commenced in establishing the
necessary institutional, legal, and technical frameworks for implementation. In addition, under the United
Nations Convention to Combat Desertification (UNCCD), National Action Programmes (NAP) or National
Reports have also beenprepared, which summarize the following:

    Guinea developed a NEAP in 1994. The plan defines a set o f integrated sectoral initiatives, some o f
    which are currently being implemented;
    Mali's effort on the original NEAP started in 1994 and the document was endorsed inMay 1998. The
    UNCCD N A P was prepared in 2000, integrating actions responding to wide-ranging consultations at
    the national, regional, and local levels;
0   InMauritania, a 1997 study supported by UNDP contributed to the formulation o f an environmental
    management and protection program stressed the urgency o f developing a NEAP; the UNCCD
    National Report was recently completed inApril 2002; and
    InSenegal, the NEAP was completed in 1997 and is the result of consolidation of a series of regional
    environmental action plans developed in a decentralized and participatory manner. A UNCCD N A P
    was prepared in2000.

3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices:
15. Basin-wide and National Priorities. The Project design represents a strategic choice to concentrate
limited human and financial resources to address the sector issues identified in Section 2, in order to
strengthen regional and national institutional capacity for the management o f land and water resources and
achieve sustainability for the immediate and long term. During the TEA process, through an inclusive
stakeholder participation effort coordinated by IUCN, specific needs that require attention were identified:

0   Enhancing regional and nationaI capacity to deal with transboundary issues at national and basin-wide
    levels;
0   Improving the process and procedures o f sharing data and information to increase the knowledge base;
0   Ensuringgreater involvement o fGuinea injoint management anddecision-making inthe Basin;
0   Supporting sound environmental management and the linkage to sustainable livelihood;
0   Promoting a common and agreed upon analysis to provide a firm basis for environmental management
    and monitoring; and
    Strengthening civil society participation in transboundary basin-wide activities and the associated
    greater awareness and outreach to communities and NGOs to tap their resources and ensure their
    involvement inthe decision-making elements o f managing the Basin's resources.

C. Project Description Summary
1. Project components (see Annex 2 for a detailed description andAnnex 3 for a detailed cost breakdown):
16.Project Summary. The Project is one of a number o f activities inthe Senegal River Basin; therefore,
care has been taken to ensure that it complements rather than duplicates other external activities by
buildingon existing institutional arrangements and on OMVS' technical network. Equally, care has been
taken to ensure that the Project's activities are complementary and coordinated. Project activities are
interrelated andbuildupon each other. The inter-linkages among the Project's components are significant in
the institutions that are being established, and one activity's output is the input into another. The Project's
activities are incremental in that they focus on strengthening basin-wide regional, national, and local



                                                     - 8 -

institutional and technical capacities.

17. Project Components. The four-year Project i s being jointly implemented by the World Bank and
UNDP and is being executed by OMVS. For clarity, the Project's component numbering i s being
maintained as it has been discussed with OMVS and Guinea and with UNDP. The activities, which will be
implemented by World Bank and UNDP, are described in more detail in Annexes 1 and 2, whereas this
section identifies the Bank-managed components. The Project Implementation Plan (PIP) will detail Project
component activities and outcomes, including the monitoring and evaluation (M&E) plan, and the
procurement and implementation plan. The Bank-managed components include the following:
    Component 1 - Environmental Management Capacity Building. Component activities build on
    existing regional, national, and local institutions, inclusive o f Guinea's, to strengthen institutional and
    environmental management capacity. A t the regional level, the Project will utilize the existing OMVS
    institutional and management structure, supporting a dialogue between Guinea and OMVS on an
    inclusive framework for joint management o f the Basin's water resources and environment.
    Concurrently, at the national level, Component 1 will build a core group o f specialists with
    transboundary environmental management expertise in the national institutions associated with the
    OMVS and Guinea. Specific component activities will: (i)       establish a dialogue within Guinea on its
    environmental management and legislation; (ii)    through workshops, training, and information exchange,
    strengthen the national and regional institutional and legislative capacity to enable the riparian
    countries to address priority transboundary water and environmental issues; (iii)support Project
    management and operations o f the regional project management unit (Cellule rdgionale de gestion du
    Project, CRGP) within the OMVS Headquarters; (iv) promote and facilitate, through a regional forum,
    the exchange o f experiences in other GEF intemational waters projects and other comparable projects
    in Sub-Saharan Afixca; (v) support techmcal capacity building, through a regional collaborative and
    cooperative effort to assess invasive species (water weeds) management issues; and (vi) organize a
    donor conference to secure mher investments to address the SAP-identified priority actions (see
    Component 3 below).

0   Component 2 - Data Knowledge and Management. Component 2 activities aim to strengthen the local
    and regional data and knowledge base for Basin management with an emphasis on developing and
    integrating Guinea's technical capacity and network, within the existing Basin network, and to
    complete an assessment and upgrade o f Guinea's existing equipment. This basin-wide collaboration
    and coordination seeks to establish improved data collection and a compatible data management
    network. The Component will collect and provide a baseline o f information on the Basin's existing
    conditions; provide a better understanding o f the Basin system; and define opportunities to develop a
    Basin management actionplan. The Component activities will assess the status o f OMVS country data
    and information; offer Guinea equitable opportunity to develop the technical tools needed for land and
    water resources management; and promote collaboration on basin-level information. Specific
    Component activities will: (i)through a series o f studies, assess the existing data, monitoring
    indicators, and knowledge baseline in the four riparian countries; (ii)complete a cartographic
    assessmento f the Basin; (iii) prepare a baseline rainfall/flow model for the upper Basin; (iv) strengthen
    the institution's techmcal capacity through training, workshops, and equipment upgrade; (v) conduct
    the necessary studies on technical and protocol matters for effective regional collaboration; and (vi)
    establish a cooperative basin-related data management protocol and implementation process for the
    collection and exchange o f informationfor Basin resource management.

0   Component 3     - TDA and SAP. To have a better understanding o f the transboundary environmental
    issues in the Senegal River Basin, a preliminary TEA was conducted during Project preparation
    (Annex 11). The TEA provides baseline information on the key environmental issues, environmental


                                                      - 9 -

     threats, and root causes o f the problems. To expand the understanding o f the issues and problems
     concluded in the TEA, a more detailed TDA will be done early on in the Project. The TDA will: (i)
     examine existing conditions and management; (ii)identify and analyze the Basin's transboundary
     issues; (iii)propose options to address these issues; and (iv) address any related socio-economic and
     land-use issues. The TDA process will extend the TEA'Sparticipatory approach by engaging a broader
     network o f regional, national, and local stakeholders. Based on the TDA findings and further
     consultations with Basin stakeholders, the key environmental issues will be prioritized and a SAP will
     be prepared. Both the TDA and SAP will serve as critical documents to improve environmental
     management in the Basin; introduce relevant environmental protection policies; provide opportunities
     for innovative community-based microgrant fimded investments; and inform the public about issues in
     the Basin.

18. Project Costs. The total Project costs for the components, inclusive o f co-financing, GEF Project
fimds, preparation costs, and in-hndcontributions, are summarized inthe table below.       1
                                                                            Bank   I %of

1. Capacity Building (WB managed)                        5.36       25.3                   0.0     2.70    37.2
2. Data and Knowledge Management(WB                      4.80       22.6      ::::1        0.0     1.52    21.0
managed                                                                            I
3. TransboundaryAction Program (WB managed)               1.04       4.9                           1.04     14.3
4. Priority Actions (LJNDP managed)                      9.67       45.6                           1.66    22.9
5. Public Participation and Awareness (UNDP              0.33        1.6      i~                   0.33     4.6
managed)
                               Total Project Costs      21 20      100.0      0.00         0.0     7.25    100.0
                                     Front-endfee        0 00        0.0      0.00                 0.00     0.0
                         Total Financing Required       21.20      100.0      0.00                 7.25    100.0
                                                                                   I
*Ofthe total US$7.25m,the WorldBank will manageU     5.26m whi the UNI: will manage US$ 1.99mo fthe GE Funds.

2. Key policy and institutionalreforms supported by the project:
19. Improved Policy and Institutional Effectiveness. The need to strengthen the institutional capacity
necessary to support policy and institutional reforms is addressed directly by the Project. In many cases,
this will entail a refinement o f existingpolicies and structures rather than substantial change. A comparison
o f national environmental legislation among the three OMVS countries is already being carried out under
the PASIE (Annex 15). This Project will extend the analysis to include Guinea and will further propose
modifications to enable a coherent approach to water and environment management issues across the whole
Basin.

20. An Inclusive Framework A major component activity o f the present Project is to support and
encourage the full involvement o f Guinea in developing a participatory strategic environmental framework
for the environmentally sustainable development o f the basin. As unilateral actions in the Basin will
inevitably place further strain on the limited water resources, all the riparians recognize that an inclusive
framework is the optimal solution. The goal is to move toward realizing sustainable development benefits
for all riparian countries, drawing on the development potential that the Senegal River offers. It i s
important not only that Guinea participate fully inthe targeted cooperation for environmentally and socially
sustainable management o f the Basin, but that the special needs o f Guinea are recognized and addressed in
this inclusive framework. The Bank has mobilized new and additional grant resources from its Institutional
Development Fund(IDF) to provide additional support for Component 1 activities.



                                                     -10-

21. Improved Transboundary Waters Management Capacity at a National Level. A key policy and
institutional priority is to strengthen the institutions that are engaged in transboundary water issues in each
o f the riparian states, with a view to improving planning and management o f national water resources
withm the transboundary context. This is expected to involve the ministries o fboth water and environment
(which are often separate) as well as the related OMVS affiliates, such as the Soci6t6 de gestion du
barrage de Diama (SOGED), Soci6t6 de gestion du barrage de Manantali (SOGEM). The Bank is
already actively involved at the national level with various forms o f support for water resources
management through existing and planned projects, and through the Bank's A h c a n Water Resources
Management Initiative (AWRMI) in which the Bank will further strengthen its national-level water
resources management program in all four countries. This Project will provide linkages between relevant
national policies and activities and basin-wide considerations. By strengthening OMVS, the Project will
also reinforce national institutional linkages with OMVS and among the countries themselves.

22. Strengthened Environmental Management at the Basin Level. At the basinlevel, the strengthening o f
OMVS' capacity with regard to environmental management is seen as crucial to improved coordination in
the Basin. A reinforced OMVS will be able to monitor and fulfill its mandate for sustainable management
more effectively. Through this Project, OMVS will be able to respond to client country requests to help
prevent and/or resolve transboundary land and water conflicts. OMVS will also be ina position to lead the
basin-wide, long-term planning for effective use o f transboundary surface and groundwater resources.

23. Stakeholder Participation. The present Project has been prepared in a highlypro-active, participatory
manner, and i s designed to continue the ongoing process o f public involvement in the environmental
management o f the Basin. A summary o f the public participation process and Public Participation Program
i s outlined in Annex 12. The Project i s built through the network developed during the GEFProject
Development Facility-B (PDF-B) phase. I t is intendedthat this process will be maintained as an ongoing
part o f the participatory and decision-makmg process inthe Basin, runningparallel to and feeding into the
completion o f the TDA and the SAP, and the implementation o f the community-based microgrant
supported interventions, as part o f the Microgrant Program.

24. The Water Charter. In the context o f the IDA-financed portion o f the PASIE, the three OMVS
countries negotiated and agreed upon a Water Charter, which was approved and signed by the Heads o f
State on May 28, 2002. The Water Charter provides strategic guidelines for allocation o f flow from the
Senegal River and serves as a binding guideline for the private operators o f the Manantali dam. Inclusive in
the Charter are the "Manuels de Gestion" (Operating Manuals) for the Manantali and Diama dams and an
Optimal Scenario for Manantali dam water uses. These annexes define the scenarios for water releases that
harmonize the requirements o f the River's different water uses, including hydropower, large-scale
irrigation, recessional agriculture through the artificial flood, dry season pastures, water supply, fisheries,
current and future ecosystem requirements, and river navigation. The Water Charter and associated
guidelines provide only the basis for a cooperative framework for the River's water resources. The Project
hopes to build on this framework to strengthen basin-wide institutional capacity to further develop the
efforts initiated by the intent o f the Water Charter.

3. Benefitsand target population:
25. Beneficiaries-Target       Population. The principal beneficiaries o f this Project are identifiable at three
levels-regional,    national, and local:

0     The regional beneficiaries would be the institutions involved in managing the Senegal River (the


                                                       - 11 -

      OMVS) and its infrastructure (SOGEM and SOGED), and the four riparian countries;
0     Nationally, the principal beneficiaries would be the national govemment, national decision-makers,
      and water management structures o f the four national institutions (both OMVS and Guinea National
      Cellule, and the four National Coordination Committees [CNC]), and academic institutions;
      A t the local level, the beneficiaries would include the local govemment, local decision-makers, rural
      communities, the Local Coordination Committees (CLC), women's groups, and schools participating
      in the microgrant-supported activities, as well as those participating in the public education and
      information activities. The long-term beneficiaries would include residents o f the Basin who benefit
      from improved land and water management.

26. Improved Water Management Through Improved Regional and National Consultation. One o f the
Project's main benefits will be improved vertical interaction among entities at the regional and national
levels, as well as improved horizontal interaction among the different players. It is anticipated that these
improved communications will lead to better water management and increased sustainable practices.
Interactions among different players involved in or affected by water management decisions will take a
number o f forms such as dialogue among the Basin countries, capacity building workshops, and
microgrants for local communities. At the regional and national levels, a key outcome o f the Project will be
the dialogue among Guinea, Mali, Mauritania, and Senegal on establishing a framework that includes all
riparian countries inmanaging the Senegal River Basin.

27. Local Benefits-Improved       Livelihood. At the local level, communities will be able to address their
key priorities through the microgrant-funded activities. There are a number o f benefits capturedthrough
this community-dnven development (CDD) effort, such as the following:

    The communities that apply for microgrants will themselves determine the priority issues they wish to
    address, which will stimulate ownership o f the activities;
0   The microgrant activities carried out to address these issues canbe piloted, and those that are
    successful will be scaled up;
0   The microgrants represent opportunities for the communities to find altemative livelihoods that are
    more sustainable and to access capacity buildingactivities;
0   The communities will be more involvedinthe decision-mahg processeswithin the Basin; and
    The Project will be able to quickly have a positive impact on the ground.

4. Institutionalandimplementationarrangements:
28. Executing Agency. The OMVS High Commission (OMVS H.C.) is the Project's executing agency.
Efforts will be made to strengthen OMVS institutional capacity, by establishmg the CRGP office within the
OMVS headquarters as part o f the OMVS. An OMVS senior staff personwill be nominated as the regional
project coordinator (Coordinateur rigional du Projet, CRP) at the CRGP, whereas the Project provides
support for a financial and administrative assistant (Assistant Administratif et Financier, AAF), a
Procurement Specialist, and technical expertise to support OMVS in Project management and
implementation. The CRGP will act at the regional, basin-wide level and will be responsible for managing
and implementing the Project in all four participating countries. Financial management arrangements for
the Project will comply with the Bank's procurement and disbursement policies. The OMVS will maintain
full financial control and responsibility for the entire Project, with general oversight o f technical matters.
The CRGP, worlung in close collaboration with Bank and UNDP country offices, will be responsible for
supporting OMVS in ensuring that the national and regional priorities agreed to by the riparian states are
substantively and coherently accommodated withinthe proposed TDA and SAP.




                                                     - 12 -

29. Implementation Arrangements. The proposed Senegal River Basin Steering Committee (Comitk de
pilotage du Bassin dujleuve Sknkgal, CPBFS), transformed from the project preparation committee, will
provide guidance for Project implementation at the regional level, whereas the CNCs will also provide
guidance at the national level. At the national level, with support from the CRGP, the Project activities will
be managed and implemented within the four National Units (Cellules). Inthe three OMVS countries, this
includes the OMVS National Cellules; in Guinea, this includes a newly formed National Cellule,
established as part o f this Project within the Ministry of Hydraulics and Energy under the authority o f the
Director o f Hydraulics. References to the Nationale Cellules, whether those o f the OMVS countries or o f
Guinea, are hereafter referred to as the National Cellules. The "Protocole d'accord cadre de coopkration
entre la Rkpublique de Guinke et I'OMVS," Article 7, is the legal framework under which Guinea and
OMVS established a formal relationship allowing for the implementation o f tasks, actions, and so forth
included in the Project. This will include the financial arrangements necessary for funding the actions
implemented in Guinea. At the local level, the CLCs will work directly with the communities and
stakeholders. Annex 13 further details the proposed institutional and implementation arrangements.

30. Project M&E. The OMVS will be responsible for ensuring that all GEF-funded activities are camed
out in compliance with the Project design and performance and monitoring indicators defined in Annex 1,
andwill report to the CPBFS and the Bank. The Project will comply with the required M&Eprocedures as
required by the Bank, for the Mid-Term Review and Implementation Completion Report (ICR). The
evaluation will rely on both qualitative and quantitative criteria using Bank and UNDP guidelines,
"Monitoring and Evaluation o f Program Impacts." Resources have been set aside to support and conduct
both o f these evaluations. The Mid-Term Review will provide suggestions on possible improvements to the
implementation plan and steps that could be taken to ensure achievements o f Project goals inthe remainder
o f the implementation period.

D. Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives considered andreasons for rejection:
31. Project Alternatives. A systematic review o f Project altematives evaluated the priority concerns and
issues in the Senegal River Basin. The altematives, and the justification for their dismissal, are identified
below:

0    Project Services Agency. Contracting a Project Services Agency to deliver the Project on behalf o f
     OMVS was considered. However, based on OMVS's experience with implementation o f Bank and
     non-Bank projects, and the desire to strengthen OMVS's institutional capacity, ths alternative was
     rejected, because it would add an unnecessary layer o f complexity to the Project implementation
     structure.
0    Environmental health. Environmental health continues to be a high priority in the Basin. Though a
     sector-specific project would address aspects o f the problem, it would not address the source o f the
     problem, which is linked to management o f the Basin's water resources. The public consultation
     undertaken during Project preparation emphasized the importance communities attach to improving
     their health situation, especially with regard to waterbome diseases. As environmental health projects
     are not funded under the GEF, these priorities are not included in the present Project but will work
     closely with relative Bank health initiatives which focus on waterbome diseases and human health. The
     Bankhasplaced a highpriority on supporting environmental healthprojects to improve the quality and
     accessibility o f basic health in Mauritania with the Health Sector Investment Project and Integrated
     Development Program; and similarly in Senegal the Integrated Health Sector Development Project and
     the Endemic Disease Control Project are assisting the government to help alleviate the burden o f



                                                     -13-

    endemic and epidemic diseases among the population.
    Parallel individual national programs. Individual national programs would not address the
    transboundary issues or the need for a systematic and coordinated data and knowledge exchange for
    Basin land and water management. In addition, they could be costly and result in duplication and
    inconsistencies.

32. Rationale for Co-Implementation Considerations. The World Bank and UNDP are joint
implementing agencies for a number o f GEF international waters projects in Afnca (including the Niger,
Lake Chad, and Nile). The agencies have found that joint implementation makes the projects stronger as
they benefit from each agency's comparative advantage. The Bank as a convener and investor already has
an investmentprofile in the region and can leverage additional funds as needed. The Bank is experienced
with procurement and investment procedures needed to find the SAP that will result from this Project.
UNDP has extensive in-country presence. This allows it to work closely with local stakeholders in each
country and to be seen as a neutral and trusted partner. UNDP's strength is in supporting capacity building
inparticular, andworlung at the locallevel as experienced inthe GEF Small Grants Programme.

2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and/or other development agencies (completed,
ongoing and planned).

               Table 3: Major related projects financed by the World Bank and other donors
                                         I                                      Latest Si letvision
              Sector Issue                             Project                     (PSR)   atings
                                                                            (Bank-finance1 projects only)
                                                                           Implementation   Development
 -Bank-financed                                                              Progress (IP)  Objective (DO)

   Health Sector:                         Integrated Health Sector                S               S
 Mali - PO40652                           Investment
 Mauritania - PO35689                     Health Sector Investment                S               S
                                          Project
 Mauritania  - PO44711                    Integrated Development                  S               S
                                          Program
 Senegal-PO41567                          Endemic Disease Control                 S               S
 Senegal-PO02369                          Integrated Health Sector                S               S
                                          Development Project

 - Agriculture Sector:                    Rural Infrastructure and                S               S
 Mali-PO41723                             Capacity Building
 Mali-PO01738                             Pilot Private Irrigation                S               S
                                          Promotion
 Mauritania-PO44711                       IntegratedDevelopment                   S               S
                                          Program for Irrigated
                                          Agriculture

 -Water Sector:                           ThirdWater Supply and                   S              U
 Guinea-PO01075                           Sanitation
 Mauritania-PO66345                       Energy, Water, and Sanitation           S               S
                                          Reform TA
 Senegal-PO02346                          Water Sector                            S               S



                                                   - 1 4 -

Senegal-PO41528                         Long-Term Water Sector

- Hydropower Sector:                    Regional Hydropower
Mali-PO46651                            Development
Mauritania-PO46648                      Regional Hydropower
                                        Development
Senegal-PO46650                         Regional Hydropower
                                        Development
- Socio-economic sector:                Village Community Support
Guinea-PO50732                          Program




Other development agencies
Project-related ongoing andplanned
-country  activities:
   Afncan Land and Water Management GEF/WB
Initiative (ALWMI): Mauritania
- Conservationo f Biological Diversity: GEF/UNDP
Mauritania And Senegal
- Fouta DjallonIntegratedWatershed       GEF/UNDP
Management: Guinea
- GEF Small Grants Programme: Mali, UNDP
Mauritania, Senegal
- UNDP Afnca 2000 Network: Mali          UNDP
- Transboundary Protected Areas          EU
Bafmg-Faleme: Mali and Guinea
-- PARS Prowalo: Senegal                 EU
   Assistance to Diawling National Park: GTZ
Senegal
.- Water ManagementProject: Senegal      GTZ
   Assistance to Dioudj National Park:   GTZ
Senegal
.IntegratedCoastal andRiver Basin:       GTZ
Senegal
.Water Supply for Six SenegalRiver      GTZ
rows: Senegal
.Delta Drainage Tributaries: Senegal    GTZ
.BoundoumIrrigationandNianga            GTZ
[rrigation: Senegal
.Special FoodSecurity Programme:        FA0
Mauritania
.Technical Partnership With CIFA:       FA0
Mali
.RegionalParticipatory Training:        FA0
[ntegratedProduction and Pest


                                                -15-

Management: Senegal
- Assistance for FightingSalvinia           FA0
Molesta: Senegal, Mauritania
- Formulation o f a Regional Action Plar FA0
for Improving IrrigatedAgriculture:
Mali and Mauritania
- Emergency Assistance to                   FA0
Populations-Victims     o f Inundations
from Senegal River inDagana, St
Louis, and Louga: Senegal
- Health Project in St. Louis Region:       Luxembourg

                                           Luxembourg

                                           Luxembourg




                                           satisfactory), U (Unsatisfactory), HU (Highly Unsatisractory)

33. Active Donors and Institutions. Inaddition to the major related projects, the following institutions and
donors are active inthe Basin:

    PASIE. The Plan d'attinuation et de suivi des impacts sur I'environnement (PASIE) is a multi-donor
    program addressing the environmental issues related to the Regional Hydropower Project and the
    optimization o f benefits for various water users in the OMVS member countries (Annex 15). The
    recently ratified Water Charter and the associated operating rules for the Manantali and Diama dams
    present a significant and positive step toward ensuring environmentally and socially sustainable
    management o f the Senegal River (Annex 16). However, institutions still need to be strengthened to
    ensure that the Water Charter is complied with and that information is shared basin-wide. It is
    important to note that the Project will buildon the existing OMVS/PASIE institutions and complement
    the PASIE by: (i)strengthening the institutional capacity building activities to include Guinea in
    managing the Basin's resources and the decision-malung process; (ii)       strengthening Guinea's technical
    capacity in establishing a harmonized data collection process and collaborating on Basin information;
    and (iii)expanding local capacity through establishing CLCs in the Basin to enable Guinea to be
    engaged inthe TDNSAP process andMicrogrant Program at the local level.

    Active donors. There are         approximately a dozen major donors                supporting water-   and
    environment-related activities inthe Basin, notably the AfDB, Canada, China, France, GEF, Germany,
    IUCN, Luxembourg, the Netherlands, Norway, Saudi Arabia, UNDP, the United States, and the World
    Bank. French cooperation is currently funding the OMVS Observatory. In addition, there are also
    numerous national and local NGOsand community groups working on water-related projects.

    Adjacent GEFProjects. A number of other GEF international waters projects are underway or under
    preparation inthe region. Ofparticular interest to the Project is the Fouta Djallon Highlands Watershed
    Project in Guinea that is being prepared by United Nations Environment Programme (UNEP) and
    several countries in the region to address key watershed management issues in the highlands. Other
    GEF Projects in the Senegal River Basin include a project to preserve biodiversity around the
    Manantali reservoir and a land rehabilitation project inthe lower valley. There is also an offshore GEF



                                                    - 1 6 -

    Project under preparation that deals with the Canary Current. Although the Diama dam forms a
    physical barrier between the Senegal River and the Atlantic Ocean, there are important interactions that
    need to be taken into account. The Lower Valley and the Delta also include significant wildlife areas
    and reserves o f global importance including two Ramsar sites.

e   Other relevant GEF Projects. Linkages with the UNDPIGEF international waters network initiative
    (1W:LEARN) will provide for the sharing of project results and the replication o f successful practices
    in other regions of the world and specifically among other groups of countries confronting similar
    issues, especially in Afnca. In addition, the present Project could establish linkages to the A h c a n
    Stockpile Program, which is under preparation in the framework o f the Stockholm Convention on
    Persistent Organic Pollutants (POPS). The GEF Marine and Coastal Biodiversity Management Project,
    w h c h is under preparation in Senegal, will strengthen the conservation and management o f globally
    significant marine and coastal biodiversity. To that end, the Project will address priorities identified in
    the National Biodiversity Strategy (NBS) and the NEAP.

3. Lessonslearned and reflected in the project design:
34. Lessons Learned. The Project has been designed as an integrated, inclusive, and sustainable project by
national and local counterparts, with guidance from the Bank and UNDP. Lessons leamed in the region,
and from other transboundary GEF projects, were drawn upon and considered in preparing the Project
documents. Key lessons are identifiedbelow.

    Project design lessons-inclusivity and sustainability. Active engagement o f riparian counterparts was
    vital in defming the Project objective, and it was necessary that the stated objective remain realistic.
    Multi-country, regional projects require additional attention to address all national concems in an
    integrated coherent manner. This, too, requires a realistic implementation schedule and budget.
    Emphasis was placed on strengthening institutional capacity and on including Guinea as an equal
    partner in the institutional strengthening and implementation process. To successfully make sound
    judgments on land and water management issues, consistent and accurate data and information is
    needed. The Project provides focused efforts on Guinea to establish a data and information baseline
    with the OMVS countries, while also providing an opportunity for a coherent management protocol for
    all four riparian countries. Rather than targeting specific land and water management activities, which
    have shown to require greater management and capacity, the proposed community-based microgrants
    component provides flexibility to take action incommunities and in areas where activities are feasible.
    Local empowerment has proven to be the more beneficial practice for successful implementation and
    sustainability. Educating and engaging stakeholders, through a public information and education
    process, is the first step to allow communities to make sound decisions and take responsibility toward
    their water and land resources.

e   Strengthening institutional capacity and partnerships. The challenge is to effectively implement the
    Project to ensure sustainability and achieve benefits for the most vulnerable. This is particularly
    difficult and important when dealing with regional-scale issues and a regional organization. There are
    often historical legacies that have led to the absence o f one or more riparians from a cooperative
    instrument. However, with increasing pressures and demands on limited resources, cooperation is the
    only altemative. The challenge, therefore, becomes to help foster an environment o f trust, equity, and
    dialogue within which all riparians can together pursue their common and cooperative development
    aspirations. It is for this reason that the first focus o f thls Project i s on institutional strengthening and
    capacity building.Without improving management capacity, additional interventions are at risk and are
    unllkely to achieve the desired benefits. To support long-term sustainability and cooperative



                                                       - 1 7 -

    management o f a shared River, the participation o f all riparian countries is o f paramount importance.
    Buildingbroadpartnerships within the riparian countries-and      with NGOs, international agencies, and
    donors-is   essential for a coordinatedprocess to leverage funds for priority actions.

    Integrated land and water management. It has become increasingly clear, from experience in similar
    basin management programs, that successful management o f water resources cannot be done if
    management o f the riparian lands i s not tended to, because land and water dynamics are an integrated
    process. Optimal water resources management depends on good land management practices. All the
    elements o f the watershed are interrelated and need to be seen as a single integrated but multi-faceted
    system. Ultimately t h s can only be optimized through effective management o f the environment o f the
    whole Basin, in concert with the shlls and culture o f the various peoples livingin different parts o f the
    Basin.

    GEFInternational Waters Conferences. Several team members attended the GEF International Waters
    Conference in Hungary in 2000 and, in China in 2002 where a number o f important lessons were
    highlighted. In Hungary, the importance o f ensuring an effective and participatory M&E process
    includes the collection o f baseline data and temporal data to evaluate the dynamics o f the land and
    water ecosystems. This inclusion o f the local scientific, academic, and research community into the
    Project i s essential to close the "loop" on the scientific data that underpins environmental and
    hydrological decision-malung. Appropriate data collection and a compatible data management network
    will also be helpful indetermining, through the M&E process, the successful attainment o f the Project
    objective. Subsequently, in China, the basic principles for project success were discussed, stressing the
    importance o f country ownership as a necessity for sustainability.

4. Indicationsof borrower and recipient commitment and ownership:
35. Government Commitment. All four governments have endorsed the Project (refer to Annex 17).
OMVS has demonstrated a high interest in applying a participatory approach to the Project design.
National Project Planning Committees (NPPCs) were established in each riparian country and these
committees have been responsible for coordinating and participating in Project preparation. Country
officials have provided continual assistance, and national water and environment authorities participated in
national and regional workshops, workgroups, steering committees and other stakeholder consultations
during project preparation.      In addition, Guinea's participation in the Project preparation process
encourages confidence that it will continue toward greater involvement and eventual participation in an
inclusive framework for the Basin's management.

36. Riparian Commitment to Cooperation. The commitment to regional cooperation is evident in the
continual operation o f the OMVS by the three member states and by Guinea's interest as an active
observer. Within the context o f the Regional Hydropower Project, the three participating states-Mali,
Mauritania, and Senegal-have      committed to a number o f obligations andjoint actions. These include the
groundbrealung development, ratification, and subsequent implementation o f the Water Charter. Additional
commitments include the following:

0   Contributing to meeting debt service associated with the buildingo fthe Diama and Manantali dams;
0   .Contributing to increasing the efficiency and reliability ofpower systems inthe three countries;
0   Establishing an effective organization to construct and operate the Project facilities and to mitigate
    environmental and health impacts o f the dams;
0   Promoting competitive private-sector participation in the Project as well as in the financing o f future
    generation projects on the Basin; and



                                                    -18-

0   Supporting sound environmental management and the traditional, recessional, agricultural sector
    downstream o f Manantali through the guarantee o f the annual artificial flood, as covenanted by the
    Water Charter.

37. Active Public Participation Program. The model to involve the public so extensively in Project
preparation (Annex 12) was relatively new in the Senegal Basin. The riparian countries have hlly
supported this time-consuming but vital and important process at the technical and political levels. The
commitment to a broad participatory process was emphasized by the OMVS H.C.'s note to the Bamako
workshop on the Bank's Regional Strategy in West Africa in March 2001. This note made a clear
commitment to enhance participatory approaches in project design and implementation so that projects
targeting poverty alleviation can be implemented successfully at the basin level.

38. Financial Sustainability. The OMVS governments' financial commitment is reflected intheir OMVS
contributions. The long-term financial sustainability o f this Project is strengthened by UNDP's and the
Bank's ongoing work in regional projects, which form the baseline for t h s intervention. In addition, the
Project will complement already ongoing regional actions (such as PASIE), and many donors are actively
supporting OMVS, its member countries, and Guinea.

5. Value added of Bankand Globalsupportinthis project:
39. OMVS Request. The involvement of the Bank in this Project is a result o f the direct request o f the
OMVS to assist with the preparation of a GEF Project for the Senegal River Basin, recognizing the Bank's
technical and fiscal expertise as necessary to commence such a project. These resources, together with the
Bank's ready access to the hghest representatives of the member states and its influence and convening
power, make it a strong ally to assist the regional institutions to improve the management o f the Senegal
River Basin. Pooling its resources with UNDP, which has a strong on-the-ground presence and long-term
experience in capacity building, puts the support and expertise o f both institutions at the disposal o f the
Project, thereby offering it a greater chance o f success.

40. WorldBank Support and Links to Related Projects. Since the mid-l990s, the Bank has engaged with
OMVS and is now supporting a number o f water sector related activities in the Basin. These activities
include the installation o f power generation facilities at Manantali in Mali; the PASIE environmental
program; the Long-Term Water Supply Project in Senegal; and the Endemic Disease Control Project in
Senegal. Through its Water Resources Policy and its work o f the AWRMI, the Bank is committed to a
policy o f supporting govemments in the preparation o f water resources policies and strategies to address
sustainable management o f transboundary resources.


E. Summary Project Analysis (Detailed assessments are inthe project file, see Annex 8)
1. Economic(see Annex 4):
0 Costbenefit         NPV=US$ million; ERR = % (see Annex 4)
0 Costeffectiveness
0 IncrementalCost
0 Other(specify)

41. Incremental Cost. Consistent with GEF operational policy, the requested GEF funds would only be
used to finance the incremental costs, hence the economic evaluation methodology is the GEF incremental
cost analysis. A number o f complementary activities inthe Basinprovide paralleling technical and financial



                                                     -19-

support to the Project. This parallel funding, or co-financing as it pertains to the incremental cost analysis,
provides the baseline to this Project, which is the GEF Alternative. The Project addresses the
transboundary overlay o f Senegal River Basin environmental management. The GEF-supported
interventions would provide incremental support costs to: (i)     develop an inclusive cooperation framework
for the shared water resource and its environment; (ii)   improve policy and institutional effectiveness; (iii)
improve transboundary water management capacity; (iv) strengthen environmental management at the
basin level; and (v) create a strong, ongoing, basin-wide participation program. It is highly unlikely that the
individual countries could or would take independent actions to preserve a resource that would be available
for neighboring countries to use. The present Project therefore provides an essential element for the sound
and sustainable management o f the shared transboundary water resources.

2. Financial (see Annex 4 and Annex 5):
NPV=US$ million; FRR= % (see Annex 4)

42. Project Financing. The total Project cost is US$21.2 million, which has a total GEF contribution o f
US$7.25 million financing, US$13.95 million in parallel funding, and US$0.88 million as in-kind
contribution. The parallel funding comes from the IDF, AfDB, and from the Governments o f France and
the Netherlands. Of the GEF funds, the Bank will manage US$5.26 million and UNDP will manage
US$1.99 million. The Project is designed to complement, reinforce, and expand institutional elements o f the
current ongoing projects to provide a basin-wide framework within which the future activities envisaged
under the SAP will be carried out. Therefore, GEF financing will act as a bridge and as a catalyst to
encourage further investment inthe Basinwithin the overall programmatic approach.

Fiscal Impact:

Not applicable.

3. Technical:

43. Strengthening Technical Capacity. Managing the Senegal River Basin's shared water resources is a
complex process, balancing national priority needs within a regionally inclusive decision-malung
institution. Managing these resources requires valid information to make informed decisions and
institutional capacity for a systems approach to decision-malung. Based on lessons learned from other
projects, and from project preparation, Component 2, Data and Knowledge Management activities
specifically target strengthening o f technical institutional capacity. Specific challenges associated with
developing and strengthening the Basin's technical capacity include: (i)     increasing availability o f reliable
data; (ii) maintaining continuity and sustainability o f data collection; (iii)
                                                                             operationalizing and maintaining
information management systems and databases at regional and national levels; (iv) coordinating regional
efforts regarding uniformity and quality assurance o f data and information; and (v) creating sustainable
mechanisms to finance activities after Project completion.

4. Institutional:

44. World Bank and UNDP. The Project is co-implemented with the Bank and the UNDP, which are both
implementing agencies of the GEF. The Project will draw on the respective strengths of both for
implementation o f the present Project.
4.1 Executing agencies:
45. OMVS. The Project will be executed by OMVS. To assist in Project management and implementation,


                                                    - 20 -

an office for the CRGP will be established as an integral part o f the OMVS H.C. inDakar. As part o f the
pre-appraisal process, detailed discussions were held with OMVS with respect to Project implementation
responsibilities and arrangements. Inaddition, OMVS also helddiscussions with other donors with whom it
works, as well as with relevant Bank Task Managers. Based on these discussions, the Bank is satisfied that
OMVS i s fully able and capable to execute the GEF Project. Required technical expertise that is not
available within OMVS will be contracted to ensure effective implementation o fthe Project.
4.2 Project management:
46. Implementation Arrangements. The CRGP will be housed at OMVS Headquarters in Dakar and will
be, under the supervision o f OMVS, in charge o f all aspects o f the Project's financial management. The
CRGP will thus benefit from OMVS experience in terms o f managing IDA funds, and O M V S will gain
from the technical expertise andproject management experience o f the CRGP staff.

47. Staf$ng at the Regional Level. The CRGP will be headed by the CRP who will supervise the Project
team. The AAF must be in place before effectiveness and will have technical support from the OMVS
accounting staff already inplace. OMVS accounting and finance staff have satisfactory qualifications and
professional experience and have been trained in World Bank procurement, disbursement, and financial
management procedures. The experience o f OMVS in managing its own IDA Credit has proved
satisfactory. A Procurement Specialist will be recruited (by OMVS)and located within the CRGP and will
provide help and advice to the National Cellule teams from time to time, monitor the progress o f
procurement and implementation o f each contract under the Project, and ensure effective and timely project
execution.

48. Staffins at the National Level. At a national level, the Project will be managed by the national cellule
coordinator (Coordinateur de la cellule nationale, CCN) with support from the CNC. The National
Cellule will include three additional staff (i) the Public Participation and Information Expert (Expert en
information etparticipation, EIP), (ii) the National Microgrants Expert (Expert national en micro-finance
(ENM);and (iii) Accounting Assistant (Aide-comptable). The Accounting Assistant will assume, at the
                  an
national level, all the accounting and financial duties for the Project, including the justification o f the
management o f funds at the local level. To that extent, the Accounting Assistant will work closely with the
local coordination committee (Comit6 local de coordination, CLC). The AAF and the four Accounting
Assistants inthe National Cellules will be recruited before the date of effectiveness; the O M V S has agreed
to finance this staffwith the understandingthat a retroactive financing clause for reimbursement is included
inthe grant agreement.
4.3 Procurement issues:
49. Financial Reporting. Quarterly Financial Management Reports (FMRs), including financial,
procurement, and physical progress, will be prepared for the first quarter after Project effectiveness.
During an interim period of 18 months, these FMRs will be reviewed and the financial management
capacity will be strengthened. At the end o f the interimperiod, it is expected that the Project will be capable
ofproducing reliable FMRsthat could be usedas a basis for disbursement.The capacity of the Project will
be reassessedat the end o f the interim period to confirm whether FMR-based disbursementmethods can be
used. Inthe meantime, the Project will follow traditional disbursement methods.

50. Special Account Allocation and Disbursement Mechanisms. OMVS will open a Special Account in
CFAF in a commercial bank on terms and conditions acceptable to WBKJNDP. Following the procedures
o f IBRD, each replenishment request will be accompanied, as necessary, by an up-to-date bank statement
and a reconciliation statement. All replenishment or reimbursement applications will be submitted on a
monthly basis or when the Special Account is reduced by one-third, whichever comes first. All


                                                     -21 -

replenishment or reimbursement applications will be fully documented except for contracts under prior
review. Statement o f Expenditures (SOE) documentation will be retained at the CRGP for review by Bank
staff and annual audits.
4.4 Financial management issues:
51. Financial Management Assessment.A Financial Management Assessment (Fh4A) completed in June
2003 concluded that, overall, OMVS has relatively satisfactory financial management capacity. The
Country Financial Accountability Assessment (CFAA) o f Senegal has been completed and was deliveredat
the end o f June 2003. The CFAA does not contain any assessmentsthat would have a major impact on the
financial management o f the Project.

52. Accounting Policies and Procedures. OMVS has been applying satisfactory accounting procedures
since it was established. However, these procedures have not been formalized ina reference document, such
as a manual, and they will likely differ from the procedures o f the current Project. A manual o f
administrative, accounting, and fmancial procedures (the administrative manual) will be developed by the
Project before effectiveness. Thls manual must include accounting policies and procedures, definitions o f
respective duties, budgeting systems and all relevant administrative and financial procedures, relationships
among the components o f the Project, and reporting mechanisms at each level (regional, national, and
local). All staff, including the stakeholders involved inthe Project, must be trained inthose procedures.

53. Reporting and Monitoring. CRGP will prepare quarterly FMRs. The format o f the FMR will be
discussed and agreed on before effectiveness. The quarterly reports will include financial management,
procurement, and physical progress monitoring, covering all activities financed under the Project regardless
o f the funding source. N o major problem is expected with the financial and procurement reports. Areas o f
concern expressed in the FMA included the report on physical, where CRGP lacks experience; these
reports will be based on outcome indicators and may require additional support from technical assistance.

54. Financial Management Information System. At the CRGP, a computerized financial management
system will be installed, and the chart o f accounts o f the Project and the report formats will be customized
prior to effectiveness.

55. Audit Arrangements. The Project's accounts will be subject to annual external audit by a reputable
auditing firm based on terms of reference (TOR) appropriate for the Project's scope, to be approved by the
Bank. This TOR will cover the Project's accounts, the SOEs, and the Special Account. The selection o f the
auditor will be a condition o f Project effectiveness. The annual audit reports will be submitted to the Bank
within six months o f the end o f each fiscal year (i.e., by June 30).


5. Environmental:                           Environmental Category: B (Partial Assessment)
5.1 Summarize the steps undertaken for environmental assessment and EMP preparation (including
consultation and disclosure) and the significant issues and their treatment emerging from this analysis.
56. EMF. The overall environmental screening category is B. This category was necessary to provide
quality   control when reviewing individual community-based microgrant                  micro-activities. The
Environmental Management Framework (EMF) for the Microgrant Program identifies the process to
implement microgrant-funded activities withm the parameters o f national environmental policies and Bank
safeguard policies, and provides a mechanism to assess both individual and cumulative impacts o f
micro-activity at the national level. The EMF together with the Microgrant Program Operational Manual
will be the tools for environmental and social screening. Under the Project's objective to enhance
transboundary cooperation and environmental quality, significant issues identified during project


                                                       - 22 -

preparation will be addressed through strengthening institutional capacity, improving the management o f
ecologically sensitive areas, and improving information management. The Project will enhance
environmental management capacity: (i)regionally, through strengthening and building institutional
capacity and supporting cooperative decision-malung; (ii)        nationally, through better information exchange
and common analytical methods for water quality monitoring; and (iii)locally, through increasing
education and community-based microgrant h d e d activities for improved local land and water resource
management.
5.2 What are the main features o f the EMP and are they adequate`?
57. EMF Purpose and Process. As disclosed in the Integrated Safeguards Data Sheet (ISDS), a revised
EMF was prepared and disclosed before appraisal. As noted in section 5.1 above, the EMF identifies a
process for responsible micro-activity proposal preparation and a mechanism for screening environmental
and social impacts. The EMF identifies a coherent, logical, understandable process within the principles o f
CDD for sustainable environmental management at the local level, and nationally it provides a mechanism
for a cumulative assessment o f micro-activities on a broader scale. The EMF provides an overview o f the
environmental and social screening process; the Microgrants Program Operational Manual will provide
details on Program implementation and guidance, through an environmental and social parameters
checklist, for CLCs to assist local counterparts to ensure that the micro-activity design meets the design
criteria. A more detailed environmental and social screening process is then designed at the national level,
providing a more comprehensive methodology to evaluate cumulative environmental and social impacts. An
EAwill beprepared ifdeemednecessary.
5.3 For Category A and B projects, timeline and status o f EA:
                      Date o f receipt o f final draft: Not Applicable

58. Compliance and Disclosure. The EMF was designed to comply with national policies and Bank
environmental and social safeguard policies. An updated version o f the EMF was made available at the
OMVS; in the three riparian countries through the National Cellules; in Guinea through the Ministry o f
Mines, Geology, and Environment; at the World Bank Resident Missions; at the World Bank InfoShop; at
the UNDP country offices; andat the UNDP Small Grants Programme, before Appraisal.

5.4 How have stakeholders been consulted at the stage o f (a) environmental screening and [b) draft EA
report on the environmental impacts and proposed environment management plan? Describe mechanisms
o f consultation that were usedand which groups were consulted?
59. Project Preparation and Stakeholder Engagement. Project preparation provided a platform for
stakeholder participation in Project design, providing an important instrument for building ownership
among local populations. This process gave due attention to: (i)      the views, interests, needs, and choices o f
local stakeholders who constitute the basis for decision-making in water and environmental management;
and (ii)the mechanisms and requisites for strengthening communities' voices. The preparation o f the
Project included an extensive consultative process involving local and national workshops, consultations,
and national field studies. Annex 12 provides a summary o f the public involvement in the preparation
process. Inherent in the Project are the C D D principles, with an emphasis on strengthening regional,
national, and local institutional and social capacity for improving decision-making, collaboration, and
actions to manage the Senegal River Basin's resources. The Microgrant Program provides opportunities for
local sustainable development and economic opportunities through implementation o f small-scale
community-based pilot activities.
5.5 What mechanisms have been established to monitor and evaluate the impact o f the project on the
environment? D o the indicators reflect the objectives and results o f the EMP?


                                                        - 23 -

60. Three-fold M&E Process. An EMF has been put in place and the Microgrant Program Operational
Manual will include a checklist and design criteria to be utilized at the local level. A comprehensive
screening process will be used at the national level. Micro-activity proposals not meeting the microgrant
objectives and criteria outlined in the Operational Manual will not be approved. Then, as part o f Project
performance, M&E will be conducted in three different independent but corresponding processes. The
processes include: (i)the Bank's required M&E process, undertaken as part o f the PIP through the
Mid-Term Review and ICR, which will monitor the effectiveness o f activities meeting the Project objective
and indicators; (ii)  the technical elements of Component 2, which will provide environmental data and
information to quantitatively evaluate and monitor the changes in environmental parameters; and (iii)
specific M&E parameters, which will be identified in monitoring the individual community-based
microgrant supported interventions.
6. Social:
6.1 Summarize key social issues relevant to the project objectives, and specify the project's social
development outcomes.
61. Benejits of Transboundary Resource Management. With the implementation of good management
practices through the various Project capacity building, outreach, and enabling activities, the Project will
improve transboundary planning and cooperation to reduce negative development impacts. This will benefit
the land and water users o f the region. It is essential for the social and economic welfare of the Basin
residents that a sincere effort be made to find an optimal approach to managing downstream water
resources. Although some o f this work is being done under the PASIE Project, the present Project adds an
incremental dimension. It supports the further involvement o f Guinea, as well as the transboundary aspects
of the land and water management actions to support the Water Charter.

6.2 Participatory Approach: How are key stakeholders participating inthe project?
62. Stakeholder Participation. Stakeholder participation has beena key and successful factor inthe work
undertaken during the execution o f PDF-B activities, as disclosed inthe ISDS and further detailed inAnnex
12. The Project will build on and add to the level o f public involvement that began in the PDF-B phase to
include specific activities that address participation, involvement, and public awareness. Throughout the
preparation o f this Project, it has become clear that a genuine commitment to stakeholder involvement is the
only way to ensure cooperation at all significant levels, promoting sustainable and productive engagement
with local environments, and involving the private sector and locally elected organizations in seeking
negotiated solutions to environmental degradation.

6.3 How does the project involve consultations or collaboration with NGOs or other civil society
organizations?
63. Consultation Process. IUCN has been a key partner in the preparation o f the Project. Annex 12
identifies the stakeholders consulted duringpreparation. Consultation occurred through local, national, and
regional meetings. It is expected that a large range o f national and international organizations, including
IUCN, will be participating inthe implementation o f the Project components. This includes reaching NGO
umbrella organizations active in the region as well as development NGOs. Project implementation will
largely involve community groups and NGOs/Community-based organizations (CBOs). The microgrant
component specifically targets the local communities and NGOs in the Senegal River Basin countries,
while the public participation and awareness component will largely be implemented by NGOs from the
region.
6.4 What institutional arrangements have beenprovided to ensure the project achieves its social
development outcomes?
64. Regional, National, and Local Integration. OMVS, the executing agency, will be responsible for


                                                      - 24 -

ensuring the Project achieves its social development outcomes. The CPBFS will monitor and provide
advice, guidance, and direction to the Project. To facilitate effective and responsive management, the
Project is designed for vertical regional, national, and local integration.
6.5 How will the project monitor performance interms o f social development outcomes?
65. Public Participation Program and Outcomes. With regard to the needto establish a framework and
capacity for improved management o f the Basin, the Project's social development outcomes will be mostly
indirect and long range. The immediate elements o f the priority actions, however, have specific outcome
measures incorporated intheir designand outlined inthe Project's logical framework (Annex 1). The public
participation program, which will continue throughout the Project, will act as a valuable and, no doubt,
very critical gauge o f the public's perception o f the Project's performance. Through the M&Eprocess, the
Project objectives, outputs, and emerging issues will be regularly reviewed and evaluated in the annual
report by supervision missions and by the CPBFS. The Project will be subject to the various evaluation and
review mechanisms o fthe Bank and UNDP.

7. Safeguard Policies:


    Environmental Assessment (OP 4.01, BP 4.01, GP 4.01)                         0 Yes 0No
    Natural Habitats (OP 4.04, BP 4.04, GP 4.04)                                 0 Yes 0   No
    Forestry (OP 4.36, GP 4.36)                                                  0Yes 0 No
    Pest Management (OP 4.09)                                                    0Yes 0    No
    Cultural Property (OPN 11.03)                                                0Yes 0    N o
    IndigenousPeoples(OD 4.20)                                                   0Yes 0    No
    Involuntary Resettlement(OPIBP 4.12)                                         0Yes 0    N o
    Safety of Dams (OP 4.37, BP 4.37)                                            0Yes 0    No
    Projectsin International Waters (OP 7.50, BP 7.50, GP 7.50)                  0Yes 0    No
    Proiectsin DisputedAreas (OP 7.60, BP 7.60, GP 7.60)"                        0Yes 0No

7.2 Describeprovisions made by the project to ensure compliance with applicable safeguard policies.
66. EMF and Compliance to Safeguard Policies. To address the ISDS, the Project's EMF is consistent
with the requirements of OP 4.01, Environmental Assessment and with OP 4.04, Natural Habitats. During
Project Appraisal it was determined that the project would not support any activities that would trigger OP
4.30 Involuntary Resettlement, therefore, this OP i s not applicable. The potential application o f OP 7.50
was reviewed with the Legal Counsel for OP 7.50 safeguard policies (who has specific responsibility for
the policy) and it was deemed not to be applicable to the Project. Further discussion on compliance with
environmental and social safeguards is detailed inthe ISDS.




                                                      - 25 -

F. Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability:
67. Regional Sustainability. OMVS is an established and well-supported legal entity and, with the
approval o f the Water Charter, i s now mandated with transboundary management responsibilities.
However, the OMVS faces the two-fold challenge o f ensuring that an inclusive institution i s operational,
while setting in place a basin-wide environmental management system, both o f which need to be
underpinned by active national and community involvement. The objective o f this Project is to reinforce
regional environmental management capabilities and to support the involvement o f Guinea in basin-wide
management o f the Senegal River Basin. With its capital assets and its expanding support, OMVS has the
necessary elements inplace to ensure sustainability o f this Project and post-Project outcomes.

68. National Government Commitment. The participating countries have worked well together during
preparation o f this Project. All four riparian countries established NPPCs, which will be transformed to the
CNC. National official assistance in Project preparation and participation in national and regional
workshops, workgroups, and steering committees have beenconsistent and committed. Guinea's committed
participation in the process increases confidence that it will continue its path toward greater involvement
and eventual membershp in OMVS, once it is clear that there are direct benefits to Guinea from such
membership.

69. Sustainability-The Launch of a Strategic Programmatic Approach. The Basin countries are also
demonstrating their commitment to developing a cooperative framework within w h c h to jointly manage the
Senegal River Basin. Therefore, the Project is taking a strategic approach to ensure coordination among the
various projects to maximize returns on investments and sustainability by: (i)building on regional and
national water resources projects and initiatives already supported by the Bank, UNDP, and other donors;
(ii)creating capacity for transboundary environmental management at the community, national, and
regional levels; (iii)  facilitating an inclusive cooperative framework between Guinea and OMVS; (iv)
involving communities, scientific institutions, and NGOs in a participatory process o f managing
transboundary resources; and (v) designing a TDA and SAP that lay the analytical foundation for future
investments inthe Basin.

l a . Replicability:
70. Replicability. The potential for successful replication within the Basin, and with other similar Projects,
i s high at the regional, national, and local levels. The principles o f successful implementation practices for
institutional capacity building are integrated into the Project design. This includes but is not limited to
activities such as management training and cooperative workshops, and enforcing principles o f
accountability and transparency inProject management and implementation. Inherent in Component 4 will
be the exchange o f lessons learned and demonstration o f solutions and best practices to address priority
problems. These lessons learned and good resource management practices will be transferred to other
appropriate areas o f the Basin, through field training, workshops, and technical assistance.


2. Critical Risks (reflecting the failure o f critical assumptions found inthe fourth column o f Annex 1):


                     Risk                          Risk Rating                 Risk MitigationMeasure
From Outputs to Objective
-No political commitment or concrete                     M          -Guinea has expressed interest inbeingan active
action from Guinea to move forward with                             player inthe decision-malung. The Project


                                                       - 26 -

:gal reform.                                          provides Guinea technical assistance for
                                                      institutional strengthening with support for
                                                      training inand knowledge to define a framework
                                                      for legal reform, inline with the 1992 Protocol
                                                      o f Accord.

Riparian country governments and                M     -The riparian countries have expressed an
nstitutions are not very committed to                 interest inengaging inregional cooperation and
ooperate instrengthening regional and                 collaboration. OMVS recognizes it has
lational capacity.                                    expandedresponsibilities and puts forth an
                                                      effort inachieving the Projects goals.

OMVS is not supportedw i t h the Basin          M     -The donor community is very active and
ndintemational donors are not willing to              supportive inthe region and Basin, investing in
lrovide support inthe regionbeyond                    a number o f regional projects. The Project is
'roject completion.                                   incremental, buildingon existingprojects, is not
                                                      stand-alone, and seeks support for
                                                      supplementingpriority actions inthe Basin.
                                                      Other projects and investments will continue in
                                                      the Basin after t h s Project i s complete. This
                                                      Project hopes to strengthen the institutional
                                                      capacity to enable more sound decision-malung
                                                      infuture investments and inmanaging
                                                      resources.

Regional cooperation and participation i s      N     -A significant focus o fthe Project is the
iot supported among countries.                        strengthening of regional and national
                                                      institutional capacity. The Project provides
                                                      knowledge andcommunication, important tools
                                                      to encourage cooperation.

Political willingness to use tools and          M     -The Project will support a basin-wide effort to
nechanisms aimed at implementing a                    strengthen and improve the Basin's technical
"tainable environmental monitoring                    capacity, to include buildingand identifying the
,ystemfor the River Basin is limited.                 necessary technical tools and an equitable
                                                      monitoring network for a sustainable
                                                       environmental monitoring system.

Collaboration o f all partners i s weak, anc    N      -The four riparians have been actively engaged
here is no agreement among the Basin                   inthe Project preparationprocess, and it is not
,takeholders on the working groups to                  likelythat their interest inthe Projectwill lesser
lddress the TDA and SAP.                               once implementation commences. The
                                                       preliminary findings o f the TEA provided
                                                       insight on the commitment and willingness to
                                                       cooperate. The TDNSAP process will expand
                                                       stakeholder involvement.

 Local communities express no interest or       N      -Underthis Project, the public participation



                                               -27-

 support for implementingpriority actions,                          program will make a concerted effort to educate
 while NGOs, women's groups, and                                    and inform the public on the land and water
 communities do not apply for microgrant                            issues o f the River Basin. Based on community
 activities.                                                        development principles, the Microgrant Program
                                                                    provides a substantial opportunity for
                                                                    communities to have responsibility for effective
                                                                    management o f local resources whle improving
                                                                    their livelihood.

 -Multi-media communications are not wel:               N           -The Project provides opportunities to develop a
 defined and target communities are not                             multi-media campaign to inform and educate the
 identified.                                                        public on the issues o f the Basin, although not
                                                                    everyone will be engaged. There will be an
                                                                    opportunity to work with target communities
                                                                    interested inaddressing priority actions. The
                                                                    multi-media campaign will include a range o f
                                                                    communication tools to access both large urban
                                                                    and small rural communities.

 -Universities and research institutions are            M           -Research institutions and universities inherently
not interested in collaborating.                                    are forums for the exchange o f ideas. This
                                                                    Project supports opportunities to exchange ideas
                                                                    and to advance the knowledge o f the River
                                                                    Basin environment.
 From Componentsto Outputs
 -The Project does not achieve a                        N           -The ripariancountries have expressed an
participatory strategic environmental                               interest inengaging inregional cooperation and
 framework for the environmentally                                  collaboration. OMVS recognizes it has
 sustainable development o f the Senegal                            expanded responsibilities and puts forth-with
 River Basin, and a basin-wide cooperative                          guidance from intemational and local experts,
program for transboundary land-water                                the UNDP, and the Bank-an       effort in
management is not prepared or initiated.                            achieving the Projects goals.

                                                                   I
 Overall Risk Rating                                    M
I
Risk Rating - H (High Risk), S (Substantial Ri:                    I
                                                , M (Modest Risk), N(Negligib1e or Low Risk)

71. Political Considerations. The long-term success o f regional scale, multi-country management
programs depends, inter alia, on the political willingness o f the participating countries to cooperate; their
willingness to continue project programs and approaches after the life o f the GEF intervention; and the
extent to which activities successhlly engage end-users at the community level. In t h s case, the
long-standing commitment to the OMVS by three o f the riparians, and the support o f this Project for the
full involvement o f Guinea, lends credence to a hope to acheve a strengthened and cooperative regional
framework for water resources management.

72. Water Charter and Water Rights. The four countries have witnessed tensions in the past. Some of
these tensions have arisen over the water resources o f the Senegal River Basin. The potential for future
tension still exists. However, with the conclusion o f the Water Charter, and the possibility o f the three
OMVS countries and Guinea being bound together by common investments, it is appreciated that these


                                                      - 28 -

tensions must be dealt with so as to prevent a full-scale conflict, which would have immense social,
economic and environmental consequences.

73. Guinea's Participation. Guinea's willingness to participate in basin-wide decision malung on the
Senegal River Basin will probably depend upon its perceived advantages in such involvement. This Project,
incomplement with ongoing Bank assistanceto further the dialogue betweenOMVS and Guinea, intendsto
explore aspects o f cooperative planning, inclusiveness, and equity within the intemational Basin context. I t
i s hoped that this Project will help create a framework and environment to enable greater confidence and
broader cooperation among the four riparian states.

74. Incompatible Legislation. A study funded by the PASIE reviewed environmental legislation in the
three OMVS member countries and recommended ways to harmonize them. The GEF Project will extend
t h s study to include Guinea. As the findings and recommendations from these studies emerge, the next step
will be to move toward harmonization o f legislation dealing with the shared water resource. There is a risk
that lobbies would form in opposition to such harmonization, based on narrow local or national interests.
However, the riparian countries are aware o f the potential benefits that can be derived from taking the path
o f cooperation. Developing regional approaches that minimize the extent to w h c h existing countrywide
legislation needs to be altered will further mitigate the risk.

3. Possible Controversial Aspects:
75. Tensions and Differences. As with many rivers in Africa, the Senegal River Basin has in times past
seen water rights disputes. As mentioned above, the existence o f the jointly owned installations, on which
the three OMVS countries all service debts, has meant that governments have reacted swiftly to overcome
any emerging tension. To counter any possible tension that the modified flow regime controlled by the
Manantali dam might have caused, the recently agreed Water Charter addresses allocation issues (including
allocation between sectors) and safeguards social and environmental concems in the context o f water
allocation.

76. Political Disagreements. The involvement o f Guinea as a full participant is not anticipated to be a
major difficulty at the operational level, because Guinea has played an active and enthusiastic role in the
preparation process. In 1992, OMVS and Guinea signed the Protocole d'accord-cadre de coopiration
entre la Ripublique de Guinie et I'OMVS, which created a framework for cooperation in actions o f mutual
interest conceming the Senegal River Basin. At the formal, political, legal, and financial levels, however, it
can be expected that Guinea will wish to clearly identifythe advantagesit would gain injoining O W S and
participating in the benefits o f River Basin management. This may generate some discussion or
disagreement, but it is considered that an inclusive discussion, which serves to highlight the different
aspirations o f all four riparians, i s preferred by far over a possible scenario o f future unilateral or
non-inclusive development actions that do not make efficient use o f the shared water resource.

G. Main Conditions
1. EffectivenessCondition

     (a)      A Cellule Nationalehas been established inGuinea.
     (b)      The CRGP has been established; the CRP, with qualifications and experience satisfactory to
              the Bank, has been appointed; and the AAF and procurement specialist have been recruited in
              accordance with the provisions o f Section I1o f Schedule 3 to the Grant Agreement.
     (c)      An accounting assistant has been recruited in the four Cellules Nationales in the riparian
              countries.



                                                      -29  -

     (d)      The Recipient has established in the CRGP a computerized financial management system in
              form and substance satisfactory to the Bank.
     (e)      The Recipient has approved and furnished the PIP in form and substance satisfactory to the
              Bank.
     (9       The Recipient has appointedthe auditor referredto inSection4.01 (b) o fthe Grant Agreement,
              inaccordance with the provisions of Section I1ofSchedule 3 to the Grant Agreement.

2. Other [classify according to covenant types used in the Legal Agreements.]
     Conditionfor Board: None

     Other (classfy according to covenant types used in the Legal Agreement):
    (a)       OMVS will carry out the Project inaccordance with the requirements o f the PIP.
    (b)       OMVS will maintain the CRGP with staff and resources under the TOR satisfactory to the
              Bank untilProject completion.
    (c)       OMVS, through the CRGP, will maintain a financial management system, including records
              and accounts, and prepare financial statements, in a format acceptable to the Bank, that
              adequately reflect the operations, resources, and expenditures related to the Project.
    (d)       OMVS, through the CRGP, will prepare and furnish to the Bank a FMR, in form and
              substance satisfactory to the Bank.
    (e)       OMVS will be responsible for standard reporting and supervise the achievements o f the
              component indicators.

H. Readiness for Implementation
0 1.a) Theengineeringdesigndocuments forthefirst year'sactivitiesarecompleteandreadyforthestart
         o fproject implementation.
ixI 1.b)Not applicable.

ixI2. Theprocurement documents for the first year's activities are complete andready for the start of
       project implementation.
IXi 3. The Project Implementation Planhas been appraised and found to be realistic and of satisfactory
       quality.
04.Thefollowingitemsarelaclungandarediscussedunderloanconditions (Section G):


I. Compliancewith Bank Policies
IxI 1.Thisproject complies with all applicableBankpolicies.
0 2.ThefollowingexceptionstoBankpoliciesarerecommendedfor approval. Theprojectcomplies with
       all other applicable Bank policies.




Ousmane Dione                             IngerAndersen                            John McIntire
Team Leader                               Sector ManagerlDirector                  Country Manager/Director


                                                     - 30 -

                                       Annex 1: Project Design Summary
           AFRICA: Senegal River Basin Water and Environmental Management Project
                                                                            Data Collection Strategy

                                 Sector Indicators:                         sector/ country reports:

                                                                                SupervisionReports;             Continuedpolitical
                                      Strengthened regionaland                  Mid-termEvaluationReport;       commitment and supportfrom
                                      national capacity for                     GEFPIR;                         all ripariancountries;
                                      sustainable environmental                 ICR.                            Requiredcooperation between
                                      management practices.                                                     regionaland local institutions;
                                                                                                                Continuedpolitical
                                                                                                                commitment and support
                                                                                                                necessaryfor sustainability.
                                      Strengthened regionaland
                                      national capacitywill support
                                      sustainedtransboundary land
                                      and water management
                                      practicesand contributeto
                                      improved environmental
                                      quality.



GEF Operational Program:         Iutcome / Impact
                                 ndicators:
OP-9:                            'romote broad,basin-wide
Integratedland andwater multiple iarticipation in developing and
focus area                       nplementingmeasuresthat will
                                 ?adto sustainable,transboundary
                                 nanagementof the Senegal River
                                 %asin'sland and water resources.




                                 Iutcome I Impact                           'roject reports:
                                                                    ~~    ~~                                 from Objective to Goal)
                                 ndicators:
                                 nplementedby the Bank:                         OMVS preparesan annual          Riparian country governments
Pro'ect Develo ment Ob'ective         Provide tools for strengthened            work plan, monthly narrative    haveagreed on and are
                                      decision-makingcapacity in                reports, semi-annual Project    committedto achieving Project
Providea participatorystrategic       the ripariancountriesand at               ImplementationProgress          developmentobjective;
environmentalframework for the        the regionallevel OMVS,to                 Reports,annual Substantive      Proper institutionaland legal
environmentallysustainable            addresstransboundaryland                  ProjectProgress Reportand       arrangements are established
development of the Senegal River      andwater management                       Work Plans, and reportsto the   betweenthe BanWUNDPand
Basinand to launch a basin-wide       issues,through a defined                  World BanWUNDPas outlined       the ExecutingAgency, and on
cooperative program for               inclusivemechanism;                       in the M&E Plan;                the other hand, the Executing
transboundaryland-water               Improvedata collection and                Collaborativedata collection    Agency and the riparian
management                            data exchangemechanisms                   and data exchangewill be        countries;
                                      establishedin all four                    incorporatedin water            The ripariancountries are
                                      countries, and agreeto                    resourcesmanagementplans;       committedto sustaining
                                      cooperationprotocolsfor                   CompletedTDA and SAP;           Project activitiesand
                                      greater knowledgeof the                   Micrograntsevaluationreports;   implementing lessons learned
                                      Senegal Riverdata and                     Public participationprogram     after the Projectis established
                                      informationand of its relation            infonation literature;          and completed;
                                      to ecologicaland social                   Bank supervision reports;       Project activitiesare
                                      processes;                                Mid-termreport                  coordinatedwith compatible
                                      Completeand adopt the TDA                                                 activitiesin the Basin.
                                      and SAP with identifiedpriority
                                      actionsfor the Basin;



                                                                 -31 -

                                    mplemented by UNDP:
                                       Together with the Bank,
                                       organize and implement
                                       training and workshops for the
                                       River management institutions
                                       to strengthen the nationaland
                                       local institutionalcapacity;
                                       Execute, at least 20
I                                      community-based
                                       microgrant-supported
                                       micro-activitiesto address
                                       community priority actions;
                                       Increase,annually,the
                                       numbers of stakeholders
                                       involvedand trained in local
                                       and transboundarywater
                                       resource management issues:
                                       Increase, annually,the number
                                       of communities informed and
                                       involvestakeholdersin the
                                       public information and public
                                       participation process.




 Output from each                   htput Indicators:                   Project reports:                 From Outputs to Objective)
 Component:




 Component 1                           Guinea's existing water              Quarterly progress reports;     Politicalcommitment and
 Environmental Management              resources legislation reviewed       DraWnewlrnodified               concrete action from Guinea tc
 Capacity Building                     by Working Group in Project         environmental,water              move forward with legal reform
 (WB managed)                          Year 1 (PYl);                        resources,and land use          is necessary to strengthen the
                                       A total of five national             legislation;                    country's legislative capacity;
 1.IDialogueestablishedto              meetings to review and draft         Nationalmeeting reports;        Riparian country governments
 strengthen Guinea'swater              legislationwill be organized in      Regionalmeeting reporton        and institutions are committed
 resources legislationand to           PYI. PY2, and PY3                    harmonizinglegislation.         to cooperate in strengthening
 harmonizewith the other riparian's    respectively;                                                        regionaland national
water resources legislation.           A total of three regional                                            capacities;
                                       workshops to reviewhodify or                                         Support for OMVS augmented
                                       draft environmental,water                                            within the Basin and
                                       resources or land use                                                internationalsupporter
                                       legislation will be organized in                                     continues beyond Project
                                       PYI, PY2, and PY3                                                    completion;
                                       respectively;                                                        Regionalcooperation and
                                       Guinea's draftlnewhodified                                           participation is mutually
                                       environmental,water                                                  beneficial and supported
                                       resources, and land use                                              regionally,nationally,and
                                       legislation proposed by PY3;                                         locally:
                                       At least two Working Group                                           Riparians consent to a
                                       meetings will be held in each                                        strategic approach or
                                       year PY1 and PY2;                                                    mitigation measures to combai
                                       Synthesis Reports will be                                            environmentaldegradation
                                       prepared from regional                                               from invasive species;
                                       workshops.
 1.2Strengthenedregionaland            Increased capacity building         Workshop and seminar             Donors are willing to provide
nationalcapacity to improve            and training at OMVS and in         reports.                         support for the Basin's
managementof the Basin'swater          riparian countries through                                           transboundary priority issues.
and environmentalresources.            participation in five
                                       sector-specific regional



                                                                   - 32 -

                                        workshops between PYI-PY3;
                                       a Institutionaland intra-sectoral
                                        network group established
                                        among regional institutions by
                                         PY3;
                                       a Regionalprocedures and
                                        mechanismson transboundary
                                        issues establishedby PY4.


I.3 An inclusive regional institution  a RegionalStudy Team               a Regional Reports 1-4;
jeveloped and establishedto             established in PYI;               a Study tour guide;
nclude all four riparian countries to  a Four regionalworkshops on          Study tour report.
letter understandthe Basin's            developinginclusive
'esourcemanagement issues and            institutions;
o promotethe use of sustainable        a Preparefour RegionalReports
nanagement practices.                   - Internationalwater law
                                        -- Capacity
                                           Regionallegalanalysis
                                                    buildingan
                                        - internationallaw
                                           Inclusive River Basin
                                           management
                                       a Lessons-learnedstudy tour in
                                        PY2;
                                       a By PY4 the four riparian
                                        countries agree on a
                                        cooperativeapproach to
                                         managing the Basin's
                                         resources.


I.4 Strengthenedmanagement             a CRGP office establishedand       a Project progress report;
xpacity of the OMVS to improve           operational by Project Month 3     CRGP staff contracts;
nanagement of the Basin's water          (PM3);
md environmentalresources.             a Supporting infrastructure        a OMVS Training reports.

                                         (vehicles, communications)
                                         procured in PM6;
                                       a Financial, administrative,and
                                         procurementtraining
                                        completed by PY2;
                                       a OMVS consistently meets
                                         Project implementation
                                         schedule deadlines.


1.5Organizedand executed Africa        a Plan Regional FONm in PY1;         Lessons-Learned Forum
3egional Forum providinga              a Regional Forum will take place     package;
nechanism for cooperating and            in PY2;                            Africa Regional Forum report.
:ollaborating with other projects in   a Collaborateand exchangeof
he Basin and other projects inthe       sustainable best management
Nest Africa region.                      practices.
1.6 Increasedtechnical capacity        a Assessment of invasive             Invasive species assessment
and knowledge baseto address             species completed in PY3;          report.
nvasive species problem.               a Dissemination of solutions
                                         completed in PY3.
1.7Organizedand executed a             a Donor conferencetakes place      a Donor conference package;
lonor conferenceto support related       by PY4.                            Donor conference report.
xiority issues not supported in this
'roject.




                                                                    - 33 -

                            -- -
                              ives                                                                       Critical Assumptions
aroject ComponentsI                Inputs: (budget for each          'roject reports:                  FromComponentsto
Sub-components:                    Zomponent)                                                           1utputs)
2omponent 2
lata and Knowledge
Vlanagement (WE managed)

!.Icompatibleinformation
    A                                 Existing conditions                Quarterly progress reports;       Political willingness for
ietwork established in Guinea         assessment and current statu:      Guinea's Water and State of       implementingtools and
rovides a platform for further        of data and the state of water     the Environmentexisting           mechanisms aimed at
:ooperation and collaboration on      resourcesand environment in        conditions report;                implementing a sustainable
echnical issues with the other        Guinea completed in PYI;           Five specific area-studies        environmental monitoring
iparian countries.                    Five specific studies:             reports:                          system on the River basin;
                                      -Resources and uses,               Inter-governmentregulatory        Effective collaboration of all
                                      -Modeling rainfall/flows,          agreement betweenOMVS
                                      -Early warning system on the                                         partners.
                                                                         and Guinea;
                                      upper basin,                       Laboratoryand monitoring
                                      -Brush and bush fire impact,
                                      and                                equipment training manuals.

                                      -Study of actions to be
                                      implementedon upper Bafing
                                      are completed beforeend of
                                      PY2;
                                      Guineanwater data network
                                      set up and operationalbefore
                                      PY3;
                                      Specific laboratoryanalysis
                                      and water monitoring
                                      equipmentfor procured and
                                      operationalbeforeend of PY3;
                                      Monitoringequipment training
                                      completed in PY3;
                                      Financial mechanisms for
                                      sustainable, post-Project
                                      operationsare established
                                      before end of PY4.

!.2 Establishedsustainable            Six regionaltraining courses       Training manual;
ransboundary data exchange and        on monitoringactivities            Quarterly Report on Network
:nowledge managementframework         implementedbefore end of           Activities and Progress;
or cooperationand collaboration       PY3;                               Balanced budget for
imong the four riparian countries.    Cooperativetechnical,              post-Project implementation;
                                      framework between OMVS             Monthly newsletter.
                                      and Guinea agreed on and
                                      validated beforeend of PY3;
                                       Data exchangesnetwork and
                                      cooperationnetwork in place
                                      and operationalbefore end of
                                      PY4;
                                      Communicationtools (Internet
                                      web sites, newsletter,
                                      broadcast)operational before
                                      end of PY4;
                                      Newslettereffective by PM9.

!.3 Equipment upgrade to OMVS         Technical equipment upgrade        OMVS technical staff
                                      to expand the capacityof the       complete quarterly progress
                                      OMVS technical specialists         reports.
                                      procured by PY3.
:omponent 3 TDA and SAP
WB managed)

1.1. A TDA is formulated, prepared    TDNSAP Working Group               Quarterly progress reports;       Agreement among the Basin
itthe nationallevel, finalized        formed in PM3;                     Preliminary issues- report on     stakeholders on the Working



                                                                - 34 -

dentifying priority water and         a Diagnosticterms of reference         criticaltransboundary             Groups to address the TDA
?nvironmentalissues in the Basin,       (TOR) and methodology                problems;                         and SAP;
and then approved by the Council c      prepared PM3;                      a Minutes of TORS and TDA         a Agreement among
vlinisters for further action.        a Organizationsto be associated       methodology approval;             stakeholders on the SAP
                                        in the process working on the      a Draft Thematic Studies            priorityaxes:
                                        TDA are trained by end of            Report;                         a Agreement among
                                        PM6;                               a Draft TDA report;                stakeholders on SAP
                                      a Regionaland national                 Expert review of draft TDA;       preparationmethodology.
                                        workshops take place in PYI;         Final TDA report;
                                        Critical issues and root causes    a TDA Memorandum of
                                        in the Basin,and the baselilne       Understanding(MOU).
                                        existing conditions identified
                                        and agreedon by PY1 under
                                        projects currently funded by
                                        IDA and other sources;
                                      a Transboundary sites identified
                                        PYI;
                                      a Thematic studies carried out
                                        PY1
                                        Thematic studies validated,
                                        and summary report is
                                        prepared by PM18;
                                      a TDA reviewed by experts by
                                        end of PY2;
                                      a TDA adopted and approved by
                                        end of PY2.

3.2. From the TDA findings, an        a Assessment of existing local       a Local and NationalWorkshop
SAP is formulated to include local,     coordinationcommittees and          findings report;
rational, and regional participants,    identificationof additional         SAP preparationworkshop
ind is preparedand reviewed by the      CLCs no later than PM7;              reports;
:ouncil of Ministers, establishing a  a Local CLC workshops                a SAP document;
)Ianof action for improved              commence in PM8;
nanagementof the Basin's              a Nationalworkshops, reviewing       a MOU on SAP Driorities.

ransboundary water and                  SAP main priorities, actions,
?nvironmentalresources.                 and interventionscommence
                                        in PM9;
                                      a Four SAP workshops
                                        conducted in PY2&3;
                                      a Consultation mechanisms for
                                        SAP specified and
                                        implemented in PY2&3;
                                      a SAP completed by the end of
                                        PY3;
                                      a SAP approved and published
                                        by PY4.
Zomponent 4
vlicrogrants
'rogram-Priority          Actions
'UNDP managed)

:oncurrent to the TDNSAP
rocess, the national prioritieswill   a Administrative actions             a Quarterly progress reports;       Local communities express

)e identifiedand the                    necessary to disburse              a National PriorityActions Plan:    interest in and support

:ommunity-basedMicrogrants              micrograntstake place in PYI;        Micrograntapplication and         implementing priorityactions;

'rogram will commence to both         a From TDNSAP a baseline for          compliancewith Environmenk         NGOs, women's groups, and

iducate and inform communities on       national microgrant supported        ManagementFrameworkfor            communities interestedand

ansboundary water and                   interventionsactivity priority      each applicant;                    active in applyingfor and

nvironmental issuesand also to         goals and activities defined;         Progress Reports on               implementing microgrant

itroduce best management              a Community groups,                   microgrant application,            activities.
ractices to address                     nongovernmental                      implementationsuccess, and

:ommunity-basedprioritiesto             organizations (NGOs), and           expenditures.
nprove local resource                  women's groups identified for
                                        participation;
nanagement,                             Educationand information,
                                       through a promotional
                                       campaign, on microgrants
                                       conducted in PY1 and PY2;


                                                                     - 35 -

                                       MicrograntProgram
                                      establishedin the four riparian
                                      countries in PY2;
                                      At least 30% increasefrom
                                       baselineby PY2, applicants
                                      commence microgrant
                                      activities that:
                                      -Address priority needsof the
                                      targeted community
                                      -Substantiate socio-economic
                                      benefits
                                      -Provide environmental
                                      benefits
                                      -Complywith safeguards
                                      outlined in the Project's
                                      EnvironmentalManagement
                                      Frameworkand Operational
                                      Manual
                                      At least 60% increase from
                                      baseline by PY3,applicants
                                      commence microgrant
                                      activities;
                                      100%increasefrom baseline
                                      by PY4,applicantscommence
                                      pilot activities.

:omponent 5                           Tools and materialsfor              Quarterly progress reports;
JublicParticipation                   national multi-mediacampaign        Multi-mediamonitoring          Multi-media communications
Jrogram                               preparedin PYI;                     progress report;               communityinvolvedwith
(UNDP managed)                        Multi-mediacampaignactive           Yearly NGO progress report.    adaptabletools;
                                      from PYI-PY4;                                                      Target groups and
                                      The nationalnetworksand
i.1 Enhancedthe understanding of                                                                         communitiesagree on and
                                      targeted groups identified in
he Basin's transboundarywater                                                                            apply key principles;
                                      PYI;
ind environmentalissuesthrough a                                                                         Universitiesand research

egional and local public information  Thematic issues and                                                institution (RI)are involved anc
                                      disseminationtoolsfor local
ind awareness program.                community awareness                                                agree on the process.

                                      preparedand made available
                                      in PYI;
                                      Establisha monitoring group
                                      to assess progress and
                                      lessonslearned;
                                      10%cumulative increase of
                                      priority communities in priority
                                      areas are targeted.


i.2 Engagedthe Basin's                Increasedcommunity                  Decision-makersand
ommunitiesand provided                awarenessand public                 community-basedworkshop
lpportunitiesfor civil society        participationeffective through      manuals.
)articipationto understandthe         local communityworkshops;
jsues affecting them and involved     5% increaseof key people
hem in the communitydevelopment       trainedyearly;
rocess to strengthen the local        Providetools through
apacity.                              communityworkshops for
                                      participatory decision-making;
                                      Multi-mediacommunication
                                      and information materialfor
                                      localcommunitiestranslated
                                      and disseminated.

i.3 Provided, for the scientific      Basin-wide WorkingGroup             RIand universities selection
ommunity,a forum for cooperating      includes eight research             proceeding report;
ind collaboratingon sharing           institutions and universities       Basin-wide Conference
schnical information; and continued   identified for collaboration;       Report;
!xchangeof education programs         Basin-wide conference for the       Joint module courses
elatedto the Basin'stransboundary     scientific community held in        developed.
                                      PY2;


                                                                   - 36 -

SUeS                               Water andenvironmental
                                   transboundaryissuesmodule
                                   courses prepared.
Zomponent 1                                                     Supervision Reports;          (From Componentsto
invironmental Management                   US$m 2.70            Mid-termEvaluationReport;              Outputs)
Zapacity Building (WB)                                          GEF PIR;
 1.I Dialogueon                                 150,000         ICR.
?gislation-Guineaspecific                                                                 ,participatorystrategic
 1.2 Regionalcapacity building                 410,000                                     nvironmentalframework for the
 1.3 Developmentof an inclusive                                                            nvironmentally sustainable
istitution                                      150,000                                    evelopment of the Senegal River
 1.4 Project managementand                                                                lasin is achieved and a basin-wide
trengtheningof OMVS                           1,678,800                                   ooperative programfor
 1.5Africa RegionalForum                        100,000                                   ansboundaryland-water
 1.6 Technicalcapacity building-                150,000                                   ianagement is initiated.
ivasive species management                      57,000
 1.7 Donors Conference

:omponent 2                                US$m 1.52
lata and Knowledge
Aanagement (WB)
 2.1 InformationNetwork-Guinea                 672,000
rogram
 2.2 Transboundarydata and                     668,000
nowledge management
2.3 Upgrade Equipmentfor OMVS                   180,000

Zomponent3 TDA and SAP                     US$m 1.04
WB)
 3.1 TDA                                       280,000

 3.2 SAP                                        760,000

:omponent 4                                US$m 1.66
Aicrogrants
'rogram-Priority Actions
UNDP)
Zomponent 5                                US$m 0.33
'ublic Participation
'rogram (UNDP)
 5.1 Publicinformationand                       1SO, 000
wareness
5.2 Civilsociety participation                 120,000
 5.3 Scientificcommunity                         50,000
ivolvement

                            TOTAL          US$m 7.25




                                                         - 37 -

                               Annex 2: Detailed Project Description
         AFRICA: Senegal River Basin Water and Environmental Management Project

1. Introduction

1. The Senegal River Basin Water and Environmental Management Project is valuable to the Basin
because it specifically complements and builds on activities and projects already under implementation at
the national and sub-basin level. By adding a transboundary element to those projects, the Project expands
and captures additional benefits for the people and their shared environment, and will lead to improved
coordination o f water and environmental management in the Basin as a whole. Designed to improve the
basin management capacity o f the OMVS and to strengthen national capacities to address transboundary
water and environment management issues, the Project will also strengthen local capacity through: (i)a
public awareness and participation program; and (ii)engagement in community-based microgrants
activities intended to improve resource management. Most importantly, the Project provides a framework
for including Guinea, the upstream riparian, as a full participant in the decision-making process and
management o f the Basin's land and water resources.

2. Project Description

2. The Project's primary objective, in addressing the priority concems in the Basin, is to provide a
participatory strategic environmental framework for the environmentally sustainable development o f the
Senegal River Basin and to launch a basin-wide cooperative program for transboundary land-water
management. To successfblly achieve the development objective, the Project proposes to strengthen
national and regional institutional capacity to enable institutions to address the priority basin-wide,
transboundary water, and environment management issues. The Project will:

0    Enhance regional and national capacity to deal with transboundary issues at national and basin-wide
     levels;
0    Improve the process and procedures o f sharing data and information to increase the knowledge base;
     Ensure greater involvement o f Guinea injoint management and decision-makmg inthe Basin;
0    Support sound environmental management and the llnkage to sustainable livelhoods;
0    Promote a common and agreed on analysis to provide a firm basis for environmental management and
     monitoring; and
0    Strengthen civil society participation in transboundary basin-wide activities and the associated
     awareness and outreach to communities and NGOs to tap their resources and ensure their involvement
     inthe decision-mahng elements ofmanagingthe Basin's resources.

3. The Project has five components identified below and detailed inAnnex 2 Section B:

0    Component 1:Environmental Management Capacity Building;
0    Component 2: Data and Knowledge Management;
0    Component 3: Transboundary Diagnostic Analysis (TDA) and Strategic Action Plan (SAP);
0    Component 4: Microgrants-Priority     Actions; and
0    Component 5: Public Participation Program.

4. The World Bank and UNDP will jointly manage the four-year GEF Project. The OMVS is the Project's
executing agency. The CRGP will be based at the OMVS H.C. and as part o f the OMVS, contribute to
implementingthe Project together with the National Cellules.



                                                   - 38 -

5. A summary o f the Project components and activities is provided in Table 1, and a summary o f the
Project costs in Table 2. A detailed description o f the components follows the tables below, and detailed
costs for Bank managed components are provided inAppendix A to this Annex.

                            Table 1. Summary of Component and Activities

Component 1:Environmental Management Capacity Building (Bank managed)

1.1Dialogue on legislation-Guinea      specific
    Activities
    1. Review Guinea's water and environmental legislation.
    2. Facilitate a dialogue among Guinea and the OMVS member countries on their national legislations
         andpolicies.
    3. Reform and strengthen the legal basis for water and environmental management inGuinea.
1.2 Regional capacity building
    Activities
    1. CCN to identify training needs as well as workshop candidates.
    2. Hold regional workshops for selected organizations on the subjects identified above or through
        Activity 1.
1.3 Development of an inclusive institution
    Activities
     1. Build regional capacities for an inclusive institution to engage all four ripanan countries in the
         management of Basinresources.
    2. Assess lessons learned andbest practices from other intemational river basins.
1.4 Project management and strengthening OMVS
    Activities
     1. Establish the CRGP office as an integral part o f OMVS.
    2. Support Project implementation at the national level.
    3. Establish Guinea's National Cellule and CNC.
1.5 Africa Regional Forum
    Activities
     1. Hold the first Consultative Forum, bringing together GEF projects and other similar project in
         West Africa to exchange best practices and share experiences.
1.6 Technical capacity building-invasive    species management
    Activities
     1. Assess the relevant studies and identifymost effective restoration or management methods.
    2. Evaluate the financial and technical means necessary to complete actions with success.
    3.   Disseminate the solutions and prepare the implementation at the sub-basin scale.
1.7 Donor conference
    Activities
     1. OMVS to finalize the Project investmentproposal preparation.
    2. Translate, print, and disseminate proposals.
    3. Holdthe Donor Conference, invitinginterested donors to participate.

Component 2: Data and Knowledge Management (Bank managed)

2.1 Information network-Guinea       program
     Activities


                                                    - 39 -

    1. Assessment o f the current situation.
    2. Knowledge improvement-specific.
    3.   Design and implementation o f the Guinean data network.
    4. Implementation of sampling and analysis network.
2.2 Transboundarydata andknowledgemanagement
    Activities
    1. Regional training courses.
    2. Workshop on data exchanges.
    3. Workshop on scientific cooperation networks.
    4. Development o f communications tools.
2.3 UpgradeEquipmentfor OMVS
    Activities
    1. Procurement o f technical equipment upgrade to expand the capacity o f the OMVS data collection
         network.

Component3: TDA and SAP (Bankmanaged)

3.1 TDA
    Activities
    1. Formulate transboundary diagnosis
         a. Strengthen the multidisciplinary team and establish the transboundary diagnosis preparation
             program.
         b. Consult with national technical and academic entities to be involved inthe process.
    2. Prepare transboundary diagnosis
         a. Determine international expertise required for the preparation o f the transboundary diagnosis.
         b. Validate analysis and publishfindings.
3.2 SAP
    Activities
    1. Evaluate institutional structures and creation o f additional structures and consultation for the SAP
         a. Evaluate and strengthennational and local structures for consultation.
         b. Definethe mainconstituent components o fthe SAP.
    2. Prepare the SAP
         a. Elaborate the SAP.
         b. Finalize and validate the SAP.

Component4: MicrograntProgram-Priority Actions (UNDPmanaged)
Activities
    1. Establish institutional arrangements for the Microgrant Program
    2. ImplementNational Microgrant Priority Action Programs
    3. Monitoringpilot activity implementation

Component5: PublicParticipationProgram(UNDP managed)

5.1 Publicinformationand awareness
    Activities
    1. Prepare national media campaigns.
    2. Create awarenessinlocal communities.
    3.   Create regional feedback forum for awareness orientation and monitoring.



                                                   - 4 0 -

5.2 Civil society participation
    Activities
     1. Sensitize national and regional decision-makers to participatory planningmethods.
    2. Regional, national and local training for inclusive decision-malung.
     3. Promote public participation to develop new tools to manage socially sensitive and ecologically and
         economically important issues.
    4. Holda regional workshop to review the national workshops' outcomes.
     5. Disseminate (in the appropriate languages) the regional workshop's findings to the local
         communities, practitioners, and researchers.
5.3 Scientific community involvement
    Activities
     1. Identify academic institutions to participate inthe scientific community program.
    2. Determine the guidelines for the exchange program and select participating institutions and
         individuals.
    3. Implement the exchange program among academic institutions within the Senegal River Basin.
    4. Host a regional conference on transboundary issues inthe Senegal RiverBasin.




By Component:

Project Component 1 Environmental Management Capacity Building
Component managed by the World Bank
GEF: USm $2.70; Co-Financing US$m 2.66; Component Total:        - US$5.36 million

6. This component will reinforce the capacity ofinstitutions at the regional andnational levels to coherently
manage the Senegal River Basin's resources, to create awareness and build capacity in the individual
institutions, and to then link them together in a basin-wide network. Focus will be placed on incorporating
Guinea as a full participant in the decision-malung process. The component will build on the institutional
elements o f basin-wide work being carried out under the French-supported Regional Hydropower Project,
the PASIEprogram and other compatible projects inthe Basin.

Subcomponent 1.1Dialogue on legislation-Guinea          specific
GEF:US$m 0.15

7. This subcomponent will facilitate Guinea's dialogue in the Basin at two levels; first, within Guinea on
the national level, among the relevant ministries, regarding legislation and policies being prepared for its
water and environmental resources; and second, at the regional level, with the other riparian countries of
the Senegal Basin, andthe OMVS H.C.



                                                    -41 -

8. A forum where issues relating to transboundary resource management at the national and regional level
will be established. This forum will be at the national level, inthe capacity o f a GuineanWorkmg Group to
promote and coordinate a dialogue among the ministries involved in or affected by Senegal River Basin
management. Participants would include the MinistBre de 1'Hydraulique et de 1'Energie (MHE); the
MinistBre des Mines, GBologie et Environnement (MMGE); the Ministire des Finances, de 1'Economie et
du Plan (MFEP); and the Secrkfariat d'Efat a la CoopBration (SEC) in the Ministry o f Foreign Affairs.
Once established, national, regional, and international consultants will provide guidance and support to the
Guinean Working Group as needed. Under the MHE's Director o f Hydraulics' supervision, Guinea's CCN
will manage this subcomponent's implementation, with assistance from OMVS through the CRGP office.

9. The component activities will: (i) Guinea's water and environmental legislation; (ii)
                                        review                                                       facilitate a
dialogue among Guinea and the OMVS member countries on their national legislations andpolicies through
workshops and consultations; and (iii)reform and strengthen Guinea's legal foundation for water and
environmental management.

Subcomponent 1.2 Regionalcapacity building
GEF:US$m0.41

I O . This subcomponent will facilitate greater awareness o f issues relating to transboundary resources, and
build capacity in the institutions responsible for managing these resources at the regional and national
levels. The subcomponent activities will assist in improving decision-making through better regional
collaboration and communication by: (i)     establishing linkages among ministries within countries and their
counterparts in other Basin countries, as well as among regional institutions; and (ii)   strengthening regional
and national networks and their capacity. At the national level, a dialogue on transboundary resource issues
will be encouraged to go beyond the water and environment ministries to include a broader network o f other
sector-specific institutions. The focus o f this effort is on relevant national ministries and the OMVS, more
specifically:

0     At the regional level. The OMVS H.C., together with the CRP, will form a network at the regional
      level, with support from the the EIP, and guidance from the Senegal CPBFS. The network will include
      relevant stakeholder institutions, ministries, and regional institutions, and the CRP will propose and
      develop a capacity buildingprogramto include training workshops and awarenessbuildingon regional
      transboundary landand water management issues.

      At the national level. Under the advice o f the OMVS National Cellules' Technical Advisors, and as
      directed by the CRP, the CCNs will identify training needs as well as workshops to include the
      participation o f broader, relevant ministries and other relevant parties, including academia and the
      NGO sector.

11.The overall goal, of both the regional and national workshops, is to create linkages within and among
the four countries to ensure a broader appreciation o f the interdependence o f the sectors and countries inthe
context o f the shared water resource. The subjects will include but not be limited to: (i)       multi-thematic
issues related to integrated water resource management practices-experiences and applications in data
management and best practice; (ii)    lessons leamed regarding international water law, public participation
and involvement, and conflict management and resolution in intemational river basins; and (iii)
environmental issues pertaining to biodiversity hotspots and environmental management in a regional
setting, as well as environmental impact assessments and social safeguards.



                                                      -42   -

Subcomponent 1.3 Developmentof an inclusiveinstitution
GEF: US%m0.15

12. This subcomponent aims to enhance capacities in the riparian countries in understanding the
hndamentals o f intemational water law. By studying international water law principles, the four countries
will gain a broader appreciation o fthe requiredtechnical and legal buildingblocks, which can eventually be
reflected inan inclusive and cooperative Senegal River Basin institution.

13. A Regional Study Team composed o f legal and water resources experts from each country will be
established for this subcomponent. The Regional Study Team will include two members (a lawyer and a
water resources specialist) from each country and members o f the OMVS. While this activity does not
constitute a formal process for developing an agreement, per se, it is nevertheless important for
coordination purposes that the legal member o f the Regional Study Team is appointed inclose consultation
with the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, or the national authority that normally would be responsible for
international legal discussions.

14. Short-term consultants will be hired to produce a series o f regional reports on agreed topics. These
reports will be produced by a combined group o f national or regional experts and consultants. Intemational
consultants will be used to contribute the specialized skills such as intemational water law and arbitration
and dispute settlement, which will be required for the regional reports. The Regional Study Team will
attend four workshops to review and-with       guidance from international experts-discuss these regional
reports and their relevance to the design and agreement o f an inclusive Senegal River Basin framework.
The Regional Study Team will also participate in a study tour for the exchange o f lessons leamed on legal
and institutional best management practices insimilar river basins inthe region.

15. Through the Regional Study Team, the subcomponent activities will:        (1)build, through training and
workshops, the regional capacities necessary for an inclusive institution regarding international water law
within the Basin; (ii) lessons leamed and best practices from other international river basins; (iii)
                       assess
analyze and gain broader appreciation o f the OMVS' responsibilities regarding legal decisions; and (iv)
build capacity to establish a legal framework on the inclusive management o fthe Senegal River Basin.

Subcomponent 1.4 Projectmanagementand strengthening
GEF:US$m1.68

16.The subcomponent activities will augment the regional and national institutional capacity inthe Senegal
River Basin to manage and implement regional projects, and strengthen the institutional ability to manage
the Basin's resources in a sustainable manner. The subcomponent activities, through training and capacity
building workshops, will support regional and national Project management. Specifically this
subcomponent supports operationalizing Project management within the OMVS.The Project's institutional
arrangements and management responsibilities are detailed inAnnex 13.

17. At the regional level, the CRGP office will be established in the OMVS H.C. and will be responsible
for assisting OMVS in supervising Project management and implementation. The OMVS will appoint the
CI2P to supervise and manage Project implementation. The OMVS staff is familiar with Bank procedures,
and h d s for additional procurement training have been allocated to strengthen CRGP's procurement
capacity. The Project will fimd the administrative and financiaUprocurement assistant and the four regional
technical experts to support the CRGP office.

18.At the national level, the Project will draw on expertise from existing structures including the OMVS


                                                   -43 -

National Cellules, PASIE's National Coordination Committees (CNC), and the National Coordinators o f
the National Project Planning Committees (NPPC). A National Cellule and CNC will be established in
Guinea. The Guinea CNC will draw on the already established NPPC. For each National Cellule the
Project will support a CCN and a national EIP, to oversee Project implementation at the national levels.

Subcomponent1.5 Africa RegionalForum
GEF: US$m0.10

19.This subcomponent will facilitate the exchange of lessons leamed and basin management best practices
inregional projects inSub-Saharan A h a through preparation ofa one-week Regional Forum. A Worlung
Group will draw together lessons from other GEF intemational waters projects in Africa (and other
projects in the region), prepare the Forum's agenda, and arrange for papers to be presented along priority
themes. With guidance from the two GEF Implementing Agencies and support from the EIP, the CRP will
organize the First Africa Regional Forum, which will be hosted in Dakar by the OMVS H.C. It is hoped
that other comparable GEF projects will continue this process to continue the exchange o f lessons and
expand the regional and national networks. The Forum will serve to encourage the establishment o f llnks to
other regional projects andnetworks.

Subcomponent 1.6 Technicalcapacitybuilding-invasive species management
GEF: US$m0.15

20. Impacts from invasive species include introduction o f waterbome disease, impacts on water quality and
water availability, and loss in ecosystem biodiversity. Typha australis introduced into the Basin lacks the
predators or diseases that restrict populations in its native habitat, and it has become invasive and
out-competes native plants. Past initiatives primarily have targeted its utilization and have rarely gone
beyond pilot efforts. This subcomponent will: (i)      take stock o f knowledge available from the research
undertaken over the last 10 years regarding Typha australis management; (ii)       assess and define possible
interventions for targeted areas; and (iii) disseminate this knowledge to arrive at a better understanding in
addressing the problem. The Technical Advisors incharge o f coordinating the OMVS National Cellule will
work with t e c h c a l staff and communities inthe assessment and evaluation process.

Subcomponent1.7 Donors Conference
GEF: US$m 0.057

21. Under the management o f the OMVS H.C., with advice from the two GEF Implementing Agencies, the
CRP will organize a donor's conference to be hosted by the OMVS H.C. in Dakar in the fourth project
year. The Donors Conference will provide a forum for the riparian countries and OMVS to establish a
dialogue on the ways and means o f addressing the Basin's critical challenges identified through the
TDNSAP process. Draft proposals for investment opportunities will be prepared by OMVS in close
cooperation with the four Senegal riparian countries. Actions to take on the critical challenges are
anticipated to be implemented under a future multi-year action program. This subcomponent supports
recent developments in the last two years and the newly adopted Water Charter, which provides a legal
framework for basin-wide water resources management, and contributes to meeting the Millennium
Development Goals and those o f the New Partnership for Afnca's Development (NEPAD). This initiative,
together with Project successes, will provide the incentive for future investment inthe Basin.




                                                     - 44 -

Project Component 2 Data and Knowledge Management
Component managed by the World Bank
GEF: US$m 1.52; Co-Financing US$m 3.28; component Total: US$4.80 million
                                                               -

22. This component's objective is to create conditions that will enable the riparians to build a robust
partnership for the management o f water and environment data, thus contributing to enhanced knowledge o f
the Basin. The limited or intermittent environmental monitoring throughout the Basin-particularly      inthe
upper reaches-contributes to ineffective management. In addition, geomorphologic processes and
associated changes in flow rates have not beenadequately taken into consideration.

23. Some initial actions have been taken. OMVS has already begunapplying remedial measures within the
context o f the Regional Hydropower Project and its associated PASIE program. The Water Charter has
been approved, some preliminary hydrological studies have been initiated, and the OMVS Environmental
Observatory has been established. However, these measures will not be sufficient if a reliable system for
the management of the Basin's water resources and environment is not put inplace. Such a system would
include hydrological forecast tools, possible use o f remote sensing, elements o f traditional and
contemporary cartographic methods, and the monitoring o f key information o f the landscape and
hydrodynamic processes. The mere collection o f raw data, however, will not be sufficient to solve the
Basin's problems. I t will be essential to improve data exchanges and to set up exchange procedures and
protocols so the data is compatible, processed, and published in a manner that a mutual understanding
exists among all the participants. The data and information will be used to establish a foundation to
understand the processes occurring inthe River and floodplain.

Subcomponent 2.1 Informationnetwork-Guinea program
GEF:US$m 0.67

24. This activity intends to assist Guinea in participating in the OMVS Environmental Observatory. For
this purpose, the subcomponent focuses on replicating in Guinea those activities that were launched by
OMVS under its PASIE program, with assistance and guidance from international and national
consultants. These activities include: (i)assessing the current status o f water resources and environmental
data; (ii)implementing specific studies to better understand the Basin's environment; (iii)    designing and
implementing a sustainable Guinean water and environment monitoring data network that is compatible
with OMVS data and networks; and (iv) installingand calibrating sampling networks for water quality and
quantity, hydrometeorology, and environmental data.

Subcomponent 2.2 Transboundary data and knowledgemanagement
GEF:US$m 0.67

25. The subcomponent aims to strengthen the partnership between OMVS and Guinea by establishing a
series o f technical and institutional measures needed to ensure sustainable data exchanges among the
riparian countries inthe Senegal River Basin. It is also intended to use the data and information to establish
a foundation for understanding the processes occurring in the Senegal River and floodplain. I t will
implement joint training and capacity development initiatives.

26. The subcomponent is based on the results o ftwo studies carried out underthe PASIE program, which
providedbaseline data and supplemental information on monitoring systems that exist withinthe entire
Basin:



                                                    -45-

     Study I:A background study on indicators and areas targeted inthe initial phase o fthe Environmental
     Observatory, for the monitoring o f positive and negative changes over space and time in the
     ecosystems o f the Senegal River; and
e    Study 2: An evaluation o f existing systems for the monitoring of indicators and areas targeted in the
     initial phase o f the Environmental Observatory, with a view to providing a diagnosis o f such systems
      andproposing a general framework for the creation o f a network o f monitoring systems.

27. The Environmental Observatory o f OMVS will be the pilot for this activity. Withinthe framework o f
the Project and inclose collaboration with the Environmental Observatory, together with assistance and
guidance from international and national experts the component activities will:

e    Assess the status o f harmonized and calibrated information and data networks o f OMVS member
      countries;
e    Organize, prepare, and implement regional training courses on monitoring activities; assess data
     exchanges and their implications; develop cooperative and collaborative networks among universities
      and research centers for a unified approach between Guinea and OMVS; and identify data exchange
     needs, methodologies, and the means to do this;
e     Develop communication tools for presenting information on the status o f the Basin's water resources,
      levels inreservoirs, flow rates, environmental data, and so on; and
e     Prepare, package, and make available shareable data, in various formats, from the riparian countries
      to management institutions throughout the Basin and the public.

28 A virtual information center will make all relevant information pertaining to the Basin available and
accessible through a web site. This web site will provide information-currently available from a variety o f
sources, which the Environmental Observatory will compile. An information dissemination program
intends to improve and enhance communication among OMVS structures, the technical departments o f the
respective countries, and actors in the Basin, using more traditional means o f communication to reach in
particular village populations without access to modem communications.

Subcomponent2.3 UpgradeEquipmentfor OMVS
GEF: US$m0.18

29. The O M S technical specialists willbe actively enaged inproject implementation requiringan upgrade
o f their hydrologic and data collectiodanalysis system. Ths system will be harmonizedbasin-wide.

Project Component 3 TDA and SAP
Component managed by the World Bank
GEF: USm$l.04;Component Total: US$ 1.04 million
                                      -
30. In conformity with GEF procedures and recommendations, this component addresses transboundary
water and environmental management issues in the Senegal River Basin, and completes an in-depth
identification and analysis o f environmental problems and issues throughout the Basin and their lmkages
with transboundary dynamics. The sources o f the problems, their impacts on the natural and human
environments, as well as their root causes will be assessed to highlight the most affected areas inthe Basin
and the transboundary priorities that needto be addressed as a result.




                                                     -46-

Subcomponent 3.1 TDA
GEF:US$m0.28

31. A preliminary TEA carried out under the PDF-B Project in the four riparian countries provided a
baseline on key environmental priorities in each country of the Senegal River Basin and a matrix
summarizing environmental issues in the four riparian countries, included in Annex 11. To expand the
understanding o f these issues, a TDA is necessary to more clearly define major transboundary
environmental issues, discem evolving trends, and elaborate the priority actions and strategy to address
them. The TDA will be carried out using an iterative process involving the various scientific communities
as well as technical entities in the Basin to analyze the environmental transboundary issues in the Basin.
The TDA will address a variety o fparameters and aspects of the Basin to include but not be limited to the
following:

0   Examine existing conditions and management, including the flow regime, land and water ecosystems,
    and current management practices;
0   Identifyand analyze the Basin's transboundary issues, including the flow regime management, ground
    and surface water uses, water quality issues ranging from siltation to transport o f waterborne diseases,
    desertification, land and water degradation from soil erosion, overgrazing, and deforestation;
0   Propose options to address these issues and identify linkages to relevant ongoing projects in the Basin
    such as the Regional Health Sector Project in Mauritania, the Integrated Health Sector Development
    Project and the Endemic Disease Control Project inSenegal; and
0   Coordinate with current projects and address any related socio-economic and land-use issues from
    changes inthe flow regime, impacts from existing infrastructure, impacts on environmental health, and
    links to coastal and delta interactions below the Diama dam.

32. The TDA will extend the participatory approach begun during the TEA process, engaging a broader
network o f national and local stakeholders. To acheve this at the local level, the network o f CLCs
established under the PASIE program will expand, almost doubling the number o f CLCs in the Basin, to
Guinea and other regions o f the Basin. The CLCs will be on the ground to work with the rural communities
inthe TDA information gathering process, contributing to the SAP, and engaging the communities inthe
Microgrant Program.

33. The TDA will also include a transboundary institutional analysis to assess the capacities o f existing
institutions and the capacity strengthening activities required to make these institutions operationally more
effective.

Subcomponent3.2 SAP
GEF:US$m0.76

34. The SAP will be the foundation for a Basin management document that will: (i) and prioritize
                                                                                         define
crucial issues and priority actions in the Basin; and (ii) identify a work plan and investment schedule to
address these priority actions . The SAP will be prepared according to criteria in conformity with GEF
expectations, to include the following:

0     A clear definitiono fnational and transboundarypriorities based on TDA outcomes;
0     A concise summary o fthe identifiedthreats and their root causes;
0     A description o f public perceptions o f environmental threats at the basin-wide level, and the related
      transboundary management issues;
0     A priority ranlung o fnational and transboundary actions according to the recommendations;


                                                     -47 -

      Identification and definition o f priority actions; and
0     Identification o f additional reforms necessary to facilitate SAP implementation.

35. Buildingon the institutional arrangements already defined under the TDA, the SAP will also utilize the
institutional structures existing within the PASIE program. The CNC will thus serve in a consultative role
at the national level, the CLCs will serve the same purpose at the local level, and, at the regional level, the
CPBFS and the Inter-Ministerial Council will be responsible for the validation o f the activities to be
conducted at the local and national levels.

36. Both the TDA and SAP will serve as critical documents to facilitate transparent and sustainable Basin
management, introduce relevant environmental protection policies, provide opportunities for innovative
community-based activities, and improve community livelhoods through small microgrant investments
while providing mechanisms for improved resource management. The SAP document will be the basis for
providing guidance to address priority issues in the Basin. It will provide national level decision-makers
with a foundation for addressing national concems and, on the local level, it will initially be used as a
framework for information and education on responsible land and water utilization and management.
Through the Microgrant Program, it will provide communities with opportunities to participate and engage
inaddressing priority actions throughresponsible resource management.

Project Component 4 Microgrants Program-Priority          Actions
Component managed by UNDP
GEF: US$m 1.66; Co-Financing US$m 8.01; Total:        - US$9.67 million

37. The Microgrant Program will focus on the Basin's priority issues, identified in the four National
Microgrant Program Priority Actions Plans, and provide opportunities for sustainable development and
economic opportunities through the implementation o f small-scale microgrant-supported community-based
interventions (micro-activities). Inherent in the Program are community driven development principles
emphasizing the strengthening o f regional, national, and local institutions and entities as well as the
expanding o f social capacity for improved decision-making and collaborative management o f the Basin's
water and environmental resources. The community-based microgrants will support pilot activities that
demonstrate the feasibility of local-level approaches to implement best practices in land and water
conservation, at selected transboundary sites. Precedence will be given to micro-activities that tackle local
priority issues while demonstrating a commitment to support viable economic, social, and environmentally
sustainable practices. From the preliminary TEA, it is anticipated that the priority issues and possible
interventions, which are detailed in Appendix B of this Annex, will include but not be limited to the
following:

0   Addressing land degradation and desertification problems by installing soil erosion control measures,
    regenerating and reforesting degraded areas, implementing best management farm practices, or
    improving pastoral landmanagement;
0   Enhancing water quality by restoring stream banks, controlling water weeds and invasive species, or
    improving flow from irrigationditches;
0   Improving wetland management by restoring local wetland habitats, establishing community wetland
    protection and surveillance, protecting community nature reserves, establishing protected areas, or
    conducting small-scale research on wildlife and habitats; and
0    Supporting the implementation o f possible activities through local capacity building efforts in the
    exchange o fbestpractices, community awareness efforts, or community workshops and training.

38. Component 4 will provide local community groups, NGOs, community-based organizations (CBOs),



                                                       - 4 % -

private volunteer organizations (PVOs), and others with the training and opportunities to expand their
knowledge and slulls for local best management and sustainable practices. The Microgrant Program will
engage regional, national, and local partners.

1)       Regional responsibilities o f the CRGP:
         0     Identify, from the TDAISAP, regional priority actions;
         0     Train regional and national stakeholders on microgrant principles and review environmental
               and social safeguard policies; and
         0     Prepare, with National Cellules, a national and local information andpromotional campaign.
2)       National responsibilities o f the National Cellules:
         0     Prepare National Microgrant Priority Action Plans;
               Prepare and execute a national and local informational and promotional campaign;
         0     Assist the CLC inpreparingmicro-activity applications, ifnecessary;
         0     Complete a national review o f micro-activity proposals and screen for compliance with
               eligibility criteria and compliance with the EMF;
         0     Screen for and prepare an environmental assessment for cumulative impacts, if deemed
               necessary.
3)       Local responsibilities o f the CLCs:
         0     Prepare the micro-activity application and comply with eligibilitly criteria outlined in the
               Microgrant Operational Manual and the environmental and social safeguards outlined in the
               EMF;
         0     Implementcommunity-based micro-activities; and
         0     Monitor and evaluate the community-based micro-activities.

39. The draft Microgrant Operational Manual, prepared as part o f the Project documents, will provide
guidance for Microgrant Program implementation and adherence to specific basin-wide guidelines, and
eligibility criteria and application procedures. The eligibility guidelines are based on the TEA, but will be
updated based on priority issues identified inthe National Microgrant Program Priority Actions Plans. The
Operational Manual will also include adherence to financial management guidelines outlined in the overall
Project Implementation Plan as well as standard UNDP and World Bank policies. N o grant will be
disbursedunless it has been approved according to the requirements and criteria outlined in the Manual.
Individual grants will have a ceiling o f US$50,000, although it is expected that many grants will be much
smaller and the average size will probably be around US$lO,OOO per grant. The Microgrant Program was
prepared by drawing on the best practice o f the UNDP Small Grants Programme and other microgrant
programs. The Operational Manualoutlines basic procedures for the Microgrant Program:

0    Applications should include micro-activity objectives and goals, with a description o f the proposed
     intervention, summary o f environmental sustainability and the completion o f an initial environmental
     assessment, and lists o f activity costs and effectiveness;
     The microgrant activity eligibility criteria confirms that the activity is a local priority issue, addresses
     transboundary      concerns, utilizes best management practices,           provides environmental and
     socio-economic benefits, and is sustainable;
0    The Operational Manual contains the Microgrants Program's implementation and institutional
     arrangements, institutional and community responsibilities, and accountability; and
0    The environmental and social screening process is defined inthe EMF.

40. This EMF, designed to comply with World Bank safeguard policies, is a stand-alone document to
complement and supplement the Operational Manual. Each micro-activity will be screened, at the national
level, through mechanisms defined in the Project's EMF. The EMF provides a process to assess both the


                                                      - 49 -

individual and cumulative micro-activity impacts inthe Basin.

Project Component 5 Public Participation Program
Managed by UNDP
Component Total    - US$0.33  million

41. This component will expand on the participatory activities already initiated during the PDF-B Project
preparation process summarized in Annex 12. The component activities will provide opportunities to: (i)
promote the Project activities; (ii) the public on the Basin's environmental issues through a regional,
                                    inform
national, and local information campaign; (iii) coordinate community participation through local NGOs and
the CLCs; and (iv) support effective involvement o f local community leaders, the broader public, especially
women, and the scientific community inplanning and decision-makmg with regard to the Basin's resources.


42. The component activities will help facilitate a dialogue on: (i) need for and importance o f engaging
                                                                     the
at the stakeholders' grassroots level; and (ii) the importance o f sustainable use and management o f the
Senegal River Basin's resources. Engagement at the local level will provide an incentive to strengthen
coordination among the Basin's management entities at the central and decentralized level to involve local
stakeholders in the management aspects o f the Basin. The Project will build on the participation process
from the PDF-B phase and will ensure that civil society will be involved not only in the microgrant pilot
activities on the ground but also in the process of defining longer-term objectives that deal with Basin
management. With the endorsement o f the OMVS Water Charter, which places high emphasis on
community involvement and consultation, it i s further intended that t h s component will become established
as a feature which can feed into the broader Senegal River Basin decision-malung processes. Finally, it i s
planned that the public participation program will feed into the completion o f the SAP.

Subcomponent5.1Publicinformationand awareness
GEF:US%m0.16

43. This subcomponent will support the development and delivery of transboundary environmental
awareness campaigns by utilizing the national media and by workmg at the local rural community level to
raise awareness o f these issues inthe Basin, and it will support relevant component activities. The goal is to
reach as wide an audience as possible through activities tailored to specific contexts. Therefore, a variety o f
media tools will be used, including TV, radio, newspapers (print and electronic), and locally specific means
to communicate with rural communities. At the national level, the activities will work with the national
environment ministries andNGOs' networks.

44. The EIP will be responsible for the overall design and implementation o f this public information and
awareness campaign. Based at the OMVS, the EIP, together with the national EIPs, will work with the
national media and NGO networks. The Expert will work with existing NGO networks, under the PASIE
program, and build on the network established during Project preparation. The communication potential
will be assessed in each country and the media campaign will be adapted to the resources and capacity o f
each country. The component activities include: (i)    the preparation and translation to local languages o f
media information on transboundary issues, including print media, television media (public announcements
and television programming), and radio programming; (ii)        contracting four national NGOs to assist in
disseminating information at the local level; and (iii)  creating a feedback mechanism, through web sites,
and a public response campaign.




                                                     - 50 -

Subcomponent 5.2 Civilsociety participation
GEF: US$m 0.12

45. This subcomponent will strengthen civil society participation in the decision-making processes in the
Basin through the delivery o f a transboundary environmental awareness campaign focusing on the
decision-makers and local stakeholders.

46. The regional EIP will coordinate with Component 1 and Component 4 activities to ensure that the
Basin's communities are engaged in decision-malung. Together with the national EIPs, the regional EIP
will undertake advocacy within riparian governments and local community groups, to: (i)sensitize
decision-makers at the regional and national on participatory planning methods through regional
workshops; (ii)   train local communities on how to engage in the decision-malung process through local
community workshops; and (iii)     promote public participation in the development o f new perceptions and
tools for the management o f issues that are socially sensitive and ecologically and economically important
to the livelihoods o f communities inall four riparian countries.

Subcomponent 5.3 Scientific community involvement
GEF: US%m0.050

47. This subcomponent will support the development o f an academic exchange program related to the
transboundary water and environment framework o f the Senegal River Basin. To capture the complexities
o f transboundary issues, participants in both the physical and social sciences will be invited from
competitively selected institutions in the Basin. The research program will be inclusive in defining key
issues in the Basin. The program will also provide opportunities for knowledge sharing among universities
and research institutions through: (i)regional conference; (ii) design o f ajoint water and environment
                                       a                         the
education program; (iii)the development o f environmental education modules; and (iv) an academic
exchange o f students and professors to strengthen scientific community cooperation.

48. To maintain an uncomplicated structure, the CRGP EIP will liaise with the selected implementing
institution to establish the broad guidelines for the exchange program and the regional conference. Together
they will identify two institutions ineach country to participate and will determine the criteria for selecting
individual candidates.




                                                      -51 -

                                                          Annex 2: Appendix A
                                          Detailed Costs of Bank ManagedComponents

SenegaI
Senegal River Basin Water and Environmental Management Program
Table 1. Institutional Strengthening
Detailed Costs                                                                     Totals Including Contingencies (US$)
                                                                       2003           2004         2005       2006       Total

 I. InvestmentCosts
   A. Institutional Strengthening
      1. Dialogue on legislation-Guinea specific
         a. Reviewing Guinea's waterlenv. legislation
            Desk review of Guinea's legislation (3ONCD)                 6,600                                               6,600
           National working group meetings                              3,000            3,000                              6,000
        Subtotal Reviewing Guinea's waterlenv. legislation              9,600            3,000                             12,600
        b. Facilitating dialogue between Guinea B OMVS
           Preparing papers for regional workshops                      17,400          40,700                             58,100
           Regional workshops in Conakry                                9,000           21,000                             30,000
           Consultant ( 1 reg facilitator)                                690            1,810                              2,300
           Consultants (2 national experts)                               780            1,820                              2,600
           Consultant (1 regional expert)                                 690            1,610                              2,300
           Consultant travel (2 reg cons)                                1,680           3,920                              5,600
            Report: Synthesis of regional workshop                       2,000           4,600                              6,600
           National working group meeting                                 450            1.050                              1.500
           Consultant (1 national expert)                                 200              200                                400
         Subtotal Facilitating dialogue between Guinea 8 OMVS          32,890           76,510                       -    109,400
         c. Reforming and strengthening the legal basis
            National workshop in Guinea                                  2,700                                              2,700
           Consultant (1 national facilitator)                            400                                                 400
            Consultants (2 national experts)                               900                                                900
            Report: Synthesis of national workshop (1 expert)            2,200                                              2,200
            National meeting to reviewldrafl legislation                 2,000           8,500                             10,500
            Consultant (1 reg expert)                                    1,200           4,600                              5,800
            Consultant travel (1 reg cons)                               1,000           4,500                              5,500
         Subtotal Reforming and strengthening the legal basis           10,400          17,600                             28,000
      Subtotal Dialogue on legislation     - Guinea  specific           52,890          97,110                       -    150,000
      2. Regional capacity building
         a. Training
            Preparing papers for regional workshops                     21,000          83,000                            104,000
            Regional training workshops                                 51,000        204,000                        --   255,000
            Consultant (1 reg facilitator)                               1,200           4.800                              6.000
            Consultants (4 trainers)                                     4,600          18,400                             23,000
            Consultant travel (5 reg cons)                               4,500          17,500                             22,000
         Subtotal Training                                              82,300         327,700                       -    410,000
      3. Development of an inclusive institution
         a. Regionalreports
            Reg report no.1 (1 inter expert)                                             4,600                              4,600
            Reg report no2 (1expert)                                                     3,850                              3,850
            Reg report no.3 (1expert)                                                    4,600                              4,600
            Reg report no.4 (10 RCD)                                         ----        3,850                               3,850
            Reg report no.5 (10 RCD)                                                     3,850                               3,850
         Subtotal Regional reports                                           --         20,750                              20,750
         b. Regionalworkshops
            Regworkshop on dev. an inclusive inst                            -          46,200                              46,200
            Consultancy (1 expert)                                                       6,100                               6,100
            Consultancy (facilitator)                                                    6,100                               8,100
         Subtotal Regional workshops                                         ---        58,400                              58,400
         c. Study tour
            Study tour                                                                  53,500                              53,500
            Consultancy accompanying study tour                                           5,800                              5,800
            Preparation of papers                                                         7,700                              7,700
            Study tour report                                                            3,850                               3,850
         Subtotal Study tour                                                            70,850                              70,850
      Subtotal Development of an inclusive institution                       ------    150,000                       -    150,000




                                                                 - 52 -

Senegal
Senegal River Basin Water and Environmental Management Program
Table 1. institutional Strengthening
Detailed Costs                                                                    Totals Including Contingencies (US$)
                                                                           2003      2004         2005       2006      Total

     4. Project mgt & strengthening of OMVS
        a. Establishing the CRGP
           1 Adm & Finance Assistant                                        13,200     13,200      13,200     13,200      52,800
          4 Reg Experts                                                     52,800     52.800      52,800     52,800    211,200
           1 Adm Assistant                                                   4,020      4,020       4,020      4,020      16,080
          2 drivers                                                          6,000      6,000       6,000      6,000      24,000
           Provision for Personnel (home leave. medical benefit, salary in  19,596     48,989      58,787     68,584     195,956
           CRGP: PCs                                                        32,000                                        32,000
           Internet service subscription CRGP staff/5 experts                2,000      7,000       7,000      6,000      22,000
           Communicationiexpert                                              3,500     12,500      12,500     10,500      39,000
           Vehicles                                                         83,000                                        83.000
           Vehicle operations                                                3,600     12,800      12,800     10,800      40,000
           Office furniture                                                 27,000                                        27,000
           Travel/yr ticket (4 staff)                                        9,000     28,000      28,000     26,000      91,000
          Travellyr DSA                                                     11,000     34,000      34,000     32,000     111,000
           Printing, translation, dissemination, stationary                  8,000      8,000       8,000      8,000      32,000
           Project finance & procurement training CRGP OMVS staff            7,500     22,500                             30,000
           Finalizing financial &operational manual (1 reg cons)             7,000                                         7,000
           Coordination, supervision, follow-upievaluation                   9,000     27,000      27,000     27,000      90,000
           Steering committee (Pilotage)meetings                            40,000                            40,000      80,000
       Subtotal Establishingthe CRGP                                       338,216   276,809      264,107    304,904   1,184,036
        b. Supporting national project implementation
          4 National Account Assistant                                      12,000     12,000       12,000    12,000      48,000
          4 drivers                                                          8,016      8,016       8,016      8,016      32,064
           National coordinator office: PCs Printers Photocopier            23,000                                        23,000
           Office furniture                                                 31,000                                        31,000
          Vehicles                                                         220,000                                  -    220,000
          Vehicle operations                                                 5,300     15,900       15,900    15,900      53,000
           Communicationslexpertlmonth                                       3,100      9,300       9,300      9,300      31,000
        Subtotal Supporting national project implementation                302,416     45,216      45,216     45,216     438.064
        c. Audits
           Project launch reg workshop                                      49,000                                        49,000
           Consuitants (1 reg facilitator)                                   1,200                                         1,200
           Consultants (3 SGP coordinators)                                  2,000                                         2,000
           Consultant travel                                                 4,500                                         4,500
        Subtotal Audits                                                     56,700                                        56,700
     Subtotal Project mgt & strengthening of OMVS                          697,332    322,025      309,323    350,120  1,678,800
     5. Africa regional forum
        a. Holding 1st consultative forum
           Prepare lessons (5 reg experts)                                                          19,500                19,500
           International conference                                                          --     63,800                63,800
           Consultants (1 reg rapporteur)                                                            1,200                 1,200
           Consultant travel (1 reg cons)                                                            2,500                 2,500
           Report: synthesis of lessons (1 reg expert)                                               4,000                 4,000
           Printing, translation, dissemination                                                      9,000                 9,000
        Subtotal Holding 1st consultative forum                                              ----  100,000          -    100,000
     6. Technical capacity building invasive species mgt
                                        -
        Consultancy (1 reg expert)                                                                   7,750      7,750      15,500
        Regional workshop                                                                    -      15,500     15,500     31,000
        Report, dissemination                                                                        5,500      5,500      11,000
        Action prog impl. preparation                                                        -      22,000     22,000     44,000
        Emergency actions (Typha removing by mechanical means)                                      24,250     24,250     48,500
     Subtotal Technical capacity building invasive species mgt
                                               -                                             --     75,000     75,000     150,000
     7. Donors conference
        a. Assisting OMVS
           Consultants (2 reg experts)                                                       -       5,000                 5,000
        b. Disseminating the project fiches
           Printing, translation, dissemination                                              -       9,000                 9,000
        c. Holding the donor conference
           Donor conference                                                                  -      34,000                34,000
           Consultants (1 reg facilitator)                                                           1,000                  1,000
           Consultants (2 reg experts)                                                               2,000                 2,000
                                                                                             ~


           Consultant travel (3 reg cons)                                                            6,000                 6,000
        Subtotal Holding the donor conference                                                       43,000                 43,000
     Subtotal Donors conference                                                              ---    57,000                 57,000
Total                                                                      832,522    896,835      541,323    425,120   2,695,800




                                                                    - 53 -

Senegal
Senegal River Basin Water and Environmental Management Program
Table 2. Data and Knowledge Management
Detailed Costs                                                                   Totals Including Contingencies (US$)
                                                                       2003         2004         2005       2006      Total

 1. Investment Costs
   A. Data 8 knowledge management
      1. Preparing Guinea 8 enlarging the Observatory
        a. Assessing existing data on water 8 the env.
           Study: Existing monitoring of Senegal River
           Consultants (1 IC & 1 NC)                                       -          13,400                            13,400
           Consultant travel (1 IC)                                        -           7,000                             7,000
           Study: Comparative study of OMVS system
           Consultants (1 IC, 4 NC)                                        -          17,000                            17,000
           OMVS expert travel                                              -           4,000                             4,000
           Study: Study: Current situation using OMVS indicators
           Consultants (1 IC, 1 NC)                                                   20,000                            20,000
                                                                               ~


           Consultant travel (1 IC)                                                    9,000                             9,000
           OMVS expert travel                                                          4,500                             4,500
           Consultant travel                                                           1,500                             1,500
           Regional meeting in Dakar                                        ----      35,000                            35,000
           Consultants (1 reg facilitator)                                  -          1,200                             1,200
           Consultants (1 reg expert)                                                  1,200                             1,200
           Consultants (3 inter experts)                                               2,500                             2,500
           Consultant travel (2 reg cons)                                              2,500                             2,500
           Consultant travel (3 IC)                                                   20,000                            20,000
           OMVS expert travel                                               -----      1,500                             1,500
        Subtotal Assessing existing data on water B the env.                        140.300                        -   140.300
        b. Specific studies
           Cartography
           Preparatorywork
           Needs identificationworkshop in Guinea                                      6,500       6,500                13,000
           Consultants (1 reg expert)                                                    750         750                 1,500
           Consultants (1 national expert)                                               350         350                   700
           Consultant travel (1 RC)                                                    1,250       1,250                 2,500
           Consultant travel (1 NC)                                                      750         750                  1,500
           OMVS expert travel                                                            750         750                  1,500
           Cartography studies (1 RC, 1 IC)                                           28,000                            28,000
           Modeling rainfalliflow rates in the upper basin
           National workshop in Guinea                                                13,000                            13,000
           Consultant (1 reg expert)                                                   1,200                              1,200
           Consultant travel (1 RC)                                                    1,500                              1,500
           OMVS expert travel                                                          1,500                              1,500
           Equipment (computer)                                                        5,500                             5,500
           Consultants (1 IC)                                                         16,500      16,500      16,500    49,500
           Consultant travel (1 IC)                                                                7,000                 7,000
           OMVS expert travel                                                                      4,500                 4,500
           Early warning system feasibility/design
           Consultants (1 IC)                                                         18,000                             18,000
           OMVS expert travel                                                          2,000                             2,000
           Consultant travel (1 RC)                                                    7,000                              7,000
           Bush fire study
           Consultant (1 NC)                                                           9,000                              9,000
           Material purchase (satellite imaging, maps)                                16,500                             16,500
           Publication, dissemination                                                  3.500                              3.500
           Bafing basin studies (1 RC)                                                 7,000                              7,000
        Subtotal Specific studies                                              --    140,550      38,350      16,500   195,400




                                                                 - 54 -

Senegal
Senegal River Basin Water and Environmental Management Program
Table 2. Data and Knowledge Management
Detailed Costs                                                                        Totals Including Contingencies (US$)
                                                                           2003          2004         2005       2006       Total
        c. Designing a data system for Guinea
           Consultants: inter expert on hand (1 IC)                              -          3,000       3,000      3,000       9,000
           Defining information needed (1 RC)                                    -          3,500                              3,500
           Identify existing data collection stations (1 NC)                                6,000
                                                                                   ~                                           6,000
           OMVS expert travel                                                    -          1,000                              1,000
           Consultant travel (1 NC)                                                         1,000                              1,000
           Design data collection (1 RC)                                         --         7,000                              7,000
           Study: Technical & financial sustainability of data systems
           Consultants (2 IC, 2 NC)                                              -         36,000                             36,000
           Consultant travel (2 IC)                                                        16,000                             16,000
           Consultant travel (2 NC)                                              --         3,000                              3,000
           Design exchange network
           Study: monitoring systems within OMVS (1 RC)                                          -      8,000                  8,000
           Regional training workshop                                                                  22,000                 22,000
           Consultant (1 reg expert)                                                                    2,000                  2,000
           Consultant travel (1 RC)                                                              ---    2,000                  2,000
           OMVS expert travel                                                                    -      1,000          -       1,000
        Subtotal Designing a data system for Guinea                              -         76,500      38,000      3,000     117,500
        d. Data collection networks
           inventory of laboratories (1 NC)                                                 1,000                              1,000
           Equipment (laboratory, monitoring stations etc)                                 99,000      99,000          -     198,000
           National training workshop                                                      11,700                             11,700
           Consultants (2 reg experts)                                                      2,100                              2.100
          Consultant travel (2 reg experts)                                      -----      4,000                              4,000
          OMVS expert travel                                                                     -      2,000                  2,000
        Subtotal Data collection networks                                        -       117,800      101,000          -     218,800
     Subtotal Preparing Guinea & enlarging the Observatory                       -       475,150      177,350     19,500     672,000
     2. Sustainable basin-wide data exchanges
        a. Regional training
           Regional training workshop                                       36,250         36,250      36,250     36,250     145,000
           Consultant (1 RC)                                                 1,750          1,750       1,750      1,750       7,000
          Consultant travel (1 RC)                                           3,500          3,500       3,500      3,500      14,000
          OMVS expert travel                                                 3,500          3,500       3,500      3,500      14,000
        Subtotal Regional training                                         45,000          45,000      45,000     45,000     180,000
        b. Reg workshop to discuss exchange between Guinea & OMVS
           Regional training workshop                                      36,250          36,250      36,250     36,250     145,000
          Consultant (1 reg expert)                                          1,750          1,750       1,750      1,750       7,000
           Consultant travel (1 reg cons)                                    3,500          3,500       3,500      3,500      14,000
          International consultant support (1 inti. expert)                 2,500           2,500       2,500      2,500      10,000
           International consultant travel                                  3,500           3,500       3,500      3,500      14,000
        Subtotal Reg workshop to discuss exchange between Guine            47,500          47,500      47,500     47,500     190,000
        c. Regional research network meeting
          Regional training workshop                                                                   50,000     50,000   ' 100,000
          Consultants (1 reg expert)                                                                    2,500      2,500       5,000
          Consultant travel (1 reg cons)                                                                4,500      4,500       9,000
        Subtotal Regional research network meeting                                               ----  57,000     57,000     114,000
        d. Developing communication means
          Virtual center:
          Design the web sites (1 reg expert)                                               8,000                              8,000
          Equipment, connection costs (4 countries)                              -
                                                                                 --        90,000                             90,000
          Operation 8 maintenance during dev period                                        11,000                             11,000
          Information dissemination:
          Design the newsletters &the broadcast (1 RC)                                     15,500                             15,500
          Information preparation (12 NC)                                        --        11,000                             11,000
          Publication, translation, dissemination                           6,625           6.625       6.625      6.625      26.500
          Radio transmission                                                5,500           5,500       5,500      5,500      22,000
        Subtotal Developing communication means                            12,125        147,625       12,125     12,125     184,000
     Subtotal Sustainable basin-wide data exchanges                        104,625       240,125      161,625    161.625     668.000
     3. Equipment for OMVS                                                       -       180,000                        -    180,000
Total                                                                      104,625       895.275      338.975    181,125    1,520,000




                                                                     - 55 -

Senegal
Senegal River Basin Water and Environmental Management Program
Table 3. TDA and SAP
Detailed Costs                                                                   ---       Totals Including Contingencies (US$)
                                                                                  2003        2004         2005       2006      Total

I.Investment Costs
  A. TDA and SAP
     1. Transboundary diagnostic analysis
        a. Formulating the TDA
          Identify multi-disciplinary team needs & logistics (1 NC)                4,500                                           4,500
          Regional workshop                                                        18,000                                         18,000
          Consultants (1 reg facilitator)                                           1,200                                          1,200
          Consultant travel (1 RC)                                                  2,000                                          2,000
          National workshops                                                                    30,000                            30,000
          Consultant (1 national facilitator)                                    - - ~  --       2,500                             2,500
        Subtotal Formulating the TDA                                               25,700       32,500                            58,200
        b. Preparing the TDA
          National working group meetings validating prelim. matrix                             20,000                            20,000
          Consultant (1 Natl. facilitator)                                                       2,000                             2,000
          Studies (3 national experts)                                                          13,200                            13,200
          Evaluation of micro-hydro potential                                                   68,200                            68,200
          Consultants: inter TDNSAP expert support                                               6,000                             6,000
          Consultant travel (1 trip to basin for IC)                                             6,000                             6,000
          National working group meetings to review studies                                     20,000                            20,000
          Consultant (1 national facilitator)                                                    1,600                             1,600
          Reports: synthesize national analyses                                                  8,000                             8,000
          Report: review of national syntheses (1 RC)                                            3,200                             3,200
          Regional working group meeting                                                         6,000                             6,000
          Consultant (1 reg facilitator)                                                           700                               700
           Consultant travel (1 reg cons)                                                          900                               900
          Steering committee meeting to review/validate TDA                                     20.000                            20.000
           Inter-Ministerial meeting to reviewhalidate TDA                                      40,000                            40,000
           Publication, dissemination                                            ---    -        6,000                             6,000
        Subtotal Preparingthe TDA                                                             221,800                            224,800
                                                                                          ~


     Subtotal Transboundary diagnostic analysis                                  --- --
                                                                                   25,700     254,300                            280,000
     2. Strategic action plan
        a. Evaluating/establishlnginstitutlons for SAP consultation
          4 National Information & participation coordinators                      20,016       20,016      20,016     20,016      80,064
           Provision for Personnel (medical benefit, salary increase, home leave)   5,443       13,609      16,331      19,053     54,436
           Evaluate existing CLCs (3 NC)                                            9,500                                           9,500
           Establish new CLCs (computer, printer, photocopier)                     57,000                                          57,000
           Local capacity buildingworkshops for CLCs                                            20,000      20,000     20,000      60,000
           Consultant (1 national facilitator)                                                    4,500      4,500      4,500      13,500
           Consultant (1 national expert)                                                         4,500      4,500      4,500      13,500
           Consultant travel (2 consultants)                                                      5,000      5,000       5,000     15,000
           Local capacity building workshops for CNCs                                                       14,000                 14,000
           Consultant (1 national expert)                                                                    5,500                  5,500
           Regional capacity building workshops for CNCs                                                    33,000                 33,000
           Consultant (1 reg expert)                                                                         8.500                  8,500
           Consultant travel (1 reg cons)                                                                    8,000                  8,000
           Local consultationworkshops per CLCs                                                             35,000                 35,000
           Consultant (1 national facilitator)                                                               6,500                  6,500
           Consultant (1 national expert)                                                                    6,500                  6,500
           Consultant travel (2 cons)                                                                        6,500                  6,500
           Validating results (4 NC)                                                                         14,000                14,000
           National workshops at the district level                                                          14,000                14,000
           Consultant (1 national facilitator)                                                               3,000                  3,000
           National validation workshop                                                                     46,000                 46,000
           Consultant I1 national facilitator)                                                               3.000                  3.000
           Report: national report consolidation (4 NC)                                               -      9,000                  9,000
        Subtotal Evaluating/establishIng lnstltutions for SAP consultatlon         91,959       67,625      282,847     73,069   515,500




                                                                       - 56 -

Senegal
Senegal River Basin Water and Environmental Management Program
Table 3. TDA and SAP
Detailed Costs                                                       --        Totals Including Contingencies (US$)
                                                                        2003      2004           2005     2006      Total
        b. Preparing the SAP
          Draft SAP doc synthesizing Natl.. priorities (1 RC)                                      4,000               4,000
          Consultant: inter TDNSAP expert support (1 IC)                                           5,500               5,500
          Meeting of reg working group to review SAP                                      ---     16,500              16,500
          Consultant (1 reg facilitator)                                                           6,500               6,500
          Consultant travel (1cons)                                                                7,500               7,500
          1st reg workshop to validate/finalize results                                           20,000              20,000
          Consultant (1 reg facilitator)                                                  ----     1,500               1,500
          Consultant travel (1 cons)                                                               2,500               2,500
          Report: reg workshop outcome consolidation (1 RC)                               --       3,500               3,500
          2nd reg workshop to validate/finalize SAP                                                5,500               5,500
                                                                                          ~

          Consultant (1 reg facilitator)                                                           1,500               1,500
          Consultant travel (1 cons)                                                      --       2,500               2,500
          Reg workshop for donor consultation                                                     20,000              20,000
          Consultant (1 reg facilitator)                                                           1,500               1,500
          Consultant travel (1 cons)                                                               2,500               2,500
          Reg report donor comments inclusion (1 RC)                                               2,000               2,000
          Inter-Ministerial meeting to validate SAP                                               44,000              44,000
          Publication, dissemination                                                      ------   5,500               5,500
          Nat. public partiinfo expert local travel costs                 1,350      4,050         4,050     4,050    13,500
          Nat. public parthfo expert national travel costs                 450       1,350         1,350     1,350     4,500
          Vehicle operations                                              7,000     22,500        22,500    22,000    74,000
       Subtotal Preparing the SAP                                         8,800     27,900       180,400    27,400   244,500
     Subtotal Strategic action plan                                     100,759     95,525       463,247   100,469   760,000
Total                                                                   126,459   349,825        463,247   100,469  1,040,000




                                                               - 57 -

                                             Annex 2: Appendix B

                                   SenegalRiver Basin MicrograntProgram
                       Summary of PossibleInterventionsand MitigationMeasures

The community-based Microgrant Program will support activities at selected transboundary sites to pilot
feasible local-level approaches in implementing best practices in land and water conservation. Precedence
will be given to pilot activities that address the local priority issues while demonstrating a commitment to
support viable economic, social, and environmentally sustainable practices. The types o f activities to be
supported by the Microgrant Program will include the following:

I.Activities to abateLandDegradation
     Installation o f soil erosion control measures;
0    Regenerate and reforest degraded areas;
0    Production or procurement o fmultipurpose tree seedlings;
0    Agroforestry demonstrationplots;
0    Water harvesting to decrease soil erosion;
0    Implement best management farm practices;
0    Physical or biological soil conservationmeasures; or
     Improve pastoral landmanagement.

2. Activities to Improve Water Quality
0    Restore stream banks;
0    Control water weeds and invasive species;
0    Mitigation o f non-point source pollution from agriculture, including but not limitedto vegetative
     buffers or holding ponds;
0    Introduce environmentally sustainable farming practices;
0    Community-based extension services to support best management practices; or
     Improve flow from irrigation ditches.

3. Activities to Support Wetland Management
0    Restore local wetland habitats;
0    Establish community wetland protection and surveillance;
0    Protect community nature reserves;
0    Establish protected areas; or
0    Conduct small-scale research on wildlife and habitats.

4. Local Capacity Buildingto Support Activities
0    Establish or strengthen a national transboundary network o f NGOs worlung on environment and
     sustainable development;
0    Training for NGOs, CBOs, and PVOs on lessons leamed and best management practices inrelationto
     abate land degradation, improve water quality, and support better wetland management practices;
     Transboundary workshops and other activities to strengthen NGOs', CBOs', and PVOs' capacity for
     community-government collaboration and support for environmental management;
0    Support for local environmental education and awareness; or
0    Community exchange o fbest practices, tools, and techniques to improve community livelihood.




                                                     - 58 -

                               Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs
     AFRICA: Senegal River Basin Water and Environmental Management Project


                    World Bank Global Environment Facility (GEF) Components

A. Project Cost by Component

Project Cost By Component      Local U S $million   Foreign US $million   Total U S $million
1. Environmental Management          1.90                   .80                 2.70
Capacity Building
2. Data and Knowledge                0.84                  0.68                 1.52
Management
3. TDA and SAP                       0.82                  0.22                 1.04
Total Baseline Cost                  3.56                  1.70                 5.26
         Physical Contingencies        0                     0                    0
           Price Contingencies         0                     0                    0
Total Proiect Costs                  3.56                  1.70                 5.26




B. Project Cost by Category




A.Consultant' Services               0.83                  0.39                 1.22
B.TraininglWorkshop                  1.34                  0.36                 1.70
C.Goods                              0.44                  0.62                 1.06
D.Operating Costs                    0.95                  0.33                 1.28
         Physical Contingencies        0                     0                    0
           Price Contingencies         0                     0                    0
          Total Project Costs        3.56                  1.70                 5.26
    Total Financing Required         3.56                  1.70                 5.26




                                              - 59 -

                                Annex 4: Cost-Benefit Analysis Summary
                                           Incremental Cost Analysis
       AFRICA: Senegal River Basin Water and Environmental Management Project

A. Introduction

GlobalEnvironmentalObjective andValue of Project Increment

1. Global Environmental Objective. The global environmental objective of the Project is to establish a
participatory basin-wide framework for the integration o f transboundary water resources activities and to
launch a basin-wide action program for the global environment. The significance o f the Senegal River
Basin has been highlighted by intemational interest in the hydro-ecological state o f the Basin, and donors
have included, inter alia, Canada, France, Germany, the Netherlands, Norway, the United Kingdom, the
United Nations Development Programme (UNDP) and the World Bank (WB). The premise o f this GEF
Project i s that current management practices need to be strengthened to develop an over-arching
environmental framework, with special attention given to transboundary issues, in order to achieve
sustainable use o f the Basin's water resources and associated values.

2. Transboundary Issues. If transboundary issues are not included in land and water management
practices, direct and indirect impacts likely will result inthe progressive breakdown o f the hydrological and
ecological integrity of the Senegal River Basin ecosystem, a deterioration inthe riparians' ability to achieve
food security, a diminution o f environmental values due to acceleration o f unsustainable agricultural and
forestry practices, and increased migration to already overcrowded urban areas. All these trends would
make it increasingly difficult to addresspoverty inthe participating countries.

3. Incremental Value. In preparing the Incremental Cost Analysis and initial evaluation o f basin-wide
activities, each relevant project contributing to Basin development was identified. However, for the sake of
clarity, to define the true value o f the incremental benefit from the GEF Project, the baseline was defined by
specific parameters to include just those activities that contribute directly to the Project as paralleling
activities. The GEF alternative is then considered the incremental value to the Basin activities.

RegionalContext andBroadDevelopmentGoals

4. Regional Context. The linkages between environmental degradation and poverty are clearly established,
and combating the former will result effectively in reducing the latter and vice versa. Conforming to the
UNDP-Bank International Waters Partnership, the Bank's Environmental Strategy, the CAS, and the
UNDP-Country Cooperation Framework (CCF), the Project is designed to support sustainable
development, reduce poverty, and improve the quality o f life by providing economic opportunities to
empower people to manage their environmental resources. The Project specifically addresses the goal to
assist a "group o f countries to utilize the full range o f technical, economic, financial, regulatory, and
institutional measures neededto operationalize sustainable development strategies for intemational waters
and their drainage basins." Special attention is given to integrated land and water resources management
and the special protection o f sensitive areas, because "land degradation resultingin damage to the water
resource" is often a transboundary problem that requires "political commitments on the part o f the
neighboring countries to work together, establish factual priorities, and decide on joint commitments for
action."

5. Development Objective. The development objective o f the Senegal River Basin Water and


                                                       - 60 -

Environmental Management Project is to provide a participatory strategic environmental framework for the
environmentally sustainable development o f the Senegal River Basin and to launch a basin-wide
cooperative program for transboundary land-water management.

6. Achieving the Development Objective. To successfully acheve the development objective, the Project
proposes to strengthenregional and national institutional capacity to enable the institutions to address the
priority basin-wide, transboundary water and environmental management issues. This will allow the
Senegal Basin's four riparian countries-Guinea,       Mali, Mauritania, and Senegal-to    jointly build on the
baseline activities; to develop a cooperative regional approach to the environmental management o f the
Basin; and to contribute to the effective operation o f the Basin's water resources, providing benefits beyond
the Basin's boundaries. The above-mentioned development objective was greatly strengthenedby the May
2002 approval by the OMVS Heads o f State o f a new treaty, the Water Charter. The Charter specifically
addresses the issue o f sound environmental management and public participation inthe management o f the
shared water resources.

Meetingthe Challenges

7. Regional Cooperation. The Bank and other donors are already funding water resources management
programs in the participating countries. Three o f the four countries participating in the Project (Mali,
Mauritania, and Senegal) have provided and continue to provide funds to OMVS for issues related to the
management o f the Basin's water resources. However, little attention has been given to the identification
and assessment o f environmental issues. Guinea has been active as an observer within the OMVS, and an
objective o f this Project is to fixther integrate Guinea into an overall basin-wide approach to the
management o f the Basin's water resources.

8. Basin Cooperation-Challenges            and Opportunities. In meeting the challenge o f sustainably
developing the Senegal River Basin, the four riparian countries have committed themselves to establishmg
an inclusive framework to jointly manage their shared resources. Thus far, this framework has included: (i)
negotiating and ratifying the Water Charter, which outlines state-of-the art principles on international water
allocations and management; (ii)    Guinea's endorsement o f OMVS as the sole GEF grant recipient for the
GEF Project, even though it is not a member country; and (iii)      continuing, in parallel to this Project and
with the Bank's facilitation o f inter-riparian dialogue, ongoing discussions among all four Basin countries
on various framework mechanisms. The GEF Project provides the incremental cost to bridge the individual
baseline activities to achieve a strengtheneddecision-makmg framework.

B. Baseline

9. Baseline Assessment. The scope o f the baseline is set spatially by the natural limits of the Basin and the
locus o f extemal demands on the Basin's resources. Thematically, the Project components and the
outcomes create the framework for defining the parameters o f the baseline, and temporally, the baseline is
defined by the life o f the Project (four years). A number o f complementary activities inthe Basin provide
paralleling techcal and financial support to the Project. This parallel funding, or co-financing as it
pertains to the incremental cost analysis, provides the baseline to this Project, the GEF Altemative. The
total financing, which defines the baseline amount, is US$m 14.798. Ths includes national governments'
in-lundcontributions o f US$m 0.38, which generally contribute to Component 2; and the OMVS in-kind
contributions o f US$m 0.50, w h c h generally contribute to Component 1; the preparation costs o f US$m
0.835. The parallel project contributions o f US$m 13.074 from the Afncan Development Bank (AfDB),the
governments of the Netherlands and France, and the Institutional Development Fund(IDF) lendthemselves
for direct support to the GEF Project and are inline with corresponding components o f the GEF Project:


                                                     -61 -

                              Table 1. Donor Co-financing Definingthe Baseline



                    Co-financingProjects                          US$m     Donor    Correspondenceto GEF
                                                                                     Project Components
1. Study to restore hydraulic network o f the Senegal River Basin 1.133    AfDB          Component 2
2. Supporting the implementation o f the Environmental            0.653                  Component 2
Observatory in the Senegal River Basin
3. Support for water resources management inthe Senegal           0.805                  Component 1
Basin
4. Fight against (rural) poverty interms o f resource use          0.85                  Component 4
                                           OMVS/AfDB Subtotal     3.441
5. Niger River Basin Restoration Project (Mali
complementariness)
 (a) National cooperation and capacity building,                  0.3 19                 Component 2
 (b) Regional network development, and                            0.095                  Component 2
 (c) Lessons learned experience exchanged in West Africa          0.167                  Component 1
                              AfDB BasinRestorationSubtotal       0.581
                                                   AfDB Subtotal  4.022
6. Inclusive governance o f Senegal River Basin                    0.31  IDF Grant       Component 1
                                                    IDF Subtotal   0.31
7. Government o f Netherlands support to I U C N for               6.46  Netherlands     Component 4
implementing a wetland management and conservationplan in
the Senegal River Basin
8. Conservation and environmental protection efforts in the       0.702                  Component 4
Djoudj National Park
                                            NetherlandsSubtotal   7.162
9. Support OMVS in decision-making for management of the          0.878    France        Component 1
Senegal River
10. Continue support for the Environmental Observatory            0.702                  Component 2
                                                 French Subtotal  1.580
                          ParalleYco-financingfunding subtotal
                                               -                  13.074
                                                        I

12. GEF and other donor preparation funds                         0.835  DonoriGEF       Component 1

                                                                         Preparation
13. In-kindOMVS                                                    0.50   In-kind        Component 1
    National government in-kind contribution                       0.38   In-kind        Component 2
                                    Co-financing Baseline Total   14.789




                                                    - 62 -

10. A summary o f the baseline costs for each component, inclusive o f GEF and donor preparation costs,
and in-lundnational and OMVS contributions, i s provided inTable 2:

                             Table 2. Summarv of Baseline Costs for Each ComDonent
                                   GEF ProjectComponent                               Baseline
                 Component 1 Capacity Building                                         3.495
                 Component 2 Dataand Knowledge Management                              3.282
                 Component 3 TransboundaryDiagnostic Analysis                             0
                 Component4 Microgrant Program                                         8.012
                 Component 5 Public Participation and Awareness                           0

                                                                TotalBaseline          14.789

C. GEFAlternative

11.Incremental Cost. Consistent with GEF operational policy, the requested GEF funds would only be
usedto finance the incremental costs; hence the economic evaluation methodology is the GEF incremental
cost analysis. Although a number o fbaseline activities touch on the proposed Project, the incremental costs
are substantial. Project investment addresses the transboundary overlay o f Senegal River Basin
environmental management. The GEF-supported interventions would provide incremental support costs to:

     Develop an inclusive cooperation framework for the shared water resource and its environment. A
     major objective o f the proposal is to support and encourage the full involvement o f Guinea in the
     effort to develop a comprehensive environmental framework for the Basin.
     Improve policy and institutional effectiveness. The need for policy and institutional reforms will be
     addresseddirectly by the Project.
     Improve transboundary water management capacity at the national level. A key policy and
     institutional priority is to strengthen institutions that relate to transboundary waters in each o f the
     riparian states, thus benefiting efforts to take an integrated and basin-wide management approach.
     Strengthen environmental management at the Basin level. The strengthening o f OMVS's capacity
     regarding environmental management is crucial to improved communication and cooperation among
     the four riparian states.
      Create a strong, ongoing, basin-wide participation program. Effective basin-wide management will
     require effective basin-wide stakeholder participation. The GEF intervention will focus considerable
     resources on this effort.

12. Cost Effectiveness. The Project is designed to be cost effective. Further, it is designed consistent with
the needto analyze the ongoing andplannedfuture activities ofthe countries, the OMVS, the Implementing
Agencies, and other donors active inthe region. This makes it possible to avoid duplication, to isolate the
incremental activities necessary to Project execution, and to request funding only for the incremental costs
associatedwith Project components.

13. The GEF Alternative and GEF Increment. The total Project cost inclusive o f the GEF and donor
preparation costs is US$m 22.039 and USm$21.204 without preparation costs (US$m -0.835). The total
cost includes donor parallel funding (US$m 13.074) and in-lundcontributions (US$m 0.88); and a total
GEF contribution o fUS$m 7.25 as the Project increment (UNDP-US$m 1.99; and Bank-US$m 5.26).



                                                      - 63 -

D. Scope ofAnalysis and Project Financing

14. The physical scope of analysis will include the entire length of the Senegal River, which i s
approximately 1,800 km long. I t will include the entire Senegal River drainage basin, an area o f
approximately 300,000 square km. The basin i s shared by Guinea (which controls 11% o f the Basin area),
Mali (53%), Mauritania (26%), and Senegal (10%). The physical scope o f the Project includes a variety o f
biomes, as the Project addresses semi-arid areas in the highlands o f the Fouta Djallon in Guinea, to arid
and semi-arid areas at lower elevations inMali, Mauritania, and Senegal, and estuarine areas at the mouth
o f the River at St. Louis. The scope o f analysis also encompassesboth rural and urban populations.

15. Requisite institutional strengthening across related sectors, and particularly for the OMVS, is o f the
essence. The design o f the Project has taken into full account its complementarity with other existing
projects inthe region, such as ongoing projects at country level, projects o f the OMVS, and projects o f the
ImplementingAgencies, including associated GEF projects.

16. The temporal boundary for the Project is set by the anticipated time o f implementation, which is four
years. Project benefits will clearly continue to accrue beyond the four-year intervention. Strengthening o f
the OMVS, increased capacity for transboundary management, a greater sensitivity at the national level to
basin-wide issues, and the commitment to act on the results o f the transboundary diagnostic and action
program will require an indefinite commitment o f country and donor resources well beyondthe initial scope
o f this GEF intervention. It is highly unlikely that the individual countries could or would take actions
independently to preserve a resource that will be available for neighboring countries to use. The present
GEF Project therefore provides an essential element to sound and sustainable management o f the shared
transboundary water resources.

17. Additional financing for these activities is being secured from donors and other partners, within the
overall programmatic approach to Basin management. The GEF financing is intendedto act as a bridge and
as a catalyst to encourage fiuther investment in specific proposals as part o f ongoing project preparation.
Several donors-including       France, the Netherlands, and others-have          been participating in and
contributing to the process to date and have shown their commitment to the development o f the basin-wide
programmatic approach based on stakeholder involvement. I t is confidently expected that the interest o f
these donors will be fiuther confirmed with financial commitment.

E.Incremental Cost Matrix

18. Project Costs. The total Project costs are US$m 22.039 inclusive o f the GEF and donor preparation
costs (US$m 0.835), the baseline (US$13.074) and in-lund contributions (US$m 0.88); and a total GEF
contribution o f US$m 7.25 as the Project increment (UNDP       -US$m 1.99; and Bank US$m 5.26). The
                                                                                         -
co-financing comes from the IDF, AfDB, and Governments o f France and the Netherlands. The Project is
designed to complement, reinforce, and expand institutional elements of the current ongoing baseline
projects and provide a basin-wide framework withm w h c h the future activities envisaged under the
Strategic Action Planwill be carried out.




                                                      - 64 -

19. Table 3 provides a summary of the baseline and incremental costs of the GEF Altemative, and
Appendix 1 provides a summary o f the domestic and regional benefits of the GEF Altemative.

                Table 3. Summaryof the Baseline,GEF Increment, and GEF Alternative

                Component                         Baseline       GEF Increment GEF Alternative
                                                  (US$m)              (US$m)             (US$@
 Component 1Capacity Building(WB)                   3.495                2.70             6.195
 Component2 DataandKnowledge                        3.282                1.52             4.802
 Management (WB)
 Component3 Transboundary Diagnostic                    0                1.04              1.040
 Analysis and Strategic Action Plan (WB)
 Component4 Microgrants                             8.012                1.66             9.672
 Program-Priority  Actions (UNDP)
 Component5 Public Awareness and                                         0.33
 Particbation (UNDP)                                    O      I                           0.33   I
                                     Totals  II   14.789                 7.25            22.039




                                                - 65 -

                                      Appendix A

                             Incremental Cost Matrix (US$m)

 Component1        Category    Amount          DomesticBenefits                  Global Benefits
 Other Costs                   (US$m)
1.Environmental   Baseline      3.495  Current capacity at national
Management                             and regional levels suited to
Capacity Building                      focus management on local and
                                       country-specific impacts.
                                       National legislation,
                                       environmental plans, and
                                       projects geared to national
                                       concerns with little attention
                                       oaid to transboundan, issues.
                  Alternative   6.195  Strengthened regional            Generally, improvements in
                                       decision-making capacity will    participating states' ability to
                                       benefit the national and local   address transboundary
                                       institutional and human          environmental and
                                       capacity through training,       socio-economic issues. More
                                       exchange o f lessons, and        specifically, a strengthened
                                       involvement o f national and     regional entity (OMVS) with
                                       local experts inthe Project.     increased capacity and
                                       Improvement o f national level   institutional legitimacy to act at
                                       inter-ministerial and            the regional level to secure an
                                       inter-agency cooperation.        integrated, multi-sectoral
                                                                        approach to water management
                                                                        issues. An accelerated timetable
                                                                        for the full integration o f Guinea
                                                                        into regional participation in
                                                                        issues o f the Senegal River Basin.

                  Increment     2.700
2. Data and       Baseline      3.282   Some focused effort on the
Knowledge                              Environmental Observatory
Management                             will strengthen the technical
                                        capacity, however, emphasis
                                       has often been on the collection
                                        o f data on an ad hoc basis.
                                       Even when data has been
                                        collected and synthesized, it
                                       has been used inconsistently
                                        and has been allowed to
                                       become dated (abandoned) or
                                       lost altogether. Data and
                                       information for the critical
                                        Guinean part o f the Basin are
                                       largely absent or not consistent
                                       with the basin-wide approach.
                  4lternative   4.802  The strengthened capacity o f    Data sets will be shared by all o f
                                       the Environmental                the participating countries; will
                                        Observatory, together with the  be maintained centrally (in the



                                           - 66 -

                                        strengthened national              offices o f the OMVS); will
                                        capacities o f the participating   include socio-economic and
                                        countries, will enable more        bio-physical assessments; and
                                        systematic and                     will characterize cross-country
                                        better-maintained data sets at     (transboundary) linkages among
                                        national level, and                water, ecosystems, and
                                        subsequently will provide a        livelihoods. This will enable the
                                        stronger foundation for            development o f a regional and
                                        decision-makers.                   ecosystem approach and will
                                                                           generate benefits to the Basin's
                                                                           ecological resources.
                   Increment      1.52
 3. Transboundary    Baseline    0.00   Primary emphasis has been and
 Diagnostic                             continues to be on national
 Analysis and a                         issues with transboundary
 Strategic Action                       issues addressed in a limited
                                        way, if at all; limited national
                                        and O M V S resources make it
                                        difficult and often impossible to
                                        define transboundary issues
                                        systematically or to address
                                        these issues as priority
                                        concems.
                   Alternative 1.04     Additional effort to understand    Transboundary issues identified
                                        the entire Basin as it pertains to during the Project would enable
                                        domestic benefits, which would     prioritization o f interventions
                                        include additional human and       based on the most urgent ones,
                                        financial resources being          thus ensuring benefits to the
                                        committed at national level to     Basin's natural resources and
                                        more rigorously identify and       helping ensure their long-term
                                        address project-related issues of  sustainable use. The
                                        national concern.                  identification o f prioritized
                                                                           transboundary issues and o f
                                                                           approaches to address these
                                                                           issues will facilitate
                                                                           determination o f additional
                                                                           policy and institutional reforms
                                                                           necessary to enhance
                                                                           transboundary management.
                   Increment      1.04
 4. Microgrants    Baseline      8.012  National level, targeted
 -Priority Actions                      activities will take place, but
                                        basin-wide actions taken to
                                        date have been largely limited
                                        to the exchange of lessons with
                                        stakeholders up- and
                                        downstream o f the activity and
                                        with limited uublic inuut.
I                  Alternative   9.672  There will be targeted local        Microgrant-supported
                                        benefits from                       interventions will be selected for
                                        community-driven                   their transboundary benefit and
                                        development, and some pilot         impacts and will also meet the
                                        activities will directly benefit   test o f replicability in other parts



                                          - 67 -

                                       local stakeholders in the        o f the Basin and globally.
                                       exchange o f lessons learned in  Transboundary hotspots and
                                       the Basin.                       urgentissues (such as
                                                                        environmental actions that have a
                                                                        human health benefit) will yield
                                                                        regional as well as global
                                                                        benefits.
                 Increment       1.66
5. Public        Baseline        0.00  L o w level o f environmental
Participation                          awareness, public participation,
Program                                and public education on the
                                       issue o f shared water resources
                                       (issues related to transboundary
                                       use and considerations) among
                                       all stakeholders.
                 Alternative  0.33     Some domestic benefits by        Expanded information
                                       virtue o f expanded knowledge    concerning the transboundary
                                       leading to better-informed       issues related to an integrated
                                       judgments regarding water use    approach to the management o f
                                       at local and national levels.    Basin resources. Specific
                                                                        improvements in information to
                                                                        the OMVS and senior levels o f
                                                                        govemment to facilitate a
                                                                        basin-wide approach to
                                                                        integrated management o f shared
                                                                        resources. Expanded provisions
                                                                        for community-level input into
                                                                        regional management
                                                                        amroaches.
                IIncrement    0.33
                              14.789

                   Alternativ 22.039
                         Tota
            GEFIncrementTota 7.250




                                          - 68 -

                       Annex 5: Financial Summary
 AFRICA Senegal River Basin Water and Environmental Management Project




African DevelopmentBank       1.oo      1.01    1.01     0.75     0.25
FrenchGovernment             0.53       0.53   0.52      0.00     0.00
Governmentof Nertherlands     1.96      1.96    1.62     1.21     0.41
OMVS                                    0.13             0.09
TotalProjectFinancing       I 0.12
                              4.95     16.53  I 0.13
                                                5.46    13.19    I 0.03
                                                                   1.07




                                  - 69 -

                               Annex 6(A): Procurement Arrangements
      AFRICA: Senegal River Basin Water and Environmental Management Project

Procurement

1. GeneralOverview

1. CPAR. A Country Procurement Assessment Review (CPAR) was conducted in 1994 and its main
recommendations were reflected in a new procurement code. This code was published in the official
gazette o f Senegal in July 2002. The implementation o f this code has been incomplete, as some o f the
arrangements have not yet been made operational. Some o f the key improvements include devolution or
procurement responsibility to ministries and public entities, which would streamline the process and reduce
processing time. The present Project, under Components 4 and 5, will contribute to a better dissemination
o f the code within the communities and private sector. A new CPAR has been completed and was made
available April 2003. The ensuing recommendations are expected to help further enhance the procurement
framework.    The overall procurement context in Senegal has been deemed satisfactory and no major
problems have beenidentifiedinBank projects.

2. Bank. The Bank will finance goods, consultancies, training, and other local activities necessary to
implement the Project. The procurement o f goods, works, and services will be done in accordance with the
Bank's Guidelines on Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits (January 1995, Revised January
and August 1996, September 1997, and January 1999) and the Guidelines on Selection and Employment
of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers (January 1997, revised September 1997, January 1999, and
May 2002). The Bank's standard bidding documents for goods and the standard forms o f contract and
request for proposals for consulting services will be used under the Project. Any goods or services not
financed by the Bank will be procured inaccordance with the public procurement regulations o f the country
or the co-financing institution's procurement regulations.

2. Advertisingof ProcurementOpportunities

3. GPN. A General Procurement Notice (GPN) will be published in the United Nations Development
Business (UNDB) on-line and print versions as well as in local newspapers to advertise for any
International Competitive Bidding (ICB) for goods and for major consulting assignments to obtain
expression o f interest. The GPN will be updated when the final procurement plan is completed to indicate
all of the procurement contracts for goods estimated to cost the equivalent o f US$lOO,OOO, or more, where
I C B would be used. The GPN will be updated on an annual basis to indicate all outstanding ICBs for
goods, contracts, and all International Consulting Services estimated to cost the equivalent value o f
US$200,000 or more.

4. SPN. Specific Procurement Notices (SPN) for goods to be procured under I C B and expressions o f
interest for consultants' services estimated to cost the equivalent o f US$lOO,OOO and above would also be
publishedin UNDB, as well as inthe national press o f the Senegal River Basin riparian countries and in
international newspapers or acceptable magazines. In addition, expressions o f interest for such contracts
may be sought from prospective consultants by advertising in national newspapers o f riparian countries or
techmcal magazines. Assignments estimated to cost US$lOO,OOO or less may be advertised regionally in
riparian countries. The short-list for assignments estimated to cost the equivalent amount o f US$lOO,OOO or
less may be made up entirely o f consultants from the Senegal River Basin riparian countries, provided that
no more than two consulting f m s or individuals from any one riparian are on the short-list, at least three


                                                    - 70 -

qualified firms or individual consultants from the Senegal River Basin riparian countries are available, and
foreign consultants who wish to participate are not excluded from consideration. Procurement notices for
contracts below US$lOO,OOO will be placed in the regional press in each o f the Senegal River Basin
countries.

5. Procurement Capacity. The Cellule RCgionale de Gestion du projet (CRGP) is the unit incharge o f the
Project coordination and execution; it is based at Dakar within the Organisation pour la Mise en Valeur du
Fleuve Senegal (OMVS) office. Because there is no procurement specialist inthe CRGP, it i s envisaged to
use the Assistance administrative et Jinancier (AAF, administrative and financial assistant) for handling
procurement activities. Nevertheless, to provide procurement support, a full-time procurement specialist
will be recruited prior to effectiveness.

6. Procurement Specialist. This procurement specialist will be recruited and located withinthe CRGP and
will give help and advice to the National Cellule teams from time to time to monitor the progress o f
procurement and implementation o f each contract under the Project and will ensure effective and timely
Project execution. The procurement specialist will be expected to (i) ensure quality, (ii) on
                                                                         help                      focus
specific procurement problems and issues, (iii)make a significant contribution to ensuring that
procurement takes place as rapidly and effectively as possible; and (iv) coordinate with the AAF to ensure
overall integration o fprocurement plans and financial reports.

3. ProcurementPlanning

7. Procurement Plans. Draft procurement plans for the program's first-year implementation were prepared
during appraisal. These plans were finalized during negotiations and will be included in the Project
Implementation Plan (PIP). The plans are based on the initial needs o f the program and the work programs
submittedby the OMVS. The exact mix o f procurement will be determined on an annual basis during the
annual joint reviews among OMVS, Bank, and other partners, when procurement plans for the following
financial year will be presented and agreed upon. The plan will include relevant information on goods and
consulting services under the Project, indicating the procurement method as well as the timing o f each
milestone in the procurement process. The procurement schedule will be updated every semester and
reviewed by Bank during each supervision mission.

8. Procurement Arrangements. The Senegal River Basin Water and Environmental Management Project
is a stand-alone GEF Project. The Bank-financed portion will be executed on behalf o f the Senegal River
Basin riparian countries by the OMVS and is funded from one single source: the GEF Trust Fund in the
amount o f US$m 5.26 equivalent.         This Annex outlines procurement arrangements for GEF-funded
activities. The procurement o f goods and equipment financed through the World Bank by the GEF Trust
Fundwill follow the World Bank's Guidelinesfor Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits dated
January 1995, and revisedJanuary and August 1996, September 1997, and January 1999. Procurement o f
services financed by the GEF Trust Fund will follow the World Bank's Guidelines for Selection and
Employment of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers dated January 1997 and revised September 1997,
January 1999, and May 2002.         The World Bank's latest editions o f standard bidding documents and
contracts will be used.

9. Procurement Package Preparation. All procurement will be carried out in accordance with the
procurement plan and as agreed with the Bank. The CRGP/OMVS will forward the procurement packages
to the Bank for prior review and non-objection, as required.




                                                   -71  -

4. ProcurementMethods(SeeTable A)
I O . Procurement Methods. The Project elements by disbursement category, their estimated costs, and
procurement methods are summarized in Table A. Thresholds for procurement methods and prior review
are summarized inTable B.

4a) Goods (GEFWorld Bank(WB) US$m 1.06).

11.Goods financed under the Projectwould include lightvehicles, computers, andmiscellaneous equipment
for implementing agencies. The total value o f goods i s estimated at about US$m 1.06 equivalent for the
Project.

12. Technical equipment and other goods costing US$200,000 and more per contract will be subject to ICB
requirements. Goods estimated to cost less than US$200,000 equivalent per contract up to an aggregate
value o f US$l,OOO,OOO may be awarded on the basis o f National Competitive Bidding( N C B t i t should
be noted that, for this Project, N C B includes all o f the participating riparian countries and bidding
opportunities will therefore be publishedin all riparian countries for NCB.

13. For goods, contracts below US$50,000 will be procured through prudent National Shopping in
accordance with provisions o f paragraph 3.5 o f the Guidelines and the Bank's guidance procurement note
on handling procurement under shopping method (June 8, 2000) up to an aggregate amount o f
US$340,000. Solicitations will be issued inwritingto at least three reputable suppliers (preferably more) in
order to receive at least three competitive quotations. Solicitations will give specifications, and if not
immediately available, the delivery time. Writtenquotations will be opened at the same time for evaluation
and records o f award decisions will be kept for Bank supervision missions and audits.

14. Direct contracting may be occasionally used with prior non-objection o f the Bank for the procurement
o f spare parts, operating expenditures, minor off-the-shelf items, and other specialized equipment and
proprietary items costing less than US$5,000 equivalent per contract up to an aggregate o f the equivalent
value o f US$200,000.

4b) Consultants' Services (GEFWB US$m1.22).
15. Consultant Services. Because the majority o f work undertaken in this Project is capacity buildingand
technical assistance to the Senegal River Basin riparian countries, a large percentage o f the expenditures
will be for Consultants' Services, much o f which will be based in the Senegal River Basin. Following
agreed upon criteria, the CRGP will maintain and update a list o f consultants that will be used to establish
short-lists. The short-lists will be established based on expressions o f interests received through GPNs and
Specific Advertisementsplaced inthe UNDB and/or regional newspapers, depending on the estimated value
o f such assignments. Consultant firms financed under the Project will be selected in accordance with Bank
Consultant Guidelines through a Quality and Cost-Based Selection (QCBS), and by using the Bank's
Standard Request for Proposals. Specialized Consultants' Services from the Senegal River Basin riparian
countries, below an estimated contract value o f US$lOO,OOO equivalent, will be selected on the basis o f
Consultant Qualifications (CQ) from the predetermined roster o f qualified consultants. Training under the
Project will be implemented according to an annual training plan that the CRGP will prepare and submit to
the Bank for non-objection before implementation. More specifically, the following selection procedures
would be used for Consultants' Services:

a)       QCBS: All consulting service contracts valued at more than US$lOO,OOO equivalent would be
awarded through the QCBS method. To ensure that priority is given to the identification o f suitable and


                                                     - 72 -

qualified national consulting firms, short-lists for QCBS contracts estimated at or less than US$lOO,OOO
equivalent may be composed entirely o f national consultants from the Senegal River Basin riparian
countries, with no more than two firms on the short-list from any one riparian country (in accordance with
the provisions of paragraph 2.7 of the Consultant Guidelines), provided that a sufficient number of
qualified individual or firms (at least three) are available. However, if foreign firms have expressed interest,
they would not be excluded from consideration.

b)       Selection based on CQ Selection may be used for Consultants' Services contracts below an
estimated contract amount o f US$lOO,OoO equivalent for research and targeted interventions for which
organizations with specialized expertise, strong capacities to work with multi-national groups, and proven
track records would be recruited. CQ may also be used for the selection o f training institutions for
contracts to provide training services that are estimated to cost up to US$lOO,OOO equivalent per contract.

c)       Single Source Selection (SSS) may be used exceptionally for training, for a specific task in a case
where only one firm has specific qualified experience, and for consulting assignments costing less than
US$50,000 per contract up to an aggregate amount o f the equivalent value o f US$300,000.

d)       The selection of Individual Consultants (IC) services: Consultants for services meeting the
requirements o f Section V o f the Consultant Guidelines will be selected under the provisions for the
Selection of Individual Consultants method. ICs will be selected through the comparison o f curriculum
vitae against job description requirements o f those expressinginterest inthe assignment or o f those having
been identified directly by the CRGP. Civil servants from the riparian countries cannot be hired as
consultants under the Project.

4c) Training andWorkshops (GEFWB US$m 1.70)
16. Training, workshops, conference attendance, and study tours will be carried out on the basis o f
approved annual programs that will identify the general framework o f training and similar activities for the
year, including the nature o f trainindstudy tours/workshops, the number o f participants, and cost
estimates. For national training and workshops, preference will be givento consultants from the country in
which the training i s beingorganized, providedthat a sufficient number o f qualified individuals or firms (at
least three) are available. For regional training, preference will be given to consultants from the Senegal
River Basin riparian countries, provided that no more than two consultants from any one riparian are
short-listed and a sufficient number o f qualified individuals or firms (at least three) is available.

4d) OperationalExpenses(GEFWB US$m1.28)
17. The OMVS will establish and staff the CRGP office at the OMVS High Commission in Dakar. The
CRGP will assist OMVS inProject management and implementation. Project staff will be employed using
standard OMVS employment contracts and those Project staff employed under the World Bank-funded
portion o f the Project will be hired in accordance with Section V o f the Bank's Consultant Guidelines.
Other operational costs, such as utilities, printing, translation, and office supplies, will be purchased based
on standard OMVS procedures. All the above positions will be advertised.

18.Prior Review Thresholds (Table A). The World Bank will conduct a prior review o f the following
procurement documentation:

a)       Goods and equipment: All Contracts estimated to cost the equivalent value o f US$lOO,OOO or
more will be submitted for prior review. The first N C B contract shall also be subject to prior review.



                                                      - 73 -

b)       Consultants' services: All contracts with firms estimated to cost the equivalent value o f
USSlO0,OOO or more, will be submittedfor prior review as per Appendix Io f the Guidelines, while the first
contract with firms below US$lOO,OOO will be reviewed. Individual consultant contracts above US$50,000
will all be subject to prior review. Preparing TORs will be under the responsibility o f the appropriate
CRGP staff and OMVS shall be responsible for review o f all TORs. A large portion o f this Project will
consist o f small stand-alone Consultants' Services. To streamline Project operations, the Bank will not
review the TORs for any contract less than USS50,OOO. Moreover, the Bank will only review the first TOR
for Consultants' Services that falls inthe following broad categories:
    0     Workshop facilitation (national wofkshop)
    0     Workshop facilitation (regional workshop)
          Water quality training workshop facilitation (national workshop)
    0     Water quality training workshop facilitation (regional workshop)
    0     Interpretatiodtranslation
    0     Information Technology (IT) technical support to CRGP

c)       Operational expenses: All individual long-term contracts (greater than six months) for Project
staff will be subject to prior review.

d)      SSS: All Single Source Selection (regardless o f value), assignments o f a critical nature (as
determined by Bank), or amendments of contracts raising the contract value above the prior review
thresholds will be subject to the Bank's prior review.

19.     Ex-post review: Contracts that are not subject to prior review are subject to ex-post review.

Procurement methods (Table A)

                             Table A. ProjectCostsbyProcurementArrangements
                                                    (US$m equivalent)




   '
   '  Figures inparenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Grant. All costs include contingencies.
      Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services o f contracted
      staff o fthe Project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental operating costs related to

   '  (i)managing the Project and (ii)re-lending Project funds to local government units.
      N.B.F.=Not Bank Financed




                                                            - 74 -

 Table B. Thresholdsfor ProcurementMethods and TotalAmount of Contractunder Prior Review



          Expenditure               Contract Value               Procurement              Contracts Subjectto
             Category                Threshold                      Method                    Prior Review
                                   (US$ thousands)                                                (US$m)
      1.Works
     L. Goods                           >200                          ICB            All
                                        <200                          NCB            FirstNCB contract
                                         <50                       Shopping          Firsttwo contracts
                                          <5                 Direct contracting      All
     !.Services

     Firms                              >loo                         QCBS            All
                                        4 0 0                    CQ (training)       based on approved
                                                                                     annualprograms
                                        4 0 0                 CQ (for research)      Firstcontract
                                         e50                          sss            All

     Individuals                         >50              Section V of Consultants All
                                                                  Guidelines
                                         >10                          sss            ALL



 20. Overall Procurement Risk Assessment.The riskidentified inthe procurement aspect is average, so
 particular attention should be paid during the recruitment o f the procurement specialist to be incharge o f
 these aspects o f the Project execution.

 21. Frequency of Procurement Supervision Missions Proposed. Once every four months (includes
 special procurement supervision for post-reviewiaudits) duringthe first year and once every six months for
 the remaining period.
B. Disbursement

22. Allocations of Grant Proceeds (Table C). The proposed allocation o f grant proceeds is shown inTable
C. Disbursements o f GEF h d s will finance 100 percent o f all expenditures in foreign and local currency:
(i) percentoflocalandintemationalconsultantsservices;(ii)100percentofpersonnel; (iii) percent
   100                                                                                              100
of training/workshops; (iv) 100 percent o f equipment; and (v) 100 percent o f operating costs and training.
The OMVS has Intemational Organization status in Senegal and, therefore, is exempt from the Standard
Disbursement Percentage (SDP) requirement.        This exemption has also been documented in Section I:
Compliance with Bank Policies o f the Project Appraisal Document. All withdrawal applications must be
fully documented, except for expenses claimed against contracts not subject to prior review by the Bank. For
the rest o f the contracts, disbursements will be made against Statement o f Expenses (SOEs) certified by the
AAF at the CRGP.




                                                     - 75 -

                                   Table C. Allocation of Grant Proceeds

       Expenditure Category              Amount in $USm          Foreign Financing        Local Financing
                                                                    Percentage              Percentage
 1. Consultant Services                         1.22                    100                      100
2. Training and Workshops                       1.70                    100                      100
3. Goods                                        1.06                    100                      100
4. Operating Costs                              1.28                    100                      100

 Total Project Costs                            5.26

23. Use of SOEs. Requests for funds withdrawals will be properly documented for all expenditures to be
paid out o f the GEF Grant, except for the following contracts for which disbursements will be made against
SOEs certified by the CPRG regional Project coordinator: (i)contracts for goods with a unitary value below
US$50,000 equivalent; (ii)contracts with consulting firms with a unitary value below US$lOO,OOO
equivalent and with individual consultants for an amount below US$50,000 equivalent; (iii)additional
operating expenses; and (iv) training. Documentation o f such SOEs will be retainedby the CRGP and made
available for review, on request, to procurement and financial auditors and to WBIGEF supervision
missions.

24. Special Account. Inorder to facilitate the Project implementation and reduce the volume of withdrawal
applications, the OMVS will open a Special Account inCFAF ina commercial bank on terms and conditions
acceptable to WBIGEF. The authorized allocation will be CFAF300,000,000 and will cover about four
months o f eligible expenditures. Upon Project effectiveness, WBIGEF will deposit the amount o f CFAF
150,000,000 representing50 percent o f the authorized allocation into the Special Account. The remaining
balance will be made available when the aggregate amount o f withdrawals from the GEF Grant account, plus
the total amount o f all outstanding special commitments entered into by the WB/GEF, shall be equal to or
exceed the equivalent o f Dollar 1,000,000. Payments out o f the Special Account shall be made exclusively
for eligible expenditures in accordance with the provisions o f the grant agreement. After the Bank has
received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals o f the
Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenishthe Special Account shall be made. For each
payment made by the Recipient out o f the Special Account the Recipient shall, at such time as the Bank shall
reasonably request, furnish to the Bank such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was
made exclusively for eligible expenditure.




                                                    - 76 -

25. Flow of Funds. Project flow of funds and flow of information i s illustrated inFigure 1

                                              Figure1.Flow of Funds



                       I         Interministerial Council

                                      4
                                      I




                                      h




                             71
                                    National Cellules




      ___,      .+      Flow o f information
                        Flowoffund




C. FinancialManagement

1. Staffing and ImplementationArrangements

26. Implementation Arrangements.            CRGP will be housed at OMVS offices and will be, under the
supervision o f OMVS, in charge o f all aspects o f financial management o f the Project. CRGP will thus
benefit from OMVS experience interms o fmanaging Bank funds. The mainrecommendations below relative
to the staff, to the information system, and to the organization should be implemented before the effectiveness
o f the Project.




                                                        - 77 -

27. Staffing at the Central Level (regional). CRGP will be headed by a regional coordinator who will
supervise a team including a financial and administrative assistant (AAF). The AAF must be inplace before
effectiveness and will have a technical support o f the OMVS accounting staff already in place. OMVS
accounts and finance staffs have satisfactory qualification and professional experience and have been trained
inWorld Bank procurement, disbursement, and financial management procedures. The experience of OMVS
managing its own IDA credit has proved satisfactory.

28. Staffing at the Country Level (three country members of OMVS, including Guinea). At a national
level, the Project will be managed by an OMVS National Cellule with the support o f ComitC National de
Coordination (CNC). The National Cellule will be made o f four staffs (Coordinateur Cellule Nationale,
Expert en information      et participation, Assistant Comptable, Expert National Micro Finance). An
accounting assistant will assume, at a national level, all the accounting and financial duties for the Project,
includingjustification o f the management o f funds at the local level. To that extent, the accounting assistant
will work closely with the Comite Local de Coordination (CLC). The AAF and four accounting assistants at
the National Cellule should be hiredprior to the Board date and the OMVS has agreed to finance this staff
with the understanding that a retroactive financing clause, to reimburse the OMVS, will be included in the
grant agreement. A procurement specialist will be recruited and located within the CRGP, will give help and
advice to the National Cellule teams from time to time to monitor the progress o f procurement and
implementation o f each contract under the Project, and will ensure effective and timely Project execution.

29. Accounting Policies and Procedures. OMVS has been applying satisfactory procedures since it was
set up. However, these procedures have not been formalized in a reference document such as a manual, and
they will probably be different from the procedures o f the current Project. A manual o f administrative,
accounting, and financial procedures will be developed by the Project before effectiveness. This manual must
include accounting policies and procedures, definition o frespective dutieswith a good segregation, budgeting
system and all relevant administrative and financial procedures, relation among the components o f the
Project, and reporting mechanisms at each level (regional, national, and local). All the staff and the
stakeholders involved inthe Project must be trained inthose procedures.

30. Reporting and Monitoring. CRGP will prepare quarterly Financial Management Reports (FMR). The
format o f the FMR will be discussed and agreed upon before effectiveness. The quarterly reports will cover
financial management, procurement, and physical progress monitoring, covering all activities financed under
the Project regardless o f the source o f funding. N o major problem is expected with the financial and
procurement reports. Areas o f concem include the physical progress monitoring report where CRGP lacks
experience, which would require additional efforts. Those physical progress reports will be based on the
outcome indicators.

31. Financial Management Information System. A computerized financial management system must be
installed for the CRGP. The chart o f accounts o f the Project and the report formats mustbe customized prior
to effectiveness.

32. Audit Arrangements. The Project's accounts will be subject to annual external audit by a reputable
auditing firm based on TOR appropriate for the Project's scope to be approved by Bank. These TOR will
cover the Project's accounts, the statements o f expenditures, and the special account. The selection o f the
auditor for the Project will be a condition o f credit effectiveness. The annual audit reports will be submitted
to Bank within six months o f the end o f each fiscal year @e., by June 30).




                                                       - 78 -

33. Conditions. The Effectiveness conditions are detailed in PAD Section G. As part of the financial
management assessment, Table D reflects the action plan that was agreed o n with OMVS and that was part
of the negotiation package, and financial management assessment.


                                Table D. Financial Management Action Plan




4) Development o f the Project's  1   Recruitment o f a consulting firm (TOR and        1November 15,2003
manual o f procedures             short-list approved by Bank)
                                  1   Draft manual submit to Bank and comments sent     1December 7,2003
                                  to borrower
                                  I         Final version incorporating WB comments     1December 15, 2003
                                  ready

                                  1   Training o f the staff and stakeholders           1December 31,2003
5) Installation o f the           1   Developing a chart o f accounts reflecting the    1December 15,2003
computerized financial            activitieshources o f financing o f the Project
management system                I1   Bank and Project to agree on set o f physical    I1December 31,2003
                                  progress monitoring indicators
                                  1   Customizing the agreed format for the quarterly   1December 31,2003
                                  FMRs
                                  1   Completing the testing o f the transactions       1December 31,2003
                                  recording and reports printing




                                                       - 79 -

            Annex 6(B): Financial Management and Disbursement Arrangements
       AFRICA: Senegal River Basin Water and Environmental Management Project

FinancialManagement
1. Summary of the FinancialManagementAssessment
see Section C above
2. Audit Arrangements
see paragraph 34 above
3. DisbursementArrangements
See Section B above
Allocation of grant proceeds (Table C)
see Table C above




                                          - 80 -

                               Annex 7: Project Processing Schedule
       AFRICA Senegal River Basin Water and Environmental Management Project



 Time taken to prepare the project (months)                  13                         18
 First Bank mission (identification)                         09/27/2001                 09/27/2001

IAppraisal mission departure                      I          0111112003                 01/22/2003
INegotiations                                                02/24/2003                 07/29/2003
IPlanned Date of Effectiveness                    II         07/01/2003          III    01/05/2004    III

Prepared by:

 B. People from Outside the Bank Who Worked on the Document:
 -Mohamed Salem Ould Merzoug, High Commissioner, Djibril Sall, Abdoul Ba (OMVS)
 -Cheick Oumar Diallo, Directeur (Direction Nationale de l'Hydraulique, Guinea)
 -Amadou Diallo, Coordinateur, Technique (Cellule Nationale OMVS, Mali)
 -Brahim Ould Bah Conseiller, Technique (Cellule Nationale OMVS, Mauritania)
 -Ababacar Ndao, Coordinateur (Cellule National OMVS, Senegal)
 -Abdoulaye Ndiaye, Regional GEF Coordinator (UNDP/West Central Africa)
 -Martha Jarosewich-Holder, International Waters Specialist (WB/UNDP)
 -Mbarack Diop, Consultant (World Bank UNDP)
 -Marcel Alers, Regional GEF Coordinator (UNDP MENA)




                                                    - 81 -

Preparationassistance:

 Preparation assistance:                              US$ million
GEF PDF Block A Grant                                   0.025m
GEF PDF Block B Grant                                   0.350m
World Bank BB Budget                                    0.032m
World Bank BBGEF Budget                                 0.282m
Canadian International Dev. Agency Trust Fund           O.lllm
Germany Government o f the Federal Rep.Trust            0.035m
Fund
                                         Total          0.835m




                                                      Speciality
                                      Sector Manager, AFTU2
Ousmane Dione                         Senior Water Resources Management Specialist, Task Team Leader,
                                      AFTU2
Hans Werner Wabnitz                   Senior Legal Counsel, LEGAF
Jean-Paul Lecomte                     Senior Water Resources Management Specialist, AFTU2
Undala Alam                           Water Resources Specialist AFTU2
Stephen Lintner                       Senior Advisor, ESDQC (Peer Reviewer)
Irene Xenalus                         Operations Advisor, Quality Assurance, AFTOS
Bourama Diaite                        Senior Procurement Specialist, AFTPC
Fily Sissoko                          Lead Financial Management Specialist, AFTFM
Aissata Zerbo                         Procurement Analyst, AFTU2
Wolfgang Chadab                       Finance Officer, LOAGl
Marie-Adele Tchakounte-Sitchet        Program Assistant, AFTU2
Armele Vilceus                        Team Assistant, AFTU2
AstridHillers                         Water Resources Specialist, AFTES (Peer Reviewer)
Inesis Kislus                         Senior Environmental Specialist, ECSSD (Peer Reviewer)
John Boyle                            Environmental Safeguards Specialist, AFTES
DanAronson                            Social Safeguards Specialist, AFTES
Jeffrey Lecksell                      Cartographer, GSDGP




                                              - 82 -

                               Annex 8: Documents in the Project File*
      AFRICA: Senegal River Basin Water and Environmental Management Project


A. Project Implementation Plan
Senegal River BasinWater and Environmental Management Project-Project          Implementation Plan.
Senegal River Basin Water and Environmental Management Project-Microgrants            Program Operational
Manual (draft).
Senegal River Basin Water and Environmental Management Project-Environmental                  Management
Framework.

B. Bank Staff Assessments
World Bank (AFTFM) Senegal River Basin (Organisation pour la Mise en Valuer du Fleuve Senegal,
OMVS) Financial Management Assessment (June 2003).
World Bank (AFTPC) Senegal River Basin (OMVS)Procurement Assessment (June 2003).

C. Other
BaldC, E.C. 2001. Etude pour l'inventaire national des base de connaissances environnementales dans le
bassin du fleuve Senegal. Rapport final, Juin 2001,33 pages.
BanqueMondiale. 1998.Programme de la BanqueMondiale au SCnCgal.Missionresidente Dakar.       -
Barry, E.M.A. 2001. Projet GEF de gestion des ressources en eau et des l'environnement du bassin du
fleuve Sentgal: Structure de gestion environnementale. Rapport final, Juin 2001, 39 pages.
Camara, E. 2001. Etude sur l'environnement national preliminaire de la base de connaissance des
ressources en eau et de l'environnement dans lapartie malienne du bassindu fleuve SCnCgal.
CEE. 1985. Taming the floods: environmental aspects of floodplain development inAfrica. Leiden: Centre
for Environmental Studies, State Universityo f Leiden.
Coulibaly, G. 1997. Evaluation de l'irnpact des variations du niveau dureservoir dubarrage de Manantali
sur les mollusques hates intermediaires de la bilharziose. Societe de gestion du barrage de Manatali
(SOGEM). Organisation pour la Mise en Valuer du Fleuve Senegal (OMVS).
Diarra, A. 2001. Etude pour l'inventaire national des base de connaissances environnementales dans le
bassin du fleuve S6n6gal. Rapport final, 60 pages.
Dieng, B. 2001. Projet GEF de gestion des ressources en eau et de l'environnement du bassin du fleuve
Senegal :Analyse des priontCs et opportunites. Rapport final, M a i 2001,35 pages.
Dione E, 2001. Etude institutionnelle de la gestion des ressources en eau et de l'environnement du bassin
du fleuve Senegal. Rapport final, Juillet 2001.
Dione, A. 1993. StratCgie de Mobilisation, de Recherche-Action et de Formationpour la Restauration et
la Valorisation de la BiodiversitC dans le bas delta du fleuve S6nCgal (Gandiole). Document de technique de
synthbse. CCFTA. 18pages.
Dione 0,1996. Evolutionclimatique rkcente et dynamique fluviale dans les bassins des fleuves Sen6gal et
Gambie. These de Doctorat, publication ORSTOM, 489 pages.
Dione0,1998. Gestiondes ressources en eau et amenagements dans le bassindu fleuve Senegal. Actes du
colloque de IHES, rabat, 15 pages.
Dione Ousmane, 2000. Gestion des ressources en eau et dynamiques de conflits a venir dans les milieux
tropicaux secs ahcains. Cahiers de Geographie Tropicale, UniversitC de Bordeaux, 18 pages.
Diop, M.& Jobin, W.R. 1997. Analyse de sante du projet Energie de Manantali de I'OMVS en Afrique
de l'Ouest: Evaluation des essais de recherche operationnelle de contrale de la bilharziose dans le cadre du
projet Energie de Manantali de I'OMVS en Afrique de l'Ouest. Blue Nile Associates, Massachusetts, &


                                                     - 83 -

Tropica, Dakar. 56 pages.
Diop, M. & Jobin, W.R. 1994. Present health conditions of Senegal River Basin. Blue Nile Associates,
Massachusetts, Tropica, Dakar. Doc. Multigr.
Diop, M. & Jobin, W.R. 1997. Health analysis of operational research trials for bilharzia control in
Manantali energy project o f OMVS in West Africa. Final report TROPICA, Dakar, Blue Nile Associates,
Massachusetts. OMVS, World Bank. 105 pages.
Diop, M. & Jobin, W.R. 1994. Senegal River Basin Master Plan study. WASH Field Report N 453.
C D M and Associates, USAID. 163 pages.
Fall, S.M., TraorC, M.B., & S h e S. 2001. Problematique de la participation du public a la gestion du
bassin du fleuve Senegal: Cas de la partie sknegalaise dubassin. Rapport final, Juillet 2001, 43 pages.
Fall, O.M.M.M., Marico, D., & Kamara, C.S. 2001. Programme de participation du public dans la
gestion des ressources du bassin du fleuve Senegal. Rapport final, Aout 2001,60 pages.
EQUESEN1993. Rapport de synthese, Tome 4 Chapitre VII: Relations eaux de surface-eaux souterraines
dans la vallke alluviale. Chapitre VIII: Hydrologie estuarienne (Diama): Apports fluviaux de matieres en
suspension et en solution A l'embouchure du fleuve Senegal, faqonnement des paysages dans la basse vallee
du delta du Senegal. Orstom. Equesenprojet CEE TS2 0198 FEDB.doc. Multigr.
EQUESEN. 1993. Rapport de synthbse, Tome 1. Chapitre I: Historique de Ptolbmee a Manantali.
Chapitre I1 : Le bassin versant du fleuve Senegal. Orstom, Equesen, projet CEE TS2 0198 F EDB.doc.
Multigr.
EQUESEN. 1993. Rapport de synthese, Tome 3. Chapitre V: flux de matieres en suspension et bilan de
l'erosion des sols dans le bassin versant amont du Senegal.
Chapitre VI: Flux de matibres dissoutes et bilan de l'altbration chimique, geodynamique actuelle des
paysages amont, evolution de la qualite chlmique des eaux du fleuve Senegal. Orstom, Equesen, projet
CEE TS2 0198 F EDB.doc. Multigr.
GRS. 1997. Orientations et Strategies pour une Agriculture Senegalaise Competitive et Durable. Rapport
provisoire du Groupe de Reflexion Strategique. Dakar, AoQt 1997. 46 pages.
Horowitz, M. & Salem-Murdock, M. 1997. Politique de developpement du bassin du fleuve Senegal:
Quelles incidences sur les femmes et les enfants? Etude de cas sur la vallke du fleuve Senegal.
OMVSISOGEM. Traduit par Sow, B. 32 pages.
Jobin, W.R. 1997. Irrigation planning and prevention of bilharzia; 1995 costs. Blue Nile Handbook 1 4
edition September 1997. Blue Nile publications.
Kaba,M.,Camara, G.A., & Diallo, E.M.A. 2001. Formulation de la composante participationdupublic
dans la gestion des ressources en eau du bassin du fleuve Senegal. Rapport final, Aout 2001.
MARA. 1991. Hydraulique Villageoise. Lettre de politique de developpement. Service National
d'Amenagement des Points d'Eau, Mars 1991.
MPC. 1989. Plan d'orientation pour le developpement Economique et Social 1989-1995 (VIII e Plan).
Dakar, Ministbre du Plan et de la Cooperation.161 pages.
MDR & MPN. 1986. Programme Indicatif de Lutte contre la Desertification (version provisoire). Ref.
Senegal ICILSSIProgramme Allemand. Dakar Juillet 1986. 87 pages.
MDR. 1986. Actes du Seminaire Inter-Etats sur les Associations Pastorales. Projet de Developpement de
1'Elevage au Senegal Oriental PDESO, Tambacounda. Direction de la SantC et des Productions Animales.
170pages.
MDRH & CCE. 1992. Evaluation du projet de restauration du milieu nature1 de Podor (PREMINA)
Phase 11, Premiere partie, PREMINA 6 eme FED. Africa Asien Bureau, Delegation de la CEE a Dakar.
Doc. Multigr.
MPN. 1989. Plan National de Lutte contre la Secheresse et la Desertification. Dakar, Ministere de la
Protection de la Nature. 257 pages.
*Including electronic files



                                                   - 84 -

                                           Annex 9: Statement of Loans and Credits
               AFRICA: Senegal River Basin Water and Environmental Management Project
                                                                  06-Aug-2003
                                                                      Guinea
                                                                                                                           Difference between expected
                                                                                                                                    and actual
                                                                       Original Amount in US$ Millions                            disbursements*
 Project ID   FY   Purpose                                          IBRD        IDA                        Cancel.  Undisb.       Orig   Frm Rev'd
P073378      2003 MULTI-SECTOPAL AIDS PROJECT(MAP)                     0.00      0.00                         0.00     19.78        1.51      0.00
PO74288      2003 Guinea: Decentralized Rural Eleclrificat             0.00      5.00                         0.00      5.72        0.57      0.00
PO50046      2002 EDUCATION FOR ALL PROJECT                            0.00     70.00                         0.00     71.19       -6.53      0.00
PO49716      2000 CAPACITY BUILDING FOR SERVICE DELIVE                 0.00     19.00                         0.00     13.22       19.60      0.00
PO01074      1999 URBAN Ill                                            0.00     18.00                         0.00     10.89       11.06      0.98
PO41568      1999 POP a REPROD HEALTH                                  0.00     11.30                         0.00      0.30       -1.03      0.00
P050732      1999 GuinmVILLAGE COMMUNITYSUPPORT PROG                   0.00     22.00                         0.00      9.35        9.95      0.00
PO01075      1997 THIRD WATERSUPPLY                                    0.00     25.00                         0.00     33.52        5.98     11.18

                                                            Total     000      17030                          000     16397        4112       1216




                                                                     AFRICA
                                                             STATEMENTOF IFC's
                                                           Heldand DisbursedPortfolio
                                                                      Guinea
                                                                  June 30 - 2003
                                                               InMillions U S Dollars


                                                                                   Committed                                Disbursed
                                                                                 IFC                                    IFC
     FY Approval              Company                                    Loan     Equity      Quasi     Partic    Loan     Equity       Quasi      Partic
     1988/92                  Aurifere                                   0.00       0.00       0.00      0.00      0.00      0.00         0.00       0.00
     1998                     SEF Agro                                   0.15       0.00       0.00      0.00      0.15      0.00         0.00       0.00
     1993198                  SGHI                                       0.00       0.00       0.51      0.00      0.00      0.00         0.51       0.00
                                        Total Portfolio:                 0.15       0.00       0.51      0.00       0.15       0.00       0.51       0.00



                                                                             Approvals Pending Commitment
     FY Approval             Company                                       Loan        Equity         Quasi     Partic


                             Total Pending Commitment:                      0.00          0.00        0.00        0.00




                                                                      - 85 -

                                                         MALI
                                                         06-Aug-2003
                                                                                                                    Difference between expected
                                                                                                                             and actual
                                                              Oriqinal Amount in US$ Millions                              disbursements'
 Project ID  FY    Purpose                                IBRD         IDA        SF        GEF    Cancel.   Undisb.       Orig   Frm Rev'd
P035630      2002 AGRICULTURAL AN0 PRODUCERORGANlZATl        0.00      43.50       0 00       0.00     0.00     42.45       16.34      0.00
PO72785      2002 SAC Ill                                    0.00      70.00       0.00       0.00     0.00     27.70      24.11       0.00
PO40650      2001 EDUCATION SECTOR EXPENDITURE PROGRAM       0.00      45.00       0.00       0.00     0.00     35.20      24.30       0.00
PO41723      2000 RURAL INFRASTRUCTURE                       0.00      115.10      0.00       0.00     0.00     98.26      53.66       0.00
PO01748      2000 FINANCE SECTOR OEVEL                       0.00      21.00       0.00       0.00     0.00     18.54       12.28      0.00
P040652      1999 INTEGRATED HEALTH SECTOR INVESTMENT        0.00      40.00       0.00       0.00     0.00     23.37      24.53       0.00
PO35617      1998 GRASSROOTS HUNiPOVT                        0.00      21.50       0.00       0.00     0.00      0.34        0.75      0.00
PO01750      1997 URBAN OEVT 8 DECENTR                       0.00      80.00       0.00       0.00     0.00     24.33       30.23      0.00
PO46651      1997 ML REGIONAL POWER                          0.00      17.10       0.00       0.00     0.00      2.15        2.28      0.24
PO01730      1994 TRANSPORT SECTOR                           0.00      65.00       0.00       0.00     0.00      4.70        6.80      3.49

                                                  Total:    0.00      518.20       0.00     0.00       0.00    277.03      195.27      3.73




                                                             Mali
                                                    STATEMENTOF IFC's
                                                  Heldand DisbursedPortfolio
                                                        June 30 - 2003
                                                     InMillions U S Dollars

                                                                           Committed                                 Disbursed
                                                                        IFC                                      IFC
     FY Approval            Company                            Loan      Equity      Quasi       Partic    Loan     Equity       Quasi     Partic
     1996                   AEF GGG                             0.35        0.00       0.35       0.00     0.35       0.00         0.35      0.00
     1994197103             Hotel Bamako                        1.75        0.00       0.00       0.00     0.00       0.00         0.00      0.00
     0                      PAL-GraphiqueId                     0.67        0.00       0.00       0.00     0.67       0.00         0.00      0.00
     0                      PAL-Rabelais                        0.18        0.00       0.00       0.00     0.18        0.00        0.00      0.00
     0                      PAL-SANKE                           0.48        0.00       0.00       0.00      0.48       0.00        0.00      0.00
     1997                    SEF 3T                             0.00        0.00       0.00       0.00      0.00       0.00        0.00      0.00
     1995                    SEMOS                              0.00        4.80       0.00       0.00      0.00       4.80        0.00      0.00
                                   Total Portfolio:            3.43         4.80       0.35       0.00       1.68       4.80        0.35      0.00



                                                                    Approvals Pending Commitment
     FY Approval            Company                               Loan        Equity         Quasi       Partic


                            Total Pending Commitment:              0.00          0.00          0.00        0.00




                                                            - 86 -

                                                    Mauritania
                                                    06-Au~-2003
                                                                                                                       Difference betmeenexpected
                                                                                                                                and actual
                                                                 Original Amount in US$ Millions                              disbursementsm
Project ID  FY    Purpose                                    IBRD         IDA        SF         GEF   Cancel.   Undisb.       Orig   Frm Rev'd
PO78383     2004 SECOND MINING SECTOR TA PROJECT                0.00      18.00       0.00       0.00     0.00     18.44        0.00      0.00
PO78368     2004 MULTISECTOR HlViAlDS CONTROL PROJECT           0.00       0.00       0.00       0.00     0.00     21.20        0.00      0.00

PO69095     2002 Urban Development Program                      0.00      70.00       0.00       0.00     0.00     74.07       19.52      0.00

PO71308     2002 EDUCATION SECTOR DEVELOPMENT PROGWM            0.00      49.20       0.00       0.00     0 00     46.93       -7.58      0.00

PO71881     2002 MR Global Distance Learning Center             0.00       3.30       0.00       0.00     0.00      2.71        1.30      0.00
PO64570     2000 CULTURAL HERITAGE                              0.00       5.00       0.00       0.00     0.00      2.76        2.18      0.00

PO66345     2000 MR EGYiWATEWSANITATlON SECTOR REFORM           0.00       9.90       0.00       0.00     0.00      5.04        7.85      0.00

PO44711     2000 Maur:iNTEG DEV PROG FOR IRRIGATEDAGR           0.00      38.10       0.00       0.00     0.00     13.84        5.76      0.00

PO63791     1999 MR - TELECOM a POSTAL     REFORM               0.00      10.80       0.00       0.00     0.00      2.68        2.79      0.00
PO55003     1999 NUTRITION (LIL)                                0.00       4.90       0.00       0.00     0.00      2.08        2.11      2.11
PO57875     1999 MINING SECT CAPACITY                           0.00      15.00       0.00       0.00     0.00      5.31        4.46      0.00
PO35689     1998 HEALTH SECTOR INVEST                           0.00      24.00       0.00       0.00     0.00      8.21        8.22      8.24

                                                     Total:    0.00      248.20       0.00     0.00       0.00    203.26       46.62      10.36



                                                            Mauritania
                                                      STATEMENTOF IFC's
                                                    HeldandDisbursedPortfolio
                                                           June 30 2003
                                                                    -
                                                        InMillionsU S Dollars

                                                                             Committed                                  Disbursed
                                                                           IFC                                      IFC
     FY Approval              Company                             Loan      Equity      Quasi       Partic    Loan     Equity        Quasi     Partic
     1996/00                  GBM                                  7.00       0.00        0.00       0.00     3.50        0.00        0.00     0.00
     0                        PAL-Tiviski                          0.57       0.00        0.00       0.00     0.57        0.00        0.00      0.00
                                      Total Portfolio:            7.57        0.00        0.00       0.00       4.07       0.00        0.00     0.00



                                                                       Approvals PendingCommitment
     FY Approval             Company                                  Loan        Equity        Quasi       Partic


                             Total PendingCommitment:                 0.00          0.00          0.00        0.00




                                                                - 87 -

                                                              Senegal
                                                               06-Aug-2003
                                                                                                                           Difference between expected
                                                                                                                                    and actual
                                                                    Original Amount in US$ Millions                               disbursements'
 Project ID   FY   Purpose                                      IBRD         IDA        SF         GEF    Cancel.   Undisb.       Orig   Frm Rev'd
PO51609      2003 Private Investment Promotion Project             0.00      46.00       0.00        0.00     0.00     47.38        0.00      0.00
PO74059      2002 HlViAlDS PREVENTION AND CONTROL PROJE            0.00      30.00       0.00        0.00     0.00     31.65        6.06      0.00
PO70541      2002 NUTRITION ENHANCEMENTPROGRAM                     0.00       14.70      0.00        0.00     0.00     14.61        4.92      0.00
PO41566      2001 SOCIAL DEVELOPMENT FUND PROGRAM                  0.00      30.00       0.00        0.00     0.00     25.46       17.32      0.00
PO41528      2001 LONG TERM WATER SECTOR PROJECT                   0.00      125.00      0.00        0.00     000     129.77      29.26       0.00
PO57996      2000 SN NATIONAL RURAL INFRAS                         0.00      28.50       0.00        0.00     0.00     22.00      22.13        0.59
PO55472      2000 URBAN MOBILITY IMPROVEMENT PROGRAM               0.00      70.00       0.00        0.00     0.00     70.62       51.65       0.00
PO47319      2000 QUALITY EDUCATION FORALL PROGRAM                 0.00      50.00       0.00        0.00     0.00     25.84      -24.19       0.00
PO69198      2000 Distance Learning Center LIL
                                          -                        0.00       2.10       0.00        0.00     0.00      0.36        0.19       0.00
PO67498      2000 PUBLIC SERV. INFO-SYSTEMSMODERNIZATI             0.00       10.15      0.00        0.00     0.00      4.34        4.24       3.79
PO02366      1999 SN TRANSPORT II                                  0.00      90.00       0.00        0.00     0.00     75.47      46.26        0.00
PO02367      1999 Senegal:AGR.SRCVESaPROD.ORGS                     0.00      27.40       0.00        0.00     0.00     15.51       15.14      -1.33
PO51610      1998 Senegal:AG.EXPORT PROMOTION                      0.00       8.00       0.00        0.00     0.00      3.45        3.33      -0.47
PO02365      1998 URB DEVT a DECEN PRO                             0.00      75.00       0.00        0.00     0.00     25.49       25.29      4.72
PO02369      1998 INTEGR.HEALTH SECT. DEV                          0.00      50.00       0.00        0.00     0.00     22.55       23.81       0.00
PO41567      1997 ENDEMiC DISEASES                                 0.00      14.90       0.00        0.00     0.00      8.28        8.44       8.52
PO46768      1997 SN SUST.PART.ENGY.MGMT.                          0.00       5.20       0.00        4.70     0.00      1.82        1.90       1.44
PO42056      1997 SN SUST PART ENGY MGMT                           0.00       0.00       0.00        4.70     0.00      0.85        0.82       0.39
PO02346      1995 WATER SECTOR                                     0.00      100.00      0.00        0.00     0.00     17.20       31.63     13.30

                                                        Total:    0.00      776.95       0.00      9.40       0.00    542.67      268.19      30.93




                                                                  Senegal
                                                         STATEMENTOF IFC's
                                                       Heldand Disbursed Portfolio
                                                              June 30 - 2003
                                                           InMillions US Dollars

                                                                                 Committed                                  Disbursed
                                                                              IFC                                       IFC
     FY Approval                Company                              Loan      Equity      Quasi        Partic    Loan     Equity       Quasi      Partic
     1996197198                 AEF SERT                             0.00         0.00       0.00        0.00      0.00       0.00        0.00       0.00
     1980                       BHS                                  0.00         0.46       0.00        0.00      0.00       0.46        0.00       0.00
     1999                       Ciments du Sahel                    16.04         2.26       2.81        0.00     16.04       2.26        2.81       0.00
     1997198                    GTI Dakar                            0.00         0.00       0.00        0.00      0.00       0.00        0.00       0.00
     1998                       SEF Fanaicha                         0.00         0.00       0.00        0.00      0.00       0.00        0.00       0.00
     2001                       SEF Royal Saly                        1.28        0.00       0.00        0.00      0.92       0.00        0.00       0.00
                                        Total Portfolio:            17.32         2.72       2.81        0.00      16.96       2.72        2.81      0.00



                                                                          Approvals Pending Commitment
     FY Approval                Company                                 Loan         Equity         Quasi       Partic


                               Total PendingCommitment:                  0.00          0.00           0.00        0.00




                                                                  - 88 -

                                         Annex I O : Senegal River Basin at a Glance
        AFRICA: Senegal River Basin Water and Environmental Management Project
                                                                         SenegaI        Low 8
 POVERTY and SOCIAL                                                        Basin       middle
                                                                       Countries       income      Development diamond.
 2001
 Population, mid-year (millions)                                             31.2      5,177.8                    Life expectancy
 GNI per capita (Atlas method, US$)                                           350        1,160
 GNI (Atlas method, US$ biliions)                                            11.0      5,990.3                           T

 Average annual growth, 1995-01

 Population (%)                                                               2.5          1.5
 Labor force I%)                                                              2.5          1.8     GNI                                  Gross
                                                                                                   per                                 primary
 Most recent estimate (latest year available, 1995-01)                                             capita                            enrollment
 Poverty I%of population below nationalpoverty line)
 Urban population (% of total populatlon)                                      38          42
 Life expectancy at birth (years)                                              47          64
 Infant mortality (per 7,000 live births)                                      96          58
 Child malnutrition (% of children under 51                                    25                          Access to improved water source
 Access to an improved water source (% ofpopulation)'                          62          79
 llliteracv (% ofpopulation age 15+)                                           59          24          -Senegal         Basin Countries
 Gross primary enrollment (% of school-age population)                         62          104
      Male                                                                     71          107         c low&middleincomegroup
      Female                                                                   53          100

 KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS and LONG-TERM TRENDS
                                                      1981        1991      2000         2001
                                                                                                   Economic ratios'
 GDP (US$ billions)                                     6.2       12.1       10.8         11.2
 Gross domestic investmenWGDP                          16.1       17.0       21.7         22.0
 Exports of goods and services/GDP                     27.5       24.6       28.9         30.1                         Trade

 Gross domestic savings/GDP                            -5.0       10.1       12.5         13.2
 Gross national savingsiGDP                            -6.2        8.8       13.5         11.5                           T
 Current account balancelGDP                          -16.2       -7.4        -6.7        -7.5
 Interest payments/GDP                                  1.5        1.4         1.3         1.6
 Total debt/GDP                                        78.3       91.0     113.0
 Total debt service/exports                            17.7       16.5       15.5
 Present value of debt/GDP                                           ..      67.7
 Present value of debUexports                                        ..    203.4
                                                                                                                    Indebtedness
                                                  1981.91     1991.01       2000         2001
 (average annual growth)
 GDP                                                    2.5        4.3        4.0          3.9         -"Senegal        Basin Countries
 GDP per capita                                        -0.2        1.6         1.5         1.4          ..- __.Low & middle income group
 Exports of goods and services                          3.2        4.9        5.9          3.7


 STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
                                                      igai       1991       2000         2001     IGrowth of  investment and GDP (%)
 (% of GDP)                                                                                                                                    i
 Agriculture                                          28.2        27.0       25.1         24.5
 Industry                                              16.7       23.6       29.1         30.5
    Manufacturina                                         ..       9.1        9.7          9.7
 Services                                              55.1       49.4       45.8         45.0

 Private consumption                                   85.6       77.4       77.4         76.8
 General government consumption                        19.5       12.5       10.1          9.9
 Imports of goods and services                        48.6        31.5       38.1         38.8


                                                  1981-91    1991.01        2000         2001      Growth of exports and Imports (%)
 (average annual growthj
 Aariculture                                            3.3        3.4        5.2         -2.4    '5 T                                         1
 Industry                                               2.8        5.4        6.1         10.0
    Manufacturing                                      4.1         3.7        5.2          3.9
 Services                                              2.6         4.1        4.1          3.8

 Private consumption                                    1.8        3.7        4.0          4.4
 General government consumption                        2.2         3.0        7.3          3.2
 Gross domestic investment                             4.6         4.0        8.7          2.5
 Imports of aoods and services                         2.3         2.7        7.9          2.8

~


 Note: 2001 data are preliminary estimates.This table was produced from the Development Economics central database.
 The Senegal Basin Countries includes Guinea, Mali, Mauritania, and Senegal.

 * The diamonds show four key indicators in the countrv (in bold) compared with its income-proup average. If data are missing.
     the diamond will be incomplete.




                                                                       - 89 -

                                                                                                               Senegal Basin Countries

PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
                                                     1981      1991        2000       2001
Domestic prices                                                                                     Inflation (%)                                       I
(% change)
Consumer prices                                                  3.7        2.0         4.2
Implicit GDP deflator                                 8.0        5.9        4.5         4.4

Government finance
(% of GDP, inciudes current grantsl
Current revenue                                                 18.5       16.4        17.2                 96     97      98       99          DO
Current budget balance                                           3.9        4.2          3.4                  -GDP        deflator   - 0 - C P I
Overall surDlusldefIcit                                         -4.5        -4.6        -6.1

TRADE
                                                     1981      1991        2000       2001
(US$ miiiions)                                                                                      Export and Import levels (US$ mill.)                I
Total exports (fob)                                           2,499       2,544       2,862      i1    o
  Manufactures                                        196       213         241         250      /i'OT5 T
Total imports (cif)                                           3,181       3,293       3,643
  Food                                                379       607         624         684       3,536

  Fuel and energy                                     410       335         645         630
                                                                                                                                                        I
  Capital goods                                       358       564         702         755
Export price index (1995=100)                                                                              95    96     97    98     99       00

Import price index (1995=100)                                                                                    Exports          Imports           O1
Terms of trade (1995=100)

BALANCE of PAYMENTS
                                                     1981      1991        2000       2001
(US$ millions)                                                                                      Current account balance to GDP (Oh)

Exports of goods and services                       1,969     3.328       3,170       3,485         0
Imports of goods and services                       3,007     4,085       4,123       4,351         1
Resource balance                                   -1,038      -757        -953        -866         2

Net income                                           -180      -425        -219        -368         3

Net current transfers                                 132       285         447         400       4
                                                                                                    5
Current account balance                            -1,001      -896        -725        -833         6
                                                                                                    7
Financing items (net)                                 860      1,137        616         937         8
Changes in net reserves                               141      -241         108        -104         9

Memo:
Reserves including gold (US$ millions)                211       577       1,342       1,541
Conversion rate (DEC, locai/US$)

EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
                                                     1981      1991        2000       2001
(US$ millions)                                                                                      Composition of ZOO0 debt (US$ mill.)
Total debt outstanding and disbursed                4.836    10,977      12,217
   IBRD                                               139       133            1                                  G:869 A:  '
   IDA                                                376     2,073       3,718
Total debt service                                    380       587         559
   IBRD                                                16         51           5
   IDA                                                  3        21          66

Composition of net resource flows
   Official grants                                    296       824         791
   Official creditors                                 544       375          89
   Private creditors                                  -20        -47          -4
   Foreign direct investment                           50         35        251
   Portfolio equity                                     0          0           0                                                D: 2,235
World Bank program
   Commitments                                                              354         508           -
   Disbursements                                      119       216         228                    A IBRD                                E Bilateral
                                                                                                    B IDA
                                                                                                      .         D Other multilateral
                                                                                                                 -                       F Private
                                                                                                                                           --
   Principal repayments                                 6        43          45
   Net flows                                          113       173         183
   interest payments                                   13        29          27
   Net transfers                                      100       144         157

Note: 2001 data are preliminary estimates.This table was produced from the Development Economics central database.                                8/23/02
Inflation figures are median values. Balance of payments items excluding exports and imports are simple sums and may not reconcile
The Senegal Basin Countries includes Guinea, Mall, Mauritania, and Senegal.




                                                                      - 90 -

  Additional Annex 11: Preliminary Findings Transboundary Environmental Analysis
      AFRICA: Senegal River Basin Water and Environmental Management Project


A. Introduction

As part o f the Project preparation and Project design process, a preliminary transboundary analysis was
conducted. Initially, key environmental issues were reviewed, environmental threats identified, biodiversity
and water resource priorities recognized, the root causes determined (refer to Appendix A), and individual
national concerns were evaluated and agreed upon (Appendix B-E). An agenda for basin-wide priority
concems and actions, necessary to promote sustainable land and water management o f the Senegal River
Basin, was then prepared. Annex 11 provides an overview o f the preliminary findings o f a transboundary
environmental analysis.

B. Key EnvironmentalResources and their Uses

1. Water Resources




       River Sections                            Length (km)            I  Distance from Sea (km)
       Gouina to Bakel                               202                              996
       Bakel to Kaedi                                262                              794
       Kaedi to Dagana                               363                              532
     I Delta                           I             169                I              d a              I

Inthe upstream stretch from Gouina to Bakel, the River is steep with a series ofrapids, and lies withinan
incised valley without a significant floodplain. Downstream o f Bakel, the valley widens and the floodplain
can be up to 10-15 lulometers (km) wide in peak flood. The average slope is 3 centimeters (cm)/km.
Downstream o f Kaedi, the Rwer divides into two arms-the       DouC on the left and the Senegal on the right.
Downstream o f Dagana, the Rwer returns to a single channel before opening up into the delta. Flooding on
the left bank has beencontrolled by embankments constructed in 1969 from Rosso to Saint Louis, however,
following the construction o f the Diama dam, barrage embankments control flooding on both banks as far
upstream as Dagana.

The floodplain on both sides o f the main River channel is made up o f large natural depressions or basins
termed unitb naturelles d 'equipement. There are approximately 72 depression basins, varying from 1,000
hectare (ha) to more than 15,000 ha in size, and it is the use o f these depressions that formed the basis o f
the traditional flood recession cropping. They serve to trap the flood long enough to collect moisture inthe
heavy soils sufficient to sustain crops.



                                                   -91   -

2. Ecology

There is a major difference in ecological conditions between the hghlands above Bakel, and the River
valley downstream from Bakel.

The upper basin corresponds to the Fouta Djallon highlands and is characterized by different landscapes,
ranging from a mountainous ecosystem to savannah and steppe vegetation, with an elevation ranging from
500 to 1350 m (Mount Tinka at Dalaba in Guinea: 1320 m and Mount Loura in Mali: 1538 m). The
highlands are also significant for their biological diversity, which comprise 43 animal species, including 3
rare species (small wild goat, crocodile, and hippopotamus), 3 threatened species, and 33 tree species,
including 4 threatened species.

Inthe lower part o fthe SenegalRiverbasin, major changes inhydrology and floodplain ecology startedin
the 1960s. In 1964, part o f the left bank deltaic ecosystem was diked. Later on, the Foum Gleita dam was
planned and built in early 1986 on the Mauritanian side of the Basin. However, the major schemes that
completely modified the River and floodplain hydrology were the Diama and Manantali dams, which were
completed in 1985 and 1987 respectively. An additional disturbance to the Basin's hydrology and water
resources development derives from the development o f irrigated agriculture in the valley and delta, in
particular, sugar cane perimeters inthe delta.

Since these dams have been operational, the ecology o f the floodplain has changed drastically from salty
and braclush water ecology with marked seasonal changes to a low-flow perennial freshwater ecology.
Inadequate agncultural practices and options have exacerbated existing poor hygiene conditions to set off a
major health and nutrition crisis. Since 1987, the Senegal River has in effect become an artificial system.
The Diama and Manantali dams were built for hydroelectricity generation, irrigation, and navigation
control; the accompanying hydraulic networks needed for flood control and water supply inthe valley and
delta have also been constructed. Before the Diama and Manantali dams were built, the River had markedly
different hydrological conditions that varied in time and space. Fluctuations occurred seasonally in water
level and quality, which added to the annual or cyclic episodes o f dry and wet conditions. These
fluctuations characterized by erratic flows and episodic inundation prevented a single species from
dominating the ecology and contributed to the real diversity o f habitats and species. Inturn, this resulted in
a variety o f natural resources and production systems. The Diama and Manantali dams, and their
accompanying infrastructure, contributed substantially to the uniformizationo f the ecosystem and provided
the habitat for aquatic weeds and disease vectors.

A number o f other factors have contributed to the decline in environmental and social welfare. For
example, the production o f water intensive commercial crops, w h c h needed irrigating, brought
communities into contact with unsafe water without changing traditional attitudes toward water. Nor were
these communities provided with safety knowledge and equipment. Another aspect o f growing irrigated
crops is that irrigation is labor intensive, which leaves little time to devote to traditional crops that usedto
be the major nutritional supply to households. In addtion, communities have started to consume rice, the
production o f which is heavily subsidized by revenues sent back from migrant workers. These revenues
previously were used to buy a variety of inputs to family nutrition. Under such conditions, malnutrition is
likely among women, children, and ethnic minorities. All these changes constitute a burden on the labor
force and a trigger to social uneasethat, inturn, can disturb community life.

The River has distinctly differentphysiognomy inthe upper, middle, and lower reaches as described above
and shows various soil types and agricultural activities in these different sections. The natural vegetation
formations consist o fthe following:


                                                     - 92 -

0     Seasonally flooded areas that are uniformly occupied by gallery forests where Acacia nilotica
      predominates, particularly inthe alluvial valley; and
0     Areas o f semi-deciduous forests on laterite or sandstone, inthe sub-Guinean domain, sparse woods
      slowly transforming to savannah trees inthe Sudano-Sahelian domains, and shrub steppes inthe
      Sahelian domain.

The natural vegetation has been profoundly degraded particularly due to impacts from the expansion of
agricultural as well as o f resident and migratory herds o f grazing animals. The clearing o f gallery forests
has been most extensive inthe alluvial area, not only for agriculture but also for fuel wood.

The region is important for migratory birds, notably water birds, which arrive inlarge numbersduringthe
European winters to wetlands in the Senegal valley and delta. There are protected areas o f intemational
significance, such as the Djoudj National Bird Sanctuary on the Senegalese side o f the delta, which is a
World Heritage Site, and the Diawling Strict National Reserve on the Mauritanian side.

3. LandUse
Land use varies throughout the Basin, too, showing similar differences between the upper watershed and
the floodplain downstream from Bakel. Inthe upper valley, the main agricultural production systems are as
follows:
0     Intensive gardening around houses for family consumption and exchange goods;
0     Extensive farming outside housing areas producing cereals (rice, fonio, millet) and groundnuts. The
      systemis characterized by agro-pastoralism, shifting cultivationand ash farming;
0     Farming o f valley bottoms during the dry season for the market; and
0     Animal husbandry that i s another key feature o f the region, either in a semi-sedentary form or based
      on seasonal transhumance. More than 40% o f Guinea's dairy herdis located inthe highlands.

Because o f the high demographic pressure in the highlands, widespread poverty and the lack o f alternative
livelihoods, traditional landuse practices have become unsustainable, these include the following:
0     The practice o f shiftingfarmingby slash-and-bum cultivation coupled with increasingly short fallow
      periods;
0     Excessive cutting down o f forests to satisfy the ever-growing needs for firewood and timber; and
0     Uncontrolled bushfires and overgrazing.

Inthe middle valley, downstream from Bakel, there is a major topographical division betweenthe alluvial
zone, which can be inundated, and the higher ground, which borders the valley. Three forms o f land use
characterize the alluvial zone o f the main floodplain:
0     The Riverbanks between the low water level and the normal annual flood level are seasonally
      cultivated. The local name for these isfalo.
0     Levees up to 10m or more above the water level, which are only covered during the very worst floods.
      Quite a few villages are situated on these embanlanents, known locally asfond&.
0     Seasonally flooded depressions betweenthe levees and the valley sides, for which the local name is
      walo. These depressions are flooded via numerous creeks and small streams, and support a number o f
      small, permanent bodies o fwater. Floodrecession agnculture is practiced inthese areas.

Another zone comprises the areas further from the River (the higher banks and adjacent plateau),
sometimes 15 lun or more from the River itself. Conditions in these areas are semi-arid and are used
primarily by nomadic herdsmen.




                                                      - 93 -

C. Environmental Threats

The overall basin ecosystem and agricultural production systems are being degraded by the conjunction o f
natural drought and desertification processes, with inadequate land, forest, and water resources uses and
management. The degradation processes are dynamic and on a broad spatial and temporal scale. Despite a
number o f attempts at the national and intemational level to initiate adequate management systems, the
degradation continues with the intertwining o f many environmental factors. Unsustainable land use derives
from the survival strategies employed by rural communities in the face o f severe poverty. These
communities often have low incomes but have to contend with hgh commodity prices. An additional factor
is weak national afforestation policies.

1. LandDegradation

Land degradation processes severely impact the stability o f the physical environment, agricultural
production systems, and people's livelihoods. The effects on the regional environment can run deep in the
longer term. Unfortunately, land degradation has long been neglected and has not been regarded as a
priority for action by the national governments. This is because o f a lack o f hard evidence on perverse
effects o f degradation and insufficient information on the processes and magnitude o f the problem, as well
as the fact that it is mostly the poorest and least voluble people that are affected.

The interdisciplinary nature o f land degradation may have contributed to the situation and there is a lack o f
adequate data. This has not helped governments to plan projects on the ground. At the basin-level, changes
inthe hydrological cycle andor availability o fwater resourceshavebeenllnkedto land degradation. This is
particularly so inthe Senegal River Basin. Although flow regimes inthe Basin have beenrecorded for more
than 100 years, data on land degradation are site specific, collected by national bodies, without any attempt
to collect or analyze this data at the basin-level. By analyzing the four intertwining processes
(deforestation, soil erosion, overgrazing, and desertification) involved in degrading land, a better
understanding o f the nature and impact o f land degradation may be gained. Desertification i s the sum o f
these processes and a final stage o f land degradation.

2. Deforestation

Deforestation continues in the Basin due to increased competition for agricultural land and firewood. This
i s especially so inthe upper-basin highlands inFouta Djallonand around the Manantali dam. Yet, once soil
fertility decreases on the area being cultivated, the land is abandoned for new more fertile land. However,
this often results in the clearing o f marginal land, such as Riverbanks and slopes o f the Basin thereby
triggering soil erosion. Increasing demand for fuel wood and charcoal, also from the urban areas, is
encouraging uncontrolled logging and the abandonment o f degraded areas without any attempt to reforest.
The inadequacy o fthe forestry policies and services contribute to this problem.




                                                      - 94 -

3. Soil Erosion

Agriculture in sub-Saharan Afnca is extensive rather than intensive and does not maintain soil fertility.
With increased demographic pressures and demands for food, the soils are minedfor their fertility, which is
rapidly lost. Even in irrigated areas, fertility reduction is accompanied by rapid erosion andor soil
compaction. The land is then abandoned for newly cleared land where the organic matter and mineral
content is still high. This clearing and abandoning cycle leaves vast areas exhausted, denuded, and
uncultivated. This situation derives from a lack o f water and soil conservation practices, inadequate
agricultural practices such as slash and bum, and a lack o f awareness on land and water interactions.

The importance o f controlling erosion in the Senegal River Basin is evident from the configuration o f
rainfall and runoff coming mainly from the Fouta Djallon highlands. Depletion o f resources in the Fouta
Djallon hghlands is o f major significance not only to the River system and its infrastructure, but also to the
water systems and environment at the regional level.

Inthe floodplain ecosystems, landfertility, productivity, andwetland maintenance occurredwiththe supply
o f organic matter from productive land in the upper basin. With the ecological degradation o f highland
ecosystems and damming o f the River, morphological processes in the floodplains have tumed from
accretion and sedimentation to erosion, compaction, and salinization. Due to a reduced hydraulic force
induced both naturally and by the dams, sediment deposition is confined to the mainRiver channel.

4. Overgrazing

Drought, desertification, and the need for more agricultural land has gradually pushed livestock into
marginal lands just as the number o f cattle is growing. Even in areas that are intended to be used for
grazing, the resources are usually illmanaged. Overgrazing leads to the destruction o f topsoil by hydraulic
and aeolian erosion, degradation o f vegetative cover that is aggravated by use o f tree canopy as fodder, and
growing conflicts between farmers and herders, and among the herders themselves for the control o f these
scarce resources. Large areas o f the Basin have been denuded due to overgrazing, thereby changing
completely the runoff and River regime.

Although large numbers o f people withn the Senegal Basin depend completely upon livestock, and large
areas are therefore being utilized, the riparian governments have not given their full consideration to
formulating policies to better manage livestock. Therefore, the root causes o f overgrazing, w h c h include
increasing population, increasing competition between agriculture and pastoralism, and abandonment o f
traditional transhumance practices have not yet found their way into the management o f the Senegal River
Basin.

5. Desertification

Desertification is the degradation o f drylands, w h c h involves the loss o f biological productivity and
complexity incroplands, pasture, andwoodlands, and consequentially a loss ineconomic productivity. I t is
mainly due to climate variability and unsustainable human activities leading to the overexploitation o f
natural resources. In the Senegal River, basin desertification is mainly occurring in the marginal areas
surrounding the dry ecosystems o f Trarza, Ferlo, and Yelimane, and is due to rainfall shortages, water
resources depletion, drought, and land and flora destruction. The major impacts o f desertification are lower
soil productivity, destruction o f vegetative cover, a reactivation o f aeolianprocesses, watershed degradation
and water scarcity, disturbance o f fauna and flora, and soil resources depletion (salinization, compaction,
etc.).


                                                      - 95 -

Some o f desertification consequences and impacts are bome by people living outside the area immediately
affected. In the Senegal River Basin, away from the immediately affected areas, the main impacts o f the
land degradation accompanying desertification are downstream flooding, reduced water quality,
sedimentation in rivers and lakes, and the silting up o f reservoirs and navigation channels. In addition, the
floodplains experience dust and pollution, damage to machnery, mental stress, and worsening health
problems.

There are also social costs aside from the environmental impacts due to decreasing food production, leading
to malnutrition and famine, civil unrest, and conflicts over access to, and control of, increasingly scarce
resources.

D. Water ResourcesManagement

Paradoxically, as rivers are controlled more and more through barrages and other infrastructure, the
riverine response becomes increasingly unpredictable. The unpredictability produces unfavorable
conditions for communities living along a river, for the environment, and for natural resources upon whch
they rely for their survival.

1. InformationandData Collection

Many o f the negative consequences o f river manipulation, such as ground and surface water quality
deterioration or depletion, health risks, and food production disruption derive from the use o f inadequate
data for planning purposes. Where data does exist, it i s either confined to sub-basins that generally
correspond to national limits or to only a specific aspect o f the resource is considered. Rarely do complete
historical records exist from which pattems can be elicited.

Time series data on hydrology in the Senegal River Basin does exist for the valley from Bakel to Saint
Louis inthe delta. The data has been used for basin water resources planning and management. However,
the changing pattems of rainfall and its implicationon runoffand the governing processes are not yet fully
understood. This problem originates from a lack o f data in the catchment areas above Bakel, especially in
the Guineanterritory. This is partially due to Guinea's withdrawal from Organisation des Etats riverains
dufleuve Sknkgal (OERS) and to its previous disinterest in collecting data in the Fouta Djallon highlands
despite the fact that many rivers o f regional importance originate from t h s area.

This problem is exacerbated by the weakness o f ecological monitoring in almost the entire basin and
especially in the upper basin. Geomorphologic processes, dynamic ecological phenomena, and associated
modification o f flow regimes have been totally ignored. Ecological, economic, and social water demand i s
unknown, as well as water flows and extreme events such as floods and droughts. Hydrological
instruments, remote sensing, conventional cartography, geographic information systems (GIS) tools, and
adequate ground monitoring o f all key elements o f the landscape and dynamic processes would rapidly
provide reliable knowledge and appropriate planning tools for the proper management o f the Basin's
ecology and resources. However, collecting new but disparate sets o f data is unlikely to resolve the
problem. I t is important that the data protocols are agreed to based on which data can be collected,
analyzed, and shared ina harmonized fashon.

Corrective measures are being taken by OMVS within the Regional Hydropower Project and the related
program, PASIE. A Water Charter, hydrological studies, and an Observatory o f the Environment are being
implemented. However, the problem o f inadequate data is likely to remain untilthe upper basin in general,


                                                     - 96 -

and Guinea in particular, is adequately instrumented and studied in terms o f hydro-ecological conditions
and the effects o fproduction systems on land and water modifications.

2. Groundwater Resources

Despite the presence o f a potentially large groundwater supply, riverine communities throughout the
Senegal River Basin remain dependent economically and socially upon the river's floods. Though the
Maastrichtien and other Cretaceous sub-surface water bodies have started to be studied, the process i s
unsustainable. Groundwater monitoring in the valley has long been abandoned despite possible benefits
from its use and this should be rectified.

From the limited data that is available on water quantity and quality, negative changes such as salinization
and lowering o f the water table have been detected over the past decades. This is mostly attributed to a lack
o f groundwater recharge due to the reduction o f flood areas. Underground and surface exchanges and
lateral sub-surface interflows are found among the river, floodplains, and deep aquifers.

3. Water Availability and Needs

It was acknowledged duringthe Manantali dam's planning and management for power generationthat there
i s insufficient water to meet the energy needs o f the member states without placing major economic,
environmental, and social burdens on the communities and national economies. Recent studies o f water
availability have demonstrated that it will be necessary to reconcile all the potential uses and make a
political choice as to how to utilize the resource. This includes reducing the forecasted yield o f hydropower
despite the present and acute energy crisis that results in frequent power failures, the unsatisfied energy
demand in all the countries, and low connectivity inthe rural areas.

This situation arises from inadequate energy policies and hydrodam planning and interconnection at a
regional level, as well as from a lack o f financial resources to conduct hydrodam studies, planning, and
construction. Although Guinea has a large potential, it is limited in its capacity to exploit the opportunity
because o f a deficient energy transport and marketing system that would allow it to sell electricity to other
countries where demand i s very high. Therefore, the upper basin, despite its potential for hydropower, is
highlydependent ontraditional energy sources such as kerosene, fuelwood, and gas.

4. Water Quality

Water quality degradation can result from eutrophication processes due to reduced velocity and
oxygenation present in bodies o f stagnate or slow moving water reservoirs, which are produced by
damming and dlking water bodies. Chemical and biological contamination through discharges o f
wastewater and agricultural water pesticide can also degrade water quality. InGuinea, small-scale mining
i s a particular threat to water quality.

Water quality problems are due entirely to either a lack, or weak implementation, o f water standards and
regulation, the absence o f treatment facilities, and a low environmental awareness and value for
environmental protection. Water pollution occurs from point sources such as cities and irrigated areas, and
non-point sources such as the Fouta Djallon highlands and delta. The impacts o f pollution are a seasonal
shortage o f dnnktng water, waterweed infestation, a year-round increase o f diarrheal diseases, and a
serious threat to plant and animal ecology, and to human health.




                                                     - 97 -

5. Food Security and Nutrition

Whether traditional cropping practices are better than irrigation has been debated since the dams o f the
Senegal River Basin were first planned. Although there is insufficient data to conclude this debate, it i s
worth remembering that river basin management has an impact at the local level on people's livelihoods.
What remains clear is that agricultural productivity has decreased with increasing land degradation. Any
linksto the development ofthe dams has not yet beenelicited.

Inthe Fouta Djallonmountains and along the River, there appear to be two mainproblems: food diversity
has decreased because o f irrigation without substantially increasing production, and overall food
production has decreased due to land degradation. Nutrition among the deltaic population has improved
since the floods were artificially restored when compared with the dry years before the dam was built. The
increased flooded areas and cropping pattems are likely to have been factors in this, because o f the
production o f traditional staple crops and the availability o f meat and dairy products.

6. EnvironmentalHealth

There is increased concern over issues o f health, nutrition, and sanitation. Poor water management results
inpollution o f sources andpublic health risks. Poor water management refers to inappropriate planningof
the water regime, a lack o f secure water supply systems, and inadequate management o f floods. The direct
consequences o f inadequate management include flooding and changes inthe abundance and distribution o f
disease vectors. The burdeno f endemic epidemic diseases inthe Basin has contributed to in and increase in
infant mortality, increased blindness due to onchocerciasis, increased malnutrition, contaminated dnnlung
water and a general increase inwater bome diseases and decrease ingeneral human health.

Communicable diseases such as diarrhea, malaria, and schistosomiasis (bilharzia) remain considerable
problems and are strongly associated with a lack o f infrastructure and poverty. Improved planning and
communication between the principal proponents and the health sector can avoid these diseases and other
health impacts. Any water management plans that ignore the issue o f health may be simply transferring
hidden costs to the health sector, which is often already under-funded and stretched to capacity. This can
lead to economic consequences such as lost productivity.

Malaria is the most important vector-bome disease and is likely to find increasing areas o f favorable
conditions with the decisions made regarding flood management in most hot climates. Bilharzia or
schistosomiasis, which comes second, is found on many floodplains, and transmission depends on contact
with water through fishing, bathing, farming, and washng. This is a chronic disease with relatively little
apparent morbidity for many years, though with possibly high morbidity rates in later life. Two other
mosquito-bome arboviruses are also important-rift      valley fever and Japanese encephalitis. River blindness
or onchocerciasis still occurs ina few areas such as those with rapid stream flows above the floodplain.

The construction o f the dams changed the Senegal Basin's floodplain ecology from a salty and brackish
aquatic environment with marked seasonal changes, to a low-flow perennial freshwater ecology. Apart
from urinary bilharzia, which was and is endemic inthe whole Basin, other waterborne diseaseswere not as
common. Seasonal fluctuations in water level and water quality prevented any particular species from
dominating. Malaria was then cyclical, arriving with the rains and disappearing in the dry season, with an
endemicity that mirrored the rainfall. Incidences of malaria varied across the Basin-it       was low in the
delta, medium in the middle valley, and hgh in the upper valley. Onchocerciasis was an important public
health concern for riverine communities, w h l e tripanosomiasis, skin leishmania, and Guinea worm cases
were rare.


                                                     - 98 -

E. Biodiversity Conservation

1. Biodiversity Degradation

Fauna and flora diversityhas decreasedbecause o f drought and impacts from the development o f dams and
imgation. Riverine forests that constituted habitats for fauna have been cleared inmany parts o f the Basin
for irrigation and fuelwood. In some parts, species have disappeared because unsuitable modification o f
flow regimes or improved accessibility o f the highlands with roads to and around the Manantali dam has
led to increased hunting inthose areas. While protection remains insufficient inmost o f the Basin, the loss
o f rare species justifies the creation o f protected areas around the Manantali reservoir in the upper basin
and around the Djoudj and Diawling in the delta. The evolution o f fish diversity is less evident-while
studies have shown that there is a loss o f some species, other species are simultaneously being found.

2. Wetland Degradation

Due to the construction o f the dams and irrigation infrastructure and drought, the wetlands have
diminished.The conversion to agricultural land, deforestation, and overexploitation o f water resources has
dried out some wetlands inthe Basin. The principal culprit seems to be a lack o f awareness of the role a
wetland plays inthe ecosystem and, therefore, its value to the ecological and economic processes depending
upon it. Throughout the Basin, poverty continues to put pressure on natural resources, especially on
wetland products due to a shortage o f land, water, and wood. Visible deterioration is occumng inconfined
ecosystems such as the Magui and Lere ponds, cuvettes around Kayes, deltaic and lacustrine environments
inthe lower valley, andthe delta (Lake de Guiers andRkiz and floodplain cuvettes).

F. Opportunities and an Agenda for Action

A thorough knowledge o f the riverine ecosystem, productivity, and actual efforts for poverty alleviation
would greatly ease pressure on natural resources and would stimulate sustainable development. For this to
happen, capacity building is necessary, as is the development o f an institutional framework for regional
cooperationbecause o f the transboundary nature o f the key environmental and resource issues inthe Basin.
National priorities reflect the general concern to account for the needs o f local communities in natural
resources utilization. There is a substantive interest inpromoting sustainable development at the basin level
based on the following:
0    Integrated hydro-ecology and natural resources management, which would include mapping and
     collecting data on natural resources (land, water, and forests), groundwater monitoring, modeling the
     interaction between ground and surface water, and flow forecasting;
     Community-based integrated rural development schemes, including land and water management, health
     andnutritionimprovement, and ecological maintenance o fnatural vegetation; and
0    Wetland restoration and biological resources conservation by studyingthe feasibility o f transboundary
     nature reserves and wildlife management, aquatic weeds control programs, and ecological rehabilitation
     o fwetlands for fishery development.

These concems reflect the view that environmental management is the key to maintaining political and
economic equilibriuminthe Senegal River Basin. The natural phenomena o f drought and desertification, in
addition to the decades o f infrastructure development, have left unresolved the major challenges o f
providing economic benefits to the riparian countries and improving livelihoods inthe Basin. Based on key
environmental threats and resource uses, activities can be initiatedin four majors fields:
0     Regional cooperation on water resources and environmental management to build capacity at the


                                                      - 99 -

  regional and national level to manage their shared natural resources, promote a participatory approach
  based on the identification o f priority actions and their implementation, and initiate coordination and
  reconciliation o fresource uses and opportunities for economic and environmental cooperation;
0 Studies and data collection on hydrological and sediment regimes, including rainfallirunoff and
  sediment transfer monitoring, water quality monitoring, groundwater modeling, initiating erosion
  control, and soil investigation measures;
  Land and water management projects by investigating opportunities to develop small hydrodams and
  small-scale irrigation, extend erosion control and land resources conservation, and promote integrated
  agro-ecological and sustainable agricultural schemes; and
0 Wildlife and biodiversity conservation projects through ecosystems and habitats inventory,
  hydro-ecological restoration o f floodplains and low-flow waters, constitution o f natural reserve for
  large mammals inhighland ecosystems, and control o f waterweeds and diseasevector habitats.




                                                 -100 -

Issue           Symptomsllmpacts             Immediate Causes             Root Causes                Extent    ISeverity
Land Degradi m
Deforestatior   Decreaseof vegetation;        Increasedcompetition       Povertystricken       Basin-wide       Very high
                lossof savanna and           on arable land leading      populationwith an     critical areas:
                forest cover                 to the extension of         obvious lack of food  Fouta Djallon
                Energy crisis associated     bushfire methods and        security              Manantali areas
                with competitionfor          savanna clearingfor         High charcoal and     Senegal Valley
                fuelwood and charcoal        agriculture                 fuelwood prices due
                Large-scalehabitat           Uncontrolledloggingfor      to increasing
                destruction and loss of      charcoal and fuelwood       demand from urban
                wildlife; progressive        production,which            areas
                degradationof national       remainsthe main             Absence of sound
                parks and protected          energy source               policy for
                areas                        Non-plantingor              re-afforestation
                                             replantingof degraded
                                             areas
                Loss of soil of fertility    Inappropriate               Increased             Basin-wide       Very high
Soil Erosion    leadingto extended           agricultural practices      populationwith        critical areas:
                cultivatedareas              and increased pressure      urgent economic       Fouta Djallon,
               0Loss of habitats and         on fragile areas            needs                 Upper basin
                biodiversity                 Lack of soil and water      Topographyand         Middlevalley
                Degradationof                conservation practices      geology not suited to
                riverbankswith water         Neglect of soil             current agricultural
                surface siltation leading    restorationand              practices
                to increasedwater            protection                  Lack of awareness
                quality concerns             Bushfireand                 of land/water
                                             slash-and-burn              interaction
                                             practices
                Appearanceand                Inappropriatecontrol        High livestock        Regional         Very high
Overgrazing     large-scaiespread of         and management of           density               critical areas:
                "bowe" in mountainous        land pasture                Non-integrationof     Fouta Djallon
                areas                        Increaseof erosion and      farming and pastoral  Magui pond
                High degradation of          top soil losses resulting   practices             Bafoulabeareas
                vegetative cover             from overexploitationof     InefficienVinappropri (Mali)
                Reduced grazing areas        natural resources           ate policies on       Senegalvalley
                and increased conflicts      Propertydamage of           transhumance          aroundthe
                over shared natural          farming exploitation        practices             sylvo-pastoral
                resources                                                                      zone and Trarza
                                                                                               region
                Destruction of               Rainfall shortages          Growing trend of      Localized:       Moderate
     De-        vegetation; increase of      associatedwith water        climatic variability  Mainly in the    to severe
sertification   dune formation and           resourcedepletion           Overexploitationof    northern part of
                mobility                     Increase of drought         natural resources     the Basin
                Watershed degradation        periods                     Land tenure issues    Critical areas:
                and increase of water        Inappropriatelandand        Lack of investments   Northeastern
                scarcity                     flora protection                                  part of Yelimane
                Disappearanceof fauna                                                          area,
                and flora                                                                      Eastern pa? of
                Soil salinizationdue to                                                        Trarza
                dry conditions                                                                 Surrounding part
                                                                                               of the Ferlo




                                                       -101 -

Issue         Symptomsllmpacts             ImmediateCauses               Root Causes                  Extent       ISeverity
Water Resou
                                            Reductionof flooded         Insufficientwater      Localized:           Moderate
Groundwate    due lack of recharge         areas for aquifer            release from storage
    Use       Inadequatesupply for         recharge                     facilities             Critical areas:      Severe in
              rural population              Insufficientaquifer         Overpumpingof          Fouta Djallon        certain
                                           reserveto provide            groundwater            Brakna region        locations
                                           enough water quantity        aquifers               Ferlo and delta
                                           Emergingwater quality        Inadequate             areas
                                           issues, including salt       knowledge on
                                           intrusion                    aroundwaterreserve
              Unreliablewater              Lack of water availability   Sectoral               Basin-wide           Very high
Information   resource data and            and demand data              management of data     critical areas:      to high
  and Data    information                  Lack of upstreamwater        and information        Bafing basin in
 Collection   Absence of basin-wide        flow information             gathering              Guinea
              data collection network      Absence of basin-wide        Lack of financial      basin-wide for
              Lack of cooperationfor       forecasting system for       meansfor               environmentaldata
              basin-wide information       of extreme weather           sustainabledata        and information
              sharing                      events (floodor              and information
              Absence of basin-wide        drought)                     collection
              data collection              No harmonizationof           Lack of attentionto
              parameters                   software and                 the centrality of data
              Absence of reliable          geographicinformation        and information
              measuring stations           systems (GIS) for data       sharing
                                           and information
                                           collectionand
                                           management
                                           Outdatedand
                                           out-of-repairgauging
                                           stations
              Degradationof water          Uncontrolledeffluents,       Non-existenceof        Basin-wide           Severe
   Water      quality making water         dischargeof untreated        harmonizedwater                 areas:
   Qualify    unsuitable for domestic,     water from urban areas,      quality standards,     -critical source
                                                                                                 Point
              industrial, and              industrialwater release      laws, and              pollution localized
              agricultural uses            and non-point sources        regulations            around urban
              Pollution of groundwater     from agricultural sector     Lack of funding and    center such as
              and water storage,           Degradationof                appropriatepolicy      Kayes, Matam,
              resulting in                 vegetative cover,            on operation and       Podor,Dagana
              contamination of             especially Gonaike           maintenancefor         Rosso, and Saint
              drinking water               forest and wetlands that     treatment facilities
              Adverse impact on            could act as filters         No operational         -Loui
                                                                                                 Non-point
              waterdependent flora         Inadequate response          laboratoriesfor        sources: regional
              and fauna;                   mechanisms                   water source           problem causing
              Nutrients and pesticides                                  pollutioncontrol       waterweed
              discharges leading to                                     Low environmental      infestation (largely
              increase eutrophication                                   awarenessand           Typhaand Salvina
              Decrease in                                               sense of value of      on all water surface
              environmentalquality                                      environmental          areas in the middle
              and waterweeds                                            protection             valley and the delta
              infestation                                                                      region
              Absence of alternative       Energyshortages,             Absenceofa             Basin-wide           Severe
   Energy     energy sources               mainly firewood and          basin-wideenergy       critical areas:
   Needs      Electricity crisis and low   electricity                  planning forum to      Bafing basin in
              connection rate within       Low electrification rates    optimizeenergy         Guinea Upper
              countries                    of rural areas               production and use     basin in Mali and
              Persistenceof energy         Economy slowdown due         Lack of financial      Guinea
              outages and related          to lack of energy supply     and human
              inconveniencefor the         High prices applied for      resourcesto explore
              economies                    electricityconnection        alternativeenergy
                                                                        options and
                                                                        multipurpose
                                                                        developments




                                                     - 102 -

Issue          Symptomsllmpacts          Immediate Causes           Root Causes                Exten      ISeverity

                                          Inadequateextension      Hugeconstraint on    Basin-wide         Severe
    Food       and occurrence of         and technicalinputsin     the acquisition of   criticalareas:
  Security     famine                    irrigationsector          modemtechnology      Upper basin
               Inefficientirrigation     Undiversifiedcrop         and extension        Middlevalley
               practiceswith             production                services
               predominanceof rice       Limitedunderstanding      Lack of capacity and
               Limitedcapabilities in    of macro-economic         financial resources
               comparisonwith the        policiesandtheir impact   to develop
               international market      on incentivestructures    performing
                                         in agriculturesector      agriculture
                                                                   Lack of policy
                                                                   reformbasedon
                                                                   analysis of
                                                                   macro-linkagesto
                                                                   low agricultural
                                                                   outputs production
               Pollutionof drinking      Lack of water supply      Lackof               Basin-wide         Jery high
 Waterborne    water sources, spread     systems and reliable      environmental        localized          o high
   Disease     of infectiousdiseases     drinkingwater sources     regulationsand laws  critical areas:
               (diarrhea, bilharzia,     Insufficientfacility      Urban population     Senegalvalley
               cholera, malaria, and     maintenance;lack of       growth and absence    Upperbasin
               Guineaworm)               urban stormwater          of sanitation
               Riskto publicdue to       sewersand solidwaste      facilities
               poor sanitation           disposal                  Highcapitalcosts
               conditionsespecially in   Annual high water         for investment,
               urban areas during the    volume in the River,      operation,and
               rainy season              causingincreased          maintenancefor
               contributingto            breedingground for        irrigation schemes
               increasedabsence from     waterborne viruses in     Lack of awareness
               work due to sickness      irrigationcanals and      andconnection
               Increaseof malnutrition   waterweeds infested       among stagnant
               among small children      areas                     water, sanitation,
               andthe elderly;                                     safe drinkingwater,
               increase in infant                                  and waterborne
               mortality,                                          diseases
               increasedblindnessdue                               Povertyand poor
               to onchocerciasis,and                               health condition in
               general decrease inthe                              large partsof the
               human health.                                       Basin
               Siltation and reduced     Continuous degradation    Powlation pressure    Basin-wide        Very high
   Siltation   effectivenessof           of fragile and            in ihe uppe;          localized         to
               floodplains, ponds, and   mountainous areas         watershed and         critical areas:   moderate
               irrigation canals         upstreamof the Basin      absenceof             -Tributaries of
               Reduction of wetlands     Poor land use practices   non-wood-based        the Bafing river
               areas and decrease of     and overuse of forest     energy sources        inthe Fouta
               beneficialfunctionsand    andvegetativecover        Inappropriate land    Djallon
               uses                      Watersheddegradation      and livestock         -Tributaries of
               Heavysilt load inwater    dueto population      .   management            the Bakoye in
               bed leadingto formation   pressures, wood energy    Absenceof             the Manding
               of sand bars (marmite     demands, and              basin-widesoil        plateau
               de geants) and            agriculturalexpansion     conservationand       -The Baoule
               riverbankerosion                                    protectionpractices   sub-basin
                                                                   Lack of awareness     -The
                                                                   of links between      Kolombine,
                                                                   land-based activities Karakoroand
                                                                   andwater pollution    Gordol
                                                                                         sub-basins
                                                                                         -The Ferlo
                                                                                         Valley




                                                  -  103  -

     Issues           Symptoms/lmpacts             Immediate Causes              Root Causes                 Extent      ISeverity
Biodiversity Cone tation
                       Increaseof endangered      a Disappearance of            Land-use planning
Fauna, Flora, and      species                      unique habitats and         not enforced or        localized          moderate
Fisheries           a Decrease in fisheries         ecosystems                 absent                  critical areas:
Degradation            productions                  Increase of poaching in     Lack of appropriate    Diawiing and
                    a Decline in species            protectedareas              policy and legislation Djoudji
                       diversity                  a Construction               for species             National Parks
                    a Decrease in numbers of      a Absence of nursery          protection             BafinglFaleme
                       large mammais with           grounds and way of        a Lack of awareness      protected areas
                       negative impact on           passage for fisheries at   on biodiversity         BaouielKeniebak
                       tourism                      small dams                 concerns and            o game reserve
                    a Decrease in forest cover    a Lack of alternative         benefit from
                                                    income sources             conservation
                                                    especially in             a High reliance on
                                                    resettlementareas           primary natural
                                                  a Introduction of exotic      resources and
                                                    sDecies                     income from
                                                                               agriculture
                                                                              a Increased
                                                                               population pressure
                                                                               on natural resources
                                                                               coupled with climate
                                                                               chanoe trend
Wetland            a Decrease and                 a Progressive intrusion     a Lack of wetlands       Basin-wide         Very high
Degradation            degradation of wetland       into wetlands for           protection and         localized          to high
                       areas (siltation,flood       agricultural purpose        management             threatened
                       damage, low water flows    a Deforestation, erosion,     regulation             wetlands:
                       waterweeds infestation,      and siltation             a Lack of awareness      - Magui  and Lere
                       agriculture extension)     a Overuse of natural         on wetlands             ponds
                   a Decrease in benetits           resources (over-fishing,   functions, value,       - Kayes   regions
                       from functioning             hunting, overgrazing,      and cultural
                       wetlands (less              farming practices)          functions               -(basfonds)
                                                                                                         Ndiael cuvette
                       groundwater recharge,                                  a Povertyand             - Guiers  and
                       destruction of habitats                                  population pressure;         lakes
                       and loss of biodiversity,                               shortages of water      -Rkiz
                                                                                                         Senegalvalley
                       reduction of floodplain                                 and land                floodplain
                       area, reduction in
                       pasture grass (bourgou)




                                                        - 104-

        Annex 11:Appendix B EnvironmentalPriorityAction by Country Republicof Guinea -

Environmental                      Priority Action                    Spatial              Type of Action                  Urgency
     Issues                                                           Scale
Land Degradatior
 Deforestation        Promoteand enhance reforestationin            National      Environmentalandwater resource           Very high
                      mountainousareas                                            managementplans
                      Promoteand control overgrazing in slope                     Transboundaryjoint management
                      areas                                                       Bushfire management
                      Developand promotealternativeenergy                         Awareness and educationcampaign
                      source                                                      Review of current land tenure system
                      Promote publicawareness on environmental                    and recommend reformsthrough
                      degradationand related impacts                              broadparticipation
                      Promote land reforms program
    Erosion           Promotewatershed manaqementbasedon            National      Land managementprogram                   Very
                      holistic approach and soundconsultation                     Capacitybuilding                         high
                      among stakeholders                                          Educationprogram
     Mining           Monitor ongoing activities and assess         Regional      Environmentalpolicy and regulation       Moderate

Nater Resources
Information and       Improveknowledgebase on water                 National
Data Collection       availability(inventory:water demand, data     Regional      hydrometricstations                      high
                      base, and groundwater monitoring)                           Diagnosticstudy of basin
                      Updatingbasinmasterplan (1960s)                             Comprehensivewater policy and
                                                                                  enhancedlegislation
                                                                                  Caoacitvbuildino
 Energy Needs         Promotealternativesto wood as energy          National
                      source                                        Regional      small scale hydro
                     0Developforest managementprogram                             Reforestationand land management
                      Promote small sustainable hydroelectric                     programs.
                      powergeneration                                             Feasibilitystudieson identifiedsmall

 Groundwater          Promotesustainablegroundwater uses            National
       Use                                                          Regional
Biodiversity Con: Nation
  Biodiversity        Species and habitat inventory                 Regional      Capacitybuildingfor biodiversity         Very
 conservation         Habitat mapping                                             management                               high
                      Improveknowledgeon endangered                               Management plansfor protected areas
                      ecosystems andspecies
                      Integrationof biodiversity management
                      concernsin land use planning
Community-Bas         Promotionof sustainable community-based       Regional      Cooperationwith communitygroups          High
ed Biodiversity       biodiversityconservation                      Local         for conservation
 Conservation         Rehabilitationof degradedecosystems                         Reformsto ensurecommunity
                      Enhance publicparticipationin biodiversity                  captures part of conservationrevenue
                      conservation                                                Locally defined biodiversity
                      Inventoryof andapplicationof customary                      management plans
                      practices for biodiversity conservationand
                      sustainable resources uses
  Biodiversity        Promotebiodiversity monitoring program         National     Capacitybuilding at local. regional,and  Very
 Management           Create nationalforum for information           Regional     national levels                          high
and Monitoring        sharing                                                     Awarenessand outreach: information
     System                                                                       sharing
                                                                                  StrengtheningMinistryof Environment
                                                                                  for biodiversitymonitoring
Institutions, Polic
  Institutional       Enhancethe capacityof institutionsinvolved     Regional     Capacitybuilding                         Very
    Capacity          with environmentalmanagement                   National     Institutionalreforms                     high
    Building          Promotecooperationamongnational
                      institutionsfor efficientuse of existing
                      capacity
   Legislative        Promoteflexible landtenure reforms           I Reaional  I  Landtenure leaislation                   Hioh
    Reforms                                                        I National  I                                         II




                                                            - 105 -

         Annex 11:Appendix C EnvironmentalPriorityAction by Country Republic of Mali -

 Environmental               Priority Action              Spatial Scale        Type of Action              Urgency
      issues
Land Degradation
  Deforestation    I  Promotereforestationin fraaile      Local            Environmentand water          Very high
                      and marginalareas                   National         resource managementplans
                      Promotealternativeenergy            Regional         Enforcelegislationon natural
                      sources                                              resourcesuses
                      Promotealternative grazing
                      source                ~~




 Soil Erosionand      Developriverbank management         National         Technical improvement of land Very high
      Siltation       plans                               Local            use
                                                          Regional         Landtenure andwater
                                                                           legislation
                                                          National     I   Transboundary livestock      IVery. high
                                                                                                                 -
                                                          Regional         managementplan
                                                          National         Land use                       High
                      desertificationcontrol and land     Regional         Awarenesscampaign
                      conservationthroughthe CCD                           Bushfire management plan


   IllegalWater       Developa soundwater resource        Local            Capacitybuilding              Very high
  Withdrawals         management policy                   Regional         Water legislation
 Water Allocation     Promotecomprehensivewater           Local          t Water demand studies
                      allocation among sector             National         Water allocationand
                                                                           managementpian               Ihigh
    Floodsand         Developcomprehensivedisaster        Regional         Water releaseforecasting     I High
      Droughts        managementplan                      Local
                      Improvewater releaseinformation     National         Floodearly warning system
                      betweenManantaliand                                  Droughtmonitoring
                      downstream                                           Capacitybuilding
                                                                           Communication
                                                                           Rehabilitationof small PIV     Very high
                      village-level small irrigation      Regional         Technicalimprovement
                      schemes                                              Disseminationof best
                                                                           practices
                                                                           Conservation measures          Very high
   Degradation        and conservationpolicies            National         Enforcementof policies
                                                                           Publicawareness

ClimaticVariability   Improvecollectionof rainfalldata    Regional         Improve knowledgeand           Very high
   and Trend of       to improveforecast abilities        National         information
DecreasingRainfall    Long-termforecastingand data                         Enhancedmodeling capacity
                      exchange                                             Cooperation among countries

                   I
 UnDlannedlBadlv I
   Participation      sharing amongstakeholders           National         Awareness, education
                      Undertakecurativemeasuresto       IILocal        II  Emergencyplan and support    I High
Planned Settlemek     reverseand rehabilitate degraded    Regional         Sustainable development
                      areas                                                Localconsultationand
                      Providesupport to areas to                           participation
                      preventwidespread degradation
                      Migration management




                                                      - 106 -

      Annex 11:Appendix D EnvironmentalPriorityAction by Country Republicof Mauritania-

   Environmental      1               Priority Action              I Spatial Scale 1     Type of Action          I    Urgency

Land Degradation
Soil Salinization          Appropriate policy and regulation on      Local            Technical improvement of      Very high
                            irrigationwater use                      Regional         irrigationpractices
                           Adequate planning on drainage                              Capacity building
Overgrazing                 Enforcementof legislationon              Local            Integrationof livestock       Very high
                           transhumance                              Regional         management and
                            Promote transboundaryconvention on                        irrigationprogram
                           transhumance issue
                            Landtenure policy and reforms
Deforestation               Promotereforestationof Gonakie           Local            Promotesound education        Very high
                           areas                                     Regional         and awarenesson forest
                           Promotealternativeenergy sources                           degradation
Desertification             Implementationof NationalAction Plan     Local            Land management               Very high
                           prepared under CCD                                         Awareness and education
                           Promoteadequateland management
Water Resources M
Groundwater
Depletion                  management policy       -                              I * Awareness and education
                           Developappropriatewater allocation                                                    I     -
                           model for groundwater recharge
laterborne Diseases        Promote and apply policiesto stop       I Local         1  Medicine dissemination       1Very High
                           spread of waterborne diseases                              program
                                                                                      Awareness, education
ollution Increase          Enforce legislation on pesticide use      Local            Environmentpolicy and          High
                           Control effluent, sewage, and fertilizer                   regulation
                           uses                                                       Createawareness among
                                                                                      farmers
/ateweeds                  Develop adequate measuresagainst         Local             Managementplan                Very high
ifestation                 waterweed infestation                    Regional          Capacity building
                           Intensify research and possible use of
                           removedwaterweeds
                                                                   I               I                               I
Food Security              Promote replicationof village level     I National     I   Rehabilitationof VSlP        I Vew. hiah
                                                                                                                            -
                           small irrigation schemes (<SIP)                            Technical improvement
                                                                     Regional         Dissemination of best

Biodiversity Consei ition
Biodiversity and           Biodiversitymanagementand capacity
                                                            .    .   National      I  Capacity building and          High
Habitat Losses,            building                                  Regional         awareness
Including Fisheries        Protected areas management plans                           managementplans
Degradation                and implementation                                         Strengthened
                           Enforcement of existing policies                           enforcement capacity
                           Physicaldelineationof protectedareas                       Surveyfor delineationof
                           Developmentof reliablemodelfor                             park boundaries
                           water flow release                                         Creation of protected
                           Fisheries management                                       areas
                           Enforce appropriate regulationson
                           fauna and flora protection
Institutions, Policy, and Capacity Building                                                                    ~




Legislative Reforms   I    Promote flexible land tenure reforms    I National      I  Landtenure and water         I High
                           and water resources management                             legislation
                           legislation                                                Capacity building
                                                                                      Awareness and education




                                                             -  107-

               Annex 11:Appendix EEnvironmentalPriorityActionsRepublicof Senegal


Environmental                           Priority Action                    Spatial            Type of Action              Urgen
Issues                                                                     Scale                                            CY


                                                                                                                           Very
Lossof Soil Fertility     practices                                        Regional     use practices                      high
                        a Promoteprogramfor soil conservation and                     a Managementinformation
                          restoration                                                 a CaDacitvbuildina
                                                                                           ,~
                        a Promoteantierosion measures
)eforestation        II a Promote restorationof Gonakie forest             Regional   a Developtransboundaryactionfor      Very
                        a Encourage creation of protected areas and Local              Gonakie forest restorationand       high
                          forest reserves                                               management
                        a Managenaturalforest                                         a Enforce legislationand raise
                                                                                       awareness
`ranshumance and     I    Developadequate regulationon livestock           National   a integrate livestockand irrigation  High
hergrazing                management.                                      Regional     program
                        a Enhancedcommunity-basedmanagement of
                          pasture on floodplains
                        a Integrate livestock managementwith irrigation
                          program
Desertification         a Promote sound policy for desertificationcontrol  National     Land use planning                  High
                          and land conservationthrough the CCD             Regional   a Sand dunefixation
                          convention                                                  a Reflooding of floodplains
                        a Implementationof NationalAction Plan                        a Awareness
                          preparedunder CCD
                        a Promoteadequate landmanagement
Water Resources Management
Prevalenceof            a Promote programagainstwaterbomespread            National     Educationand awarenesson          Very
Waterbome                 of disease                                       Regional    water sanitation                   high
Diseases                a Create awarenesson waterborne sources                       a Medicine dissemination           --
Vaterweeds              a DeveloDadeauate measuresaaainst                  Local      a Technicalstudies                  Very
ifestation               waterweed iniestation                                        a Managementplan                    high
                        a Intensify research and possible use of removed              a Capacity building
                         wateweeds
                        a Floodplains management
Vater Resources      II a Improvewater releaseinformationbetween         I Local      a Water release forecastingmodel    Very
`anability                Manantaliand downstream                          Regional   a Floodearly warning system         high
                        a Strengthen early warning system on droughtand                 Drought monitoring
                         floods                                                       a Capacitybuilding
                          Develop relevantdata base                                   a Communication
                        a Increasecommunicationamong stakeholderson                   a Water release management plan
                         water DreciDitationand releases
                        a Managelow flows andlevels
FoodSecurity            a Promote replication of VSlP                      Local      a Rehabilitationof smallVSlP        Very
                        a Stakeholders participation in management         Regional   a Technical improvement             high
                         schemes                                                      a Disseminationof best practices


ThreatFisheries
        to Faunaand     a Enforce appropriate regulation on fauna and      National
                          flora protection                                 Regional   a Protectionareas policy
                        a Developmanagementplan                                       a Protectand rehabilitatespawning
                        a Reducefishing pressure                                        and nursery grounds
                                                                                      a Education,awareness
      Wetlands          a Developenvironmentalmanagementpolicy             National     Enforce legislationon wetlands    Very
     Degradation     I  a Monitorenvironmental conditions                  Regional     uses                              high
                        a Providewater to wetlands                                  I a Awareness creation


                                  .     .           .  -
    Development      I                                                    1Regional I a Capacity-building                Ihigh
                                                                                      a Technical development
   Strengthen EIA       a Institutionalsettingand reforms                  National   a Capacitybuilding                  very
                                                                           Regional   a Technical development             high




                                                           - 108   -

                      Additional Annex 12: Public Involvement Summary
      AFRICA: Senegal River Basin Water and Environmental Management Project

A.       Introduction

I.This annex describes the involvement ofthe public to date indesigning the Project andhow the Project
will later involve the public during implementation. Sections B and C describe the extensive consultative
process during the Project's preparation and design, which included workshops, consultations, and field
studies at the regional, national, and local levels. More than a thousand individuals participated in these
activities. (Appendix A provides an overview o f stakeholders consulted during Project preparation and
summarizes elements o f the Public Participation Program). Section D describes how the Project will engage
the public during implementation.

B.       Basin-wide Stakeholder Consultation and Participation in Project Formulation

2. Project Formulation. The Project preparation phase provided an opportunity for the OMVS and its
specialized services to actively involve the public in all four riparian countries in the Project's design.
Given the World Conservation Union's (IUCN's) experience in facilitating public participation in the
region, it was selected to assist OMVS and the GEF Implementing Agencies to ensure extensive
participation o f the public in the discussions that formed the Project. These activities were through the
Project Development Facility-B      (PDF-B) grant and contributions from I U C N and the World Bank
managedNorwegian Trust Fund.

3. Launch Workshop. The consultations to shape the Public Participation Program were launched with a
workshop in May 2000 in Saint Louis, Senegal. Shortly after the launch workshop, I U C N initiated broad
consultations in the four riparian countries. The CLCs set up under the Regional Hydropower Project and
the PASIE program inMali, Mauritania, and Senegal were consulted. As CLCs do not yet exist inGuinea,
a local NGO carried out this work instead. This Project will establish CLCs in Guinea and build capacity
to ensure that all the CLCs can implement work at the community level. After a lengthy consultation
process with concerned stakeholders, the Program's formulation began formally in February 2001. The
formulation involved defining the Program's objectives and framework, and securing adequate fimding for
project preparation. OMVS and I U C N discussed the Program's formulation indetail and sought agreement
withthe World Bank.

4. Public Participation Program Framework. The importance o f stakeholder involvement has become
increasingly clear during Project preparation as the only way o f sustainably tackling environmental
degradation by promoting engagement with local communities and by involving the private sector and
locally elected organizations. The Public Participation Program's objectives were defined as follows:
0    Providing a framework for consultation at the local level and enabling reconciliation o f stakeholders'
     concerns, perceptions, and advice with regard to management o f the Basin's naturalresources;
0    Enabling integration o f local knowledge and strategies into the planning process for water and
     environmental management;
0    Usinga variety o f communication means to ensure equal access not only inplanning the program but
     also inimplementation; and
0    Promoting integration o f such factors as health, education, and food security as perceived by the
     communities affected by the management o f the Basin's water resources and environment thus far.

5. Meetings Arranged in Preparing the Public Participation Program. Continuing the consultations


                                                   - 109 -

made inproject identification, the pre-appraisal mission met with community groups, NGOs, and academic
institutions in the Basin countries. Table 1 details the consultations held to date. The Project itself will
continue to broaden stakeholder participation from community-based organizations, academic institutions,
and NGOs with whom contacts have not yet beenmade.

               Table 1. Local, National, and Pre-Appraisal Meetings in Riparian Countries
  Meetings                   IDate and Location and Participants
I Local Meetings             I                                                                              I
 Mali Meetings                2 to 22 July 2001
                              Three meetingsin each district o f Bafoulabe, de Kita, and Kati.
 Senegal Meetings             5 to 26 July 2001
                              Three meetingsin each district of Dagana, Matam, and Podor
 Mauritania Meetings          24 June to 15 July 2001
                              Three meetings oer wilava inTrarza. Gorgol. and Brakna de Guidimakha
  Guinea Meetings             23 July to 12 Aug 2001
                              Three meetings in each region o f Labe. Mamou, Kankan, and Faranah
 Participants: Villagers, women's groups, farmers' groups, economic interest
 groups, local technical agencies, local governments
National Meetings
 Mali Meetings              1 13, 14, and 15 August 2001 in Bamako
 Participants    42   participants,   7   community   organizations,    10 village
 representatives, 8 technical services, 7 NGOs 4 private-sector people, 7 local
  governments
 Senega1Meetings            I 17, 18, and 19 August 2001 in Saint Louis
 Participants:   47   participants,   9   community   organizations,    12    village
 representatives, 8 technical services, 7 NGOs, 4 private-sector people, 7 local
 governments
 Mauritania Meetinm         121. 22, and 23 August 2001 inNouakchott
 Participants:   48   participants,   8   community   organizations,    14 village
 representatives, 9 technical services, 6 NGOs, 4 private-sector people, 7 local
  governments
  Guinea Meetings           I 6,7, and 8 September 2001 in Conakry
 Participants:   45   participants,   7   community   organizations,    13    village
 representatives, 9 technical services, 7 NGOs, 2 private-sector people, 7 local
  governments
Pre-Appraisal Meetings
 Senegal Meetings             13 and 27 June 2002, Dakar

 Mauritania Meetings          15 and 17 June 2002, Rosso and Nouakchott
 Mali pre Meetings            20 June 2002, Bamako
                            I
  Cuinea Meetings           I 25 June 2002, Conakry
 Participants: NGOs, research institutes, universities, women's groups, technical
 ministries, others                                                                                         I
6. Principal Recommendations. The principal recommendations that have emerged from the participatory
process are summarized below:


0     Promote inclusive partnerships among all affected parties (OMVS, governmental, communities,
     NGOs, etc.) to strengthen communication and information sharing on water resource management,


                                                    - 110  -

     and create an awareness o f upstream-downstream linkages;
0    Improve information and awareness at the grassroots level and give communities the opportunity to
     articulate their vision for water resources management inthe Basin;
0    Strengthen stakeholder knowledge and capacities at all levels; and
0    Expand membership o f the OMVS Permanent Water Commission to include community-based
     representatives and selected NGOs. This broader membershipwould facilitate enhanced understanding
     and improved information sharing among all stakeholders.

7. Some Additional Issues. Other issues raisedby the public included the following:

0    The significance o f migration and transhumance inthe Basin;
0    The importance of indigenous knowledge;
0    The necessity of disseminating information inlocal languages;
0    Inclusion o fparticipatory options analysis ininvestmentproject design; and
0    The need not only for coordination andpublic debate, but also for reaching convergence andor
     consensus on key decisions.

C. Elementsofthe PublicParticipationProgram

8. Public Participation Program. The objective o f the public involvement process was to: (i)provide
mechanisms for public engagement; and (ii)    ensure that the stakeholders' interests and choices constitute the
basis for decision-making in water and environmental management. To formulate a Public Participation
Program to meet these objectives the following activities were carried out during Project preparation:

    Participatory analysis and Rapid Rural Appraisal (RRA). National consultants used participatory
     analysis and RR4 to assemble the perceptions, requests and knowledge o f the Basin's people,
     followed by a review o fthe resultingmaterial.
    Review of information collected andpreparation of consultative meetings. Based on reports from the
    participatory analysis, local assessments and appraisals were prepared to solicit further discussion on
     the Project and the designo f its participatory process.
    Local level meetings. Meetings at the local level were held in 12 different districts (three in each
     riparian country) between mid-June and mid-August 2001. These were attended by the different
     groups within local communities (such as women's and farmers' groups), local technical agencies, and
     local government representatives. The meetings discussed the priority concerns o f the region's people
     and enabled a public exchange on the options for the Project's participatory process.
    National level meetings. The local meetings' results were consolidated, then reviewed at national-level
     meetings held between mid-August and early September 2001. The national meetings' conclusions
     formed the basis for the planning o f a regional meeting on public participation, and provided
     significant input to the Project Briefs preparation and Project Component 5, which addresses public
     participation.
    Regionalforum. The regional participation forum provided consolidated input into a broader regional
     forum held later in the preparation period, and brought together a broad base o f technical and public
     and private citizens. The regional forum helped elaborate the additional details required for the
     post-GEF Executive Council elaboration o f the Project Appraisal Document.
    Pre-appraisal mission. A joint World Bank and UNDP pre-appraisal mission visited the four riparian
     countries between June 7-28,2002. The joint mission met with the NGO and academic community in
     each country. Using the successfd experience o f the GEF Small Grants Programme administered by
     UNDP, the use o f microgrants was discussed in detail with the NGO community in the Basin, as was
     the anticipated Public Participation Program (Components 4 and 5 respectively).


                                                    -111  -

D. PublicParticipationvis-&vis the Project's components

9. The Public and Components. The Program's strategic approach is to ensure a broad stakeholder
involvement at the regonal, national, and local level. This will be achieved through: (i)     Component 3,
which is preparing the TDA and SAP; (ii)Component 4, which will engage local stakeholders in
community-based activities funded through microgrants; and (iii)    Component 5, which will provide a forum
for public information for national and local stakeholders.

10. Component 3      - TDA and SAP. Stakeholder participation during the PDF-B phase's activities was
critical. The Project will build on this level o f public involvement inconducting the TDA and the SAP that
will follow the TDA. Indetermining the Basin's priority actions, the various stakeholders and communities
will be consultedthrough a series o fworkshops at the local, national, andregional levels.

11. Component 4 Microgrants Program. At the start of the Project, the CCNs will jointly develop a
                    -
regional participatory strategy to engage the local communities, which will benefit the Microgrants
Program. The strategy will include an extensive public information and awareness campaign on the Basin's
priority issues. The communities will be able to address these issues through the Microgrant Program.
CNCs will be establishedstrengthened in each country with representation from the nongovernmental and
governmental sectors. These committees will be responsible for final approval o f awards to communities
applying for microgrants. The microgrants are targeted at community-based organizations, with individual
grants having a ceiling o f USS50,OOO. The grants will be awarded in accordance with agreed eligibility
criteria, which will be established basin-wide. Special attention will be paid to the needs o f women. The
main emphasis is to ensure that NGOs, academia, and community groups in the Basin are encouraged to
undertake actions that will leadto improved environmental and water management and regional cooperation
on environmental andwater matters.

12. Component 5 Public Participation Program. The Project will engage international, national, and
                    -
local NGOs; coordinate community implementation; and support the involvement o f local community
leaders, the broader public, and the scientific community in the planning and management o f the Basin's
environment andwater resources. The Public Participation Program will strengthen coordination among the
entities managing the Senegal River Basin at different levels. Awareness campaigns will use the national
media and work with local communities to increase understanding in the Basin on the transboundary
environmental issues and OMVS' activities. Activities will be tailored to the audience's context. A variety
o f tools will be used, including TV, radio, newspapers (print and electronic), and links to the national
environment ministries and NGO networks. The approach is to build awareness and capacity on both
sides--the    decision-makers and those affected by the decisions-and     thus strengthen decision-malung in
the Basin. The Project will facilitate exchanges among the scientific community in the Basin through a
university networkmg program, which will have regional workshops and a studenvstaff exchange program.
The component's overall objective is to share knowledge withn the Basin, to encourage academic work on
the sustainable management of the Basin's water and environmental resources, and to prompt the next
generation o f researchersand students inthis field.




                                                     -  112-

                                         Annex 12: Appendix A

                            Stakeholders consultedduringNationalProcess

Guinea
e   Centre de Promotion et de DCveloppement Minier (CPDM)
e   Direction National de 1'Hydraulique (DNH)
e   Direction Natioale de la Meteorologie (DNM)
e   Direction Nationale de 1'Environnement (DNE)
e   Direction GCnerale des Bauxites de Tougue-Dabola (DGBTD)
e   Direction Nationale de 1'Energie (DNE)
e   Centre de Promotiondu DCveloppement Minier (CPDM)
e   Direction Nationale de 1'Agriculture (DNA)
e   Direction Nationale des Eaux et Fortts (DNEF)
e  Direction Nationale des For& et Faune (DNFF)
e  Direction Nationale des Mines (DNM)
e  Direction Nationale du Genie Rural (DGR)
e  Institut de Recherche Agronomique de Guinee (RAG)
e  Inspection regionale des Mines (IRM)
e  Fondpour 1'Environnement Mondial (GEF)
e  ONGBallal Guinee
e  ONGVita
e  Prefecture de Manou
e  Prefecture de Dalaba
e  Prefecture de TouguC
e  Prefecture de Lab6
e  Programme de Rehabilitation Agricole et d'Appui au DCveloppement local (PRAADEL)
e  Projet de Gestion des Resources Naturelles (PGRN)

Mali
e  Action d'Appui aux Initiatives de DCveloppement (AIDEB)
e  Amenagement For& (AF)
e  Association d'Appui aux Actions de DCveloppement Rural (ONG/ADR)
e  Agence Nationale d'Investissement des Collectivitbs Temtoriales (ANICET)
e  Agence Malienne de Presse et de Publicite (AMCFE)
e  Assemblke Regionale
e  Association des Chasseurs
e  Association des Cleveurstranshumant de Mahina
e  Association Cooperatives pscheurs de Kayes
e  Association des exploitants forestiers de Kayes
e  Association des orpailleurs de KCniCba
e  Association des transporteurs routiers
e  Association Djama DjiguiMarena
e  Association des Exploitants Forestiers (AEF)
e  Cabinet d'Assistance pour le Developpement IntCgre du Sahel (CADIS )
e  Chambre d'Agriculture
e  Collectif des IngCnieurs pour le Dkveloppement du Sahel (CIDS)
e  ComitC Nationale de Coordination (CNC)
e  Comite nationale de suivi des recommandations de la table ronde de Kayes


                                                - 113 -

0  Comites locaux de coordination (CLC)
0  Compagnie Malienne de Developpement du Textile (CMDT)
0  Conseil de Cercle
e  Conseil Communaux
0  Conseil de village
0  Consortium Koyne et Bellier
e  Coordination regionale des femmes de Kayes (CRFK)
0  Coordination des Associations feminines et ONG (CAFO)
0  Cooperative Agricole Multifonctionnelle de Somaludi (CAMS)
0  Cooperative Multifonctionnelle de Kamankole (CMK)
0  Direction Regionale de 1'Hydraulique et de 1'Energie (DRHE)
0  Direction Regionale de la SantC Publique (DRSP)
0  Direction Nationale de la Conservation de la Nature (DNCN)
0  Direction Nationale de 1'Hydraulique et de 1'Energie (DNHE)
e  Direction Regionale de la Conservation de la Nature (DRCN)
0  Direction Regionale de 1'Agriculture et de 1'Equipement (DRAE)
0  Direction Regional de l'henagement Rural (DRAMR)
0  Groupe de Recherche et de Realisation pour le DCveloppement Rural dans le Tiers Monde
0  Haut Commissariat Kayes
0  Ministere de la SecuritC
0  Ministere des forces armees
0  Ministere de Developpement Rural (MDR)
e  Office Malien du Tourisme et de l'H6tellerie (OMATHO)
0  Operation Parc National de la Boucle du Baoule Projet Petite Irrigation (PPI)
0  Projet National d'Infrastructure (PNIR)
0  Programme de Gestion des RessourcesNaturelles (PGRN)
0  Projet de Developpement Integre de 1'Agriculture
0  IrriguCe de Manantali (PDIAM)
0  Sous commission Economie Rurale Kayes
0  Service Local d'Appui-Conseil-Amenagement-EquipementRural (SLACAER)
0  Service Locale de la Rtglementationet du Contrde (SLRC)
0  Union GCnerale des Associations pour le developpement (UGAP)

Mauritania
0  Association pour lapromotion de Tougubne
0  Association Mauritanienne de Ingenieurs Agronomes et filieres AssociCes (AMIFA)
0  Association Mauritanienne de lutte contre la desertification (AMLCD)
0  Centre Nationale de Recherche Agronomique et de DCveloppement Agricole (CNRADA)
   Bureau foncier du Brakna
e  Centre National d'Hygiene (CNH)
0  Centre National d'Elevage et de Recherche VCtCrinaire (CNERV)
0  ComitC National Preparatoire du Projet (CNPP)
0  Comite Consultatif Local (CCL)
e  Commune Ndiago
   Condition feminine de BoghC
0  Cooperative des artisans de Taiba
0  Cooperative Rindao Silla
0  Cooperative PCrimetre Pilote du Gorgol I(PPG)
0  Cooperative PBrimetre Pilote du Gorgol I1(PPG)


                                                - 114 -

e  Cooperative Agricole Maghama
e  CoopCrative des artisans de Taiba
e  CoopCrative de Rindao Silla
e  Cooperative des femmes de Birettes Cooperative des femmes de Gidr ElMohguene
e  Cooperative rizicole de Touguene
e  CoopCrative Bok Dioum de Keur Mour
e  Cooperative maraichere de Touguene
e  Direction de 1'Environnement et de 1'Amenagement Rural (DEAR)
e  Direction Regionale pour la Promotion de la SantC (DRPS)
e  Direction regionale de la protection des sols du Gorgol (DRPG)
e  Ftdtration Luthirrienne Mondiale (FLM)
e  Hapital Regional de Kaedi
e  Lutte Contre la PauvretC
e  Maine d'Aleg
e  Ministere du Developpement Rural et de 1'Environnement (MDRE)
e  Ministere de 1'Hydraulique et de 1'Energie (MHE)
0  Organisationpour la Mise en Valeur du fleuve Senegal (OMVS)
e  ONG SUD
0  Parc National de Diawling (PND)
e  PCrimetre pilote du Gorgol (PPG)
e  Programme d'Appui aux Cooperatives Agricoles en diffcultes (PACAD)
e  Plan d'Atttnuation et de Suivi des Impacts sur 1'Environnement (PASIE)
e  Programme des Nations Unis pour le DCveloppement (PNUD)
e  Projet DCveloppement Communautaire et SCcuritC Alimentaire duBralaa (PDCSAB)
e  Projet de developpement rural pour le groupement des femmes de Kaedi Projet Maghama Decrue
e  SociCtC Nationale de DCveloppement Rural (SONADER)
e  SociktC de Gestion de Diama (SOGED)
e  Service du suivi Ccologique du PND
e  Union Intemationale pour la Conservation de laNature (UICN)
0  UnionNationale des CoopCratives Agricoles et de Credit d'Epargne de Mauritanie (UNACEM)

Senegal
0  Association de dkveloppement de Cascas (ADC)
e  CommunautC rurale de Ross Bethio
e  Commissariat de l'aprbs barrage
e  Commission Permanente des Eaux (CPE)
0  Comite National de Coordination (CNC)
e  Comites Locaux de Coordination (CLC)
0  Comitd National Projet Preparatoire du Projet (CNPP)
e  Division regionale de l'hydraulique (DRH)
e  Direction rCgionale du dCveloppement rural (DRDR)
e  FCdCrationdes Paysans Organisesdu DCpartement de Bake1(FPODB)
e  Fedbration des femmes productrices de St-Louis
e  Mouvement des acteurs de la VallCe (MAV)
e  Ministere de 1'Agriculture et de 1'Elevage (MAE)
0  Ministere de la Jeunesse et de 1'Environnement et de 1'Hygiene Publique (ME)
0  Ministere des Mines de 1'Energie et de 1'Hydraulique (MMEH)
0  Plan d'AttCnuation et de Suivi des Impacts sur 1'Environnement (PASIE)
e  SocietC de Gestion et d'Exploitation de DIAMA (SOGED)


                                                 - 115-

0 Societe de gestion de Manantali (SOGEM)
0 Societe d'Am6nagement et d'Exploitation du Delta (SAED)
0 Organisation pour la mise en valeur du fleuve Senegal (OMVS)
0 OngDiapantC
0 ONGOXFAM
0 Societe Nationale des Eaux du Senegal (SONES) Societe des eaux (SDE)
  Union des groupements des femmes des villages voisins duparc de la langue de Barbarie (UGFVPLB)




                                              - 116 -

       Additional Annex 13: Institutional Arrangements for Project Implementation
      AFRICA: Senegal River Basin Water and Environmental Management Project

A.      InstitutionalArrangements

Implementationat the RegionalLevel

1.Executing Agency. The Project will be executed by Organisation pour la mise en valeur du jleuve
Sknkgal (OMVS). To assist in Project management and implementation, a Project office, the regional
project management cellule (CRGP), will be established as an integral part o f the OMVS High Commission
in Dakar. The CRGP, working closely with Bank and United Nations Development Programme (UNDP)
country offices, will be responsible for supporting OMVS in ensuring that national and regional priorities
agreed on by the riparian states are substantively and coherently accommodated withm the proposed
Transboundary Diagnostic Analysis (TDA) and Strategic Action Plan (SAP).

2. OMVS. OMVS will play a key and continuous supervision and coordination role on behalf o f the four
riparian countries. World Bank and UNDP staff in charge o f the Project will maintain direct contact with
OMVS to ensure maximum cooperation for successful implementation o f the Project. OMVS will ensure
close collaboration and harmonization between Project activities and the Plan d 'attknuation et de suivi des
impacts sur 1'environnement (PASIE) project, especially as far as information sharing and PASIE's
consultative committee are concerned. Collaboration with other current projects similar to those o f the
Global Environment Facility (GEF) or the Fouta Djallonproject will be promoted.

3. Inter-Ministerial Council. The Inter-Ministerial Council is the highest authority responsible for
ensuring project coherence and integration at the regional level. I t i s composed o f the four Water Ministries
inthe basin countries. It instructs on and discussesany Senegal RiverBasinmanagementissue. It approves
the strategic actions proposed by the Steering Committee. The Inter-Ministerial Council reports to the
Heads o f State o f the four basin countries. It meets at least once a year, after a preparatory meeting o f ad
hoc experts o f the four countries.

4. Senegal River Basin Steering Committee. The already established Regional Project Planning
Committee (RPPC) will be transformed into the Senegal River Basin steering committee (CPBFS, Le
comitk de pilotage du Bassin du fleuve Sknkgal) and placed under the Inter-Ministerial Council. The
CPBFS will ensure proper implementation o f Project activities. The whole committee will meet at least
once a year to review the annual action plan and progress in Project implementation. Administrative
policies will defme the operational procedures of the CPBFS. Special commissions could be established in
order to facilitate review and decision-making on particular issues. The CPBFS will report to the Council
of Ministers through OMVS H.C. Figure 1 illustrates the institutional arrangements for the Project.

5. The following people will have membership in the CPBFS; however, it will be able to call on anyone
withthe required expertise:

From OMVS
0    The HighCommissioner
     The General Director o f SOGED
0    The General Director o f SOGEM
0    The General Secretary o fOMVS
0    The OMVS Coordination Advisor



                                                    - 117 -

0   The O M V S Legal Advisor
0   The O M V S Technical Director
0   The Administrative and Financial Director
0   The CRGP Regional Project Coordinator
0   The Head o f the Environmental Observatory
0   The Managerial Staff nominatedby the HighCommissioner

From Guinea
0   A representative o fthe Ministry o fHydraulics and Energy
0   A representativeo fthe Ministry o fMines, Geology and Environment
0   A representative o fthe Ministry of Water and Forestry andAgriculture
    A representative from the CNC
0   Ministry o f Economics and Finance (as member o f the CNC)
0   A representative from the National Cellule

From Mali
0   A representativeo fthe Ministry o f Environment
0   A representative o fthe Ministry o fMines, Energy andWater
0   A representative o fthe Ministry o f Water and Forestry andAgriculture
0   A representative from the CNC
0   GEF FocalPoint (as member o fthe CNC)
0   A representative from the National Cellule

From Mauritania
    A representative o fthe Ministryo f Hydraulics and Energy (representative o fthe National Cellule)
0   A representative o fthe Ministry o f Mines, Energy andWater
0   A representativeo fthe Ministry of Rural Development and Environment
0   Ministry o f Economics and Finance
0   A representativefrom the CNC
0   A representative from the SONADER

From Senegal
0   A representative o fthe Ministry o fEnvironment
0   A representativeo fthe Ministry o fEconomics and Finance
    A representativefrom the National Cellule
0   A representativefrom Water Resource Services

From other agencies
0   The World Bank
0   U N D P
0   Donors co-financing the Project.

6. CPBFSResponsibilities. The CPBFS willbe responsible for:

    Proposing Project focus;
0   Supervising the Project and ensuring that objectives are met, especially as far as budget and timeline
    are concerned;
0   Ensuringmonitoringand evaluation o fProject activities;
0   Reviewing Project activities;


                                                 - 118 -

     ReviewingProject progress reports;
0    Advising CRGP on Project implementation; and
     Examining the reports o f the auditor incharge o f the mid-term independent audit and submitting them
     for approval to the Inter-Ministerial Council.

7. Exchange of Regional Lessons. In addition to the structures mentioned above and in order to ensure
proper transfer o f expertise and best practices, the UnitedNations Environment Programme (UNEP) and
the organs from other GEF Projects in Mauritania, Senegal, and the Fouta Djallon mountains project in
Guinea, as well as GEF Project managers and coordinators in the region will also be invited to attend
CPBFS meetings. Close links will be maintained with current OMVS committees, especially the Permanent
Water Commission. The World Bank and UNDP will provide assistance for Project supervision through
frequent and regular meetings. Annual missions o f the CPBFS will visit the field to discuss Project
progress.

8. CRGP Personnel. OMVS will manage the Project through the CRGP and at the national level, through
OMVS National Cellules, and the National Cellule inGuinea. OMVS will nominate and support a regional
project coordinator, Coordinateur rkgional du Projet (CRP) entirely dedicated to the Project. The CRP
will be ensconced at the OMVS,whereas other staff o f the CRGP will be financed by the Project. Prior to
effectiveness, the financial and administrative assistant, Assistant administratif etfinancier (AAF)will be
recruited. This assistant will be responsible, among other things, for monitoring the administrative and
financial documents o f the Project. To strengthen Project implementation, a technical expert will be
recruited for each main Project component. A procurement specialist will be recruited and located within
the CRGP and will give help and advice to the National Cellule teams from time to time to monitor the
progress o f procurement and implementation o f each contract under the Project and will ensure effective
and timely Project execution.

9. CRGPStafJ The Project team will be composed o fthe following:

0    CRP (financed by OMVS);
0    AAF;
0    Waterinatural resources management expert - Component 2: Data Knowledge and Management;
0    Environmental planning officer - Component 3: TDNSAP;
     National microgrants expert, Expert national en micro-finance ( E M ) (socio-economist)                -
         Component 4: Priority Actions;
0    Public participation and information expert, Expert en information et participation            (EIP)   -
         Component 5: Public Awareness and Participation; and
0    Procurement specialist consultant with one-year non-renewable term contract.

CRGPRecruitment

10. CRGP Recruitment. To strengthen regional capacities, all CRGP staff will be recruited through a
sub-regional competitive process. However, preference will be given to Basin nationals while seelung to
maintain a balance among countries. OMVS will take the necessary steps to ensure Guinea's participation
inthe recruitment commission. Ifpossible, OMVS personnel will provide support to the CRGP. National,
regional, and international consultants will be recruited, when necessary, with a priority givento recruiting
national and regional consultants. CRGP personnel will be recruited as follows:

0    CRGP managers will be recruited on a competitive basis, with priority given to nationals from the
     region and then advertisement o f the positions innational, regional, and international newspapers; and


                                                    - 119 -

0    Assistants will be recruited on a competitive basis after advertisement o f the positions in Senegalese
         newspapers.

11. Competitive and Transparent Selection Procedure. All personnel paid from project finds (either
CRGP or National Cellules budget) will be recruited through a competitive selection process after
advertisement o f the positions innational, regional and intemational media.

12. CRGP Personnel. The candidates with the required competencies will be short-listed by OMVS H.C.
To ensure transparency, a review committee composed o f donors and OMVS representatives will be set up
and will make recommendations to OMVS H.C. on the selection o f candidates. The selection will follow
this competitive procedure to ensure that all four riparian countries are covered and represented. Preference
will be given to personnel in the region with the assistance, if necessary, o f regional and intemational
consultants.

Implementation at the National Level

13. National Coordination Committees. Through PASIE, national coordination committees, Comitis
nationaux de coordination (CNCs) have been created in the three OMVS member states. A CNC will be
established in Guinea from the current National Project Planning Committee. The extended CNC will
include but not be limited to the following institutions:

0    Ministryo fHydraulicsiWater
0    MinistryofEnvironment
0    MinistryofHealth
0    Ministryo fAgriculture
0    MinistryofEnergy
0    Ministryo fFinance
0    MinistryofEducation
0    NGOrepresentatives
0    Scientific and research institutions
0    Women's groups representatives
0    MinistryofWomen's Affairs
a    MinistryofTerritorial Communities
a    MinistryofEconomic Affaires andDevelopment
0    UNDP
0    The World Bank.

14.As far as Project activities are concemed, CNC will do the following:

0    Supervise all Project activities at the national level;
0    Ensure participation and information sharing at the national level among the various ministries
     involved;
0    Facilitate the participation o fNGOs (through member NGOs o f CNC);
0    Supervise the Project and advise on necessarypolicy orientations;
0    Assess project implementation whle providing guidance and technical advice to the National Cellule;
0    Receive and analyze complete annual and financial reports on Project activities; and
0    Approve monitoring and evaluation reports on Project activities.

15. National Cellules. OMVS National Cellules have already been established in the three OMVS


                                                     - 120 -

countries as decentralized bodies. A fourth cellule will be established inGuinea through the current Project.
The Cellule established in Guinea will have the same institutional setting as the three existing OMVS
cellules, referenced as the four National Cellules. The National Cellules will be responsible for Project
implementation at the national level. The current OMVS national cellule coordinators, Coordinateurs de la
ceZZuZe nationale (CCNs) will manage the National Cellules and the national-level Project activities,
worlang closely with the CRGP.

16.National CeZZuZe Personnel. To facilitate Project implementation, the Project will recruit personnel to
work in the National Cellules under the Technical Advisor in charge o f coordination. In additon to the
CCN, the personnel will include, the AAF, EIP, and ENM.The National Cellules will play a key role inthe
preparation o f the environmental evaluations for the implementation o f the Microgrant Program and if
necessary, will be assisted by extemal experts:

0    The CCN in coordination with the CRP, will work in close collaboration with other Project resource
     persons and various national experts, as well as with the technical services and organizations involved
     inthe implementation ofvarious Project components in the country;
0    The EIP will facilitate community involvement inthe Project by worlang with local NGOs. He or she
     will be based in the field (Mamou in Guinea, Kita in Mali, Rosso in Mauritania, and St-Louis in
     Senegal) or in any other place that will facilitate efficient implementation; and
0    The ENMwill launch the national microgrant program for the Project and promote its activities with
     key actors. Like the EIP, the ENM should be based in the field (Mamou in Guinea, Kita in Mali,
     Rosso in Mauritania, and St-Louis in Senegal). H e or she will develop the Microgrant Program
     National Action Plan in close collaboration with the CNC to ensure compatibility with the regional
     strategy of the microgrant component o f the Project. The ENMwill disseminate the guidingprinciples
     and any pertinent information to local associations, NGOs, and other stakeholders seehng financial
     and technical assistance through the program. H e or she will organize workshops for all stakeholders
     on micro-project development to explain the Program and help potential participants establish a link
     between local environmental problems andbasin-wide priorities.




                                                     -121 -

                                    Figure 1. Organigramme o f Project Institutional Arrangements and Staff

        +1rcouncil
              Supervision                                                                                                       Personnel

             Inter-Ministerial


                                                                                         ./    .......      ----
                                                                                                   <,.'
                                                                                                                                               CRGP Personnel
                                                                                                                Regional Project Coordinator (CRP)
          Senegal River Basin                                                                                   Administrative and Financial Assistant (AAF)
               Steering                                                                                         Environmental Planning Officer
          Committee (CPBFS)                                                                                     Water ResourcesManagement Expert
 .-                                                                                                         * Public Participation and Information Expert (EIP)
 M                                                                           -_    !.>                      -
                                                                                                            * Regional Micro-Financing Specialist
                                                                                                                Procurement Specialist
                                                                                L** ._(I.



                                                                                                '%.,


                              Regional Project                                                                   1'..%_...._-.--                                                      ._........................,/'
                                                                                                                                         .............                            ~,1(.
                               Management         __--                                                 ...........
                                                                                                                                                                  ....-.. ....
                 I            Cellule (CRGP)
                                                                                                                                           ~.  I   ........ ....--
                                                                                                                         .
                                                                                                            ,./     *..-.+.
                                                                                                                         ._     .........
                                                                                                                                                                                       ............
                                                                                                                                    ~


-                                                                                                                 '-

                                                                                                       ...e                          National Cellules Personnel                                            .....
.-m                                                                                                                             National Cellule Coordinator (NCC)                                               'k.,
 0                                                                                                                              Accounting Assistant
LI        Coordination                                                                                                   1      Expert inInformation and Participation
          Committees (CNC)                        Senegal
                                              National Cellules
                                                                                            %,-        ,.......                 .....          ..,.                                                              ..e>




                                                             i     Environmental      ,:'
                                                                                       /
                                                             '.%$  Facihty (PMF)
                                                                                                                                         ,
                                                                                                                                         <...........      1
 m                                                                                                                                                                   _,
 x
;I




17. National Cellule Recruitment. The personnel for National Cellules will be recruited according to a
competitive selection process.




                                                           - 122 -

Implementation at the LocalLevel

18. Local Coordination Committees. Comites locaux de coordination (CLCs) have already been
established in the three OMVS members states through PASIE. The CLCs were initially created as
advisory structures for communities regarding compensation related to the installation o f high-voltage
cables inthe energy project. Consequently, the CLCs do not cover the whole Basin, nor are they present in
Guinea. The establishment o f additional CLCs is thus necessary to ensure basin-wide coverage. The GEF
Project will promote the establishment o f new and additional CLCs as indicated inTable 1below:




        Country          Number of Established        Number of New CLCs          Total Number of
                                  CLCs                        Required           CLCs at the End of
                                                                                   the GEF Project
       Guinea                      0                              4                        4
       Mali                        5                              5                        10
       Mauritania                  4                              3                        7
       Senegal                     5                              2                        7
        Total                     14                              14                      28

19. CLCs will be particularly active during the TDNSAP phase ininvolving stakeholders and will also be
responsible for local implementation o f the Microgrant Program. The lessons leamed through PASIE are
extremely positive as far as CLCs are concemed. With the appropriate assistance to organize themselves,
the communities identify CLCs as an expression and communication channel that did not exist before.
CLCs support the local implementation o f the Microgrant Program and supervise all Project activities at
the local level. CLCs will work under the supervision o f the National Cellules.

B. Project Execution

20. Implementation Period. Project implementation is expected to become effective January 2004 and to
last four years, untilDecember 2007.

21. Flow of Funds. Project flow o f funds is described in Annex 6 Figure 1. As the Project's executing
agency, the OMVS will be the recipient o f the grant which will be transferred to a Special Account. The
CRGP will be responsible for the regional implementation o f Project activities. At the national level, each
Cellule will have an open account. OMVS will pre-finance eligible expenses and related activities o f the
National Cellules. OMVS will validate and submit to the World Bank all appropriate documentation
presented for reimbursementand Special Account replenishment. An initial amount o f 20 percent will be
placed inthe Special Account for payments.

C. Microgrant Program-Priority       Actions

22. Microgrant Program. The Microgrant Programbuildsupon lessons leamed from the one developedby
the UN-GEF (PMF) Small-Grants Program. The GEF Project will require PMF assistance ineach country
to benefit from its field experience and institutional network. In Guinea, a comparable network will be
established concurrent to the implementation o fthe microgrant program inthe OMVS countries.

23. Microgrant Program at the Regional Level. To implement Project Component 4, Microgrant


                                                  - 123 -

Program-Priority Actions, OMVS will draw on lessons leamed from existing microgrant programs like
those o f the PMF, the African Development Bank, the World Bank, the Social Funds, and others.
Similarly, the implementation mechanisms o f the microgrant program will be based on the best practices
drawn from these programs.

24. Microgrant Expert. The regional expert based at the CRGP will be recruited to manage the microgrant
component under the supervision o f the CRP in collaboration with the regional EIP and with-at             the
national level-the   CCN, EIP, and ENM.

25. Training. The regional microgrant expert will organize training workshops for all those involved in
reviewingmicrogrant activities, which includes the four CNC, the experts in charge o f the GEF-OMVS
project, the information and communication coordinators, the national managers o f the subcontracted
NGO, the CRP, the regional and national EIPs, and members o f the CPBFS responsible for supervision o f
the Microgrant Program. The workshops will focus onprogram objectives andthe social and environmental
protection aspects and can include topics such as social sensitization principles; effective community
participation; identification o f appropriate formats; possible options for grant applications; and submission
and conformity with environmental and social safeguards screening, monitoring, and evaluation procedures.


Microgrant Program at the National Level

26. CNC. The CNC will ensure transparent and fair supervision o f Microgrant Program implementation
and will review the recommendations pertaining to the environmental and social safeguards. The CNC will
review the rules outlined in the Microgrant Operational Manual. A draft version o f the manual was
developed during the preparationphase o f the Project and will be attached to the Project documentation that
will be finalized during the first year o f Project implementation under the direction o f the regional
microgrant expert.

27. CNC Responsibilities. The CNC i s responsible for selecting and approving the projects that will be
financed through microgrants and for monitoring their technical quality. CNC members are also
encouraged to take part inproject preselection visits and to provide advice on proposal reformulation or, if
necessary, conception revision, as well as project monitoring and evaluation. The CNC is invited to review
the annual action plan proposed by the ENM and to regularly evaluate the Microgrant Program to assess
and disseminate success stones, problems to avoid in the hture, or lessons leamed. Information on the
Microgrant Program could also be disseminated through the network o f CNC members, which will improve
program visibility.

28. National Cellules and PMFAssistance. The National Cellule will subcontract the technical assistance
for the Microgrant Program; this personnel will report to the ENM. The ENM will be institutionally and
administratively supported by the National Cellule personnel and will work closely with the regional and
national EIP. The microgrant offices in Mali, Mauritania, and Senegal are working together to organize
and carry out a training program on the procedures o f the Microgrant Program for Guinea's ENM. These
offices will provide Guinea with technical assistance and support for the implementation o f the Microgrant
Program.

29. National Cellule Responsibilities. The National Cellules are responsible for implementingthe national
Microgrant Priority Action Plans. This Action Plan will follow the format proposed by the Microgrant
Expert and will reflect the priorities o f the TDA and SAP. The plan will be prepared in close consultation
with the national groups and services involved. The national Microgrant Priority Action Planwill provide a


                                                    - 124 -

strategic framework for the allocation o f resources that includes spatial and thematic priorities for the
national implementation o f the program. Upon finalization o f the TDA and SAP, the Microgrant Program
will be launched.

30. Local and National Promotion and Information Campaigns. Local and national promotion and
information campaigns will be conjointly prepared and implemented at the regional and national levels to
present the Microgrant Program and its objectives and to provide detailed information on the submission o f
grant proposals.

Microgrant Program at the Local Level

31. CLCs. The CLCs will work closely with the National Cellules to inform rural communities on the
specifics o f the Microgrant Program and will assist the stakeholders inthe elaboration o f proposals and the
implementation o f initial environmental screening. The CLC will make recommendations to the National
Cellules and, if an environmental evaluation i s deemednecessary, the latter will prepare the documents with
the assistance o f the CLC. As soon as microgrant supported interventions are launched, the CLC will
facilitate their implementation, monitoring, and evaluation. An essential condition for program success lies
inCLC actions, whichwill facilitate communication among communities.

D. Coordination with Ongoing Current Initiatives

32. Joint Implementation. The World Bank and UNDP will jointly implement the Project to ensure
efficient coordination o f multilateral assistance in the Senegal River Basin. Both organizations currently
have several ongoing programs and projects used as important references for the current GEF Project (see
Appendix A at the end o f this Annex). Moreover, it has been found that joint implementation makes the
Project considerably stronger as it benefits from each agency's comparative advantage.

33. Integration in Regional Initiatives. The four participating countries are signatories o f the Convention
to Combat Desertification. They have successfully implemented their national action plans and have
submittedthem to the CCD secretariat in Bonn. A Regional Action Plan (RAP) has also been developed
and a sub-regional action plan was formulated. In addition, within the framework o f the Intemational
Waters Partnership, the OMVS is the sub-regional lead agency in the sustainable management o f shared
water resources.

E.Project Reporting

34. Reporting Submissionsfrom the OMVS. The CRP will submit to the OMVS the following progress
and other reports which, once integrated, will be presented to the Project CPBFS, the Inter-Ministerial
Council, and the World Bank:

a) Monthly narrative report by electronic mail (one page maximum): including main accomplishments
over the course o f the month and the goals set for the subsequent month and, if appropriate, the remarks
and/or recommendations conceming unforeseen events susceptible to affect Project progress and quality.
0     Frequency: Monthly
0     Responsibility: CRP
0     Recipients: OMVS, CNC, UNDP, and World Bank (for internaluse only).

b) Quarterly progress reports: covering intermediate periods between annual reports and reporting on: (i)
Project progress, problems encountered, and necessary corrective action; (ii) cost o f each Project
                                                                                  actual


                                                    - 125 -

component with cost estimate to completion; and (iii) to which objectives have been reached, as
                                                          degree
determined by Project indicators. These reports will include specific sections on actual and estimated
procurement activities and disbursements with information on progress in procurement activities; gaps
between estimates and actual figures and corrective actions taken; and Project expenditures (local and
foreign cost).
0    Frequency: First report to be submitted within six months o f Project start
     Responsibility: CRP
0    Recipients: All CPBFS members and observers.

c) Annual Project progress report: Because of the involvement o f multiple donorslagencies int h s Project,
reporting procedures will be kept as simple and harmonious as possible. The CRP will thus review UNDP
and World Bank annual reporting requirements and elaborate a uniform report format to meet most o f the
requirements o f both organizations. With the use o f this unified approach, the report will meet UNDP
(Annual Project Report, APR) and World Bank criteria. The CRP will prepare annual progress reports
describing implemented activities and compare them with the established work program, project documents,
and general project objectives.
0    Frequency: First report to be submitted within 12 months o f effective Project launch and 2 months
     before the first annual report o f the Project
0    Responsibility: CRP
0    Recipients: All CPBFS members, observers included.

d) Workprogram: will be attached to the Project progress report. Frequency, responsibility, and recipients
are the same.

e) Evaluation of GEF Project Implementation Review (GEF PIR): The CRP will also fill in the annual
review form on the progress o f GEF projects (GEF PIR). To avoid redundancies, it was agreed that the
World Bank would submit this report on behalf o f the two implementing agencies. The CRP will get in
touch with the Bank Task Team Leader to that effect.
0    Frequency: To be submittedannually, normally inJune o f each year
0    Responsibility: CRP and Bank Task Team Leader
0    Recipients: OMVS, CNCs, UNDP, World Bank (World Bank will ensure report transmission to the
     Secretariat o f the GEF)
0    Additional distribution: Parties other than the two GEF implementingagencies, if they so request in
     conformity with the established policy o f the GEF.

fl Mid-term review report: Conforming to standard procedures, fhds have been set aside for a mid-term
review. The TOR and date o f this evaluation will be determined during the annual review or by mail. This
evaluation will normally be independent and carried out by consultants with no previous association with
the Project.
0    Frequency: Mid-termreview duringthe third year o f Project implementation
0    Responsibility: Preliminary TORSwill be preparedby the CRP
0    Recipients: All CPBFS members including observers. This report could also be distributed to parties
     other than the two GEF implementing agencies, if they request it, in conformity with the established
     policy o f the GEF.

g,l Ad hoc reports: A large number of ad hoc reports will be produced in all thematic areas inwhich the
Project intervenes. These reports will be produced at the national and regional levels for various purposes.
0    Frequency: as needed
0    Responsibility: The CRP for report repartition


                                                    - 126 -

     Recipients: Basedon report objective
     Additional distribution: All CPBFS members, observers included.

h) Audits; OMVS will submit an annual audit report to the Bank and UNDP. Ths audit will be camed out
by independentauditors.
0    Frequency: The annual reports must be submitted within six months after the end o f the fiscal year
     (endo f fiscal year n= June 30 o fyear n)
0    Responsibility: The CRP will prepare the TOR o f the independent audit, which will be carried out by
     the independent auditor.

Project Supervision

35. Project Supervision Requirements. The Project will follow UNDP and World Bank supervision
regulations. The following provisions have beenmade to that effect:

0   Annual supervision missions: An annual supervision mission will visit the field to assess Project
    progress. This supervision mission will be ajoint World Bank, UNDP, and OMVS mission.
0   Steering Committee annual meetings: The CPBFS will review and approve annual work programs. I t
    will also receive andreview financial reports on Project activities. The CPBFS will meet at least once a
    year and these meetings will be held in conjunction with the annual supervision missions. They will
    take place at OMVS H.C. and will be attended by both the CPBFS and mission members. The CPBFS
    will receive andreview the annual progress and evaluation reports before the meetings.
0   Supervision of procurement activities: These missions will be synchronized with the annual
    supervision missions.

Project Evaluation

36. Mid-term Evaluation. A monitoring and evaluation plan will be integrated into the Project
Implementation Plan. Conforming to standard procedures, funds have been set aside for a mid-term review.
The TOR and the date of the evaluation will be determined during the annual review or by mail. This
evaluation will normally be independent from those o f the GEF implementing agencies and OMVS H.C.
and will thus be entrusted to consultants not previously associated with the Project.

37. Implementation Completion Report. An Implementation Completion Report (ICR) will be prepared
six months following the end o fthe Project. This report will be prepared inconformity with standard World
Bank procedures.




                                                   -127-

               Additional Annex 14: OMVS Mandate and Institutional Structure
      AFRICA: Senegal River Basin Water and Environmental Management Project

A. Organisation pour la Mise en Valeur du Fleuve SCnkgal (OMVS)

Introduction

1. ThreeDecades of Cooperation.The Senegal River's development potential andregional importance has
long beenrecognized since the colonial era. However, it is after independence, and specifically in 1968, that
Guinea, Mali, Mauritania, and Senegal created the Organisation des Etats riverains du fleuve Sknkgal (
OERS) with a view to realizing the potential offered by the Basin's land and water resources in a
framework o f regional economic integration. In 1972, Mali, Mauritania, and Senegal formed the
Organisation pour la mise en valeur dufleuve Sknkgal (OMVS).

2. OMVSLegislative Base. OMVS was established in 1972 to promote the economic development o f the
Senegal River Basin for imgation, power supply, and navigation sectors. OMVS is governed by four
principal legal conventions: (i) Convention relative au statut du fleuve Sinkgal (1972); (ii)     Convention
portant sur la crkation de I'OMVS (1972); and (iii)   Convention relative au statutjuridique des ouvrages
communs (1978). In Mai 2002, a Water Charter was approved by OMVS member countries (see Annex
16). This Charter ensures a sustainable management o f the water resources among the OMVS member
countries. In 1992, Guinea and OMVS signed the Protocole d'accord-cadre de coophation entre la
Ripublique de Guinde et I'OMVS with a view to creating a framework for cooperation inactions of mutual
interest concerning the Senegal River and its Basin. I t also opened the possibility that Guinea participate in
OMVS on observer status. The Protocole d'accord-cadre de coophation entre la Ripublique de Guinke
et 1'OMVS has been extended twice, creating an Inter-Ministerial Council and a Technical and Legal
Commission o f Cooperation.

Organization

3. Management Bodies. The supreme body o f OMVS is the Conference o f Heads o f State and
Government. There are also three permanent bodies: the Council o f Ministers (COM), the High
Commission (H.C.), and the Permanent Water Commission (PWC). There i s a newly created
Inter-Ministerial Council, which includes Guinea membership, that will serve in an advisory capacity and
that has oversight over the Project. The CPBFS will report to the Council on Project progress. Inaddition,
there is an advisory committee and the Regional Planning and Monitoring Committee, which advises on
whether projects and measures planned in member states are consistent with the organization's objectives
and whether the available resources inthe Basin can meet the development plans. Figure 1below illustrates
the OMVS organization. Other bodies could be established ifnecessary.

4. National Cellules. The National Cellules inthe three countries are directly linked to the Committee of
Experts o f member states, established by the Council of Ministers (COMs) to advise the Council. For
example, the Coordinator o f the OMVS National Cellule for Senegal is also a member o f the COM's
Committee o f Experts. The National Cellule assists in the implementation o f OMVS projects and the
National Cellule Coordinator is a permanent member o f the advisory body o f OMVS. In addition, local
committees at the district level are needed to allow grassroots participation. The objectives o f the national
cellules are the same ineach country and are as follows:

     Monitoring activities o f OMVS;



                                                   -128 -

0    Formulating advice for the Ministry;
     Coordinating activities o f OMVS (H.C., Sociitg de gestion du barrage de Diama [SOGED], and
     Sociiti de gestion du barrage de Manantali [SOGEM]) inthe member states;
0    Catalyzing relations between OMVS and national structures o f member states;
     Participating inthe implementation o fprograms o f OMVS;
0    Functioning as a permanent member o f the Advisory Committee o fthe High Commission; and
     Undertahng stakeholder consultations incooperation with OMVS.

5. Consultative Committee of Donors. Liaison and coordination between donors and the organization are
ensured through the Consultative Committee o f Donors.

6.Involvement of NGOs. Recently, OMVS has became more aware o fthe importance o f the participation
and cooperation o f NGOs. It has been more open to their involvement and has associated NGOs in the
development process.

7. Staf$ng. The distribution o f senior positions at OMVS is based on a political agreement at the highest
level. Because the OMVS headquarters i s located in Senegal, the senior positions o f High Commissioner
and Secretary General (four-year terms) are alternated between Mauritania and Mali. Other senior
positions are distributed equally among the three member states. Other staff positions are open to
competition with the general intention o f keeping a balance among the countries. Junior staff are recruited
mostly locally.

OMVSFinances

8. Funding. Funding o f OMVS is govemed by the May 12, 1982 Convention. OMVS investments are in
the form o f loans both to the states as well as directly to the organization. In the latter case, collateral i s
required fiom the member states. Each state pays its own share o f its loans.

9. Allocation of Costsfor OMVS Operating Budget. The allocation o f costs and debt-sharingis based on
an agreed formula, covered inthe conventions, with a provision that the formula can be revised. The World
Bank and the University o f Utah helped develop the formula after testing several methods o f apportioning
costs and charges. The underlying philosophy for cost recovery is that the user pays, but prevailing
conditions are also taken into account. Fees paidto the organization are usedto pay for operating expenses.

                                       Contributions to OMVS in2000

                                                           US$429,435
                                                           US419.435
                  Senegal                                  US$419,435
                   Total                                 US$ 1,268,305

10. Shared Ownership of Structures. As established by the Convention related to the legal status o f
common ownership, the OMVS structures (Manantali Dam located in Mali and Diama dam located in
Senegal and Mauritania) are indivisible property, subject to common ownership. The River Basin is in a
sense common property and taking on-board the interests of all riparian countries should be considered. If
there i s a national project with an impact on the regime o f the River, or that could damage the interests o f
other members, it is normal under the principle o f cooperation among member states that such a project
should be submittedto the PWC for its review and authorized by the COM.


                                                    -129 -

OMVS Current Responsibilities

 11.OMVS in Project Execution. OMVS is executing and overseeing the overall River Basin development
program. This program consists o f three main components, namely irrigation, navigation, and energy.

     The irrigation component aims to establish approximately 375,000 hectare (ha) o f irrigated
      agricultural land, with water being supplied from the Diama and Manantali dams. The irrigation
     component has beenunder implementation since 1986.
     The navigation component includes the improvement o f the main river channel to allow for
     year-round navigation over some 905 lulometers (km) between Kayes and Saint Louis. The component
     also addresses the construction o f ports and places o f call, the establishment o f fleet operating
     agencies, and the maintenance o f the navigable channel. The navigation component has not yet been
     started.
     The Manantali dam supports the energy component with a capacity o f 200MW hydroelectric power
     plant generating 800 million lulowatt hourdyear. The power transmission to the main cities o f the
     three member states is ensured by a hlly operational 1,300 km long high voltage transmission line.
     The first lulowatts from Manantali supplied Bamako in January 2002, Dakar in July 2002 and
     Nouakchott inNovember 2002.

12. Dam Construction and Operation. OMVS has planned and overseen the construction o f the two
jointly owned and operated dams on the river. The Diama dam (located downstream) i s an anti-saline
intrusion dam with the basic purpose to halt saltwater intrusion into the Senegal River, thereby malung
agriculture possible in the delta. The construction o f Diama dam started in 1982 and was completed in
 1986. The Manantali dam (upstream) i s a multi-purpose dam, which facilitates the regulation o f the
Senegal River flows (300 meters cubic/second) for the three main components defined above. The
Manantali dam construction began inJune 1982 and ended inAugust 1988.

13. Dam Management. Two operating entities were established, namely the Diama dam management
company (SOGED) and the Manantali dam management company (SOGEM). Both o f them have the
overall responsibility for dam operation and maintenance. SOGED and SOGEM are interstate parastatal
agencies with their own institutional setting.




                                                  -130-

                           Figure 1: Organigrammeof OMVS HighCommission




                                                  1    Conferenceof Head of States



                                                                                               Consultabe organs :
                   ~                                                                              -
Organ of prior Control: CF                                   Council of Minister                       cc
                                                                                                       PWC

                                                                                                    ~




Organof PostControl :CC                                                                           -    PRC




                             LegalAdvisor


     1                    I               I                                                    I
                                                                                      CoordinationAdvisor
OMVS Environmental            Communication,ForeignAifairr andNew
    Observatory              TechnologyOffice



                                                                                                 I
                                                                                                          Technical Dept
                                                              DocumentaGon




                                                                                                                        Studies, Planning,

               andTraining




                                                              - 131 -

Additional Annex 15: The Regional Hydropower Project and the Plan d'Attenuation et de
                          Suivi des Impacts sur I'Environnement (PASIE)
      AFRICA: Senegal River Basin Water and Environmental Management Project

A. The RegionalHydropower DevelopmentProject

1. World Bank Involvement. Manantali and Diama dams were built in 1986 and 1988 respectively.
However, in view o f financing constraints, the initial (non-Bank financed) projects did not include power
generation. Without power generation and supply to the urban centers, such as Bamako, Nouakchott, and
Dakar, as originally envisaged, the dams did not generate sufficient revenue stream either to meet the
required debt service requirements or to ensure proper operation and maintenance o f the dams. In the
mid-1990s, the three states requestedthe World Bank to participate ina donor consortium to bringvalue to
the previous investment by completing the power generation and transmission facilities. As the dams had
created considerable negative impacts, it was hrther agreed that this second phase would also mitigate
these impacts and improve the living conditions o f the people affected by the two dams.

2. Purpose of the Project. The purpose o fthe Project was "to improve the capacities o f Mali, Mauritania,
and Senegal to meet the increasing demands for electricity supply in their respective territories"
(JPA-Schedule l),    through the following:

0    Reduction inthe cost o f power;
0    Increase o f efficiency and reliability o f the power supply systems inthe three countries; and
0    Mitigation o f environmental problems.

3. Project Financing. The Project financed the construction with associated supervision services o f a 200
Megawatt (MW)hydropower station at the Manantali dam; lughvoltage transmission lines and associated
power transformation systems; as well as institutional strengthening o f the two implementing agencies, the
OMVS and the Soci6tk de gestion du barrage de Manantali (SOGEM), including the PASIE. The three
IDA credits, approved on September 10, 1997, in the amounts o f Special Drawing Rights (SDR) 12.6
million for Mali, SDR 8.1 million for Mauritania, and SDR 7.7 million for Senegal, represent a small part
(9 percent) o f this multi-donor initiative (US$m 445 equivalent).

4. Current Project Implementation Status. At the last project donor meeting held in Bamako, on
December 1&11, 2001, the Project implementation status was thoroughly discussed among the parties.
Based on these discussions and on a formal request for extension, project closure was to be June 2003,
instead o f June 2002 as originally planned.

B. ProjectComponents

5. The Regional Hydropower Project's four components (A-D) are identified and the status o fthe financial
support briefly described below.

Component A: Power Station. Power station construction includes four primary activities:

0    Civil works for the power station and dispatching center at Manantali;
0    Electromechanical equipment (5 units o f 40 MW each);
0    Step-up substation; and
0    Reinforcement works on the dam.



                                                      - 132 -

6. The major part (US$m 28.5) of the IDA credits (US$m 38.7 equivalent) was usedto co-finance with the
Islamic Development Bank (IDB) and Banque Ouest-Africaine de Diveloppement (BOAD)the civil works
contract for the construction o f the power station, the step-up transformer, and the dam reinforcement. The
electromechanical equipment was financed by the African Development Fund (AFD), Canadian
Intemational Development Agency (CIDA), and KfW. The bulk o f the civil works was completed in
December 2001. The remaining works are as follows:

0    Rehabilitation o f the cushion basin o f the spillway;
0    Paving o f site roads; and
0    Special coating o f buildings and finishingworks insidepower station.

Component B: Transmission System. The transmission system component has three major activities:

    Eastern transmission system to Bamako (operational since July 2001);
0   Westem transmission system to Nouakchott and Dakar; and
0   Dispatching center at Manantali and equipment to link it to the three national dispatching centers.

7. There was no IDA financing for this component, which was financed jointly by AFD, Banque
Europienne d 'Investissement (BEI), Fonds Europien de Diveloppement (FED), African Development
Bank (AfDB), KfW,Fonds Arabe de Diveloppement Economique et Social (FADES), and BOAD.

8. Component C: Supervision. Ths includes consultant services for construction supervision (all
components) until project completion. There was no IDA financing for this component. It was entirely
financed by AFD, KfW, and CIDA.

9. Component D: Institutional Strengthening. This component is comprised o f support to the two
implementing agencies (SOGEM and OMVS H.C.), includingthe following:

0   Assistance with the recruitment o f a private operator for the management and operation o f project
    facilities;
0   Assistance with implementation o f environmental mitigation and monitoring plan; and
0   Support to establishmentireview o ftariff principles and mechanisms and energy purchase agreements.

 10.Related studies:

0   Reservoir management optimization program;
0   Mitigationmeasures for environment (health, traditional agnculture, etc.);
0   Promoting electrification o f the Senegal Valley;
0   Developing o fnew hydroelectric sites;
    Training o f SOGEM and OMVS H.C. staff;
0   Acquisition o frelated equipment, materials, and vehicles; and
0   Operating costs of SOGEM and OMVS H.C.

11.Activities listedabove were either solely or partly IDA funded.

C. Programme d'AttCnuationet de Suivi des Impactssur 1'Environnement(PASIE)

12. PASIE. The PASIE is a jointly financed environmental and social management plan by the AfDB,


                                                      -133 -

AFD, CIDA, IDA, and OMVS. It consists of six sub-programs: (i)Construction Impact Mitigation and
Monitoring Program for the power generation and transmission facilities; (ii)          Appropriations and Right o f
Way Program to carry out compensation activities for land acquisition and resettlement; (iii)Optimal
Reservoir Management Program to prepare, inter alia, the Manantali Reservoir Management Plan and the
Water Charter; (iv) Environmental Sanitation Program to implements pilot projects related to water related
diseases and a regional sanitation plan; (v) Monitoring, Coordination, and Communication to monitor any
environmental impacts and implement immediate remedial measures; and (vi) Associated Measures for
poverty reduction to maximize the benefits o f the Project.

D. Statusof RegionalHydropowerDevelopmentProject and PASIE

13. Regional Hydropower Development Project. Component A: Power Station. Power station
provisional acceptance was scheduled for May 2003 with project completion by June 2003. The early
problems experienced during the commissioning o f the first unit o f the power station were to be resolved
following    the   aggressive    remedial     action    plan    implemented         by the       consortium  ANS
(ABB-NORELEC-SULZER), which is responsible for the supply and installation o f the electromechanical
equipment, including strengthening the team in the field with significant resources from their technical
departments. Because o f the delay in the installation o f the electromechanical equipment, there was an
associated delay incompleting the civil works, inparticular the finishmgworks inthe power station.

14. Component B: TransmissionNetworks. The highvoltage transmission network (HVTN) inMali was
connected to the Manantali grid in July 2001 and the combined system is operational under the supervision
of the private operator o f the dam. Electricity from Manantali is now flowing on a continuous basis to
Bamako (20-25 MW). The Mauritania and Senegal HVTNs are not yet connected. Contractors have
strengthened their teams on the ground to accelerate the works, the completion o f which was scheduled for
JulyIAugust 2002.

15. Component C: Institutional Strengthening and PASIE. The institutional strengthening o f OMVS
and SOGEM i s being carried out satisfactorily as certain activities are already complete. The record is
mixed regarding the implementation o f the PASIE with some activities lagging b e h d schedule, because
financing was not secured on time or constrained by limited implementation capacity at OMVS.

E. PASIE

16. Component 1: Monitoring, Coordination, and Communication Program. The PASIE CPFS
(regional OMVS level) and the sub-committees for water management and environmental health studies
(assisted by an international panel o f experts) are increasingly h c t i o n i n gbetter as the committee members
have become more familiar with one another and the issues at stake.

     Public participation through national and Local Coordination Committees (CLCs). The Bank
     Mid-term Review (March 2000) found an intense interest among the affected population in matters
     concerning water management in addition to a keen desire to participate in water management
     decisions. The Bank responded to this by financing the recruitment o f socio-anthropologists to work in
     the three countries to help users structure their needs and coordinate their participation. This outreach
     resulted in a marked increase in public participation. However, improvements are still needed,
     especially insetting up effective water user committees.
     Public information through the construction o f an OMVS web site (httrJ://www.omvs-hc.org/) and
     regular information campaigns.
     Setting up o f an Environmental Observatory (monitoring system), coupled with environmental


                                                      -134-

      databases.The Observatory was officially launched inMay 2001.

17. Component 2: Construction Impact Mitigation and Monitoring Program. Comprehensive
environmental management procedures are included in the contracts for civil works. This includes
appropriate location o f construction camps, prohibition o f firewood collection and hunting, adequate
sanitary facilities and proper disposal o f toxic chemicals, such as engine oils, and so on. Adequate health
facilities for screening and treatment o f contractor staff have been established and AIDS prevention
mechanisms, such as free provision o f condoms and a health education program, are inplace.

18. Component 3: Appropriations and Right of Way Program. Component 3 includes:

      Right of way. The transmission line program has sought to avoid already developed land.
      Expropriations have avoided privately owned agricultural land except a few kilometers within the
      town o f Bamako. Ingeneral, power lines go across uncultivated land.
      Compensation. Compensation o fprivately occupied land was fixed on tariffs based on market values.
      These tariffs were established by intemational firms and were higher than the official tariffs in the
      three member countries. Mali has so far disbursed 193 million CFAF o f the 380 million CFAF agreed
      upon. InMauritania, the government has already transferred 50 percent o f the compensation budget to
      the NationalCoordination Committee (CNC) andthe administrative approval process is underway. In
      Senegal, budgetary provisions have been regularly made for the last two years and the administrative
      approval process is now moving toward the disbursement/payment phase. The process i s running
      smoothly with the involvement o f CLCs assistedby the socio-anthropologists.
      Reforestation. Compensation o f affected public forests will be done by OMVS under the form o f
      reforestation o f an equivalent area, with IDA concurrence. Although the program has not yet started,
      the government ofMalihas already allocated500million CFAF for reforestationprojects in2002.

19. Component 4: Optimal Reservoir Management Program. This component has supported studies
assessing the implications o f specific water uses in the sub-basin. Important factors include the artificial
flood from Manantali dam and the optimization o f the management o f Manantali and Diama dams. The
studies, which have been undertaken, supported the preparation o f the Manantali Reservoir Management
Program and the Water Charter.

20. Component 5: Environmental Sanitation Program. Environmental health and environmental concerns
have arisen, not as a consequence o f the present IDA project, but as a consequence o f the dams, which were
built in the 1980s. The situation has continued to decline during implementation of the Project. The area
has witnessed an explosion o f water-related diseases, especially intestinal and urinary bilharzia and
malaria. Activities inenvironmental health plannedby the PASIE were limited to three domains:

0     Pilot projects aimed at limiting contact between humans and infected water, preceded by a feasibility
      study;
0     Study o f reservoirs fluctuations, w h c h are supposed to decrease the number o f snails that transmit
      bilharzia; and
0     Preparation and monitoring o f a regional environmental healthplan.

21. Component 6: AssociatedMeasures. The measures inscribed inthis category are diverse:

0     Assistance to the Manantali limnology unit;
0     Promotion o frural electrification; and
0     Poverty alleviation and income generating activities projects.


                                                     -135 -

22. The Manantali limnology unit aims to monitor the water quality o f the reservoir, the traditional fishing
system in the reservoir and the health status of people in the area. I t also provides expertise in freshwater
fishing to Senegal and Mauritania as well as to other parts of Mali. Within the context of the PASIE,
Canada has supported the unit. The Bank financed the repair o f a boat for the unit.

23. Rural Electricity. PASIE has financed a global study on the promotion of electricity inthe rural areas.
A draft final report was presented to the PASIE Steering Committee meeting in September 2001. The three
countries have provided a list o f six to seven localities that could be considered for financing under the
emergency electrification program and further detailed studies are planned with IDA financing to design
adequate supply solutions. Poverty alleviation and income generation projects are financed by an AfDB
grant. This grant was approved in September 2001 and activities are still under way. Inview o f the delays,
the Bank financed preparation of the implementation o f this subcomponent through workshops and
exchange visits.




                                                  - 136 -

                          Additional Annex 16: Water Charter Summary
      AFRICA: Senegal River Basin Water and Environmental Management Project


1. Overview of Charter. The Water Charter, signed in May 2002 by the Heads o f State o f Mali,
Mauritania, and Senegal, consists o f a main legal text with three annexes. Annex 1 summarizes the findings
of hydraulic simulation and the cost-benefit analysis (including the economic analysis and the multi-criteria
analysis), and presents the strategy for optimal utilization o f the water resources. Annexes 2 and 3 consist
o f the Operational Manuals for Manantali and Diama dams, respectively.

2. A New Legal Instrument. The Charter i s an important step forward for the members o f the OMVS. It is
the latest instrument in a series o f agreements dating to 1972 concerning the legal status o f the Senegal
River. It is worth noting that the Charter, by its terms, places itself in a regional and intemational context.
Inparticular, with regard to dispute settlement, it refers to the Treaty of July 11, 2000, establishing the
African Union, and in relation to intemational water law, it refers to the 1997 United Nations Convention
on the Law o f Non-Navigational Uses o f International Watercourses.

3. Established Processfor Approval of New Projects. Aside from addressing the issue o f water use and
allocation between sectors, the Water Charter also establishes a process for the approval o f new projects
based on the provision o f information to all riparians. In this connection, the Charter provides for
information to and consultation with the OMVS member states and other riparian countries with regard to
any new project that may have significant effects.

4. Guinea's Interests. Reflecting a new spirit o f inclusivity, as well as a basin approach, the Charter
expressly takes into account the fact that Guinea forms an important part o fthe basin.

5. Progressive Elements. The Charter contains a number o f progressive elements. First o f all, it promotes
integrated water resources management, a feature that i s not particularly common among international
agreements concerning water resources. In addition, the Charter reflects a strong recognition o f modem
values inthe fields o f international water resources and the environment. The Charter takes into account all
stakeholders, be they users o f water, representatives o f territorial collectivities, or NGOs. It also provides
for public access to information as well as education o f the riparian populations. Int h s way, the Charter
effectively implements Principle 10 o f the 1992 Rio Declaration on Environment and Development, another
feature that is seldom seen elsewhere. Further, the Charter supports a human rights approach, referring to a
fundamental human right to potable water. Finally, the Charter recognizes the importance o f economic
instruments, incorporating a form o f the polluter pays principle as well as fiscal incentives for
environmental management purposes.

6. Guaranteeing the Annual Artificial Flood and Environmental Flows. Finally, the Charter provides
expressly for two o f the issues o f concem to the Bank, namely, the artificial flood, which is guaranteed
annually, absent extraordinary circumstances, and minimal environmental flows.




                                                    - 137 -

             Additional Annex 17: Letters of Endorsement
AFRICA: Senegal River Basin Water and Environmental Management Project




                                  - 138-

L




     -,




           -139 -

,-.




       -140-

At
OE    N
LA




           - 141 -

-142-

- 143 -

Ministry of
Economy and Finance                                     Republic of Mali

General Secretariat

NO.071OMEF-SG
                                                        Bamako, June 17,2003

TheMinister of Economy and Finance

to

ThePresident of the WorldBank

Subject: GEF project: SenegalRiver Basin Water and EnvironmentalManagement

        I, undersigned, Bassary TOURE, Minister of Economy and Finance of the Republic of
Mali, acting in the name and on behalf ofmy          country's government, hereby confirm my
government's commitment to the Global Environment Facility (GEF) project: "Senegal River
Basin Water and Environmental Management," declare that I accept the Senegal River Basin
Organization (Organisation pour la Mise en Valeur du Fleuve Senegal, OMVS) as recipient of
the assistance disbursed by the GEF for this project, and assure OMVS of my full assistance in
implementation of the project within the territory of Mali, in conformity with the spirit and letter
of the project documents.

        Accept, Mr. President, the assurancesof my highest consideration.

                                        Minister of the Economyand Finance

                                                 (signature and stamp)

                                                 BassaryTOURE
                                        Commandeur de 1'OrdreNational




                                                                                                  1

Ministry of
Economy and Finance                                       Republic of Guinea



No. 408/MEF/CAB
                                                          Conakry,July 11,2003

The Minister

to

The Chairman of the Board of Directors
of the Global Environment Facility
Washington, DC, USA


Subject: GEF project: "SenegalRiver Basin Water and EnvironmentalManagement."

Mr. Chairman:

I, undersigned, Cheik Ahmadou CAMARA,Minister of Economyand Finance of the Republic of
Guinea, acting in the name and on behalf of the government of the Republic of Guinea, hereby
confirm my government's commitment to the Global Environment Facility (GEF) project:
"Senegal River Basin Water and EnvironmentalManagement,"declare that it accepts the Senegal
River Basin Organization (OMVS) as recipient of the assistance disbursed by the GEF for this
project, and assure OMVS of its full assistance in implementation of the project within the
territory of Guinea, in conformitywith the spirit and letter of theproject documents.

        Accept, Mr. Chairman,the assurances of my highest consideration.

                                        Minister of the Economyand Finance

                                                  (signature and stamp)

                                           CheickAhmadou CAMARA




                                                                                           2

Ministry of
Economy and Finance                                       Republic of Guinea

No. 407/MEF/CAB
                                                           Conakry,July 11,2003
The Minister

to

The High Commissioner
of the Senegal River Basin Organization(OMVS)
(Republic of Senegal)

Subject: GEF project: "SenegalRiver Basin Water and EnvironmentalManagement."

Dear High Commissioner:

I, undersigned, Cheick Ahmadou CAMARA, Minister of Economy and Finance of the Republic
of Guinea, acting in the name and on behalf of the Government of the Republic of Guinea,

Having regard to the memorandum of agreement of August 25, 1992 signed by the Republic of
Guinea and the Senegal River Basin Organization,

Having regard to the letter of commitment relative to the project for management of the water
resources and ecosystems of the Senegal river basin, which recognizes the Senegal River Basin
Organization (OMVS) as recipient of the assistance granted by the Global Environment Facility
and addressedto the World Bank,

Hereby

1.      Request that OMVS,with a view to implementationof the project andfor the duration of
        the project, accord to the Republic of Guinea a status equivalent to that of theOMVS
        members.

2.      Officially r equire the Republic of Guinea to honor all provisions 1inked t o aid tatus
                                                                                       S      S
        within the frameworkof implementationof the project.

3.      Propose that the provisions applicable to the Republic of Guinea for implementation of
        the project in the matter of management of money flows, monitoring of expenditure, and
        local calls for bids, be identical to those applicable to the member States of OMVS as
        defined in the project document.

4.      Declare all actions relative to the project and (its) implementation within the territory of
        the Republic of Guinea to be exempt from taxes and levies. This measure in particular
        concerns the procurement of any service, good, or equipment effected in Guineafor
        account of the project.

        Accept, High Commissioner,the assurancesof my highest consideration.

                                          (signatureand stamp)
                                      CheickAhmadou CAMARA


                                                                                                  3

Islamic Republic of Mauritania

Ministry of Economic Affairs
and Development

No. 00690/M.A.E.D./M
                                                           Nouakchott, June 15,2003

TheMinister

to

The President of the World Bank

Subject: GEF project: "SenegalRiver Basin Water and EnvironmentalManagement."

                Letter of commitment

        I, undersigned, Abdallah Ould Souleymane Ould Cheikh-Sidia, Minister ofEconomic
Affairs and Development of the Republic of Mali, acting in the name and on behalf of the
government of the Islamic Republic of Mauritania, hereby confirm my               government's
commitment to the Global Environment Facility (GEF) project: "Senegal River Basin Water and
Environmental Management," and declare that I accept the Office of the High Commissionerof
the Senegal River Basin Organization (OMVS) as recipient of the assistance disbursed by the
GEF for this project, and assure the Office of the High Commissioner of OMVS of myfull
assistance in implementation of the project within the territory of the Islamic Republicof
Mauritania, in conformity with the spirit and the letter of the project documents.

        Accept, Mr. President, the assurancesof myhighest consideration.

                                            (signatureand stamp)
                                Abdallah Ould SouleymaneOuld Cheikh-Sidia




                                                                                               4

REPUBLIC OF SENEGAL
                                                          No. 01223MEF/DGF/DDI
MINISTRY OF ECONOMY AND FINANCE

Directorate General of Finance

Directorate of Debt and Investment
                                                          Dakar, February 6,2003

THE MINISTER

to

The President of the World Bank

SUBJECT: GEF project: "SenegalRiver Basin Water and EnvironmentalManagement."

Mr. President,

I, undersigned, Abdoulaye DIOP, Minister of Economy and Finance of the Republic of Senegal,
acting in the name and on behalf of my country's government, hereby confirmmy government's
commitment to the Global Environment Facility (GEF)project: "SenegalRiver Basin Water and
Environmental Management," and declare that I accept the Office of the High Commissionerof
the Senegal River Basin Organization (OMVS) as recipient of the assistance disbursed bythe
GEF for this project, and assure the Office of the High Commissioner of OMVS of my full
assistance in implementation of the project within the territory of Senegal, in conformitywith the
spirit and letter of the project documents.

        Accept, Mr. President, the assurancesof myhighest consideration.

                                          Ministry of the Economy and Finance,
                                      the DelegatedMinister with Responsibility
                                                   for the Budget



                                            Cheick Hadjibou SOUMARE




                                                                                                 5

                      Additional Annex 18: STAP Roster Technical Review
        AFRICA Senegal River Basin Water and Environmental Management Project

                                              Dr Gunilla Bjorklund
                                      Memberof STAP Roster of Experts

1. Overall impression

The Senegal River i s a shared water system and basin where the riparians are Guinea, Mali, Mauritania
and Senegal. A sub-basin organization, OMVS, exists and shall create a framework for cooperation in
actions o f mutual interest concerning the Senegal River and its basin. Mali, Mauritania, and Senegal are
members and active partners to the OMVS, and Guinea, the upstream riparian, has official status as an
observer.

Several manageable as well as environmental threats, which hinder sustainable development o f the shared
waters o f the Senegal River, have been identified. The full involvement o f Guinea is seen as a key issue.
This is crucial, from an Integrated Water Management perspective as well as from the perspective o f
different sub-issues within such management for which the collection and dissemination o f compatible data
i s an important prerequisite. I t would not be possible to take proper actions against several o f the identified
environmental threats unless the issue o f full involvement o f Guinea is solved.

The environmental threats are land degradation and its related impacts, water pollution and water resources
management (including groundwater use, water for energy, water for food security, water and health etc.)
which is not integrated and not properly balanced, and threats to biodiversity and its sustainable use. To
take proper actions toward those threats, at national as well as transboundary level there is a need to
strengthen institutional as well as human capacity and to support the involvement o f civil society in
transboundary basin-wide activities.

The GEF Senegal River Basin Project i s concentrating around five activities: environmental and water
management capacity building innational institutions and in OMVS; supporting improvement o f data and
knowledge management; completing the basin-wide Transboundary Environmental Analysis and a Strategic
Action Program; carrying out on-the-ground priority actions as identified in the TDA; and establishing a
public participation and awareness program.

The overall impression o f the Project idea is very good. There is a clear emphasis on including &I      riparians
in the Senegal River Basin water and environment management program, which is a prerequisite for a
successful outcome. The Project provides a framework for including Guinea as a full participant in the
work o f OMVS. The need for a project as outlined in the Project Brief is very clear and many of the
perceived national or local problems would also have to be solved in this transboundary context. A clear
benefit is that the Project complements and builds on on-going activities. The program would, thus, result
inimproved coordmationofwater andenvironmental management inthe whole Senegal River Basin.

2. Relevance and priority

The Project will operate together with other GEF projects in the region, as described inthe Project Brief.
This includes both projects linked to the Senegal River Valley such as the proposed Fouta Djallon
highlands project and the dry-lands project in the Senegal River Valley, and other GEF International
Waters projects in the region. The Project, being an "Integrated Land and Water Multiple Focal Area



                                                     - 144 -

Operational Program" with a strong transboundary interest would be a very important project inthe context
o f the whole region, notjust for the Senegal River Basin.

3. Approach

As the success o f the Project is depending on full participation of all riparian countries and all stakeholders,
the approach needs to be directed toward achieving full involvement o f Guinea as well as providing for
public participation. This i s clearly prioritized inthe Project approach. Only by full involvement o f Guinea
and public participation would it be possible to set up networks for and undertake data collection and
dissemination. Compatible data are needed, not only for improved knowledge but also for sustainable
management o f the water and land resources o f the basin, a management that should include ecological and
social aspects. Such an approach to river basin management i s emphasized inthe Project approach.

The capacity building component o f the Project is defined as capacity for "environmental and water
resources management". However, such improved capacity that would facilitate cooperation between water
ministries and environment ministriesi s not sufficient. The Project Brief does also define food security and
agriculture as key issues. Energy production is another water dependent sector inthe river basin. There i s a
need to clearly express that the capacity buildingcomponent should ensure provisions for applying a fully
inteaated approach to water, environment, land, and energy management, inwhich allrelated sectors and
ministries need to be involved. This i s not clearly stated inthe Project Brief. Although the different sectors
are discussed and thus implicitly the integrated aspect can be found, its importance should be ensured.

4. Objectives

The GEF International Waters' objective to achieve global environmental benefits is for this Project
specified as the "broad basin-wide participation in the development and implementation o f measures that
lead to sustainable management o f the Senegal River Basin's land and water resources." The Project will
provide a participatory strategic framework and launch a basin-wide cooperative program for
transboundary land-water management. These objectives are clear and focused and should be achievable
giventhe activities outlined.

5. Backgroundandjustification

Sufficient background information and justification for the Project has been provided. The background
documentation clearly identifies both where there is available information and where adequate information
i s laclang, thus identifying gaps that need to be filled. The background information describes national
priorities and commitments, which should be met when the Project i s implemented. The presentation o f the
existing institutions, inparticularly the OMVS, and how it should be strengthened to set inplace an agreed
environmental management framework to address the transboundary issues, is an important aspect
justifying the Project. The outcome of the Project, a sustainable (integrated) water and environmental
management, would target the root causes through the different components to reach that outcome.

6. Governmentcommitment and sustainability

All four governments have endorsed the Project. National committees have been established in each
riparian country and these committees have been responsible for co-coordinating reports including those by
national consultants. A regional Project Preparation Committee ledby the HighCommissioner o f OMVS is
a guarantee that the Project will be not only country owned but owned by a coordinated effort inthe region,
inparticular as the involvement ofGuinea is to be ensured.


                                                      -145 -

Public stakeholder participation has also been addressed through an IUCN-coordinated process, including
national meetings in each country, which aims at ensure sustainability at grass-root level, throughout the
Project implementation and beyond.

7. Activities

The different activities as defined inthe Project Briefshould not all be seen as a step-by-stepprocess but
should, at least for some o f them, be undertaken simultaneously. It is important to get the full involvement
o f Guinea to get a full data acquisition program inplace, including a network for collection, equipment and
capacity for analysis and dissemination o f data. All this is a part o f the process toward an integrated
approach to water and environmental management but such management may, o f course, not await the
result o f the capacity building and data management process. Priority actions should neither await the
conclusion o f the Transboundary Environmental Analysis and Action Program but should, as is stated in
the Project Brief, start based on the preliminary analysis. Public participation is a key activity that needs to
be ensured during the whole Project process.

8. Project funding
As a result o f the attacks on the World Trade Center, data for the UNDP fundinghas not beenpossible to
obtain. However, the estimated level o f costs, the World Bank financing and the co-financing, including
from the participating countries, should for the non-UNDP parts be adequate. The UNDP-supported parts
are clearly defined and they should therefore be carefully costed as well.

9. Replicability
The countries concerned by the Project are all poor countries, the economic efforts o f which are to a large
extent directed toward short-term goals such as short-term food security for the people o f those countries.
The Project would result in increased regional cooperation aiming at long-term food-security as well as
transboundary water and environmental sustainability. This would, coupled with an increased political
stability inthe region, imply a distinct benefit for the global environment.

10. Time frame
The clear commitments by the governments included as well as the ensured public participation should
guarantee an impetus toward a swift implementation o f the Project. Given that and the institutional
framework already inplace, the OMVS, the objectives should be possible to reach withm the given time
frame. The Monitoring and Evaluation system as described in the Project Brief would ensure such time
strategy.

11. Globalenvironmentalbenefits and goals ofthe GEF
As already noted, the Project is clearly addressing issues resultinginglobal environmental benefits interms
o f International Waters, as it is addressing issues o f integrated transboundary water resources management
and activities. Within the floodplain and delta areas there are also wetlands, w h c h are habitats for
ecosystems including several rare or endangered species. Protection is needed for these as well as for areas
around Manantali reservoir in the upper basin in Mali. A successful Project outcome will result in a
sustainable use o f those areas, thus contributing to biodiversity conservation o f the global environment.

A careful integrated approach taken within the Project would ensure avoidance o f negative environmental
effects, which might otherwise be the case o f an emphasis on increased hydropower installations or on


                                                      - 146 -

production o f water intensive commercial crops. Causes o f tension among landholders in border areas
would, thus, be reduced, which will increase the benefits o f the Project.

12. Rationale for GEF Support
The Project will serve to support "better use of land and water resource management practices on an
area-wide basis," which is the objective o f the GEF OP 9. The activities are having an area-wide focus and
are supporting preventive measures for threatened waters. Thus, the Project fits well into the overall
strategic thrust o f a GEF-funded Intemational Waters project. The Project is assisting the countries o f the
region to better understand the environmental concems o f the shared Senegal River system and to work
collaboratively to address these concems. I t will contribute to the building o f capacity in existing
institutions and implement measures that address transboundary environmental concems.

13. Linkages to other focal areas, other beneficialldamaging effects, degree of stakeholder
involvement, capacity building aspects, innovativeness of the Project
The Project will, as described under item 11, have global benefits from a biodiversity aspect as well as
from an International Waters perspective, in particularly through conservation o f wetland areas and
sustainable use o f their resources. Mali, Mauritania and Senegal being parties to the UN Convention to
Combat Desertification are all having Action Plans in place. Activities within this Project will be closely
linked to parts o f those action plans and would, thus, contribute to the objectives o f the UN/CCD as well.

The improved integrated land and water management systemresulting from the Project should include less
pesticide dependent agricultural systems, which together with reduction in discharges o f wastewater would
result in increased water quality. Better land-use practices would also result in decreased land degradation.
Increased information and knowledge o f groundwater resources would result in a decreased pressure on
surface water. All these different activities, undertaken within the framework o f or lmked to the Project
would have beneficial environmental effects.

The Project has a clear component o f stakeholder involvement, the priority actions will be carried out at
community level and will directly involve stakeholders and communities. Stakeholders will also be able to
be part o f the decision making process through the IUCN-led component o f public participation and
awareness raising. This component also includes capacity buildingaspects.

The main capacity building component o f the Project includes building a core group o f transboundary
environmental management expertise linked to OMVS. It is important to build capacity to address
institutional reforms, pricing and water legislation, not the least to make the national legislation compatible,
which is addressed ina study that will be linked to the Project.

14. Conclusions
The Project complements and builds on activities and projects which are already under implementation at
the national and sub-basin level. It is innovative as it has strong components of cooperation and
coordination at regional, basin, national and sub-basin level that would result in increased sustainable
development at all levels not only from an InternationalWaters perspective but also from an environmental,
economic, and social perspective and would also contribute to a more stable political balance inthe region.
It is therefore recommended that the Project be approved.




                                                    - 147 -

                         Additional Annex 19: Response to STAP Review
      AFRICA: Senegal River Basin Water and Environmental Management Project

The Project preparation team i s pleased with the STAP reviewer's strong endorsement o f the Project. It is
anticipated that the reviewer will remain involved in an advisory capacity during the implementation phase
o fthe Project through the Quality Assurance process.

In section 3 o f the review, the reviewer correctly observes that the required capacity buildingmust reach
well beyond the respective ministries o f water and environment. In supporting the countries in establishing
integrated water resource management, it is indeed key to ensure that all relevant sectors, as well as all
relevant layers in the countries are reached. The text o f the Project Brief has been hrther strengthened to
better reflect the inclusive requirements and dimensions o f integrated water resource management.

Insection 8 o f the review, the reviewer mentions that the incremental cost analysis was incomplete inher
review copy, in view o f the fact that UNDP's communication facilities were linked through the World
Trade Center. The UNDP figures have since been obtained from the country offices and the incremental
cost analysis is now complete.




                                                   - 148 -

