Integrated Safeguards Data Sheet (Updated)
Report No: AC121
Section I - Basic Information
Date ISDS Prepared/Updated: 06/16/2003
A. Basic Project Data (from PDS)
I.A.I. Project Statistics
Country: AFRICA                                        Project ID: P064573
Project: Senegal River Basin Water and Environmental   Task Team Leader: Ousmane Dione
Management Project
Authorized to Appraise Date: January 13, 2003          IBRD Amount ($m):
Bank Approval: October 3, 2003                        IDA Amount ($m):
Global Supplemental Amount ($m): 5.62
Managing Unit: AFTU2                                   Sector: General agriculture, fishing and forestry
Lending Instrument: Specific Investment Loan (SIL)     sector (50%); General water, sanitation and flood
Status: Lending                                       protection sector (50%)
Theme: Water resource management (P);
Environmental policies and institutions (S)
I.A.2. Project Objectives (From PDS):
The objective of this Project is to provide a participatory strategic environmental framework for the environmentally
sustainable development of the Senegal River Basin and to launch a basin-wide cooperative program for
transboundary land-water management. It is designed to improve the capacity of the sub-basin organization OMVS
and to strengthen the national capacities to address transboundary water and environment management issues.
Importantly, the Project provides a framework for including Guinea, the upstream riparian, as a full participant and
beneficiary in the work of OMVS
I.A.3. Project Description (From PDS):
Project Description
The Project will achieve environmental benefits through support to broad, basin-wide participation in the
development and implementation of measures that lead to sustainable management of the Senegal River Basin's land
and water resources. The Project will help enable the Senegal Basin's four riparian countries (Guinea, Mali,
Mauritania, and Senegal) to jointly develop a regional approach and a strategic environmental framework (through a
Transboundary Diagnostic Analysis and an associated Strategic Action Plan) for the environmentally sustainable
management and development of the Senegal River Basin.
The Project will take a basin-wide approach. It will encourage more effective basin-wide stakeholder cooperation on
transboundary environmental issues by supporting prionty actions through the following Project components, which
will be managed by the World Bank and UNDP respectively:
Component 1: Environmental Management Capacity Building
This component seeks to reinforce the institutional capacity for the coherent management of the Senegal River
Basin's water resources and environment. The intention is to build a core group of transboundary environmental
management expertise in each national institution linked to a core group in OMVS.
1.1 Dialogue on legislation - Guinea specific. Preparation of recommendations for harmonization of
environmental management and environment legislation in OMVS member states is already underway with
funding from elsewhere. The present GEF Project will extend this to include Guinea. The activities include:
1. Review Guinea's water and environmental legislation;
2. Facilitate a dialogue between Guinea and the OMVS member countries on their national legislations and
policies; and



2
ISDS
3. Reform and strengthen the legal basis for water and environmental management in Guinea.
1.2 Regional capacity building. An analysis will be completed to assess the capacity and needs of each
ripanan country's relevant institutions and of OMVS with regard to transboundary issues and strengthening
institutional structures at the national and the regional levels through technical training, workshops, and
seminars. Activities include:
1. The regional and national project managers will identify training needs as well as workshop candidates;
and
2. Regional and national workshops will be held for selected organizations on the subjects identified above
or through Activity 1.
1.3 Development of an inclusive institution.  Assistance under this component includes provision of
appropriate technical, legal and institutional support needed to support the process of negotiating closer
cooperation between OMVS, its member states and Guinea. The Project will support greater involvement,
inclusion and search for cooperative actions which can yield a cooperation arrangement to be agreed during the
Project period. Although formalization of joint membership is clearly a long-term goal, the Project aims to
establish a program of cooperative Basin management that may proceed at the working level. The Project is
designed as an initial step in the establishment of a long term ongoing program of basin-wide cooperation.
Activities include:
1. Build regional capacities for an inclusive institution to engage all four nparian countries in the
management of the Basin resources; and
2. Assess lessons learned and best practices from other international river basins.
1.4 Project management and strengthening OMVS. Establishment of the OMVS Regional Project
Management Cellule (RPMC). The RPMC will consist of a Project manager, and technical staff in addition to
finance, procurement and administrative staff. Activities include
1. Establish the RPMC office as an integral part of OMVS;
2. Support Project implementation at the national level; and
3. Establish Guinea's National Cellule and National Coordination Committee.
1.5 Africa Regional Forum. The Project will promote coordination and exchange of best practices between
projects in Sub Sahara Africa and will take the lead in organizing the Africa Regional Forum to bring together
representatives from other GEF projects such as the Niger, the Lake Chad Basin, Fouta Djallon, Niger-Nigena,
Senegal-Mauritania and Nile projects, for broad exchanges and experience sharing. Activities include:
1. Hold the first Africa Regional Forum bringing together GEF projects and other similar project in West
Afnca to exchange best practices and share experiences.
1.6 Technical capacity building - invasive species management. The Project will strengthen the technical
capacity in addressing invasive species, a priority issue. Activities include:
1. Assess the relevant studies, and identify most effective restoration or management methods;
2. Evaluate the financial and technical means necessary to complete actions with success; and
3. Disseminate the solutions and prepare the implementation at the sub-basin scale.
1.7 Donor conference. With the completion of the TDA/SAP and the identification of regional priorities, a
donors conference is planned for shared investment interests in the Basin. Activities include:
I. OMVS to finalize the Project investment proposal preparation;
2. Translate, print and disseminate proposals; and
3. Hold the Donor Conference inviting interested donors to participate.
Component 2: Data and Knowledge Management
This component will fund the activities necessary to include Guinea in the l'Observatoire de l'OMVS, the
Observatoire is funded through the French-PASIE program, and extend cooperation and collaboration efforts
throughout the Basin.
2.1 Information network - Guinea program.  The activities will focus on ensuring the inclusion of Guinea
in the emerging planning environmental and socioeconomic data and knowledge framework which the PASIE is
developing. The Guinea specific activities will mirror those of the PASIE which will be supported in the OMVS
member countries and will therefore focus on socioeconomic, environmental and water related data gathering,
analysis, assessment and management as well as capacity building to ensure the long term sustainability of the
system to be set in place. Activities include:
1. Assessment of the current situation;
2. Knowledge improvement - specific;



3
ISDS
3. Design and implementation of the Guinean data network; and
4. Implementation of sampling and analysis network.
2.2 Transboundary data and knowledge management. At the level of the Basin, the Project will provide
training and capacity building so that the monitoring program can be owned and sustained by the riparian parties
during and after the end of Project support. Activities include:
1. Regional training courses
2. Workshop on data exchanges
3. Workshop on scientific cooperation networks
4. Development of communications tools.
Component 3: Transboundary Diagnostic Analysis and Strategic Action Plan.
Based on preliminary transboundary diagnostic analytical work which was completed dunng the preparation of the
Project, a Transboundary Diagnostic Analysis (TDA) will be completed under this component. The TDA work will
address a variety of aspects, including: flow regime changes and implication of these on floodplains, biodiversity,
fishenes; socioeconomic impacts of flow regimes; etc Following completion of the TDA, a Strategic Action
Program (SAP) will be formulated. It is expected that the SAP will be completed within the first six Project months.
The report will serve as a basis for future projects and programs in the Senegal River Basin.
3.1 Transboundary Diagnostic Analysis (TDA). Specific activities include:
I .Formulate transboundary diagnosis
a. Strengthen the multi-disciplinary team and establishment of the transboundary diagnosis preparation
program; and
b. Consult with national technical and academic entities to be involved in the process
2. Prepare transboundary diagnosis
a. Determine international expertise required for the preparation of the transboundary diagnosis; and
b. Validate analysis and publish.
3.2 Strategic Action Plan (SAP). Specific activities include:
1. Evaluate institutional structures and creation of additional structures and consultation for the SAP
a. Evaluate and strengthen national and local structures for consultation
b. Define the main constituent components of the Strategic Action Plan
2. Prepare the Strategic Action Plan
a. Elaborate the Strategic Action Plan
b. Finalize and validate the Strategic Action Plan
Component 4: Microgrant Program - Priority Actions. Based on the pnoritization which will be reflected in the
TDA and SAP, priority actions will be identified for early implementation through a Senegal River Basin
micro-grants program. The community-based Microgrant Program (microgrants will not exceeding $50,000 per
grant) will support microgrant supported interventions at community-based, local-level approaches to land and water
conservation. These interventions are intended to assist the four countries in establishing best practice, in testing
transboundary management approaches and in establishing networks across boundaries thereby, strengthening
riparian cooperation and integration.  It is anticipated that micro-grants will include but not be limited to
interventions for: (i) land degradation, (ii) water quality, and (iii) wetland management The general Microgrant
Program activities include
1. Establish institutional arrangements for the Microgrant program,
2. Implement National Microgrant Priority Action Programs; and
3. Monitoring pilot activity implementation.
Component 5: Public Participation Program
This component will expand on the participatory activities initiated during the PDF-B Project preparation process.
The component activities will provide opportunities to promote the Project, inform the public on the Basin's
environmental issues through a regional, national and local information campaign, and coordinate with the scientific
community to participate in the decision-making process.
5.1 Public information and awareness,
This subcomponent will support the development and delivery of a transboundary environmental awareness
campaign. Activities include:



4
ISDS
1. Prepare National media campaigns;
2. Create awareness in local communities; and
3. Create regional feedback forum for awareness orientation and monitoring.
5.2 Civil society participation
Subcomponent activities will strengthen civil society's participation in the decision-making processes in the
Basin. Activities include:
1. Sensitize national and regional decision-makers to participatory planning methods;
2. Together with the OMVS and Guinean National Cellule Focal Point, and the Experts will train local
communities on how to engage in the decision-making process;
3. Promote public participation to develop new tools to manage socially sensitive and ecologically and
economically important issues;
4. Hold a regional workshop to review the national workshops' outcomes; and
5. Disseminate in the appropriate languages the regional workshop's findings to the local communities,
practitioners and researchers.
5.3 Scientific community involvement
This subcomponent will support the development of an academic exchange program related to the
transboundary water and environmental framework of the Senegal River Basin. Activities include:
1. Identify an academic institution to participate in the scientific community program;
2. Determine the guidelines for the exchange program and to select participating institutions and
individuals;
3. Implement the exchange program between academic institutions within the Senegal River Basin; and
4. Host a regional conference on transboundary issues in the Senegal River Basin.
I.A.4. Project Location: (Geographic location, informnation about the key environmental and social
characteristics of the area and population likely to be affected, and proximity to any protected areas, or sites
or critical natural habitats, or any other culturally or socially sensitive areas.)
The proposed Project involves all the Senegal Basin riparian countries (Guinea, Mali, Mauritania and Senegal).
Mali, Mauritania and Senegal are signatories to the convention that led to establishing the OMVS. The OMVS is the
Project's Executing Agency which represents all four riparian stakeholders within the context of this Project A map
outlining the Senegal Basin area, areas of cntical environmental threats as well as critical habitats has been prepared
and was appended to the PAD.
B. Check Environmental Classification: B (Partial Assessment)
Comments:
The overall environmental classification is a "B" which was necessary to provide quality control when reviewing
individual community-based microgrant activities. The EMP is in the form of an Environmental Management
Framework (EMF) for the Microgrant Program. The EMF identifies the process to implement microgrant funded
interventions within the parameters of national environmental policies and the World Bank environmental and social
safeguard policies, and provides a mechanism to assess both the individual and cumulative impacts of
micro-activities a the national level. The EMF together with the Microgrant Program Operational Manual will be
tools for environmental and social screening, in addition the framework will address (i) project cycle/process, (ii)
design selection criteria, (iii) safeguards screening and clearance, and (iv) safeguard monitoring aspects of the
micro-activity Microgrant applications that do not meet the selection criteria will not be approved.
C Safeguard Policies Triggered (from PDS)
(click on X for a detailed desciption or click on the policy number for a brief description)
|Policy                                   Triggered
Environmental Assessment (OP 4.01, BP 4.01, GP 4.01)            *  Yes U  No



5
ISDS
Natural Habitats (OP 4.04, BP 4.04, GP 4.04)                    |-Yes 0    No
Forestry (OP 4.36, GP 4.36)                                     i9 Yes * No
Pest Management (OP 4.09)                                        (9 Yes * No
Cultural Property (OPN 11.03)                                    (  Yes * No
Indigenous Peoples (OD 4.20)                                     U  Yes 0  No
Involuntary Resettlement (OP/BP 4.12)                            U     Yes 0 No
Safety of Dams (OP 4.37, BP 4.37)                                C Yes * No
Projects in International Waters (OP 7.50, BP 7.50, GP 7.50)     (9 Yes * No
Projects in Disputed Areas (OP 7.60, BP 7.60, GP 7.60)*          (9 Yes * No
Section II - Key Safeguard Issues and Their Management
D. Summary of Key Safeguard Issues. Please fill in all relevant questions. If information is not available,
describe steps to be taken to obtain necessary data.
II.D.la. Describe any safeguard issues and impacts associated with the proposed project. Identify and
describe any potential large scale, significant and/or irreversible impacts.
The Project is considered benign with all activities designed to have no significant environmental and social impacts.
As some of the proposed micro-grant interventions may potentially have minor environmental impacts, the Project is
rated B, since OP 4.01 and OP4.04 could potentially be triggered. As described in section B above, an EMF has
been developed.
The EMF is consistent with the requirements of OP 4.1 Environmental Assessment, and OP 4.04 Natural Habitats.
Dunng the Project Appraisal (January 21 -February 4, 2003) representatives of riparian countries confirmed that the
Project would not support any interventions in which temporary or permanent land acquisition related issues arise,
therefore the OP 4.12 Involuntary Resettlement will not be applicable. Though it's anticipated that OP 4.12 will not
be triggered, precautions will be made in which a Resettlement Policy Framework will be an annex to the
Microgrant Program Operational Manual. The potential application of OP 7.5 was reviewed with the Legal Counsel
for OP 7.50 Projects in International Waters, who has specific responsibility for the policy, and it was deemed not to
be applicable to the Project concluded that OP 7.50 is not triggered by this Project. This is based on the fact that the
present Project does not trigger provision 2 (a) or 2 (b) of OP 7.50
This Project will not support activities which tngger dam safety (OP 4.37), include pest management (OP 4.09), deal
with forestry (OP 3.6), disturb cultural property (OPN 11.03), affect indigenous people (OD4.20), or take place in
disputed areas (OP 7.60).
ll.D. lb. Describe any potential cumulative impacts due to application of more than one safeguard policy or
due to multiple project component.
Though it's anticipated that there will not be any significant cumulative impacts from the microgrant supported
interventions, the EMF provides a framework for national-level mechanism to evaluate cumulative impacts of the
microgrant supported interventions.
Il.D.lc Describe any potential long term impacts due to anticipated future activities in the project area.
None have been identified.
II.D.2. In light of 1, describe the proposed treatment of alternatives (if required)



6
ISDS
Alternatives will be considered in the design and approval of the microgrant supported intervention application
under Component 4.
II.D.3. Describe arrangement for the borrower to address safeguard issues
The Senegal River Basin countries are committed to demonstrate excellence in implementing cooperative projects.
Intensive EA training has taken place in most of the Basin countries and enhancing capacity on all aspects of project
cycle management within the capacity building component of the project cycle management.
Specific to the Project, the EMF, is consistent with the requirements of the World Bank Safeguard Policies. The
EMF together with the Microgrant Operational Manual will be the mechanism for the borrower (OMVS) for
screening and clearing the applications, if any OPs are tnggered then the Operational Manual will provide the means
to address the triggered safeguard policy, in addition the Manual will identify the approval conditions and public
disclosure process.
II.D.4. Identify the key stakeholders and describe the mechanisms for consultation and disclosure on
safeguard policies, with an emphasis on potentially affected people.
Extensive participation by a wAde range of stakeholders is an explicit emphasis of the entire Project. A range of
stakeholders have already participated in the national consultation processes linked to the Public Participation
Program (PPP) which was part of the Project preparation process (the PPP was carried out by IUCN) , and the
implementation of the Project will build on these contacts and relationships.
In terms of the stakeholders, the Project aims to broaden and deepen stakeholder involvement in environmental
management. The basin-wide Senegal River Basin Steering Committee (SRBSC) will provide Project guidance and
include a range of stakeholder representatives. Local stakeholders, especially communities and smaller NGOs, are
explicitly targeted beneficiaries for the Microgrant Program (Component 4) and the Public Participation and
Awareness Program (Component 5) which is expected to involve a wide range of stakeholders. Representatives of
major stakeholder groups will also have opportunities to participate in monitoring and evaluating the Project.
Extensive participation by a wide range of stakeholders has been emphasized during Project design and will continue
during implementation building on these contacts and relationships.
As for the disclosure process: a) the GEF Project Brief has already been posted on the website of the GEF
Secretariat; b) the EMF was disclosed (French and English versions) in country through OMVS headquarters, the
National Cellules, Guinea's Ministry of Hydraulics and Energy, the 'WB and UNDP offices in the Fall 2002, prior to
Appraisal (January, 2003) and subsequently to the Bank's InfoShop; c) similarly, the Microgrant Operational Manual
and Resettlement Policy Framework annex will be disclosed through same sources, prior to Negotiations (July,
2003) and d) the ISDS was initially submitted to the InfoShop July 11, 2002 and this revised ISDS will be made
available through the InfoShop, and the same country institutions identified above.
E. Safeguards Classification (select in SAP). Category is determined by the highest impact in any policy.
Or on basis of cumulative impacts from multiple safeguards. Whenever an individual safeguard policy is
triggered the provisions of that policy apply.
[ ] SI. - Significant, cumulative and/or irreversible impacts; or significant technical and institutional risks
in management of one or more safeguard areas
[X] S2. - One or more safeguard policies are triggered, but effects are limited in their impact and are
technically and institutionally manageable
[ ] S3. - No safeguard issues
I I SF. - Financial intermediary projects, social development funds, community driven development or
similar projects which require a safeguard framework or programmatic approach to address



7
ISDS
safeguard issues.



8
ISDS
F. Disclosure Requirements
Environmental Assessment/Analysis/Management Plan:         Exvected       Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank                                8/16/2002     11/18/2002
Date of "in-country" disclosure                            9/13/2002     1/3/2003
Date of submission to InfoShop                             4/29/2003     1/6/2003
Date of distributing the Exec. Summary of the EA to the Executive  Not Applicable Not Applicable
Directors (For category A projects)
Resettlement Action Plan/Framework:                        Expected      Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank                                7/28/2003
Date of "in-country" disclosure                            7/28/2003
Date of submission to InfoShop                             8/5/2003
Indigenous Peoples Development Plan/Framework:             Expected      Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank                                Not Applicable Not Applicable
Date of "in-country" disclosure                            Not Applicable Not Applicable
Date of submission to InfoShop                             Not Applicable Not Applicable
Pest Management Plan:                                      Expected      Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank                                Not Applicable Not Applicable
Date of "in-country" disclosure                            Not Applicable Not Applicable
Date of submission to InfoShop                             Not Applicable Not Applicable
Dam Safety Management Plan:                                Expected      Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank                                Not Applicable Not Applicable
Date of "in-country" disclosure                            Not Applicable Not Applicable
Date of submission to InfoShop                             Not Applicable Not Applicable
If in-country disclosure of any of the above documents is not expected, please explain why. The EMF
was prepared and disclosed as noted above.
Signed and submitted by      Name                                       Date
Task Team Leader:            Ousmane Dione                              06/03/2003
Project Safeguards Specialists 1:  Dan Aronson
Project Safeguards Specialists 2:  John Boyle                            06/03/2003
Project Safeguards Specialists 3:
Approved bv:                 Name                                        Date
Regional Safeguards Coordinator: Charlotte S. Bingham                   06/03/2003
Sector Manager/Director      Inger Andersen                             06/03/2003
Comments



