                               Document of

                             The World Bank

                                                Report No: ICR0000883



         IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT
                           (TF-52900)

                                  ON A

                           GRANT FROM THE

          GLOBAL ENVIRONMENT FACILITY (GEF) TRUST FUND


           IN THE AMOUNT OF US$ 7.25 MILLION EQUIVALENT

                                 TO THE

    ORGANISATION POUR LA MISE EN VALEUR DU FLEUVE SENEGAL

                                FOR THE

        REGIONAL PROJECT: SENEGAL RIVER BASIN WATER AND
                 ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT

 TROUGH THE WORLD BANK AND THE UNITED NATIONS DEVELOPMENT
           PROGRAM AS GEF IMPLEMENTING AGENCIES



                             January 13, 2009




AFT - Water Resource Management (AFTWR)
AFC11, AFC14, AFC15
Africa Region
                             CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                                     FISCAL YEAR

                                 January 1 ­ December 31
                                (Exchange Rate Effective)

                                  Currency Unit = US$

                        ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS


AFD   Agence Française de Développement (French Development Agency)
AfDB  African Development Bank
APL   Adaptable Program Loan
CAS   Country Assistance Strategy
CBO   Community-Based Organization
CDD   Community Driven Development
CPBFS Comité de Pilotage du Bassin du Fleuve Sénégal (Senegal River Basin Steering
      Committee)
CRGP  Cellule Régionale de la Gestion du Projet (Regional Project Management Unit)
CRP   Coordinateur Régional du Projet (Regional Project Coordinator)
DAF   Direction Administrative et Financière (Department of Administration and Finance)
EIP   Expert en Information et Participation (Public Participation and Information Expert)
EMF   Environmental Management Framework
EMP   Environmental Management Plan
ENM   Expert National en Micro-finance (National Microgrants Expert)
EU    European Union
EWRMP Environment and Water Resources Management Project
FCFA  Franc de la Communauté financière Africaine (African Financial Community Franc)
GEF   Global Environmental Facility
GEO   Global Environmental Objective
HC    Haut Commissariat (High Commission)
IA    Implementing Agency
ICR   Implementation Completion Report
IDA   International Development Agency
IDF   Institutional Development Fund
ISDS  Integrated Safeguards Data Sheet
ISR   Implementation Supervision Report
IT    Information Technology
IUCN  World Conservation Union
IW    International Waters
KPI   Key Performance Indicators
LCC   Local Coordination Committee
M&E   Monitoring and Evaluation
MDG   Millennium Development Goal
MoU   Memorandum of Understanding
MTR   Mid-Term Review
MWRD Senegal River Basin Multi-Purpose Water Resources Development Project
N/A   Not applicable


                                                                                         ii
NC      National Cell
NCC     National Coordination Committee
NEPAD   New Partnership for Africa's Development
NGO     Non-Governmental Organization
OERS    Organisation des Etats riverains du fleuve Sénégal (Organization of Senegal River
        States)
OMVS    Organisation pour la mise en valeur du fleuve Sénégal (Senegal River Basin
        Authority)
OP      Operational Program
PAD     Project Appraisal Document
PASIE   Plan d'atténuation et de suivi des impacts sur l'environnement (Environmental
        Impact Mitigation and Monitoring Plan)
PIP     Project Implementation Plan
PIR     Project Implementation Review
PIU     Project Implementation Unit
PMF     Programme Micro-Finances (Small Grants Programme)
PRSP    Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper
RGDEE   Réseau Guinéen des Données sur l'Eau et l'Environnement (Guinean Data Network
        on Water and Environment)
RIAS    Regional Integration Assistance Strategy
RPF     Resettlement Process Framework
RTA     Regional Technical Advisor
SAP     Strategic Action Plan
SDAGE   Schéma Directeur d'Aménagement et de Gestion des Eaux (Water Resources Master
        Plan)
SGP     Small Grants Programme
SOE     Service de l'Observatoire de l'Environnement (Environmental Observatory)
SOGED   Société de gestion du barrage de Diama (Diama Dam Management Company)
SOGEM   Société de gestion du barrage de Manantali (Manantali Dam Management Company)
SRB     Senegal River Basin
TDA     Transboundary Diagnostic Analysis
ToR     Terms of Reference
TTL     Task Team Leader
UIVDD   Unité Intégrée de Valorisation et de Développement Durable (Integrated Unit of
        Sustainable Development)
UNDP    United Nations Development Programme
WB      World Bank




                            Vice President: Obiageli K. Ezekwesili
                          Country Director: Richard G. Scobey
                           Sector Manager: Ashok K. Subramanian
                      Project Team Leader: Matar Fall
                         ICR Team Leader: Matar Fall




                                                                                       iii
                                                       AFRICA

               REGIONAL: GUINEA, MALI, MAURITANIA, SENEGAL

SENEGAL RIVER BASIN WATER AND ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT
                         PROJECT



                                                    CONTENTS


A. Basic Information....................................................................................................... v
B. Key Dates ................................................................................................................... v
C. Ratings Summary ....................................................................................................... v
D. Sector and Theme Codes .......................................................................................... vi
E. Bank and UNDP Staff ............................................................................................... vi
F. Results Framework Analysis .................................................................................... vii
G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs .................................................................... x
H. Restructuring (if any) ................................................................................................ xi
I. Disbursement Profile (WB funds only) ..................................................................... xi
1. Project Context, Global Environment Objective and Design ..................................... 1
2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes .............................................. 6
3. Assessment of Outcomes .......................................................................................... 12
4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome......................................................... 16
5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance ..................................................... 17
6. Lessons Learned ....................................................................................................... 19
7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners .......... 20
Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing .......................................................................... 21
Annex 2. Assessment of Bank's and OMVS's Performance........................................ 22
Annex 3. Outputs by Components ................................................................................ 24
Annex 4. Economic and Financial Analysis ................................................................. 55
Annex 5 Bank and UNDP Lending and Implementation Support................................ 56
Annex 6. Beneficiary Survey Results ........................................................................... 58
Annex 7. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results................................................... 59
Annex 8. Summary of Borrower's ICR ......................................................................... 60
Annex 9. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders ....................... 79
Annex 10: Additional Information for GEF purposes .................................................. 80
Annex 11. List of Supporting Documents .................................................................... 83




                                                                                                                               iv
A. Basic Information
                                                                               Senegal River Basin Water and
Country:                     Africa                     Project Name:          Environmental Management
                                                                               Project
Project ID:                  P064573                    L/C/TF Number(s): TF-52900
ICR Date:                    8/18/2009                  ICR Type:              Core ICR
Lending Instrument: SIL                                 Borrower:              OMVS
                             Total: USD 7.25 M                Total: US$6,898,136 (95.15%)
Original Total
                             WB: USD 5.26 M Disbursed Amount: WB: US$4,926,646 (93.66%)
Commitment:
                             UNDP: USD 1.99 M                 UNDP: US$1,971,490 (99.07 %)
                                                        Global Focal Area: International Waters
Environmental Category: B
                                                        OP 09 Integrated Land and Water Multiple Focal Area
Implementing Agency:
Organisation pour la Mise en Valeur du Fleuve Sénégal (OMVS)
Cofinanciers and Other External Partners:
- AFD
- IUCN
- Netherlands: Ministry of Foreign Affairs/Ministry of Development Cooperation
- OMVS
B. Key Dates
                                                                                                Revised / Actual
         Process                   Date                  Process             Original Date
                                                                                                    Date(s)
    Concept Review:            12/18/1998         Effectiveness:              01/05/2004           04/08/2004
    Appraisal:                 01/20/2003         Restructuring(s):              N/A                  N/A
    Approval:                  10/28/2003         Mid-term Review:            05/01/2006           10/02/2006
                                                  Closing:                    07/31/2008           07/31/2008
C. Ratings Summary
C.1 Performance Rating by ICR
    Outcomes:                                                 Satisfactory
    Risk to Global Environment Outcome                        Low or Negligible
    Bank and UNDP Performance:                                Satisfactory
               1
    Borrower Performance:                                     Highly Satisfactory

C.2 Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance
         Bank                 Ratings             Borrower                                        Ratings
Quality at Entry:           Satisfactory    Government:                                             N/A
Quality of Supervision:     Satisfactory    Implementing Agency:                             Highly Satisfactory


1
    Borrower refers in this ICR document to GEF grant recipient.




                                                                                                                v
Overall Bank                                 Overall Borrower
                            Satisfactory                                          Highly Satisfactory
Performance:                                 Performance:
C.3 Quality at Entry and Implementation Performance Indicators
     Implementation
                              Indicators      QAG Assessments                          Rating
      Performance
Potential Problem Project                          Quality at Entry         Moderately Satisfactory
                          No
at any time (Yes/No):                              (QEA):                   (10/11/2005)
Problem Project at any                             Quality of
                           No                                               None
time (Yes/No):                                     Supervision (QSA):
GEO rating before
                           Satisfactory
Closing/Inactive status
D. Sector and Theme Codes
                                                                  Original                Actual
Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Central government administration                                      75                     75
General agriculture, fishing and forestry sector                       15                     15
General water, sanitation and flood protection sector                   8                       8
Tertiary education                                                      2                       2


Theme Code (Primary/Secondary)
Environmental policies and institutions                               Primary             Primary
Land administration and management                                    Primary             Primary
Participation and civic engagement                                Secondary               Primary
Regional integration                                                  Primary             Primary
Water resource management                                             Primary             Primary

 E. Bank and UNDP Staff
        Positions                         At ICR                                At Approval
  Vice President:           Obiageli K. Ezekwesili              Callisto Madavo
                                                                John McIntire, David Craig,
  Country Director:         Richard G. Scobey
                                                                Mamadou Dia
  Sector Manager:           Ashok K. Subramanian                Inger Andersen
  Project Team Leader:      Matar Fall                          Ousmane Dione
  ICR Team Leader:          Matar Fall                          N/A
  ICR Lead Author:          Gabriele Rechbauer                  N/A
  ICR Co-Author:            Nina Doetinchem                     N/A
 UNDP Country Office
                            Laba Touré                          Cheikh Tidiane Mbengue
 Programme Manager
 UNDP Regional              Abdoulaye Ndiaye                    Abdoulaye Ndiaye



                                                                                                    vi
    Technical Advisor
    Assistant to RTA             Henry René Diouf                          Aminata Talla Diop

F. Results Framework Analysis
Global Environment Objectives (GEO) and Key Indicators(as approved)
The objective of this project is to provide a participatory strategic environmental framework for
the environmentally sustainable development of the Senegal River Basin (SRB) and to launch a
Basin-wide cooperative programme for transboundary land-water management.

Revised Global Environment Objectives (as approved by original approving authority) and
Key Indicators and reasons/justifications
The Global Environment Objective has not been revised.

GEO Indicator(s) (World Bank)

                                         Original Target Formally
                                                                      Actual Value Achieved
                                          Values (from      Revised
 Indicator       Baseline Value                                           at Completion or
                                            approval         Target
                                                                            Target Years
                                           documents)        Values
           OMVS and Guinea harmonize their water legislation in accordance with the
KPI 1 :    existing legislation in the other riparian countries for better management of
           land and water resources across the basin.
              National legislations
                                                                                      Ratification of OMVS's
              within OMVS member
                                                                                      Water Charter by
              countries are fully
                                                                                      Guinean Parliament. As
Value         harmonized with OMVS             A legislation of
                                                                                      the Water Charter is
(quantitative legislation. A strong            Guinea is aligned
                                                                         N/A          superseding national
or            OMVS water charter               with the OMVS
                                                                                      legislation, Guinea's
Qualitative) prepared & ratified.              Water Charter.
                                                                                      government thereby
              Guinea's legislation
                                                                                      agreed to align its
              updated & decrees are
                                                                                      related national
              under preparation
                                                                                      legislation.
Date
                10/28/2003                     07/31/2008                             03/31/2006
achieved
             Process steps and related results towards the target include:
             1. Harmonization needs to align Guinea's national legislation on water and
Comments environment with OMVS directives identified. 2
(incl. %     2. Establishment of Guinea's national multi-sectoral working group by by-law to
achievement) oversee the harmonization process of its legal framework.
             3. Organisation of national multi-sectoral stakeholder meeting in Guinea to inform
             and sensitize a broad range of stakeholders on the ongoing alignment.


2
 Identified harmonization needs of Guinea's legislation: (i) "Code de l'eau": 3 draft decrees were examined and
adopted at Cabinet level; (ii) "Code de l'environnement: A draft framework law is under development by the Ministry
of Environment; (iii) "Code minier": A new Code minier is under development; (iv) "Code forestier": No change
needed; (v) "Code pastoral": A new draft law integrating the "Code Pastoral" into the "Code de l'élévage" is under
development; and (vi) "Code de la protection de la faune": No change needed.




                                                                                                               vii
              4. Completion of study on the national legal framework of Mali, Mauritania, and
              Senegal.
              5. Adoption of final report on water legislation within the four countries.
              6. Review of national legislation in OMVS member countries resulted in a proposal
              for a Regional Environmental Code that is currently explored by OMVS. ToRs for
              the development of Regional Environmental Code compiled and validated.

              7. Organization of workshop in Guinea in August 2008 to assess progress with up-
              dating and harmonization of national legislation in Guinea (see FN).
              8. Up-dating of Guinea's legislation ongoing and supported by MWRD.

              Achievement compared to original target in %: 100 %.
              Guinea's hydrology network in the Senegal Basin upstream portion has been
KPI 2 :       fully assessed & upgraded to be compatible with the existing OMVS hydrology
              network.
                                                                           Senegal River Basin
                                                                           hydrology and
                                                                           meteorological
                                                                           networks have been
                                          OMVS database is                 rehabilitated and are
                                          operational                      fully operational
                                          throughout the SRB               consisting of 19
              One hydrology
Value                                     with data                        hydrological stations
              monitoring station
(quantitative                             information available            and 24 meteorological
              (Sokotoro) still functions                         N/A
or                                        online throughout                stations.
              in the Senegal upstream
Qualitative)                              the OMVS
              Basin in Guinea.
                                          Observatory's                    OMVS SRB database is
                                          website.                         fully operational
                                                                           through hydrological
                                                                           and meteorological
                                                                           network data accessible
                                                                           on-line through OMVS
                                                                           Observatory website.
Date
              12/07/2004                  07/31/2008                       07/31/2008
achieved
               Process steps and results towards the target include:
               1. Regional and national hydrology related training (e.g. GIS for water resources
               management, Environmental Observatory, HYDRACCESS, hydrological
               equipment, etc.) provided from 2005 to 2007 with special focus on Guinean
               RGDEE members
               2. Identified equipment and actual installation in hydrological stations in Guinea,
Comments
               Mali, Mauritania and Senegal delivered from April to August 2007 resulting in 3
(incl. %
               up-dated stations in Mali, 3 in Mauritania and 5 in Senegal and 8 fully rehabilitated
achievement)
               stations in Guinea.
               3. Additional hydrological and meteorological equipment ensuring and improving
               water resource monitoring based on needs assessment for all four countries
               delivered.

              Achievement compared to original target in % : 100 %
KPI 3 :       Framework for sustainable transboundary information exchange and


                                                                                                viii
              knowledge sharing between the four riparian countries is prepared.
              The establishment of        Data exchange                Data exchange network
Value
              national project cellule in network and                  and exchange of
(quantitative
              Guinea set the basis for cooperation network N/A         information across the
or
              transboundary exchange is in place and                   Basin is in place and
Qualitative)
              and knowledge sharing. operational.                      fully operational.
Date
              01/04/2005                  07/31/2008                   07/31/2008
achieved
               Process steps and results towards the target include:
               1. Development and establishment of Guinean Data Network on Water and
               Environment (RGDEE) in 2004.
Comments 2. Regional and national hydrology related training (GIS for water resources
(incl. %       management, Environmental Observatory, HYDRACCESS, hydrological
achievement) equipment, etc.) provided from 2005 to 2007 with special focus on Guinean
               RGDEE members.

               Achievement compared to original target in % : 100 %
KPI 4 :       A Transboundary Diagnostic Analysis (TDA) is prepared and completed.
Value                                    A TDA with the key         TDA completed,
              Preliminary TDA has
(quantitative                            priorities in the SRB      validated and printed
              been prepared in the four                        N/A
or                                       has been finalized         (2006) and formed basis
              countries.
Qualitative)                             and approved.              of development of SAP.
Date
              02/07/2005                 07/31/2008                 04/21/2008
achieved
Comments
(incl. %      Achievement compared to original target in % : 100 %
achievement)
KPI 5 :       From the TDA findings, a Strategic Action Plan (SAP) document is completed.
                                                                    SAP prepared, reviewed
                                                                    and approved by
                                                                    Ministerial Council in
                                                                    Y4 (59th council
                                         Final version of the
                                                                    meeting in August
              Complementary studies SAP has been
                                                                    2008).
Value         financed by other partners prepared, is reviewed
(quantitative have been completed and and approved by the
                                                               N/A  Original French version
or            will add information on Ministerial Council
                                                                    printed and broader
Qualitative) the required actions in the in PY4 and the SAP
                                                                    dissemination ongoing.
              Basin.                     is published and
                                         disclosed in PY4.
                                                                    Publication and
                                                                    dissemination of
                                                                    translated version in
                                                                    English in progress.
Date
              03/02/2005                 07/31/2008                 07/31/2008
achieved
Comments
(incl. %       Achievement compared to original target in % : 100 %
achievement)




                                                                                           ix
(b) Intermediate Outcome Indicator

                                     Original Target     Formally
                                                                     Actual Value Achieved at
                                       Values (from       Revised
  Indicator      Baseline Value                                        Completion or Target
                                         approval         Target
                                                                                Years
                                       documents)         Values
              OMVS and Guinea capacity progressively enhanced to address transboundary
IOI :
              issues; Information and knowledge sharing process progressively in place.
                                                                    OMVS national cellule in
                                                                    Guinea is well established
                                                                    (equipment, staff and
              OMVS national                                         training).
                                  All national cellules
              cellules in Mali,
                                  cooperating and
              Mauritania and                                        Revised status from
                                  activities fully
Value         Senegal are                                           Guinea's project national
                                  coordinated under
(quantitative effectively                                           cellule to OMVS national
                                  OMVS supervision. N/A
or            functioning.                                          cellule in 2008 formalized.
Qualitative)
                                  Full database
              OMVS database                                         Guinea's database is
                                  network established
              network is fully                                      operational with additional
                                  in the Basin.
              operational.                                          monitoring equipments and
                                                                    linked to Basin database
                                                                    managed by the OMVS's
                                                                    Observatory.
Date
              04/02/2004          07/31/2008                        10/06/2007
achieved
Comments
(incl. %       Achievement compared to original target in % : 100 %
achievement)

G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs

                                                                                Actual
        Date ISR
No.                            GEO                         IP               Disbursements
        Archived
                                                                            (USD millions)
  1     05/06/2004          Satisfactory              Satisfactory                     0.00
  2     11/24/2004          Satisfactory              Satisfactory                     0.28
  3     04/28/2005          Satisfactory              Satisfactory                     0.51
  4     12/15/2005          Satisfactory              Satisfactory                     1.16
  5     06/05/2006          Satisfactory              Satisfactory                     1.64
  6     11/01/2006          Satisfactory              Satisfactory                     1.98
  7     05/30/2007          Satisfactory              Satisfactory                     2.59
  8     11/01/2007          Satisfactory              Satisfactory                     3.87
  9     05/07/2008          Satisfactory              Satisfactory                     4.26
 10     10/02/2008          Satisfactory              Satisfactory                     4.54

UNDP ratings in GEF Project Implementation Review (PIR)
 1    July 2005              N/A           Moderately Satisfactory                      0.10



                                                                                               x
  2    07/07/2006            N/A          Satisfactory   0.20
  3    07/28/2007            N/A          Satisfactory   3.41
  4    06/30/2008            N/A          Satisfactory   6.07


H. Restructuring (if any)
Not Applicable


I. Disbursement Profile (WB funds only)




                                                                xi
1. Project Context, Global Environment Objective and Design

1.1 Context at Appraisal
Sector Background. In 2002, OMVS had a strong legal mandate and looked back at a 30-year
history of cooperation related to water management and energy production, including
construction and operation of two dams in the SRB (Diama and Manatali). There was a growing
understanding that the organization would need to transform itself to ensure continued relevance.
A new focus on a more holistic approach to river Basin management emerged together with the
realization of the importance of full inclusion of Guinea into a regional river Basin framework.

Prior developments for transboundary environmental management. An important basis for the
Senegal River Basin Water and Environmental Management project was the Environmental
Impact Mitigation and Monitoring Plan (PASIE) associated with the large Regional Hydropower
Development project. The latter was implemented from 1998-2003 as part of a large multi-donor
initiative (total volume of US$445 million equivalent) to extend the value of earlier investments
in the Diama and Manantali dams in 1986 and 1988, respectively. As a result of PASIE, the
foundation of an institutional framework for effective transboundary communication and
participation emerged. A steering committee and three national coordination committees (NCC),
as well as a number of local coordination committees (LCC) were set up. This framework
introduced effective local stakeholder participation and elements of decentralized management in
the planning and decision-making process for regional water resources management for the first
time.

GEF investment. Building on first achievements made under PASIE, a larger GEF investment
was conceived to scale up institutional capacity building for environmental management at
regional, national, and local levels, strengthen the regional data and knowledge base, and
institutionalize local stakeholder participation in water resources management. Designed to
generate global benefits through sustainable transboundary water resources management and
comprehensive participation of local stakeholders in land and water management in the Senegal
River Basin, the project was fully aligned with GEF's OP 9 "Integrated Land and Water Multiple
Focal Area Operational Program". From the preparation stage onwards, the project was expected
to fill an important gap in the GEF portfolio of IW in West Africa. Synergies with the Niger and
Volta Basin initiatives were identified at an early stage and coordination among IAs was therefore
recommended. The GEF project was perceived as an opportunity for OMVS to embrace
institutional change towards i) a planning and management based organization, ii) ensuring a
sound and environmentally sustainable basis for existing and emerging investments and economic
developments, and iii) creating a culture of transparent public participation. In this spirit, a highly
innovative Senegal River Water Charter was negotiated and ratified prior to project effectiveness
in 2002. The Charter outlines principles in water allocations, establishes water management and
environmental sustainability principles, and aims at protecting rights of affected populations. In
meeting the challenges to sustainably develop the Senegal River Basin, the four riparian countries
committed themselves to establishing an inclusive framework for joint management of the shared
resources and continue the inter-riparian dialogue towards full inclusion of Guinea into OMVS.

Rationale for Bank's assistance. The new vision was consistent with the general sector goal of all
recipient countries' Country Assistance Strategies (CAS) at the time of appraisal, in that all
countries were aiming to strengthen governance and institutional capacity and increase
sustainable management practices to reduce poverty. The regional dimension and importance of
strategic planning and management of SRB water resources is included in the CAS of Mali,
Mauritania and Senegal. At the time of project completion, the project continues to be relevant to


                                                                                                     1
the new CASs for Mali, Mauritania and Senegal3, all dated 2007, which emphasize accelerated
growth and wealth creation based on environmental sustainability principles. The project has
contributed to the CAS objectives by making important contributions to rural livelihoods in the
Basin based on improved natural resources management. Similarly, the respective PRSPs
recognized that successful economic development and improved living conditions for the rural
poor rely on improved governance and sustainable use of the resource base. The project further
contributed to the overarching goals of the Regional Integration Assistance Strategy (RIAS) for
Sub-Saharan Africa by strengthening collaboration across borders, by promoting institutional
cooperation with a particular focus on regional policy harmonization, and most importantly, by
coordinating investments in support of shared water resources.

Rationale for UNDP's assistance: UNDP has a strong presence on the ground in the four
countries and works with key stakeholders and local beneficiary groups of the project. Moreover,
UNDP has operated a GEF-financed global small grants programme (SGP), which demonstrated
satisfactory results in a recent program evaluation. Mali, Mauritania and Senegal have widely
benefited from this small grant programme.4 The SGP in these countries has provided important
lessons and experiences for the development of local-level activities and micro-projects.

    Rationale for UNDP and WB's partnership:
    The WB and UNDP partnership was justified by the comparative advantages of each of the
    international institutions:
         UNDP has a strong network of country offices offering direct interaction with country
             stakeholders including non-governmental organizations and community representatives,
             wide experience at institutional capacity building and policy dialogue on organizational
             environment, and experience in transboundary Basin cooperation issues and inter-
             country programming.
         World Bank has a strong record of investment lending focusing on institution building,
             infrastructure development and policy reform. It has experience in the use of various
             financial mechanisms to foster sustainable development on the basis of sound and
             economically beneficial interventions across all sectors.

Strategic decisions. A strategic decision was taken to concentrate limited financial resources on
strengthening regional, national and local capacities through the Senegal River Basin Authority
(OMVS) for improved land and water resources management and to improve social and
environmental sustainability. Focus was placed on enhancing capacity to address transboundary
issues, to improve knowledge and data sharing, to fully involve Guinea in joint planning and
management decision-making, to strengthen the linkage between environmental management and
sustainable livelihoods at the ground-level, to raise public awareness about the importance of the
SRB, and to increase civil society participation in transboundary activities.

1.2 Original Global Environment Objective (GEO) and Key Indicators
The objective of this project was to provide a participatory strategic environmental framework for
the environmentally sustainable development of the Senegal River Basin (SRB) and to launch a
Basin-wide cooperative programme for transboundary land-water management.

As per the PAD, the following key outcome indicators were intended to measure the successful
achievement of the project's global environmental objective:


3
    The last CAS for Guinea dates from 2003 and the new CAS is currently under preparation.
4
    Guinea was not part of the SGP, but received project assistance through the Malian SGP.


                                                                                                   2
Component 1-3 (Implemented by WB):
 Provided tools for strengthened decision-making capacity in the riparian countries and at the
   regional level (OMVS), to address transboundary land and water management issues, through
   a defined inclusive mechanism;
 Improved data collection and established data exchange mechanisms in all four countries, and
   agreed on cooperation protocols for greater knowledge of Senegal River data and information,
   and of its relation to ecological and social processes; and
 Completed and adopted the Transboundary Diagnostic Analysis (TDA) and Strategic Action
   Plan (SAP) with identified priority actions for the Basin.

Component 4-5 (Implemented by UNDP):
 Together with the World Bank, organized and implemented training and workshops for the
   river management institutions to strengthen national and local institutional capacity;
 Executed a minimum of 20 community-based microgrant-supported activities to address
   community priority actions;
 Increased annually the number of stakeholders involved and trained in local and
   transboundary water resource management issues; and
 Increased annually the number of communities informed and/or stakeholders involved in the
   public information and participation process.

1.3 Revised GEO and Key Indicators, and reasons/justification
There was no revision of the original Global Environment Objective.

Key Indicators for the World Bank implemented components (1, 2 and 3) were slightly reworded
and split into a total of five KPI (instead of the originally three) as presented in section F. This
adjustment was made following submission of the PAD for Board approval and prior to signing
of the Legal Agreement. As detailed in the Letter of Agreement (see also comparison of
indicators in Annex 3, Appendix E) each of the revised KPIs is supported by a number of
cumulative output-level indicators that tracked and thus helped to determine progress made
against KPIs. The adjustment of the KPI was deemed necessary in order to provide a more
measurable framework for project monitoring. Supervision including all ISRs and the MTR are
based on the revised five KPI.

1.4 Main Beneficiaries
The beneficiaries of this project were identifiable at three levels: regional, national, and local (see
Annex 3, Appendix A with details on beneficiaries per component). These stakeholder groups
remained unchanged.

At regional level:
  i.    OMVS as the regional institution responsible for managing the Senegal River was a key
        beneficiary of the project. Key beneficiary bodies within OMVS were the High
        Commission itself but also OMVS's dam management companies (SOGEM and
        SOGED). OMVS benefited from capacity building, institutional strengthening,
        organizational restructuring, and overall advancement of its vision and mandate, as well
        as its strategic planning framework (component 1 and 3).
 ii.    The non-governmental "Coordination of Civil Society Organizations for Development
        and Environment of Senegal River Basin (CODESEN)", established in 1997 on initiative




                                                                                                     3
        of NGOs, CBOs and international institutions like IUCN 5 , benefited indirectly from
        increased participation in transboundary planning, management, and decision making for
        the Senegal River Basin (component 1 and 3).

At national level:
   i.   National governments, national decision-makers and OMVS's national water
        management structures (National Cells (NC) and National Coordination Committees
        (NCC)), benefited in terms of institutional capacity building and from being mandated to
        lead the national level process of the TDA and subsequent SAP. They further took
        advantage from infrastructure investments into water Basin management and monitoring
        stations (component 1 and 3).
  ii.   National academic and research institutions benefited directly from a number of scientific
        and other academic studies and assessments carried out to fill data gaps and consolidate
        knowledge and information available on the Senegal River Basin. Enhanced data sharing
        and exchange platforms improved effective communication between research institutions
        across the country as well as across the sub-region. More, the project helped to establish
        formal MoUs between OMVS and 16 research institutions in the Basin as basis for
        coordinated scientific work on identified themes (component 2).
 iii.   A specific focus has been put on the inclusion of Guinea, the up-stream riparian as a full
        beneficiary in the management and joint development of the Senegal River Basin.

At local level (see Annex 3, Appendix B for map of LCC and Appendix C for details on
microgrants):
   i.  Local government, local decision-makers benefited from more inclusive and participatory
       planning and management frameworks for water resource management. They were
       enabled to interact more easily across countries and between local and national levels.
       They gained knowledge skills from capacity building activities in support of a multi-level
       Basin management framework (cross-cutting all components).
  ii.  Local Coordination Committees (LCC) benefited from capacity building, training, and
       facilitation of day-to-day operation with view to planning and implementing the
       microgrants program and associated information and awareness campaigns (component
       4).
 iii.  Rural communities in the SRB benefited directly from the microgrants program
       (component 4), which was conceptualized on CDD principles. Community beneficiaries
       benefited for example, from sustainable land management measures aimed at improving
       farming practices and controlling soil erosion, activities aiming to enhance water quality
       and restore irrigation networks and rehabilitation of wetland systems to improve and
       reinstate their important ecosystem services.
 iv.   Women's groups, community-based organisations (CBO) and schools benefited either
       directly from participating in the microgrant-supported activities or more generally
       through engagement by public education and information activities (component 5). As a
       result a more informed and engaged constituency has been built that is expected to take
       environmental considerations into account when making decisions.

1.5 Original Components


5
 As a member of the African Network for the protection of African rivers, CODESEN assists communities
along the Senegal River Basin so that they can actively participate in water resources and environmental
management, and in significant improvement in their living conditions. Since then, it conducts its advocacy
within communities affected by dams, flooding, pollution and water-borne diseases through its action plans.


                                                                                                        4
The project consisted of five components, of which Component 1-3 were implemented through
the World Bank, and of which Component 4-5 were implemented through UNDP.

    Component 1 (Environmental Management and Capacity Building - US$ 2.7m) aimed to
    strengthen institutional and environmental management capacity at regional and local level
    by establishing a dialogue with Guinea, building regional capacity, developing an inclusive
    institution, and establishing an Africa Regional Forum.
    Component 2 (Data Knowledge and Management ­ US$ 1.52m) aimed to strengthen regional
    and national database and knowledge management with an emphasis on developing and
    integrating Guinea's technical capacity and network within existing SRB network and
    upgrading Guinea's monitoring equipment.
    Component 3 (TDA and SAP ­ US$ 1.04m) aimed to examine Basin-wide conditions as well
    as issues and develop a detailed prioritized plan for SRB management.
    Component 4 (Micro-grant Program/Priority Actions ­ US$ 1.66m) aimed to provide funding
    for community driven priority actions to curb land degradation, to enhance water quality, and
    to improve wetland management.
    Component 5 (Public Participation and Awareness ­ US$ 0.33m) aimed to enhance public
    participation and awareness on environmental issues within the Senegal River Basin.

1.6 Revised Components
None of the components were restructured in terms of objectives, substance, approach or scope
during project implementation. Minor changes were related to reallocation of funds according to
actual cost experienced. A minor modification to disbursement phasing of the microgrants was
aimed at improved implementation performance.

    Adjustments made under component 1: At mid term review, provisions for numerous
    workshops and meetings were reduced and prioritized.
    Adjustments made under component 2: Funds were reallocated to cater for IT equipment for
    the RGDEE (not previously included in the budget plan) and to match the higher market price
    for the hydrometrical, meteorological and laboratory equipment.
    Adjustments made under component 4: The microgrant programme was initially intended to
    provide financing for priority issues as identified in the four National Priority Action Plans,
    which were linked to the TDA and SAP processes. However, this would have resulted in very
    late commencement of microgrant disbursements. The microgrant programme was thus
    adjusted to two disbursement phases, with the first phase running in parallel to the
    identification of priority actions. OMVS considered this adjustment essential in order to
    demonstrate benefits to local communities, and thereby encourage local engagement.
    Adjustments made under component 5: IUCN's final contribution was cut short by 50% to
    US$150,000. Consequently, some activities proposed by IUCN during preparation phase,
    such as the upstream/downstream diagnostic analysis, could not be implemented. Additional
    Dutch co-funding however provided a supplementary budget to the amount of US$151,000
    for targeted information and communication activities in line with identified priorities.

1.7 Other significant changes
Design: No significant changes related to project design occurred during implementation.

Supplementary funding: Substantial co-funding from the Netherlands materialized during the first
two years of project implementation with a legal agreement signed on June 1st, 2005,
implementation launched on August 30, 2006, and technical assistance available since October 1,
2007. The additional funding complemented the GEF activities through five components:


                                                                                                 5
Component                                                                                EUR
1. Water weeds invasion rehabilitation                                               4,487,180
2. Soil erosion and integrated water resources management                            1,314,542
3. Environment observatory and piezometric network                                     830,045
4. Water borne disease and water supply                                              1,123,455
5. Water resources institutional support                                             2,021,676
                                                                      Total          9,776,898

Due to the Dutch co-funding becoming available, distribution of overall project resources was
reviewed and reallocated as needed. At the time of project completion, only 28.86 % of the Dutch
grant was disbursed and the closing date for the Dutch funding thus extended until March 31,
2010.

Implementation aspects:

Local Coordination Committee (LCC): LCCs were expected to be the driving forces for
implementation of component 4 and 5, but lacked operational capacity at early project
implementation stage. As a result, LCC members were considerably augmented to involve
administrative decision makers and decentralized technical bodies. OMVS and countries
financially supported focal points mandated with all operational aspects within the LCCs, while
local administration in each country ("sous-prefets") retained overall institutional responsibility.
The closer linkage to local administration structures proved to be a more effective operational set-
up.

Schedule: At project closure, two activities were not yet completed as per original schedule. As
both activities have been initiated and are ongoing, the delay is not considered to have any
significant impact on the overall project outcome.
- Component 3: The OMVS-led donor roundtable on fundraising for the SAP implementation
    has not yet been convened due to later than expected approval of the two documents at the
    59th OMVS Inter-ministerial Council meeting (July 6-7, 2008). The official translations of the
    TDA and SAP from French to English and its formal submission to the GEF and IAs has
    been initiated but not yet been completed.
- Component 4: Substantial delays in funds availability for micro-projects impacted
    implementation of Component 4. As a result, second phase micro-projects are still under
    implementation and will be finalized only in 2010 while related funds have already been
    disbursed and transferred to local level recipient based on approved work plans.


2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes

2.1 Project Preparation, Design and Quality at Entry

Project preparation proceeded through a GEF-financed preparation phase, which was
characterized by a thorough participatory process with intensive regional, national and local level
stakeholder consultations. During preparation, institutional and technical preparatory studies were
conducted and lessons from OMVS's experience under PASIE were assessed and carefully
reflected in project design (components and implementation arrangements). However, the overall
preparation process was very long (5 years) mainly due to GEF cycle requirements (first PDF-A
then PDF-B phases) and conditions of readiness; involved four Task Team Leader changes and
required substantial financial resources (see Annex 5). A more detailed discussion of factors that
positively or adversely affected project preparation can be found in Annex 3, Appendix H.


                                                                                                  6
2.2 Implementation

Project restructuring: The project was not restructured and it was never at risk. An overview of
project events and milestones is attached in Annex 3, Appendix G.

Factors that contributed to successful implementation:
Two factors that are considered to have played an essential role for the project's success are:
 The project benefited substantially from the strong basis on which OMVS as an institution
   was built. OMVS served as the recipient of the grant and executing agency of the project and
   can demonstrate the full support and trust of its member countries. OMVS further contributed
   to the project's success due to its strong ownership and commitment to the project
   objectives.6
 The selection of highly qualified regional and national staff contributed to efficient project
   implementation and delivery of results. The project staff demonstrated extremely high
   motivation and professionalism. Effective delivery of the project was further make possible
   with the full delegation of oversight responsibility for individual components to respective
   specialists within the PIU. This contributed significantly to a performance-based culture in
   the PIU, which was coupled with rigorous reporting requirements.

A more detailed discussion of factors that positively or adversely affected project implementation
can be found in Annex 3, Appendix H.

2.3 Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Design, Implementation and Utilization

Project Monitoring versus Environment Status Monitoring: For the evaluation of the quality of
the monitoring and evaluation, a clear distinction has to be made between two different types of
monitoring:
   i.   project monitoring, i.e. monitoring overall implementation progress and achievements
        made towards meeting project objectives as per KPIs; and
  ii.   regional, national (and local) SRB monitoring, i.e. measuring environmental status
        indicators in the river Basin, such as improved hydrological balance, ecological and
        biological indices, improved chemical and physical parameters (sedimentation rates,
        eutrophication rates), as well as stakeholder awareness and involvement indicators.

Project monitoring
Use of process indicators to measure implementation progress: This project was of catalytic
nature and aimed to mobilize a process of institutional and regulatory reform and progress. As
such, the project had a strong focus on capacity building and on the institutional reorganization
and advancement processes. Therefore, the project success can not be expected to be measured
against environmental trend and/or status indicators, but only against process indicators.

Evaluation of the results framework confirms that the project therefore adequately applied
process indicators to track implementation progress and followed guidance prepared by the GEF




6
 Key factors explaining OMVS's strong ownership and commitment include its legal and institutional framework and
setting, its simple and clear organizational mandate and objective, its selective staffing policy for technical positions
seconded from member countries and its solid financial basis.




                                                                                                                        7
for monitoring of International Waters projects7. Taking into account the nature of the project and
the guidance available for transboundary water projects at the time, the quality of the M&E
framework, of the indicators selected, and of the data recorded can thus be considered marginally
satisfactory.

As part of project implementation, the project supported the identification of a regional Senegal
River Basin M&E framework, including environmental status indicators with the purpose to
monitor the overall status of the Senegal River Basin from an environmental, natural resources,
and water management angle. The project supported capacity building of OMVS (and in
particular the Environmental Observatory) for environmental status monitoring, as well as the
establishment of a data system to record trends of environmental and water management
indicators (see http://www.omvs-soe.org).

Adequacy of the project's M&E framework: Even though it has to be taken into account that
limited guidance was available for process indicators related to institutional reform, the initial
M&E framework in the PAD still provided a rather broad and overly lengthy list of process
indicators, thus making it difficult to understand the expected outcomes and outputs of the project
and the means of tracking project progress. The task team identified this weakness during final
preparation stages and the indicators of the PAD were refined in the legal agreement.

However, at MTR, the initial M&E plan and logframe as per PAD were found to be of sound
quality and were not modified or harmonized to reflect the revisions of the KPI as per Legal
Agreement, except with regard to timing of some activities. The MTR identified the missing
baselines for component 4 and 5.

Collection method: At project start, the adopted M&E framework lacked a fully-fledged baseline
and target situation and gave little guidance to CRGP of how progress had to be measured (i.e.
mid-term and final target values). This weakness was likely tied to a lack of clarity on M&E roles,
responsibilities (between SOE and OMVS project team) and methodologies for specific activities
mainly with regards to the institutional and organizational setting within OMVS. However,
CRGP made considerable effort to correctly define and successfully use a detailed scoreboard for
this project based on the output-level, component-based logframe for progress reporting at
regional and national level. The scoreboard has been used on a permanent basis and contributed
substantially to detailed, accurate and timely project progress reporting as well as for
participatory monitoring at local, national and regional levels.

CRGP further supported UNDP in its mandatory annual GEF PIR reporting to document and
assess project implementation progress and the participatory processes.

Senegal River Basin Status Monitoring
In terms of status monitoring (as opposed to process monitoring), OMVS through its
Environmental Observatory established a Senegal River Basin monitoring and evaluation
framework, which monitors hydrological status and environmental status by tracking
environmental status indicators. Most of the data collected stems from the network supported by
the Environmental Observatory that links national data collection systems. Nonetheless the
Environmental Observatory still needs continued and ongoing training and support to ensure that


7
 GEF, 2002, "Monitoring and Evaluation Indicators for GEF International Waters projects", Monitoring and
Evaluation Working Paper 10.




                                                                                                           8
the network is functional, Guinea's data base is operational and adequate river Basin monitoring
reports can be issued. OMVS's institutional reform is expected to clarify and specify further
internal m&e roles, responsibilities and methodologies for specific activities.

2.4 Safeguard and Fiduciary Compliance

Summary of safeguards: The project was a category B project and triggered OP 4.01 on
Environmental Assessment and OP. 4.04 on Natural Habitats mainly to provide quality control
for microgrant activities planned under component 4. During preparation, an Environmental
Management Framework (EMF) and Resettlement Policy Framework (RPF) were also developed.
The EMF identified the process to implement interventions within the parameters of national,
regional (OMVS) and WB's safeguard policies. The RPF provided guidance in the case of
resettlement issues, even though no resettlement action was foreseen under the project. Both
documents aimed to guide microgrant project development, screening, implementation and
monitoring and were disseminated to LCCs as part of the micro-project manual. The micro-
project manual was developed to match procedures and eligibility criteria of the UNDP-managed
Small Grants Programme. The ICR team further noted that although OP 7.50 on International
Waters was originally not triggered as per consultations with the WB legal counsel (no provision
for 2a/2b of OP 7.50), the project team in consultation with ASPEN decided to retroactively
trigger OP 7.50 for the purpose of good practice and to strengthen the context of full integration
of Guinea in the regional institutional framework for the Senegal River Basin since the dialogue
on Guinea inclusion was still underway.

Safeguards compliance assessment:
(i) At early project stage, OMVS (CRGP) made the judgment that the microgrant manual was too
complex and cumbersome. Therefore, the manual was summarized and simplified. However, no
systematic or direct deviance from the manual was documented during the periodic supervision
missions neither by the Bank nor UNDP.

(ii) The ICR confirmed that the microgrant screening process included preference for vulnerable
groups such as women and thus addresses concerns raised at QER stage.

Fiduciary:
The financial management system managed by CRGP was closely linked to OMVS/HC system
and underwent regular internal control procedures from the High Commissioner and the
Department for Administration and Finance (DAF). CRGP planning and execution was closely
supervised by OMVS/HC/DAF. Neither the WB missions and audit reports nor a quick
assessment at the ICR stage revealed any critical issues.

Procurement was carried out by CRGP following WB procedures. It should be noted that OMVS
has its own procurement procedures to avoid relying on different national procedures of its
members states. The project contributed to strengthen OMVS procurement capacity.
Acknowledging the importance of best standards of procurement for the organization, the CRGP
procurement position established for the project was turned into a permanent staff position at
OMVS. The WB missions and audit reports as well as the ICR assessment did not reveal any
critical issues.

2.5 Post-completion Operation/Next Phase

The project successfully put in place a conducive enabling environment that will ensure long-
term environmentally sustainable development of the SRB's transboundary land and water


                                                                                                9
resources. Results achieved have been placed on sustainable footing due to: (i) an institutionally
strengthened and inclusive river Basin organization that continues to demonstrate extraordinary
commitment to its mandate and boosts full trust by its member countries, (ii) a solid knowledge
base and information network, (iii) a strategic environmental planning framework, (iv) increased
stakeholder awareness down to local levels, and (v) important investments in environmentally
sustainable income activities.

Dutch co-financing leveraged by the project and the ongoing large-scale MWRD APL further
provide a sustainability scenario for a number of project investments in infrastructure and on-the-
ground activities as presented below.

Dutch funding: At time of project closure, the Dutch co-funding to the project was extended until
end of March 2010. Dutch co-funding continues to support and expand the scope of components
1, 4, and 5 and provides for continuation of the CRGP staff at regional level as well as several
experts at national level. However, the Dutch co-funding is focused geographically on the lower
Basin and thus does not cover Guinea. Accordingly, an agreement is currently discussed to ensure
continued funding of Guinea's national participation specialist.

Dutch co-funding will play an important role to ensure continued communication and
participation activities (component 5), which will complement OMVS's own commitments for
sustained outreach and dialogue with stakeholders at all levels. OMVS recently established the
first permanent staff position for a communication and participation expert, who will be
supported by the existing CRGP communication expert during the transition phase. In addition,
the last inter-ministerial council asked OMVS-HC to continue with sensitization of the civil
society through a targeted television campaign.

Most of the second-phase microgrants (component 4) are still under implementation and expected
to be fully executed by 2010. Funds for the implementation have been fully transferred to LCC
and ongoing Dutch co-financing is critical to support OMVS and NC with technical follow-up
and supervision of fiduciary accountability of LCC and microgrant recipients.

Dutch co-funding will further continue to support important research activities that have been
identified in an agreed action plan and that present the ongoing implementation of the new
partnership agreement that was established between OMVS with 16 national research and
scientific institutions throughout the four riparian countries during the GEF project. In addition,
new follow-up support from the Dutch Embassy (EUR 10 millions) is under discussion with a
focus on removal of invasive aquatic plants.

MWRD APL: The 10-year Senegal River Basin Multi-Purpose Water Resources Development
Program (MWRD APL) is seen as a consolidation and expansion of the results and achievements
of the GEF project, the latter which had a strong catalytic role by setting the stage for substantial
IDA investments for OMVS and the sustainable management of the SRB. The MWRD APL
builds directly on the experiences made under the prior GEF-financed SRB Water and
Environmental Management project. It consolidates the process of policy development, regional
planning and integration and carries on the process of institutional reform and modernization of
OMVS initiated under PASIE and advanced under GEF. The MWRD APL also continues
implementation of the principles of the Water Charter. Most importantly, it operationalizes
Guinea's inclusion in the OMVS including definition of a new cost-sharing formula between all
OMVS members. The regional information and knowledge platform and data system that was
strongly supported under the GEF project (component 2) also receives sustained support. From an
environmental and transboundary ecosystem perspective, the SAP developed under the GEF


                                                                                                  10
project will play an important input to the overall SRB master plan, however the MWRD will not
provide for full funding of the SAP implementation. The MRWD, due to its multi-purpose scope,
address a much broader range of issues than the initial GEF project, in particular a focus on
substantial investments in livelihood needs in the region, such as hydraulic and irrigation
infrastructure, fisheries management, and reduction of waterborne diseases.

Future investment needs and opportunities: The GEF project made important achievements for
environmental mainstreaming as evidenced by full integration of project activities and results in
OMVS regular annual reporting and work plan development. The SAP has further been endorsed
by OMVS inter-ministerial meeting in August 2008 demonstrating the high regional and national
commitment and support for its implementation.

However, in order to implement all priority actions identified in the SAP, OMVS is seeking to
secure additional funding and a donor round table has been planned for early 2009. OMVS is
keen to embark on SAP implementation while there is strong commitment and ownership by
stakeholders at all levels, and to prevent the risk of implementing an outdated action plan. In this
context, it can be noted that the OMVS regards the TDA as a baseline assessment for the status of
the Senegal River Basin and intends to update the exercise upon implementation of priority
actions of the SAP.

Important achievements made for transboundary land and water management in the Senegal
River Basin thus far provide a strong case for a new GEF investment broadly addressing the
theme of "water security and adaptation to climate change". Such new investment in the Senegal
River Basin could focus on balancing land and water management in view of socio-economic
needs (water supply, hydropower needs), rural development needs (irrigation), health issues
(sanitation, waterborne diseases), and environmental issues (water quality, invasive species) in
the view of increasingly dire climate scenarios (i.e. droughts) thereby responding to key topics
identified in the SAP. It could thus focus on land use planning and management and water
security management in support of climate change adaptation. Important prerequisites that
together build the enabling environment for such an investment are already in place with (i) a
strong, inclusive, and experienced river Basin organization that has the full mandate and
endorsement of its member countries, (ii) adequate levels of institutional capacity at the national
and local levels of the institutional framework for integrated land and water management, (iii) a
solid knowledge base on the river Basin and its processes and a functioning information network
(iii) a strategic planning framework based on a completed TDA/SAP process and the ongoing
development of a multi-purpose and multi-sectoral development master plan.

Sustainability of infrastructure investments: Adequate maintenance and protection of the
hydrometrical assets, some of which are considered to be at moderate risk due to the remoteness
of some locations have been considered during establishment of the networks. All equipment has
been secured and capacity building of technical staff of national departments for water resource
management has been carried out. In addition, OMVS through its NCs and LCCs plans to
continue sensitizing local populations on the importance of securing equipment as part of its
communication and outreach campaigns. More, the Environmental Observatory is expected to
have the control measures in place to report on any potential problems in the future. In order to
maximize the application and potential of the hydrological tools for environmental planning and
resource management, continued training of OMVS specialists as well as national experts will be
important. It should be noted that OMVS's provides complementary funding for data
transmission from national stations to the Environmental Observatory database.




                                                                                                 11
3. Assessment of Outcomes

3.1 Relevance of Objectives, Design and Implementation
The project and its objective remain relevant to sectoral strategies of the involved governments,
OMVS, the World Bank, and UNDP as well as to the strategic objectives of the GEF.

CAS: At the time of project completion, the project continues to be relevant to the new CASs for
Mali, Mauritania and Senegal 8 , all dated 2007, which emphasize accelerated growth, wealth
creation based on environmental sustainability principles and regional integration in particular
related to the SRB water resources. The project has contributed to the CAS objectives by making
important contributions to rural livelihoods in the Basin based on improved natural resources
management.

GEF priorities: The project is consistent with the up-dated strategic priorities for GEF
International Waters projects. It specifically fits with the Strategic Program #3 on "Balancing
overuse and conflicting uses of water resources in surface and groundwater Basins that are of
transboundary nature". At the time of project preparation, the GEF still required the use of the
TDA/SAP process as instruments for IW projects, but these requirements were removed at
implementation stage. Nonetheless, OMVS and the WB decided to carry out the intended
assessments to fill a substantial knowledge gap and to continue the participatory process that
started with the geographically and thematically limited PASIE component.

Regional and national priorities: The project responds to objectives declared by NEPAD and the
MDG as well as elements of the four countries PRSPs, the OMVS convention and the Nouakchott
Declaration of 2006.

OMVS priorities: The project outcomes are fully aligned and mainstreamed with OMVS's
priorities as demonstrated in its annual report (2007) and work program (2008) approved by the
58th ministerial council in November 2007. Specifically, the project addressed the following
OMVS priorities:
 Being a catalyst of full integration of Guinea into the OMVS.
 Serving as a laboratory for testing optimal organizational structures aspects for transboundary
    Basin-wide management building on PASIE structures.
 Improving knowledge in order to manage the resources of the river Basin towards optimal
    use.
 Engaging into implementing of on-the-ground activities.
 Using the SAP as part of future Basin-wide planning, management and investment activities
    to ensure a sustainable basis for prosperity of riparian populations.
 Scaling up to large-scale investments based on lessons learned.

3.2 Achievement of Global Environmental Objectives

The project was expected to provide a participatory strategic environmental framework for the
environmentally sustainable development of the Senegal River Basin and to launch a Basin-wide
cooperative programme for transboundary land-water management. The project achieved its
objective, as demonstrated by:


8
    The CAS for Guinea is date 2003 and the new CAS currently under preparation.




                                                                                              12
i)      Achievement of the five key performance indicators (100% achievement of KPI 1-5;
        Refer to Section F. for more details.).
ii)     Achievement of key outputs that together contribute to attainment of the global
        environmental objective as per the project's logical framework (Refer to Annex 3 for
        more details).

The legal framework of Guinea has been reviewed and necessary adjustments have been
agreed upon in order align national legislation with the OMVS Water Charter, the future
regional code of environment, and pertinent legislation in the other riparian countries. The
project accelerated Guinea's full integration into OMVS ­ a crucial factor for alignment of the
national legislation and for better land and water resources management across the Basin. Guinea
endorsed a national working group by ministerial bylaw to oversee the alignment and
harmonization process, which is well underway with all revisions and improvements necessary
agreed upon in multi-sectoral national stakeholder meetings and supported by the MWRD APL.

Guinea's hydrology network in the upstream portion was upgraded and fully integrated
into the existing OMVS hydrology network. Compared to one operational hydrology
monitoring stations in the upstream Guinea Basin prior to the project, there are now 8
hydrological stations in Guinea fully rehabilitated and an additional 11 stations have been
upgraded and equipped throughout the overall Basin. The Senegal River Basin is now equipped
with water quality measurement installations and an early warning system in the upper Basin is
now fully functional.

The now fully operational and compatible framework for transboundary information
exchange and knowledge sharing on the environmental and water resources status of the
Senegal River Basin is a major accomplishment compared to the situation in prior to the project
when OMVS had no access to information on water resources and processes in the Basin
headwaters in Guinea. The inclusion of Guinea in OMVS during project implementation has
paved the way to a fully inclusive TDA/SAP process for the entire Basin (see below). Water
management and resource planning can now be based on accurate information on water and
environmental trends from the upstream headwaters until the lower coastal Basin of the Senegal
River. Formalized data collection and exchange frameworks that have been established at
national and regional level ensure the compatibility of the data. New partnerships that have been
entered into with relevant academic institutions further ensure scientific accuracy and validation.
Generally, the capacity for environmental monitoring through the OMVS's observatory has been
substantially strengthened.

An impressive and comprehensive Transboundary Diagnostic Analysis (TDA) was
completed based on the strengthened knowledge base with previous data gaps filled and data
now covering the entire Basin. Multidisciplinary teams at national and regional level were
strengthened and linkages to academic entities in the region established and improved. As a result
of the project, a fully completed TDA has been published and widely disseminated and detailed
maps showing environmental conditions throughout the Senegal River Basin are now available.

A Strategic Action Plan was completed based on the findings of the TDA and following an
impressively participatory and qualitative process. The SAP has received the highest political
commitment through its adoption in August 2008 at OMVS's inter-ministerial meeting. The GEF
project represents hereby one of the first successfully completed GEF IW of that nature in the
Africa region.




                                                                                                13
In addition, the UNDP-implemented microgrant program and public participation program
delivered high impact on the ground. As a result of intensive awareness campaigns on
environmental issues and the role of OMVS, local riparian populations are now more aware of
OMVS and its activities and have developed heightened environmental awareness that could
benefit longer-term integrated Basin resources management. Local priorities have been supported
with microgrants and have demonstrated environmentally sustainable income-generating
activities. Importantly, local populations have been included in consultations and encouraged to
participate in river Basin resource management.

As demonstrated by the full accomplishment of the key performance indicators as per above, the
Global Environmental Objective is rated: Satisfactory.

Comparison of outcomes against QAE review: The ICR team reviewed issues raised at a WB
internal quality-at-entry review in 2005. It is the ICR's and recipient's (OMVS) assessment that
key assumptions and findings of the QAE review did not hold ground: Contrary to the assessment
of the QAE, (i) the project fully delivered satisfactorily on both targets of its global
environmental objective, (ii) the SAP will not be overtaken or duplicated by the master plan
supported under the MWRD APL, but will form an essential sector component of the latter and
has proven to be an essential strategic planning tool for OMVS, (iii) synergies and sequencing of
the project components were adequately designed to achieve intended outputs and outcomes, (iv)
institutional changes within OMVS initiated by the project are judged to be fundamental at
regional, national and local level, and (v) World Bank has effectively supervised ­ jointly with
UNDP - all five project components. However, insufficient budget allocation for component 2
activities were confirmed at early stage of implementation and corrected.

3.3 Efficiency
The project was designed and implemented to be cost-efficient. This was achieved through
building on synergies with other initiatives, avoiding excessive administrative hurdles in project
management and processing, and establishing close interaction with the World Bank task team
and the OMVS High Commission, as well as competitive and transparent selection of highly
qualified CRGP staff. By placing emphasis on capacity of staff at the CRGP and at national cells,
OMVS was able to minimize overhead costs while maximizing ownership and participation at
regional and national levels. Specific examples of project efficiency were:
 To make cost-efficient use of available technical expertise and to demonstrate institutional
    ownership and commitment, OMVS/CRGP decided in specific cases to use its own regional
    and national experts instead of recruiting international/national consultants. This explains
    why overall cost for consultant services category have been significantly lower than planned
    yet overall achievement of deliverables satisfactory.
 To lower transaction costs through working with two GEF implementing agencies, WB
    implementation support mission were carried out jointly with UNDP and covered always all
    five components. Nonetheless, cost-effectiveness of joint implementation was somewhat
    lowered because of differing operational modalities and tools used by UNDP and the WB.
 To improve efficiency of financial management, identical software and training packages
    were used at regional and national level. Similarly, Dutch cofunding was implemented using
    the same procurement and financial management procedures established for the GEF funding
    through the WB.9



9
    A separate WB Letter of Agreement was issued related to the Dutch cofunding support.




                                                                                               14
3.4 Justification of Overall Outcome Rating
The overall outcome for the project is rated satisfactory, taking into consideration combined
evaluation results for 3.1 "Relevance of the GEO" as well as 3.2 "Achievements of the GEO"10
presented above as well as the project's timely completion and closure together with almost full
disbursement of funds.

Key outcomes that have been essential for the projects success, the sustainability of project
outcomes, and its replication potential are:

    Leveraging institutional reform/re-organization of OVMS: GEF was catalytic in building
    a more inclusive institutional structure for river Basin management regionally and nationally.
    As a result of the project, Guinean representation now spans all levels of OMVS's
    institutional structure, national legislation of Guinea is in the process of being fully aligned
    with the OMVS's Water Charter (superseding national legislation), knowledge gaps on the
    upstream portion of the Senegal River Basin have been filled, and Guinea's hydrology
    network has been fully integrated into the existing OMVS network.

    Mainstreaming environment: The project played an important role in mainstreaming
    environmental aspects at all levels: from a policy/planning perspective (e.g. TDA, SAP),
    from an institutional perspective (e.g. new institutional capacities, new staffing additions
    related to environment and civil society participation, improved knowledge and data
    networks), and from a action plan perspective (sustainable land and water management
    principles now expected to be mainstreamed in overall Senegal River Basin Master Plan).

    GEF played a catalytic role for leveraging supplementary IDF and Dutch funding and
    setting the stage for a larger multi-purpose, multi-sectoral development investment
    (IDA funding): Building on the institutional reform process and new long-term planning
    culture initiated by the GEF project, a conducive environment was set for development of a
    broader multi-purpose water resources development investment and resulted in the 10 year
    MWRD APL. The MWRD APL not only consolidates achievements and results of the GEF
    investment but most notably also responds to livelihood issues and needs of the rural poor in
    the Senegal River Basin that could not be adequately addressed under the GEF project.

3.5 Overarching Themes, Other Outcomes and Impacts

(a) Poverty Impacts, Gender Aspects, and Social Development
All microprojects included income generating activities in addition to environmental components,
which proved to be an important incentive for stakeholder motivation. Women's groups have
received special attention in the allocation of grants and have specifically benefited from grants
enabling them to establish new income-generating activities that are environmentally beneficial
or sustainable at the same time. Information and public participation campaigns helped to involve
as many beneficiaries as possible, helped to make information accessible, and helped to open up


10
   It should be noted, that the overall outcome rating is based on combining the ratings for the achievement of the
global environment objective and the rating for relevance of the project objective and project design. The efficiency of
the project was not rated and not included as a factor in the overall outcome rating since neither an ERR analysis nor a
measurement of cost effectiveness against unit cost is applicable for this kind of project.




                                                                                                                    15
the decision-making process to a broader range of local stakeholders (see Annex 3, Appendix A
for an overview on beneficiaries as well as Appendix C for a summary of micro projects
supported).

(b) Institutional Change/Strengthening
As highlighted throughout this ICR, the project had a substantial impact on institutional
strengthening and reforming institutional structures. With support of the project, the process of
including Guinea as a forth member of OMVS that started several years earlier was successfully
completed. The project further paved the way for inclusive representation of Guinean staff within
a re-organized institution. Most importantly though, the project successfully broadened OMVS
traditional sectoral role towards a more integrated approach to transboundary Basin and water
resources management by adopting principles of environmental sustainability and opening up to
broader participation from stakeholders at all levels. As a result of the project, OMVS now
demonstrates commitment to a sustainable vision for long term development of the Basin and its
resources and openness to civil society participation in policy dialogue. Institutional change is
also evidenced by the creation of new permanent staff positions in OMVS, including an
environmental information specialist (since 2008), a communication and participation specialist
(since 2008), and a procurement specialist (since 2006). OMVS further expressed its intention to
establish a new directorate for environment and sustainable development as part of its ongoing
institutional reform.

(c) Other Unintended Outcomes and Impacts
A positive side effect of the project has been the establishment of the independent umbrella
organization "Coordination des ONG pour le Développement et l'Environnement du Bassin du
fleuve Sénégal (CODESEN)". CODESEN was set up during project preparation with support
from IUCN and now extends to all 4 riparian countries representing NGOs and CBOs supporting
members to express their concerns and dialogue with OMVS. CODESEN has received
independent donor support and funding and is now recognized as a stakeholder by OMVS in all
Basin-wide activities.

3.6 Summary of Findings of ICR Stakeholder Workshop (see Annex 7)
The following points emerged during working sessions with regional and national level
beneficiaries:
     Baseline social data for component 4 and 5 was not optimally captured prior to project
        implementation. Therefore, the number of local beneficiaries was difficult to assess and
        the real social impact on target beneficiaries cannot be thoroughly assessed for the
        microgrant component. Instead only qualitative information can be provided.
     The microgrant threshold of US$ 50,000 seemed to be very low compared to the
        importance and extent of most microgrant activities addressing environmental issues. The
        establishment of a revolving fund would have been favored over the microgrant facility.
     The delayed availability of funds after effectiveness presented a major threat to technical
        and financial viability of activities. OMVS project management considered both, World
        Bank and UNDP disbursement clearances, too time-demanding at project start. Transfers
        of funds were particularly delayed for component 4 and 5 resulting in second-phase
        microgrant projects that will continue implementation until 2010.

4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome

The overall rating for risk to development outcome is low. (Refer to section 2.5 for more
details on the sustainability scenario).



                                                                                              16
Rating per component:

Component 1: Negligible to low. The MWRD APL will continue institutional and legal support
to OMVS to implement provisions supported under the GEF project.

Component 2: Low to Moderate. The identified risk relates to monitoring of equipment
purchased and installed in more remote areas (e.g. in Guinea). It requires additional resources and
supervision from regional and national levels which is covered to a large extent by the MWRD
APL support.

Component 3: Low. The SAP will serve as the main environmental management instrument
within the framework of the river Basin master plan supported under the MWRD APL.

Component 4: Low to Moderate. The risk relates to microgrants that are still under
implementation despite official closure of the project. There as has been an overall delay with
disbursements of funds for microgrants with the first micro projects funded only in May 2006 (i.e.
2 years after project launching). LCCs now carry the responsibility to monitor progress made
with implementation of micro projects as the national microgrant experts contracts have expired
with the end of the project. LCC continue to be assisted by the regional expert as well as national
experts for information and public participation, whose contracts have been renewed based on co-
financing made available from the Netherlands until March 31, 2010. OMVS is responsible for
adequate follow up and final evaluation of microgrants including determining the use of SMG as
a potential follow-up support structure.

Component 5: Low. Information and participation activities continue with support from IUCN
and Dutch co-financing - although with a slightly different focus and scale supported by OMVS's
information specialist.

5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance

An overview of positive and weaker elements during preparation and implementation stage is
presented in Annex 2.

5.1 Bank
(a) Bank Performance in Ensuring Quality at Entry
Rating: Satisfactory

The project was consistent with regional priorities and the Bank's CAS. The Bank team properly
designed technical and institutional aspects of the project and incorporated lessons learned from
earlier projects in the region into the design. Major risk factors were identified and mitigation
measures proposed.

(b) Quality of Supervision
Rating: Satisfactory

General: The project team conducted regular supervision missions, which were strategically
coordinated with UNDP. Project supervision demonstrated a high level of continuity and
specialized skills relevant to the nature and geographic location of the project.




                                                                                                17
Fiduciary: Regular supervision missions included WB procurement and financial management
staff from its office in Dakar. The procurement person established a close dialogue with the
CRGP team and OMVS-HC to provide for a permanent contact, avoid lengthy processes through
direct interaction prior finalization of contracts and submission of ToRs for non-objection to the
TTL.

Compliance with safeguards policies: The safeguard documents were included in the microgrant
manual and used throughout the multi-instance review, screening and clearance process.

Reporting: The Bank's Aide-Memoires were adequate. Nonetheless, the quality of performance
reporting could have been improved (see ISR managerial comments).

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Bank Performance
Rating: Satisfactory

Given its catalytic role during implementation and the successful implementation of the project,
the overall Bank performance is rated satisfactory.

Key factors include:
 Providing regular and high quality supervision including maintaining substantive dialogue
   with OMVS-HC;
 Ensuring close coordination with UNDP during preparation and supervision;
 Providing additional supervision of UNDP components thereby facilitating overall project
   implementation; and
 Enhancing project outcomes and OMVS's future direction through preparation of additional
   lending operation (MWRD APL).

5.2 Borrower

(a) Government Performance
Not applicable as the project was carried out by the regional river Basin organization (OMVS) on
behalf of the four riparian countries (Guinea, Mali, Mauritania and Senegal).

(b) Implementing Agency or Agencies Performance

Rating: Highly Satisfactory

OMVS's performance is rated highly satisfactory both for its inputs into preparation and
implementation, its timely completion of project activities and highly satisfactory disbursement.
OMVS assigned some of its regional staff to the project and effectively mobilized decision-
makers at national levels to support the project and its outputs/outcomes (TDA/SAP). Its own
institutional and implementation challenges have been addressed highly satisfactorily through the
organization's strong commitment to the project, close and continued supervision by the High
Commissioner, rigorous planning, reporting and management and provision of extremely skilled
and committed experts at regional and national level .

OMVS succeeded also in capitalizing the PASIE experience (limited to the area around the
Diama Dam) about participatory process, use of Basin organizations like national cells, NCCs,
LCCs and use of the comparative advantage and experience of IUCN in participatory planning
and development of ownership from local communities and scientific networks.



                                                                                               18
It should be noted that the initial GEF funding was granted to OMVS rather than to the individual
countries and that this set-up was maintained for the IDA multi-purpose project, despite the fact
that the IDA credits/grants have to go through the Ministries of Finance first before being
transferred back to OMVS. Moreover, the project demonstrated that fiduciary requirements were
an incentive not only to support and strengthen Guinea, but also to monitor fiduciary
accountability and effective and proper use of resources due to joint accountability through
OMVS (see Annex 2 for a detailed assessment).

6. Lessons Learned

Four major lessons can be drawn from the final evaluation of this project:

1. The common assumption, that the weakest participating country is the main limitation
for the success of a regional project, has proven to be invalid; this is especially true when a
strong regional institution is in place, which has the full endorsement and confidence of the
different riparian countries of a shared river Basin. As demonstrated in the Senegal River
Basin Water and Environmental Management project, the riparian countries strongly support the
OMVS's principle of inclusiveness and solidarity. For example, countries did not call for an equal
distribution of GEF resources across countries, but instead, agreed for the majority of funds to be
disbursed for activities in Guinea, which represents the weakest country in the Basin in terms of
overall environmental and water management capacity. This strategic decision allowed the
project not only to close critical knowledge gaps in the upper Basin in Guinea, to install and
upgrade missing water data and climate knowledge, but also to invest significantly in the process
of harmonizing Guinea's legislation with OMVS and the regional water charter. The principle of
pooling resources at the Basin level has been replicated again for the larger multi-phase, multi-
sector IDA investment that followed the initial GEF investment. It should be noted that pooling of
IDA resource is quite extraordinary, taking into account that individual countries are accountable
for appropriate use and repayment of funds and are thus not easily inclined to pool sources with
other Governments. In this context, it should be noted that fiduciary accountability of OMVS to
the World Bank and GEF on behalf of the riparian countries has also played a strong incentive to
ensure sufficient training on the use of funds and guide countries on proper use of resources.

2. GEF grant funding can play a critical role in leveraging an inclusive reorganization of a
regional institution. GEF was catalytic in building a more inclusive institutional structure for
river Basin management regionally and nationally. An important achievement was increasing
Guinean representation in OMVS at all levels, and more participatory management and planning
structures for river Basin management. The project facilitated an inclusive policy dialogue among
all riparian countries on the basis of full consideration of national interest regardless of the
official membership status of e.g. Guinea at the time. The project further strengthened the
national networks in the riparian countries that feed into the regional river Basin organization and
thus strengthened the vertical dimension from the regional to the local level of the regional
institution. Main features of the project that supported institutional change and capacity-building
efforts were:
  Key institutional and organizational changes were identified at the earliest stage, clearly
      planned, and included as project deliverables to be carried out by OMVS with assistance
      from development partners.
  Project technical staff was recruited on a competitive and transparent basis as early as
      possible to maximize training opportunities.
  Project coordination was anchored in OMVS. This provided the PIU with a degree of
      autonomy and efficiency that benefited timely project implementation, while OMVS



                                                                                                 19
    benefited from capacity and skills built within the project coordination unit. The idea was to
    progressively inject young, highly qualified staff from the CRGP into the OMVS as part of
    the transition and institutional reform process. Two staff from the CRGP are now fully
    mainstreamed into OMVS.

3. The TDA/SAP process played an important role for mainstreaming environment at all
levels and should continue to play an important role for GEF projects targeting
transboundary water bodies or river Basins. The comprehensive, inclusive and participatory
process of developing a TDA (Transboundary Diagnostic Analysis) and subsequently a SAP
(Strategic Action Plan) provided an effective entry point for mainstreaming environment at all
levels. GEF's support to the TDA/SAP process for the Senegal River Basin provided a strong
incentive to install environmental and land & water management specialists permanently in
OMVS. The institutional assessment is expected to lead to the creation of new institutional
structures at regional and national level including the establishment of an Environment
Directorate. With the emerging multi-purpose master plan now under development, the results of
the TDA/SAP process play an important role in terms of mainstreaming environmental aspects
into management planning. Eventually, the SAP is expected to form the environmental chapter of
the broader investment plan for the Basin. Based on the experiences made, the following two
recommendations for other regional GEF International Water projects emerged:
 TDA and SAP preparation should be maintained as important outputs for transboundary
    water resources projects.
 Better donor funding coordination and integration should be ensured on the basis of strategic
    objectives and regular joint assessment of funding needs and utilization of funds including
    coordinated budget revisions.

4. Joint co-implementation of a project through two GEF implementation agencies (i.e.
World Bank and UNDP) on the basis of comparative advantages identified only pays off
when roles and responsibilities of the two agencies are clearly planned and laid out in
advance with key reporting and supervision processes harmonized to the extend possible.
Different supervision procedures, reporting requirements and disbursement processes for UNDP
and World Bank placed an additional burden on project implementation and resulted in additional
transaction cost for the recipient and executing agency (OMVS). Although joint WB/UNDP
missions were introduced to improve cost-efficiency and communication between all partners, a
residual burden on project implementation remained due to the different operational modalities of
the WB and UNDP. Recently, a new WB & UN Fiduciary Principles Accord-(FPA) has been
established and is expected to facilitate better alignment of operational procedures among the
different agencies in the future.

7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners
(a) Borrower/Implementing Agency

See Annex 8 for a summary of recipient's ICR.

(b) Cofinanciers

The draft ICR was submitted for review to OMVS (translated version), UNDP and the Dutch
Embassy. Comments received are included in the project files.




                                                                                               20
Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing

(a) Project Cost by Component (in USD Million equivalent)
                                          Appraisal       Actual/Latest
                                                                                               Percentage
              Components               Estimate (USD      Estimate (USD
                                                                                              of Appraisal
                                           millions)         millions)
 I. ENVIRONMENTAL
MANAGEMENT CAPACITY
BUILDING (WB)                                    2.70             2.452                         90.82%
 II. DATA KNOWLEDGE AND
MANAGEMENT (WB)                                  1.52             1.387                         91.26%
 III. TRANSBOUNDARY
DIAGNOSTIC ANALYSIS (TDA) AND
STRATEGIC ACTION PLAN (SAP) ­
(WB)                                             1.04             0.931                         89.53%
IV. MICROSUBVENTIONS (UNDP)                      1.66             1.638                         98.67%
V. INFORMATION AND
PARTICIPATION (UNDP)                             0.33             0.329                         99.62%

                     Total Baseline Cost               7.25                 6.737               92.93%
Physical Contingencies
Price Contingencies
                     Total Project Costs
Project Preparation Facility (GEF PDF B)              0.375
Front-end fee IBRD
              Total Financing Required

(b) Financing
                                                              Appraisal Actual/Latest
                                             Type of          Estimate    Estimate Percentage of
           Source of Funds
                                           Cofinancing         (USD        (USD       Appraisal
                                                              millions)   millions)
African Development Bank                  Parallel              4.02          -          -
FRANCE: French Agency for
                                          Parallel              1.58             -                 -
Development11
OMVS (RECIPIENT)12                        Direct                0.88           0.88              100%
Global Environment Facility (GEF)13       Direct                7.25           7.25              100%
IDA ­ Institutional Dev. Fund (IDF)       Direct                0.31           0.50              161%
NETHERLANDS: Min. of Foreign
                                          Direct                7.16           9.78              137%
Affairs / Min. of Dev. Coop.
IUCN                                      Direct                0.30            0.15              50%
Total (only direct co-financing)          Direct               15.90           18.56             117%



11
   AFD funding has been integrated in the MWRD APL.
12
   OMVS contributed US$ 0.38 m, the member states jointly contributed US$ 0.5 m.
13
   US$ 5.26 m were implemented through the WB, and US$ 1.99m were implemented through UNDP.


                                                                                                         21
Annex 2. Assessment of Bank's and OMVS's Performance

1. a) Assessment of Bank Performance at Entry:

Positive elements                                       Weaker elements
Relevance of project
 The project was aligned with the CAS in all four
    countries and the GEF IW strategy and OP 9
    guidelines.
Quality and continuity of WB input
 The Bank team invested substantially in time and          The risk assessment lacked
    resources     for   identification,  preparation,      assessment of UNDP and WB joint
    appraisal and negotiation (5 years).                   implementation responsibilities and
 Lessons learned from PASIE and other IW                   challenges.
    projects were reviewed and used where possible.
project design aspects
 The Bank and UNDP teams have been strategic               The monitoring and evaluation
    regarding the selection of the executing agency,       framework could have been
    the project components and timing of the project.      improved to specify GEO and 1
    It allowed for continuity, building on PASIE           KPIs.
    results and OMVS commitment to the                     The preparation phase could have
    environmental agenda.                                  been used to fine-tune WB-UNDP
 The technical quality of the project has been             implementation arrangements and
    sound using GEF IW instruments and                     improve social and institutional
    requirements.                                          baseline assessments for component
 The implementation arrangements paved the way             4 and 5.
    for use of UNDP's SMG competencies and                 The quality of the PAD could have
    IUCN's experiences with participatory processes        been enhanced in particular pointing
    and communication.                                     more clearly at the linkages with the
                                                           then under preparation closely related
                                                           MWRD APL.


1. b) Assessment of Bank Performance at Supervision:

Positive elements                            Weaker elements
 Bank supervision missions were regularly  Planning and coordination of statutory
   conducted by mostly identical teams and     monitoring between OMVS, WB and
   led by the same task team leader            UNDP was challenging since there is a
   throughout the four-year implementation     difference in operational management and
   period to provide continuity and detailed   monitoring      tools   and    institutional
   advice on issues related to project         responsibility sharing.
   management,     financial    management,  OMVS could have been encouraged to take
   procurement,       coordination      and    action by setting up and agreeing with WB
   communication with the executing            and UNDP on a detailed and coordinated
   partners.                                   supervision schedule and could have
 Bank's supervision was always coordinated     served as the functional communication
   with UNDP as the other GEF                  link between the two GEF Implementing
   implementing agency and Aide-Memoires       Agencies.


                                                                                              22
    were shared. In agreement with UNDP, the       The      Bank's        coordination   and
    World Bank carried a mid-term evaluation       communication       efforts   with   other
    in October 1-20, 2006.                         development       partners      such    as
    The Bank teams have fostered Guinea's          representatives of the AFD and the Dutch
    inclusion into OMVS and provided               Ministry of Foreign Affairs and
    together with the Bank's country office in     Development Cooperation has been
    Guinea additional support to the project.      assessed as a weaker point.


2. Assessment of OMVS's performance:

Theme                Satisfactory/Highly satisfactory
Ownership            OMVS has been fully committed to the project during preparation and
                     implementation, and provided full support for building an enabling
                     environment and inclusive framework for environmentally sustainable
                     development of the SRB.
Readiness for        OMVS bridged WB and UNDP funding gaps between effectiveness and
implementation       actual transfer of funds. CRGP at regional level was fully staffed by time
                     of effectiveness. All conditions were met.
Implementation       OMVS CRGP regional experts delivered quality work in accordance with
arrangements and     their work plan and terms of references. Arrangements with IUCN were
capacity             highly satisfactory carried out. Linkages to national cells have been
                     improved throughout implementation period.
Adequacy of          CRGP carried out timely and accurate monthly reporting and
Monitoring and       programming including financial reports and annual audits. In addition,
Evaluation           semestrial and annual reports were prepared and submitted to WB and
                     UNDP. OMVS prepared for UNDP's annual submission of PIRs to GEF.
Mainstreaming of     OMVS's 2007 annual report and 2008 work program demonstrates that
project into OMVS    the GEF and the MWRD APL projects are fully integrated into OMVS
program              operational program. The report highlights the three principles: coherence
                     and cohesion, absorptive capacity as well as evaluation and impact of
                     political environment.
Compliance with      CRGP followed World Bank fiduciary and reporting requirements. The
fiduciary            RPF and EIA were attached to the microgrant manual. It was not
requirements         expected that any of the microgrants would lead to any land issues, but
                     again out of precaution, the team decided to have a simple RPF in place,
                     should the need arise during project implementation.

                     All member countries fulfilled their counterpart contribution.
Participation and    Frequent missions by OMVS-HC staff and CRGP to national cells were
Process              conducted to assess progress, issues and refine operational modalities.
Sustainability       OMVS aims to ensure viability and consolidation of its actions. Focus on
                     maintaining and increasing OMVS's financial basis (including
                     fundraising and leveraging efforts).
Pertinence           Evidenced through TDA and SAP quality and processes.
Learning capacity    Training program enhancing OMVS Human Resources strategy under
                     institutional reform.
Communication        New position opened within OMVS to carry on communication work.
Technical skills     OMVS broadened its technical skills with CRGP staff in the area of water
                     resource management and environmental management.


                                                                                            23
Annex 3. Outputs by Components14


Component 1: Environmental Management Capacity Building
(World Bank (WB) managed)
                                                                                                 Rating: Satisfactory; Disbursed: 90.82%
Planned activities as per project design (PAD)                        Outputs at the time of project completion
1.1 Support dialogue between Guinea and OMVS on inclusive              Ratification by Guinean Parliament in March 2006 of OMVS's
framework for joint management of the Basin's water resources and         Water Charter thereby agreement with alignment of national
environment, specifically:                                                related legal framework.
 Review Guinea's water and environmental legislation.                  A study on the harmonization gaps has been carried out for
 Facilitate a dialogue among Guinea and the OMVS member                   legislation on water and environment comparing regional/OMVS
    countries on their national legislations and policies.                directives and Guinea legislation.
 Reform and strengthen the legal basis for water and environmental     A study on the national legal framework of Mali, Mauritania, and
    management in Guinea.                                                 Senegal has been carried out.
                                                                       The process of updating and harmonizing legislation in Guinea in
                                                                          line with the recommendations of the studies is well underway.
                                                                       56 members from 28 LCC and NC have received training in social
                                                                          mobilization and local development planning to support the above
                                                                          tasks.
                                                                       Representatives from OMVS parliaments and senates received
                                                                          information/training seminar on OMVS role, perspectives and
                                                                          challenges.
                                                                       Terms of Reference for the development of Regional
                                                                          Environmental Codes have been compiled and validated.
1.2 Build capacity of national and regional institutions to address    Training workshops on hydrology have been carried out at national
transboundary water and environment issues.                               and regional levels.



14
     See also Annex 8.




                                                                                                                                       24
    NCC to identify training needs as well as workshop candidates.
    Hold regional workshops for selected organizations on the subjects
    identified above or through Activity 1.
1.3 Development of an inclusive institution                                  A core group of specialist with transboundary environmental
 Build regional capacities for an inclusive institution to engage all        management expertise in the national institutions associated with
    four riparian countries in the management of Basin resources.            the OMVS has been established.
 Assess lessons learned and best practices from other international          National working group sessions that include OMVS staff are held
    river Basins.                                                            regularly to facilitate the OMVS/Guinea dialogue with regards to
                                                                             water resources and environment management.
1.4 Establish and build capacity of CRGP for management and                  CRGP and national Cellules national have been equipped with IT,
    operations of a regional project.                                        office and multi-media equipment, furniture and vehicles.
 Establish the CRGP office as an integral part of OMVS.                      Guinea's NC and NCC established (initially NC established as
 Support project implementation at the national level.                       project structure then transferred into formal OMVS NC).
 Establish Guinea's National Cell and NCC.

1.5 Through a regional forum, exchange experiences with other GEF            An African Regional Forum with the aim of sharing knowledge
projects in SSA.                                                             and experience between related GEF projects was held in Dakar in
 Hold the first Consultative Forum, bringing together GEF projects           June 22-23, 2006.
    and other similar project in West Africa to exchange best practices      Bilingual forum document published and disseminated.
    and share experiences.
1.6 Build technical capacity for management and control of aquatic           Following a planning meeting in February 2008, the related
weeds, an invasive pest species                                              activities have been transferred to the Dutch co-funded work plan.
 Assess relevant studies and identify most effective restoration or
    management methods for water weeds.
 Evaluate the financial and technical means necessary to complete
    actions with success.
 Disseminate the solutions and prepare the implementation at the
    sub-Basin scale.
1.7 Organize a donor conference to secure further investments to             A donor conference has not yet been held, but is planned for early
address the SAP-identified priority actions.                                 2009.
Component 2: Data and Knowledge Management
 (WB managed)
                                                                                                    Rating: Satisfactory; Disbursed: 91.26%




                                                                                                                                            25
Planned activities as per project design                        Outputs at the time of project completion


2.1 Information network-Guinea program                              Assessment of the status of water resources and the environment in
     Assessment of the current situation.                           Guinea as well as rainfall modelling has been carried out for the
     Knowledge improvement-upper Basin specific.                    upper Basin (through 7 technical studies, see annex 8).
     Design and implementation of the Guinean data network.         The Guinean Data Network on Water and Environment (RGDEE)
     Implementation of sampling and analysis network.               has been established through the signing of 10 MOU with thematic
                                                                    focal points and one national focal point to institutionalize
                                                                    information exchanges. The MoUs were signed with the OMVS
                                                                    Environment Observatory and the RGDEE parties.
2.2 Transboundary data and knowledge management                     Capacity building of national water resource managers and
     Regional training courses.                                     OMVS-HC staff as well as SOGED and SOGEM representatives
     Workshop on data exchanges.                                    through 8 training sessions on the use of resources management
     Workshop on scientific cooperation networks.                   software such as Hydro Access (for the processing of hydrological
     Development of communications tools                            data), GIS, Database, ADCP, Thalimedes, VOTA, instruments of
                                                                    OMVS's Environmental Observatory and the integration of data in
                                                                    the Mike 11 Model.
                                                                    Development and publication of a bimestrial and annual bulletin
                                                                    hydrological together with the hydrological department of OMVS-
                                                                    HC.
2.3 Upgrade Equipment for OMVS                                      Hydrological and meteorological equipments have been purchased,
     Procurement of technical equipment upgrade to expand the       installed, officially received and secured for the entire Senegal
       capacity of the OMVS data collection network                 River Basin. It involved in detail regarding (i) hydrological
                                                                    stations: Up-dating of 3 stations in Mali, 3 in Mauritania and 5 in
                                                                    Senegal and full rehabilitation of 8 in Guinea and (ii)
                                                                    meteorological stations: 24 throughout the SRB with focus in
                                                                    Guinea.
                                                                    Water quality measurement equipment has been installed and is in
                                                                    use (17 automatic water level coders and 18 BLU radios in 4
                                                                    countries).
                                                                    The early warning system for the upper Basin is established and
                                                                    fully functional.




                                                                                                                                    26
Component 3: TDA and SAP
(WB managed)
                                                                                                      Rating: Satisfactory; Disbursed: 98.53%
Planned activities as per project design                                 Outputs at the time of project completion
3.1 TDA                                                                    Maps showing the environmental conditions in the Senegal Basin
     Strengthen the multidisciplinary team and establish the                  have been developed.
       transboundary diagnosis preparation program.                        Detailed maps of the upper Guinean Basin have been produced.
     Consult with national technical and academic entities to be  Based on the development of 4 national TDA reports, a regional
       involved in the process.                                               TDA has been compiled and validated by the partners.
     Determine international expertise required for the preparation  The TDA has been published and widely disseminated.
       of the transboundary diagnosis.
     Validate analysis and publish findings.
3.2 SAP                                                                    A highly participatory (involving 8 national, 28 local, 2
     Evaluate institutional structures and creation of additional             preparatory and 2 regional workshops and 1 inter-ministerial
       structures and consultation for the SAP                                council meeting) and qualitative Strategic Action Plan has been
     Finalize and validate the SAP.                                           developed in line with GEF guidelines. Translation from French to
                                                                              English language is ongoing as well as broad dissemination.
                                                                           An assessment on potential sites for hydroelectric micro plants in
                                                                              Guinea and Mali has been carried out.
                                                                           The SAP is used for the development of the multi-sectoral Basin-
                                                                              wide master plan and environmental priority actions are thus
                                                                              mainstreamed into overall development planning.
Component 4: Microgrants Program­­Priority Actions
(UNDP managed)
                                                                                                     Rating: Satisfactory*; Disbursed: 98.67%
* Despite unsatisfactory ratings for delayed start-up, significant on-the-ground achievements have been made that contribute to local level
ownership and participation in OMVS's agenda for environmental mainstreaming.
Planned activities as per project design                                 Outputs at the time of project completion
     Establish institutional arrangements for the Microgrant Program  MoUs were signed between the OMVS and beneficiary groups for
     Implement National Microgrant Priority Action Programs                   the purpose of microgrant implementation.
     Monitoring pilot activity implementation                              During the 2 years of actual implementation of this component
                                                                              (2006-2008) due to delayed availability of funds, 55 micro projects
                                                                              (see table in appendix B) have been approved and implemented,




                                                                                                                                              27
                                                                           totaling investments with environmental benefits of up to US$0.9
                                                                           million, i.e. for reforestation, sustainable land management,
                                                                           hydroagricultural dam development, fish farming, etc. Phase I
                                                                           involved 21 (114.450.933 FCFA) and phase II 34 micro projects
                                                                           (297.376.899 FCFA). A monitoring & evaluation system was put
                                                                           in place to track progress made with micro projects
                                                                           implementation.
                                                                           A microgrants brochure has been developed and distributed.
Component 5: Public Participation Program
(UNDP managed)
                                                                                                     Rating: Satisfactory; Disbursed: 99.62%
Planned activities as per project design                               Outputs at the time of project completion
5.1 Public information and awareness                                    Radio broadcasting on Basin management related topics has been
     Prepare national media campaigns.                                     regularly aired since year 2 of the project through rural radio
     Create awareness in local communities.                                stations in all four countries.
     Create regional feedback forum for awareness orientation and  Annual Newsletters are regularly issued and information
        monitoring.                                                        documents are translated in local dialects.
                                                                        30 OMVS road signs (as well as posters) produced and installed on
                                                                           strategic points (28 LCC and the two dams) to raise awareness
                                                                           about environmental issues and OMVS.
                                                                        Development of a project webpage on the homepage of the
                                                                           Environmental Observatory.
                                                                        Improvement of the websites of the four national cells (NC).
5.2 Civil society participation                                         Information meetings with LCC and NCC on project objectives
     Sensitize national and regional decision-makers to participatory      and activities.
        planning methods.                                               Local Coordination Committees (LCCs) have been set up in each
     Regional, national and local training for inclusive decision-         of the 4 participating countries and information workshops have
        making.                                                            been held. Through the project, 14 additional new LCC have been
     Promote public participation to develop new tools to manage           established in the Basin (4 LCC and 1 NCC alone in Guinea)
        socially sensitive and ecologically and economically important     building on PASIE's results.
        issues.                                                         With the support of IUCN, the Water Charter has been
     Hold a regional workshop to review the national workshops'            disseminated among the various stakeholders involved in resource
        outcomes.                                                          management. Efforts included 2 local and national workshops with




                                                                                                                                         28
        Disseminate (in the appropriate languages) the regional          broad participation from media, local and central administration,
        workshop's findings to the local communities, practitioners,     private sector, NCC and LCC members, universities, projects,
        and researchers.                                                 NGOs and development partners.
5.3 Scientific community involvement                                    National WS to initiate dialogue between OMVS and research
     Identify academic institutions to participate in the scientific     institutes organized.
        community program.                                              Regional conference (Mars/April 2008) with scientific community
     Determine the guidelines for the exchange program and select        from four countries resulted in:
        participating institutions and individuals.                      (i)16 signed partnership agreements with four universities/research
     Implement the exchange program among academic institutions          institutions in each of the four countries:
        within the Senegal River Basin.                                  Guinea: CERE, CERESCOR, INRAB, INSP
     Host a regional conference on transboundary issues in the           Mali: UB, INRSP, IER, NCRST
        Senegal River Basin.                                             Mauritania: NCERV, UN, NCARADA, INRSP
                                                                         Senegal: UNCAD, UGB, UT, ISRA
                                                                        (ii) Agreed joint action plan and
                                                                        (iii) Establishment of an OMVS scientific advisory group.




                                                                                                                                         29
Annex 3 -Appendix A:
                                      Summary of workshops/seminars and other capacity-building events
                        with number of participants/beneficiaries at local, national and regional level across all components.

                                                                 I COMPOSANTE 1

N/O THEMES                                                     ANNEE                        LIEU                            NOMBRE
                                                                                                                            PARTICIPANTS
1    Atelier Régional Mise à Niveau Principaux Acteurs         2005                         Mbodiene/Sénégal                35
     (Etats, Personnel du Projet, Haut Commissariat) Cadres
2    Formation Assistants Comptables du Projet                 2005                         Mbodiène                        05
     sur Manuel Procédures Administratives et Comptables
     du Projet, Procédures Haut Commissariat en matière
     gestion administrative et financière
3    Formation Equipe fiduciaire du projet sur Logiciel de     2005 (CRGP)                  Dakar et Capitales Etats        11
     comptabilité et de gestion financière des projets (Tom    2006 (Cellules Nationales)   Membres
     PRO Tom PAIE)
4    Micro Finance                                             2007                         Dakar                           20
     Système Suivi/Evaluation et Mise en oeuvre de Projets     Structure Formation :
     (Equipe du Projet et Haut Commissariat)                   ISADE/DAKAR
5    Technique de Plaidoyer et de Mobilisation Sociale         2007                         Saly/Hôtel/Teranga              90
     Planification Locale : Puissant Outil de Développement    Structure Formation :        Région/Dakar                    Sous la Présidence du
     (LCC/NCC/CBO/ONG/Etats/ Haut                              ISADE/DAKAR                                                  Président du Conseil des
     Commissariat/Equipe projet/SOGEM/SOGED)                                                                                Ministres de l'OMVS
6    FORUM Régional Africain sur la Contribution des           2006                         Hôtel Méridien Président        100
     Projets FEM à la gestion des Bassins Transfrontaliers :                                Dakar                           Sous la Présidence du
     cas du Bassin du Fleuve Sénégal                                                                                        Président du Conseil des
                                                                                                                            Ministres de l'OMVS
7    Formation de deux Juristes Guinéens dans le cadre du      2006                         Rome/Italie                     02
     Renforcement des Capacités, à Rome/Italie, sur le         Organisé par O.I.D.D
     thème : Cadre juridique de l'accès et de la gestion des   (Organisation
     Ressources Hydriques                                      Internationale de Droit du
                                                               Développement)
8    Ateliers Nationaux de Restitution par Représentants       2007                         Au niveau des LCC               -Guinée (4 LCC) : 120
     LCC à leurs membres, au plan local, des Thèmes                                         dans chaque Etat                -Mali (10 LCC) : 300


                                                                                                                                                       30
      dispensés à Saly/Sénégal                                                                                                -Mauritanie (7LCC) : 210
                                                                                                                              -Sénégal (7LCC) : 210
                                                                                                                              Total : 840
9     Ateliers Locaux de Formation au Bénéfice des CBO      2007 et 2008                   Sous l'égide des NCC/ LCC et       En moyenne 60 personnes
      (Organisations Communautaires de Base du Bassin), sur                                au niveau de chaque localisation   par CBO, soit :
      les Micro Subventions                                                                géographique des CBO/LCC           -Guinée (4 CBO) : 240
                                                                                                                              -Mali (10 CBO) : 600
                                                                                                                              -Mauritanie (7CBO) : 420
                                                                                                                              -Sénégal (7 CBO) : 420
                                                                                                                              Total : 1 680
10    Formation de l'Assistant au Coordonnateur du projet      2008                        Casablanca/Maroc                   01
      sur le thème : définition et Implantation des Systèmes   Structure de Formation :
      de Suivi/Evaluation des projets                          SETYM/International

GRAND TOTAL COMPOSANTE 1                                                                                                      2 784


                                                                 II COMPOSANTE 2

N/O THEMES                                                                                            ANNEE LIEU                      NOMBRE
                                                                                                                                      PARTICIPANTS
1   Atelier Régional de Formation et de Mise en place du réseau Guinéen sur l'Eau et                  2004       Conakry                        40
    l'Environnement du BFS
    (Etats, Haut Commissariat et Equipe projet GEF)
2   Atelier Régional de Formation sur l'utilisation du Système d'Information Géographique dans la     2005       Saint-                             20
    gestion des Ressources en Eau                                                                                Louis/Sénégal
    (Etats, Haut Commissariat et Equipe du projet GEF)
3   Atelier National sur l'Identification des Besoins Cartographiques de la Guinée                    2006       Conakry                            44
4   Atelier de Formation du Réseau Guinéen sur l'Eau et l'Environnement                               2006       Conakry                            22
5   Atelier sur l'Inventaire et l'Harmonisation des Eléments Cartographiques dans la zone du Bassin   2006       Conakry                            18
    du Fleuve Sénégal
7   Atelier Régional sur le Mod7le Pluies/Débits                                                      2008       Saint-                             23
    `Etats, Haut Commissariat, CRGP, SOGED et SOGEM)                                                             Louis/Sénégal
TOTAL COMPOSANTE 2                                                                                                                                 194



                                                                                                                                                    31
                                                                 III COMPOSANTE 3

Pour la Composante 3 : Analyse Diagnostique Transfrontalière et Plan d'action Stratégique, les différents Ateliers tant Régionaux que Nationaux pour la
préparation, l'examen et la validation des études définies dans le Plan de Mise en OEuvre du Projet GEF/BFS/OMVS, les rencontres organisées, revêtent
également, au même titre que les études réalisées dans les Composantes 1 et 2, des dimensions Formation et Perfectionnement.


                                                                 IV COMPOSANTE 4

N/O THEMES                                                                                              ANNEE LIEU                    NOMBRE
                                                                                                                                      PARTICIPANTS
1     Séminaire Régional PMF/FEM (Programme Micro Finance)                                              2005       Saint-                       20
      CRGP et Cellules Nationales et PMF/Pnud)                                                                     Louis/Sénégal
2     Séminaire National de sensibilisation et d'information des LCC, organisé par la Cellule du        2005       Mbodiène/Sénégal                 25
      Sénégal/OMVS, sur les Micro Projets                                                                          Région de Dakar
3     Atelier Régional de Formulation des Micro Projets, en rapport avec le PMF/Pnud /Mali              2005       Bamako                           20
4     Atelier National de Lancement et de Formation du Programme de Micro Subvention de la              2006       Bamako                           40
      Cellule Nationale Mali/OMVS
5     Ateliers Nationaux d'échange et d'expériences, au terme de la Mise en OEuvre du Programme des     2008       -Conakry                        -35
      Micro Subventions (Phases 1 et 2)                                                                            -Bamako                         -60
                                                                                                                   -Nouakchott                     -50
                                                                                                                   -Dakar                          -50
7     Atelier de Concertation et d'Information                                                          2008       Conakry                          30
      NCC/LCC/CBO

TOTAL COMPOSANTE 4                                                                                                                                 330



                                                                  V COMPOSANTE 5

                                En rapport avec l'UICN, en application du Protocole d'Entente signé avec cette Institution.

N/O                                 THEMES                                      ANNEE                          LIEU                     NOMBRE


                                                                                                                                                    32
                                                                                                                                            PARTICIPANTS
    1   Ateliers d'Information, de Formation et d'Echanges avec les 28 LCC       2005 et      Etats Membres                                           700
                                                                                 2006
    2   Ateliers d'Information, de NCC et la Société Civile                      2005 et      Etats Membres                                                   120
                                                                                 2006
    3   Ateliers Nationaux d'Echange d'Expériences et de Partage de              2005 et      Etats Membres                                                   100
        Connaissances entre les membres de la Communauté Scientifique des        2006
        Etats membres de l'OMVS
    4   Conférence Régionale de la Communauté Scientifique : Information et      2007         Dakar                                                            40
        Sensibilisation, signature de protocoles d'entente avec l'OMVS
5       Ateliers Nationaux de Vulgarisation de la Charte des Eaux du Fleuve      2007         Etats Membres                                                   120
        Sénégal                                                                               (niveau Capitales)
7       Ateliers Nationaux de Vulgarisation de la Charte des Eaux du Fleuve      2007         Etats membres                                                   100
        Sénégal                                                                               (niveau local : NCC/LCC/CBO/Société
                                                                                              Civile/ONG/UINC/Projet GEF


TOTAL COMPOSANTE 5                                                                                                                                        1180

N.B : L'on notera pour ce qui est du nombre des effectifs ayant été touchés par les diverses et nombreuses actions de formation, de perfectionnement surtout
au niveau des populations du Bassin du Fleuve Sénégal, l'impact se mesure bien sûr, à travers le transfert du savoir faire exécuté par les NCC, les LCC, les
CBO, les ONG dont la CODESEN la plus active et d'autres structures intervenant dans le Bassin du Fleuve Sénégal. L'OMVS, n'occulte pas également le
travail important que les Etats membres fournissent et déploient, notamment par le biais de leurs structures compétentes qui conduisent des projets à
dimension communautaire et sur financements extérieurs.
Enfin, il y'a lieu d'avoir en mémoire, les autres activités et actions de Formation, dont les populations du BFS bénéficieront soit en renforcement des acquis
du Projet GEF/BFS ou travers de nouveaux modules programmés dans le cadre du PGIRE, du Co Financement du Royaume des Pays-Bas ou de futurs projets.


                                                              VI PASSATION DES MARCHES

En règle générale, le Spécialiste en Passation des Marchés, régulièrement appuyé les quatre Cellules Nationales, dans la compréhension et l'instruction des
Procédures de Passations des Marchés, avec comme référentiels les Directives de l'IDA, en la matière.




                                                                                                                                                              33
N/O                            THEMES                                ANNEE                            LIEU                           NOMBRE
                                                                                                                                  PARTICIPANTS
1   Formation de Cadres de l'OMVS                                    2005       Mbodiène/Sénégal                                  13
    (Etats, Haut Commissariat et Equipe projet GEF)
2   Formation/Perfectionnement du Spécialiste en Passation des       2005       Centre Africain d'Etudes Supérieures en Gestion   01
    Marchés                                                                     (Dakar)
    (Séminaires Internationaux)
    « Gestion Financière et Procédures de Décaissements »
3   Formation/Perfectionnement du Spécialiste en Passation des       2006       Tunis/TUNISIE                                     01
    Marchés                                                                     Espace Scientifique et Technologique
    (Séminaires Internationaux)
    « Cours approfondis niveau 2 »
4   Formation/Perfectionnement du Spécialiste en Passation des       2006       Représentation Banque mondiale/Dakar              01
    Marchés
    Séminaire sur la Passation des Marchés et la Gestion des
    contrats
TOTAL                                                                                                                             14


                                        N.B : Le SPM a été comptabilisé une fois pour les formations 2,3 et 4




                                                                                                                                            34
Annex 3 -Appendix B: Map with Local Coordination Committees (LCC) established through the project




                                                                                                    35
                  Annex 3 ­Appendix C: Overview of microgrant project (Component 4)

                         SYNTHESE DES 21 MICRO PROJETS APPROUVES DES 4 PAYS RIVERAINS DU BASSIN DU FLEUVE SENEGAL : PHASE I :

GUINEE : 04 micro projets                             MALI : 06 micro projets                                         MAURITANIE : 04 micro projets                       SENEGAL : 07 micro projets

                      Apports et zones                Projets retenus              Apports et zones d'implantation                      Apports et zones d'implantation                     Apports et zones d'implantation
Projets retenus       d'implantation                                                                                  Projets retenus                                     Projets retenus
                      Apport        CLC/CBO                                        Apport        CLC/CBO                                Apport        CLC/CBO                               Apport        CLC/CBO
                      OMVS          Bénéficiaire                                   OMVS          Bénéficiaire                           OMVS          Bénéficiaire                          OMVS          Bénéficiaire
                      FCFA                                                         FCFA                                                 FCFA                                                FCFA
Revalorisation du                   CLC Bafing        Restauratation. d'un                       CLC Kéniéba,         Protection des                  CLC Trarza          Protection des                  CLC Kanel
barrage hydro                       source, Mamou     ancien site de placers                     Kayes                terres                                              berges du                       de Thially Maka
agricole du                         ONG :             Thème : Dégradation des                    Coop.Des             cultivables et    4.625.310                         fleuve Sénégal    4.018.920     MATAM
Bafing ;                            Association       terres et désertification.   9.044.625     emboucheur de        lutte contre la                                     Thème :
empoissonnement                     pour le                                                      Kéniéba              désertification                                     Dégradation des
des étangs            6.926.827     développement                                                                     Coop.Fass                                           terres et
                                    intégré durable                                                                   Skekime                                             désertificat
                                    ADID
Exploitation des                    CLC Bafing        Promotion de l'acacia                      CLC Diéma,           Fixation des                                        Amélioration de                 Gandé, Bakel
plaines                             source, Mamou     Sénégal à diangounté                       Kayes                dunes et                        CLC Trarza          la zone en                      association
aménagées de                        ONG :             Camara                                     Coop. Producteurs    reboisement                     Coop.Emel/Bathion   défens de                       villageoise de
Tolo/Mamou                          ATEDD             Thème : Dégradation des      5.741.265     et de                locales,          5.504.580                         Gandé             3.663.357     Gandé
Thème : soutien                                       terres et désertification                  commercialisation    protection des                                      Thème : soutien                 TAMBACOUNDA
aux initiatives des   3.455.228                                                                  de D.C.              berges                                              aux initiatives
zones humides                                                                                                         Thème :                                             des zones
                                                                                                                      Dégradation                                         humides
                                                                                                                      des terres et
                                                                                                                      désertificat
Aménagement et                      CLC Bafing        Restauration/Reboisement                   CLC Kita, Kayes      Promotion de                    CLC Gorgol          Renforcement      3.706.100     CLC Matam
restauration des                    source, Mamou     flanc colline de                           Association pour     l'agricole                      Coop. Amal          du Périmètre
têtes de sources                    ONG :             Moussoudougou par la                       le progrès et la     biologique et                   Koundel,            Irrigué
du Bafing/Mamou                     CODEIR            plantation d'essences        5.651.700     défense des droits   reforestation                                       Villageois de
Thème : soutien       6.639.320                       locales et exotiques                       des femmes           Thème :                                             Boural.
aux initiatives des                                                                                                   Dégradation       7.890.110                         Dégradation des
zones humides                                                                                                         des terres et                                       terres et
Et lutte contre la                                                                                                    désertificat                                        désertif.
dégradation des
terres et la
désertification
Restauration du                     CLC Siguiri       Appui contre les feux de                   CLC Kita/Kayes       Gestion des       4.765.760     CLC Trarza          Gestion                         CLC Podor
couvert végétal et    5.758.380     AJP               brousse/régénération des                   Coop.des éleveurs    terres et lutte                                     intégrée des                    Groupement des
reboisement des                                       fourrages : parc de la       3.672.800     de Djidian           contre la                                           ressources        4.880.200     Femmes de Fanaye
berges du Bakoye                                      boucle de Baoulé                                                désertification                                     naturelles de                   Dégradation des
Association des                                                                                                       Coop. El                                            Fanaye :                        terres et
Jeunes pour le        22.815.755                                                                                      Moucharake        22.785.760                        maraîchage                      désertificat.




                                                                                                                                                                                                                         36
Progrès                                                                 protection
                                                                        environn. Et
                                                                        AGR
          Renforcement des                           CLC                Agroforesterie                   CLC Dagana
          capacités et d'appui à la     13.953.141   Diéma/Kayes        de Peuls Dios                    GIE Salamatou
          lutte contre la dégradation                Coop.de            Dégradation des     5.000.000
          des terres                                 l'aménagement      terres et
                                                     rural et de        désertification :
                                                     production de      Plantation
                                                     plants C/ARPP      forestière et
                                                                        arboriculture,
                                                                        reboisement
          Promotion du baobab par                    CLC                Régénération        3.700.000    CLC Saint-Louis
          la plantation de l'espèce     3.817.310    Diéma/Kayes        naturelle                        Unité
                                                     Coop. De           assistée de Fass                 Communautaire de
                                                     production         Ngom                             Développt.
                                                     agricole Djigui-
                                                     Sembé de
                                                     Diangounté
                                                     Camara
                                                                        Agroforesterie      2.000.000    CLC Louga
                                                                        de Darou Salam
                                                                        Keur Massamba
                                        41.880.841                      Diagne              26.968.577




                                                                                                                         37
                  SYNTHESE DES 34 MICRO PROJETS APPROUVES DES 4 PAYS RIVERAINS DU BASSIN DU FLEUVE SENEGAL : PHASE II :

GUINEE : 13 micro projets                            MALI : 07 micro projets                            MAURITANIE : 08 micro projets                   SENEGAL : 06 micro projets

                       Apports et zones                                   Apports et zones                                 Apports et zones                                    Apports et zones
Projets retenus        d'implantation                                     d'implantation                Projets retenus    d'implantation               Projets retenus        d'implantation
                       Apport         CLC/CBO        Projets retenus      Apport         CLC/CBO                           Apport        CLC/CBO                               Apport        CLC/CBO
                       OMVS           Bénéficiaire                        OMVS           Bénéficiaire                      OMVS          Bénéficiaire                          OMVS          Bénéficiaire
                       FCFA                                               FCFA                                             FCFA                                                FCFA
Projet d'appui à la    3.548.500      CLC Bafing     Restauration des     8.149.875      CLC            Le projet de       11.711.100 CLC de                                                 CLC Bakel,
gestion des forêts                    source         berges du Bakoye                    Kita :Kayes    promotion et de                  Brakna         Reboisement et         16.377.000 Tambacounda
communautaire                         Dabola                                             village de     vulgarisation du                                conservation des
                                                                                         Mansala,       Biogaz                                          écosystèmes à
                                                                                                        (Coopérative                                    Yaféra, Ballou,
                                                                                                        Féminine de                                     mourédy,
                                                                                                        Dioudé)
                                     CLC de          Protection de la     7.931.000     CLC             Le projet de       11.711.100   CLC de                                              CLC Kanel,
Création d'un          5.321.500     Falémé          biodiversité et                    Kita :Kayes     promotion et de                 Boghé           Reboisement et         8.860.060    Matam
verger d'anacardier                  CBO :           amélioration de la                                 vulgarisation du                                restauration du
à Balaki (Mali :                     SPCIA           gestion des                                        Biogaz                                          terroir de
Guinée)                                              ressources                                         (Coopérative                                    Dembacané,
Une ville porte le                                   naturelles de la                                   Féminine de                                     Orkadiéré,
nom de Mali en                                       Commune de                                         Thide)                                          Bokiladji,
Guinée                                               Tambaga de
                                                     GAIB
Création d'un          8.171.500     CLC Bafing      Valorisation des     6.695.000     CLC             Projet de          9.347.250                    Régénération en        13.186.575   CLC Kanel,
verger d'anacardier                  source          peuplements de                     Kita :Kayes     protection des                                  empoissonnement de                  Matam
à Arfamoussaya,                      Dabola,         bambous, rônier                                    terres                                          wendou
                                                     et raphia dans la                                  cultivables de
                                                     Commune rurale                                     Fedde Yellitaare
                                                     de Kobiri (de                                                                      CLC Brakna
                                                     ODIL)
Reboisement de 100     7.902.500     CLC Falémé      Projet de lutte      10.175.370    CLC Yélimané    Projet action      4.354.222    CLC             Lutte contre           21.166.088   CLC Matam
ha de plantation                     Tougué          contre la                                          pour la                         Guidimakha      l'érosion des berges                Commune
d'anacardiers à                                      désertification et                                 sauvegarde de la                de l'CBO        du fleuve Sénégal,
Kégnéoula                                            les érosions du                                    nature                          Tektaka ;
                                                     sol dans la                                                                        Wompou
                                                     Commune de
                                                     Gory (PAILGEP-
                                                     Mali)
Restauration et         5.352.500   CLC Bafing   Projet de            6.004.900    CLC Kéniéba,     Projet de          11.964.240   CLC Gorgol   Lutte contre la                     CLC Saint
ensemencement des                   source       protection de la                  Kayes            valorisation des                de l'CBO     prolifération des      9.615.050    Rao, Gandon
étangs piscicoles de                AVDI,        diversité biologie                                 ressources                      Kahé         végétaux aquatiques
Dow Bodié,                          Dalaba       autour de la                                       naturelles                                   nuisibles dans les
                                                 plaine de                                                                                       eaux du Gorom-
                                                 Moussala d                                                                                      Lampsar et bois
                                                 CMBM                                                                                            villageois à
                                                                                                                                                 Makhana,
Reboisement forêt       6.162.834   CLC Bafing   Protection,          8.766.330    Cercle de        Projet de          10.308.240   CLC
communautaire de                    Aval         régénération des                  Kayes, village   valorisation de                 Guidimakha
Nyennyéméré,                        UVADEPE      ressources                        de Tematesson    cuvette de
Tougué                                           halieutiques et                                    Maydalla
                                                 développement de                                   Coop.Tachott-
                                                 la pisciculture                                    Berané
                                                 dans la Commune
                                                 rurale de Diamou,
Projet d'éducation      5.196.500   CLC de       Etablissement        11.263.050    CLC de          Projet de          2.892.240    CLC Gorgol   Projet de              10.537.930   CLC Podor,
environnementale                    Bakoye,      d'une ceinture                    Kolokani         reboisement et                  ONG : PPG    régénération                        Matam
sur les berges du                   de AJP :     verte et                          CBO ADRM         de mise en place                II           forestière et
fleuve Bakoye à                     Siguiri,     restauration des                  Association      d'une ceinture                  Moughataa    d'apiculture à Doué,
Franwalia                                        berges du marigot                 pour le          verte de                        de Kaedi     gamadji Saré,
                                                 de la ville de                    Développement    protection de
                                                 Kolokani                          rural du Mali    mailles de
                                                                                                    production
Aménagement             6.775.211   CLC Bafing                                                      Projet de lutte    8.794.140    CLC Trarza
hydro agricole de 9                 source                                                          contre
ha de bafonds :                     CRD Mom                                                         l'ensablement et
soutien aux                         béya à                                                          la valorisation
initiatives des zones               Dalaba,                                                         des cultures
humides                                                                                             durables (Rosso)
Projet de               6.143.092   CLC Bafing
renforcement des                    source
capacités de gestion                Mamou
des feux de brousse                 APHEG

Conservation et         3.888.500   CLC de
gestion de la                       Falémé
biodiversité au                     village de
niveau                              N'Diré,
communautaire et                    Tougué
amélioration du
revenu des
populations rurales,




                                                                                                                                                                                             39
Reboisement des       3.283.000    CLC de
têtes de source et                 Falémé
berges du cours                    Parawol
d'eau                              Marga,
                                   Koïn,
                                   Tougué
Projet d'éducation    4.533.288    CLC
environnementale                   Bakoye,
sur les berges du                  Siguiri
Fleuve Bakoye,
Appui à la gestion    9.952.500    CLC de
durable des                        Falémé
ressources                         Tougué
naturelles par les
Collectivités de la
CRD de Kollangui
                      76.231.425             58.985.525   71.082.532   79.742.703
TOTAL 1               FCFA                   FCFA
                      152.463 $
Risques de change     11.434.714             87.666.139
en Guinée             FCFA




                                                                                    40
Annex 3 -Appendix D: Comparison of institutional responsibilities and changes before and after the project

Institutional       Before GEF project               During GEF project                          After GEF project
structure
Inter-ministerial   Highest organ of OMVS            Additionally supervised SC.                 No change.
Council             representing member country
                    governments.
OMVS/HC             Secretariat OMVS                 Capacity-building measures and project      Capacity strengthened substantially.
                                                     outputs strengthened and sharpened
                                                     institutional vision for an integrated      Continues receiving funding support from
                                                     Basin management approach.                  Dutch cofunding and MWRD APL.

                                                     Permanent IEC and procurement
                                                     positions opened due to experience and      Institutional reform launched.
                                                     positive results with GEF project.
Environmental       Launch in 2000                   Data collection and exchange                Continues receiving funding support from
Observatory (SOE)                                    frameworks established. Improved data       Dutch cofunding, AFD and MWRD APL for
                                                     and analytical base.                        enhancing its capacity and resources to fulfill
                                                                                                 more efficiently and effectively its mandate.
National Cell(NC)   National Coordinator             Additional TA support in form of two        Remains functional and has been
                    designated by national line      national experts on microgrants and         strengthened.
                    ministry responsible to          participation as well as assistant
                    implement OMVS strategy and      accountant.                                 Expert on participation still to be funded
                    policies.                                                                    through Dutch co-funding until March 2010.
                                                     Equipment and training support provided
                    The status of NCs is differing   to NC.                                      There is a need to harmonize the institutional
                    from one country to another.                                                 set-up for NC and to ensure adequate budget
                                                     Focus on consultation and regional          for its increasing tasks including monitoring
                    Assures performance control of   exchange through project.                   and supervision of microgrants.
                    executing agencies.
                                                     Responsible for delivery on component 4     MWRD APL does not provide support to NC
                                                     and 5 (funds transferred to NC). In         as it works on basis of performance
                                                     particular responsible for micro-projects   subcontracting.
                                                     with increase of operational budget.
                                                                                                 Overall status improved as NC followed up
                                                     GEF project strengthened                    with LCC (proximity to local populations).
                                                     communication between OMVS actors
                                                     (efficiency increased).
Institutional        Before GEF project               During GEF project                         After GEF project
structure
                                                      Participation in MWRD APL
                                                      preparation.
National             Established under PASIE, prior   Important to ensure alignment and feed-    NCC will remain OMVS coordination
Coordination         PASIE a Technical Assistant.     back from sectoral line ministries on      mechanisms at national level.
Committee (NCC)                                       component 1, 2, 3, 4 and 5.
                                                                                                 The institutional OMVS reform could impact
                                                      More active involvement as under           the relationship between NC and NCC.
                                                      PASIE. Changes included larger
                                                      attributions and long-term function (not
                                                      project bound).
Sub-Basin            Not yet established              Not yet established                        Recommended by OMVS countries as
committee                                                                                        consultative organ. Included in the
                                                                                                 institutional reform assessment.
Local Coordination   PASIE established 14 LCC         Additional 14 LCCs established to cover    LCC's future role is not clear yet.
Committee (LCC)      around Diama Dam.                the entire Basin.
                                                                                                 OMVS plans to establish and use UIVDDs
                                                                                                 which should be at a lower hierarchical level.
Research             No involvement in OMVS.          Participation in selected meetings and     Implementation of framework agreements
institutions in                                       data collection tasks.                     and identified themes (start-up funds from
member states                                                                                    Dutch co-funding made available)
                                                      Signing of framework agreements
                                                      (MoU) with 16 research institutions
                                                      throughout SRB.




                                                                                                                                             42
Annex 3 -Appendix E: Comparison of indicators as reported in the PAD, Letter of Agreement and ISRs

PAD Annex 1 (project Design              Letter of Agreement                                 ISR                                  Component
Summary
OUTCOME INDICATORS
KPI 1: Provided tools for strengthened 1) between OMVS and Guinea to strengthen              KPI 1: OMVS and Guinea               Relates to
decision-making capacity in the riparian   Guinea's water resources legislation and          harmonize their water legislation    Component 1
countries and at the regional level        render said legislation of the Riparian           in accordance with the existing
(OMVS), to address transboundary land      Countries coherent by PY3, through:               legislation in the other riparian
and water management issues, through a     a) render the Guinean legislation compatible      countries for better management
defined inclusive mechanism;                   with the needs of an integrated water and     of land and water resources across
                                               environmental public administration, and      the Basin.
                                               its harmonized with the legislation
                                               among the Riparian Countries and OMVS,
                                               through a series of workshops and
                                               seminars; and
                                           b) new water legislation approved and
                                               enforced by PY4.
                                       2) An agreed upon inclusive regional framework,
                                          to include all four riparian countries, has been
                                          established by PY4 through:
                                          a) a regional study tour in PY 1;
                                          b) six sector specific workshops by the end of
                                               PY3;
                                          c) four regional workshops on inclusive
                                               institutions by end of PY2;
                                          d) Guinea legislation harmonized within
                                               OMVS framework in PY3;
                                       3) The CRGP is in operation in PY1, cooperating
                                          with OMVS and respective departments in the
                                          Riparian Countries.
KPI 2: Improved data collection and    1) Guinea's information network has been fully        KPI 2: Guinea's hydrology            Relates to
established data exchange mechanisms       assessed (in the upper part of the Senegal        network in the Senegal Basin         Component 2
in all four countries, and agreed on       River Basin) and upgraded to become               upstream portion has been fully
cooperation protocols for greater          compatible with the existing networks:            assessed & upgraded to be
PAD Annex 1 (project Design            Letter of Agreement                                ISR                                Component
Summary
knowledge of Senegal River data and        a) Detailed study on data collection systems   compatible with the existing
information, and of its relation to           in Guinea completed in PY1;                 OMVS hydrology network.
ecological and social processes;           b) Updating of existing Guinean data
                                              collection systems to acceptable working
                                              standards;
                                           c) At least five hydrologic data collection
                                              platforms (PCDs) established in Guinea;
                                           d) Data collection system fully satisfactory
                                              and connected in PY 2;
                                           e) Riparian Countries data network
                                              harmonized with the OMVS network and
                                              operational by PY3;
                                           f) OMVS database operational throughout
                                              the Senegal River Basin by PY4; and
                                           g) Senegal River Basin-wide data
                                              information available online throughout
                                              the OMVS Observatory by PY4.
                                      2)  Framework for sustainable transboundary
                                          information and knowledge sharing between
                                          the four riparian countries prepared:
                                                                                          KPI 3: Framework for sustainable
                                          a) Establish, publish and distribute a bi-
                                                                                          transboundary information
                                              monthly newsletter in PY1;
                                                                                          exchange and knowledge sharing
                                          b) Continue to publish and distribute
                                                                                          between the four riparian
                                              newsletter PY2-4;
                                                                                          countries is prepared.
                                          c) Six regional training courses on
                                              monitoring activities implemented , and
                                              at minimum 10 water and environmental
                                              data-collection staff trained by PY3;
                                          d) Cooperative and technical framework
                                              between OMVS and Guinea agreed upon
                                              and validated in PY3; and
                                          e) Data exchange network and cooperation
                                              network in place and operational by PY4.
KPI 3: Completed and adopted the      1) A Transboundary Diagnostic Analysis (TDA)        KPI 4: A Transboundary             Relates to


                                                                                                                                          44
PAD Annex 1 (project Design                 Letter of Agreement                                  ISR                                Component
Summary
Transboundary Diagnostic Analysis              is prepared and completed:                        Diagnostic Analysis (TDA) is       Component 3
(TDA) and Strategic Action Plan (SAP)          a) Environmental Assessment Reports               prepared and completed.
with identified priority actions for the            prepared in each country in PY1;
Basin.                                         b) The Basin-wide TDA is formulated and
                                                    completed identifying and summarizing
                                                    priority water and environmental issues in
                                                    the Basin, and published by PY2; and
                                               c) The TDA Approved by the Council of
                                                    Ministers for further action by the end of
                                                    PY2.
                                           2) From the TDA findings, a Strategic Action
                                                                                                 KPI 5: From the TDA findings, a
                                              Plan (SAP) document is completed:
                                                                                                 Strategic Action Plan (SAP
                                              a) The SAP is formulated and prepared in a
                                                                                                 document is completed.
                                                  participatory manner by PY3, in which
                                                  key priorities of the Basin are identified
                                                  and prioritized;
                                              b) At minimum, five feasible priority
                                                  interventions are identified and project
                                                  designs are prepared;
                                              c) The SAP is reviewed and approved by the
                                                  Ministerial Council in PY4; and
                                           3) The SAP is published and disclosed in PY4.
KPI 4: Together with the Bank,                                                                   n/a as the ISR is a WB reporting   Relates to
organize and implement training and                                                              tool and does not record project   Component 5
workshops for the River management                                                               progress monitoring on UNDP
institutions to strengthen the national                                                          implemented activities.
and local institutional capacity;
KPI 5: Execute, at least 20 community-                                                           N/A as the ISR is a WB reporting   Relates to
based microgrant-supported micro-                                                                tool and does not record project   Component 4
activities to address community priority                                                         progress monitoring on UNDP
actions;                                                                                         implemented activities.
KPI 6: Increase, annually, the number                                                            N/A as the ISR is a WB reporting   Relates to
of stakeholders involved and trained in                                                          tool and does not record project   Component 5



                                                                                                                                             45
PAD Annex 1 (project Design              Letter of Agreement   ISR                                 Component
Summary
local and transboundary water resource                         progress monitoring on UNDP
management issues;                                             implemented activities.
KPI 7: Increase, annually, the number                          N/A as the ISR is a WB reporting    Relates to
of communities informed and involve                            tool and does not record project    Component 5
stakeholders in the public information                         progress monitoring on UNDP
and public participation process.                              implemented activities.
OUTPUT INDICATORS
                                                               IOI: OMVS and Guinea capacity       Relates to
                                                               progressively enhanced to address   Component 1
                                                               transboundary issues; Information   and 2.
                                                               and knowledge sharing process
                                                               progressively in place.




                                                                                                            46
Annex 3 -Appendix F: Original Project Component Design as per PAD

Component                 US$ m       Objective                Description                         Implementation       Assessment of
                          at                                                                       arrangements         link to
                          appraisal                                                                                     outcome and
                                                                                                                        GEO
1 Environmental           2.70        To strengthen            At regional level: Establishing a   CRGP ­ ARAF Expert   Direct link to
Management and                        institutional and        dialogue with Guinea on             OMVS NC and NCC      outcome and
Capacity Building                     environmental            legislation and joint                                    GEO.
(WB)                                  management capacity at   management of the Basin
                                      regional and national    resources;
Subcomponent 1.1          0.15        level.
Dialogue on legislation                                        At national level: Strengthening
­ Guinea specific                                              capacities in OMVS and Guinea
                                                               on transboundary environmental
Subcomponent 1.2          0.41                                 management aspects;
Regional capacity
building                                                       Promotion of exchange of
                                                               experiences amongst similar
Subcomponent 1.3          0.15                                 projects in region;
Development of an
inclusive institution                                          Support for capacity-building on
                                                               specific priority management
Subcomponent 1.4          1.68                                 issues.
project management
and strengthening                                              Building on institutional
                                                               elements of Basin-wide work
Subcomponent 1.5          0.10                                 under PASIE (establishment of
Africa Regional Forum                                          LCC and NCC).

Subcomponent 1.6          0.15
Technical capacity
building ­ invasive
species management
Subcomponent 1.7
Donors Conference         0.057



                                                                                                                                    47
2 Data Knowledge and     1.52   To strengthen the           Emphasis on developing and          CRGP ­ Water Regional       Direct link to
Management (WB)                 regional and national       integrating Guinea's technical      Expert                      outcome and
                                data base and knowledge     capacity and network within         OMVS NC and NCC             GEO.
Subcomponent 2.1         0.67   management                  existing Basin network and to
Information network ­                                       assess and up-grade Guinea's
Guinea program                                              existing equipment.

Subcomponent 2.2         0.67
Transboundary data and
knowledge management

Subcomponent 2.3         0.18
Up-grade Equipment
for OMVS
3 TDA and SAP (WB)       1.04   To provide detailed basis   Examination of existing             CRGP ­ Environmental        Direct link to
                                for prioritization of key   conditions and management;          Regional Expert             outcome and
Subcomponent 3.1         0.28   environmental issues        identification of transboundary     OMVS NC and NCC             GEO.
TDA                             and Basin management        issues; development of inclusive    LCC
                         0.76   decisions through TDA       options to address Basin-wide
Subcomponent 3.2 SAP            and SAP.                    socio-economic, environmental
                                                            and institutional issues as basis
                                                            integrated transboundary river
                                                            Basin management.
4 Microgrant             1.66   To provide local            As identified in the four           CRGP ­ Microgrant           Indirect link
Programme/Priority              community groups,           National Microgrant Program         Regional Expert             through
Actions (UNDP)                  NGOs, community-            Priority Actions Plans and          SGP                         building
                                based organizations         building on community driven        NC Coordinator              partnerships
                                (CBOs), private             development principles priority     NC Microgrant Expert        with local level
                                volunteer organizations     issues and possible interventions   NC Accountant assistant     institutions and
                                (PVOs) with training        include:                            LCC                         populations.
                                and funds related to         Addressing land degradation        CBO
                                locally prioritized land    and desertification problems
                                and water management        (soil erosion control measures,     Close interaction between
                                practices.                  regenerating and reforesting        regional and national
                                                            degraded areas, best                expert for participation
                                                            management farm practices,          and information.



                                                                                                                                             48
                                                          improving pastoral land
                                                          management);
                                                           Enhancing water quality
                                                          (restoring stream banks,
                                                          controlling water weeds and
                                                          invasive species, improving
                                                          flow from irrigation ditches);
                                                           Improving wetland
                                                          management (restoring local
                                                          wetland habitats, establishing
                                                          community wetland protection
                                                          and surveillance, protecting
                                                          community nature reserves);
                                                          Supporting local capacity
                                                          building efforts in the exchange
                                                          of best practices, community
                                                          awareness efforts, or community
                                                          workshops and training.
5 Public Participation   0.33   To enhance public         Expanding participatory               Partnership OMVS with
and Awareness                   participation and         activities initiated during the       IUCN based on
(UNDP)                          awareness within          preparation process through:          Memorandum of
Subcomponent 5.1         0.16   Senegal River Basin and   (i) Promotion of project              Understanding.
Public information and          its management            activities; (ii) information of the   (12/2004). The
awareness                       authority OMVS.           public on the Basin's                 contribution of IUCN
                                                          environmental issues through          amounted to $ 138,000
Subcomponent 5.2         0.12                             regional, national, and local         USD in form of technical
Civil society                                             information campaign; (iii)           assistance to the CRGP.
participation                                             coordination community
                                                          participation through local           CRGP ­ Regional EIP
Subcomponent 5.3         0.05                             NGOs and the LCCs; and (iv)           NC ­ National EIP
Scientific community                                      effective involvement of local        National media and NGO
involvement                                               community leaders, the broader        networks (established
                                                          public, especially women, and         under the PASIE program
                                                          the scientific community in           and build on the network
                                                          planning and decision-making          established during project
                                                          with regard to the Basin's            preparation)



                                                                                                                             49
resources.
             Close interaction between
             Regional and national
             microgrant experts.




                                         50
Annex 3 -Appendix G: Timeline of events following Board approval

Date                Event
        10/28/2003 Board Approval of SRB Water and Environment Project
         11/17/2003 Signing of legal agreement OMVS and WB
             3/2004 1st OMVS - Guinea Inter-Ministerial Committee: Appointment of legal and technical task force for Guinea's inclusion in
                    OMVS; Adoption of road map for the preparation of the Inclusive Framework (IDF funded);
        04/08/2004 Effectiveness of SRB Water and Environment Project
         04/20/2004 Launch of SRB Water and Environment project and CRGP contracts
       05 ­ 07/2004 Recruitment of national experts (WB and UNDP funded)
         07/08/2004 First transfer of WB funds received
            09/2004 Installation of office equipment
         09/29/2004 Signing of legal agreement OMVS and UNDP
             6/2005 Guinea to join OMVS as a fourth member country;
                    2nd OMVS Inter-Ministerial Committee: Approval of the Senegal River Basin Development Program
             3/2006 Heads of State sign treaty to include Guinea in OMVS
            10/2006 Mid-Term Review of SRB Water and Environment project
                    Finalization of the TDA
               2006 WB Board Approval of MWRD APL
         12/31/2007 Original Closing Date of SRB Water and Environment Project
                    Finalization of SAP
        07/31/2008 Revised Closing Date of SRB Water and Environment Project (account closed)
                    Original Closing Date of Dutch Funding
         09/30/2008 Original and Final Closing Date of UNDP Funding
         11/30/2008 WB Grace Period Closing Date
         03/31/2010 Revised Closing Date of Dutch Funding




                                                                                                                                         51
Annex 3 -Appendix H: Key factors affecting project preparation and implementation

Preparation:

Factors that contributed to successful project preparation:

Design                                   Sound design (realistic and simple) with clear linkages between the 5 components (activities, outputs
                                         and impacts).
                                         Sound risk assessment building on lessons learned from PASIE and other IW projects.
                                         Institutional set-up of CRGP within HC guaranteeing a maximum of mainstreaming into OMVS, cross-
                                         support, cost-effectiveness and close supervision.
Commitment by recipient to               Strong ownership from OMVS and national governments (e.g. water charter, inclusive framework) on
proposed project design                  sustainable environmental management of the SRB.
Participatory process                    Strong participatory process at regional, national and local levels supported by IUCN and OMVS.
Significant results during               Although not fully attributable to GEF: Water Charter in 2002, Guinea adhesion in 2006, preliminary
preparation                              TDA and institutional assessments in all four countries.



Assessment of less favorable elements during and/or resulting project preparation phase:

Quality of M&E         M&E framework (project global environmental objective, key performance indicators (in particular KPI 1) related
and baselines          baseline and targets) have found to be relatively vague and difficult to measure. Baseline studies during preparation
                       included assessments of institutional capacities of key institutions as well as consultations on livelihoods and stakeholder
                       expectations. However, no quantifiable baseline values for component 4 and 5 were established against which progress
                       could have been measured easily by end of the project. The ICR team found insufficient evidence/documentation of
                       linking project impact indicators to OMVS Environmental Observatory database.
Lengthy                The preparation process was overly lengthy (5 years), costly and involved four different TTL. Reasons for long
preparation process    preparation relate mainly to lengthy and changing GEF procedures and processing during PDF-A and PDF-B phases as
                       well readiness criteria based on awaited results supported through ongoing PASIE component (e.g. consultative
                       framework established and functional, assessment of environmental issues and final water charter). However, despite the
                       successive TTL changes, the main TTL for project supervision was part of the task team from early project preparation
                       onwards and thus ensured strong and needed continuity and institutional memory.
Safeguards             The documentation on follow-up on dissemination and use of applicable safeguard documents was found to be less
instrument             satisfactory.
dissemination


                                                                                                                                                52
Linkage to MWRD        The linkages to MWRD could have been better presented in the PAD (component-based, implementation arrangements)
                       to enhance understanding of the broader OMVS strategy in the SRB and the WB support.


Implementation:

Factors that contributed to successful project implementation:

Design                     Sound design (realistic and simple) with clear linkages between the 5 components (activities, outputs and impacts)
                           and sound logical chain that ensured that project outputs jointly delivered project outcomes.
                           Sound risk assessment building on lessons learned from PASIE and other IW projects.
                           Institutional set-up of CRGP within HC guaranteeing a maximum of mainstreaming into OMVS, cross-support, cost-
                           effectiveness and close supervision.
Commitment by              Strong ownership by OMVS and national governments (see water charter, inclusive framework) to the project
recipient                  objective and project outcomes. This is shown amongst other factors by (i) OMVS advanced funds for project co-
                           financing on behalf of its member states to ensure that project implementation was not jeopardized and thus took on
                           financial risks for the benefit of the project; (ii) highly satisfactory delivery of all project results and outcomes; (iii)
                           timely delivery; (iv) on-time completion and project closure; (v) almost full disbursement of funds. In addition,
                           CRGP was housed within OMVS premises and operated in close operational interaction with HC. The project
                           benefited from use of in-house technical capacity at OMVS to support project implementation. OMVS management
                           tools and procedures have been improved throughout project implementation.
Guinea's adhesion to       Momentum for institutional change within OMVS and for inclusion of Guinea (support through IDF funding for
OMVS                       inclusive framework) was effectively used towards the success of the project. In anticipation of Guinea becoming a
                           full member of OMVS, a National Cellules was initially established for the purposes of the project and was later
                           transformed to serve as the national structure of OMVS for Guinea, thus benefiting from capacity that had already
                           been built.
Project management         CRGP senior staff with high qualifications and motivation. Two positions filled with Guineans in anticipation of
staff                      Guinea becoming an OMVS member. The two coordinator positions at regional level are OMVS staff and are
                           expected to make use of capacity gained and lessons learned within the organization.
Financial software         The use of the same financial software at regional and national level to facilitate up-and downstream financial
                           reporting and management and streamlined FM processes.
Linkages to other          CRGP provided "lessons" and insights to Volta River Basin Initiative in particular on TDA and SPA processes and
initiatives                results.
WB team                    Consistent task team supervision with no TTL change during supervision. Highly competent TTL with in-depth
                           knowledge of the region and the sector issues.




                                                                                                                                                    53
Assessment of less favorable elements during project implementation:


Delay in microgrant       Delays with launching the microgrant component (Cp. 4) due to delayed availability of funds and a complex manual
implementation            of procedures initially presented the project with difficulties to gain high visibility on the ground and placed
                          important local stakeholder buy-in at risk. Once the first phase of microgrants implementation got underway, the
                          disbursement rate was rather low which can be attributed to the learning curve in terms of submitting micro-project
                          proposals. Eventually implementation of Component 4 was turned around and yielded important impact on the
                          ground.
Limited funding for       Inadequate funding for component 5 (USD 330,000 for 4 years + EUR 150,000 cofunding from NL).
communication             Slow implementation of Dutch funding and initially ineffective use of resources due to the late arrival of the TA
activities                hampered effectiveness of Dutch co-funding. Perceived cumbersome WB procurement procedures further contributed
                          to slow disbursement of funds. Funds were eventually reallocated and better integrated into the overall project design.
LCC                       LCC were geographically relatively far from local hotspots for on-the-ground implementation and were hampered by
                          limited resources and means to fulfill their function with CBOs. However project introduced successful measures to
                          enhance LCC capacity through inclusion of local focal points (representatives from local administration and technical
                          decentralized units). OMVS is now considering working through so-called "UIVDD" (Integrated and Sustainable
                          Development Unit) which are at a lower hierarchical level than the LCC. Their spatial and functional definition in
                          view of the sub-Basin approach needs further discussion.
Quality of project        The project manuals were judged by CRGP staff as not adequately adapted to the reality on the ground and needed
manuals                   review and revision after effectiveness. This was considered as in-efficient use of CRGP staff time and contributed to
                          some delay of with other project activities.
WB-UNDP joint             Due to differing operational procedures and reporting requirements for UNDP and WB projects, efforts by both
implementation            agencies to coordinate project supervision (e.g. joint missions) have been less satisfactory and put an extra burden on
                          the project recipient. WB has been closer to operational management and all WB missions eventually covered all
                          components including those under UNDP responsibility.
Communication channel     Communication between WB and co-funding partners (NL) and between CRGP and National Cells has been assessed
                          as not always timely and effective. Capacity building related to communication aspects later improved the situation
                          significantly.




                                                                                                                                              54
Annex 4. Economic and Financial Analysis

Not applicable as this was a regional GEF grant aiming at organizational capacity-building and
institutional strengthening and not an investment project.
Annex 5 Bank and UNDP Lending and Implementation Support

(a) Task Team members
                                                                        Responsibility/
             Names                  Title                    Unit
                                                                          Specialty
Lending

Supervision/ICR
                                                                     Team Lead during
Matar Fall
                                                                     completion stage
                                                                     Team Lead during
Ousmane Dione
                                                                     implementation stage
Salamata Bal               Social Development Spec.    AFTCS
Racky Dia Camara           Program Assistant           AFMGN
Zie Ibrahima Coulibaly     Infrastructure Specialist   AFTU2
Bourama Diaite             Sr Procurement Spec.        AFTPC
Sidy Diop                  Procurement Spec.           AFTPC
                           Financial Management
Saidou Diop                                            AFTFM
                           Specialist
Martha Jarosewich-Holder   Consultant                  OPCQC
Abdoulaye Keita            Procurement Spec.           MNAPR
Marie Constance Manuella
                           Program Assistant           GEF
Koukoui
Shelley Mcmillan           Water Resources Spec.       ECSSD
Boury Ndiaye               Language Team Assistant     AFCF1
Osval Rocha Andrade        Financial Management
                                                       AFTFM
Romao                      Specialis
                           Sr Financial Management
Fily Sissoko                                           LCSFM
                           Specialist
Amal Talbi                 Water Supply Spec.          AFTWR
Marie-Adele Tchakounte     Language Program
                                                       AFTU2
Sitchet                    Assistant
Gabriele Rechbauer         Consultant              AFTEN
Nina Doetinchem            Consultant              AFTEN
Arona Fall                 ARR                     UNDP Senegal
Cheikh Tidiane Mbengue     Programme Manager       UNDP Country Microfinance
                                                   Office Senegal
Laba Touré                 Programme Manager       UNDP Country
                                                   Office
Abdoulaye Ndiaye           UNDP Regional Technical UNDP/GEF
                           Advisor                 Regional Office

(b) Staff Time and Cost
                                         Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)
      Stage of project Cycle                                  USD Thousands (including
                                       No. of staff weeks
                                                              travel and consultant costs)

                                                                                          56
Lending
  FY99                      39.14
  FY00                      59.20
  FY01                      80.46
  FY02                      54.77
  FY03                      77.92
  FY04                       0.00
  FY05                       0.00
  FY06                       0.00
  FY07                       0.00
  FY08                       0.00

                  Total:   311.49
Supervision/ICR
  FY99                       0.00
  FY00                       0.00
  FY01                       0.00
  FY02                       0.00
  FY03                       0.00
  FY04                      58.84
  FY05                      96.94
  FY06                      73.29
  FY07                      54.48
  FY08                      80.46

                  Total:   364.01




                                    57
Annex 6. Beneficiary Survey Results

Not applicable (core ICR).




                                      58
Annex 7. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results

An ICR stakeholder workshop in Dakar was organized during the WB-UNDP joint ICR mission
on October 10, 2008 with participation from all four national cells, OMVS-HC, CRGP, MWRD
and development partners. The objective was to exchange information on the GEF project
achievements, present critical implementation issues and discuss the ICR process and results.
Facts and findings were used for the ICR report, the following bilateral discussions with the
national coordination teams and field visit discussions with LCC and microgrant beneficiaries.

Agenda:

Ouverture de l'atelier et présentation des objectifs de l'atelier ­ SG du HC/OMVS
Présentation des participants
Proposition et adoption de l'agenda ­ CRGP

Présentation du processus de l'évaluation du projet : Consultante BM
Présentation du processus de l'évaluation du projet : Représentative PNUD/GEF
Discussion ­ Facilitateurs

Présentation des résultats de l'évaluation menés par les cellules nationales: Guinée
Présentation des résultats de l'évaluation menés par les cellules nationales: Mali
Présentation des résultats de l'évaluation menés par les cellules nationales: Mauritanie
Présentation des résultats de l'évaluation menés par les cellules nationales: Sénégal

Présentation et discussions en plénière des résultats de l'évaluation menés par l'OMVS par les
experts régionaux de la CRGP :
                 Composante 1 ­ Monsieur Ba
                 Composante 2 ­ Monsieur Samaké
                 Composante 3 - Monsieur Samaké
                 Composante 4 ­ Monsieur Soumah
                 Composante 5 ­ Madame Ndia

Participants :

OMVS-HC:                                              M. Sall, Coordonnateur Régional du Projet
M. Sow, Chef Division SPD/ASP/DT                      M. Bedredine, Assistant Coordonnateur
M. Diatta, Chef Division GRHPR/HC                     M. Samaké, Expert Régional Environnement
OMVS Mauritania :                                     Mr. Soumah, Expert Régional Microprojets
M. Taleb, Coordinator Cellule Nationale               Mme Dior, Expert Régional Information
M. Sidi, Expert National en Information               M. Ba, Assistant Régional Administration et
OMVS Sénégal :                                        Finance
M. Ndao, Coordinator Cellule Nationale                PGIRE :
Mme Kane, Expert National en Information              M. Sylla, Coordinator
OMVS Mali :                                           UNPD :
M. Diallo, Coordinator Cellule Nationale              M. Diouf, Programme Associate GEF
M. Diallo, Expert National en Information             M. Ndiaye, Charge de Programme GEF
OMVS Guinea:                                          AFD :
M. Bah, Expert National en Information                M. Lecomte, Conseiller du Haut
CRGP :                                                Commissaire


                                                                                                 59
Annex 8. Summary of Borrower's ICR

Organisation pour la mise en valeur du fleuve Sénégal ­ Haut Commissariat, Novembre
2008

I.      INTRODUCTION

Conformément au Plan de Mise en oeuvre du projet, la Cellule Régionale de Gestion du projet
FEM de l'OMVS a élaboré ce rapport qui présente les activités réalisées depuis le lancement du
projet, le 20 avril 2004 jusqu'au mois de septembre 2008.

Ce rapport se propose de présenter à la lumière des principales composantes, la description du
projet et le déroulement de l'exécution des activités ainsi que les progrès réalisés pendant les
quatre années d'exécution du projet.

Dans sa deuxième partie, le rapport expose les difficultés rencontrées dans la mise en oeuvre de
certaines missions et décline les améliorations possibles et à envisager dans le futur.

D'ores et déjà, il est important de rappeler que le présent projet FEM a été conçu pour compléter
et amplifier les actions du PASIE en prenant en compte les aspects les plus généraux de la gestion
environnementale transfrontalière et du renforcement des capacités de gestion des ressources en
eau partagée à l'échelle de l'ensemble du bassin. Il consolide en outre les dispositifs
institutionnels mis en place dans le cadre de ce programme et permet ainsi à l'Organisation de se
projeter dans un avenir marqué par la bonne gouvernance de l'eau.

II.     DESCRIPTION DU PROJET
        a. Démarrage du projet le 20 avril 2004 ;
        b. Prise de service des Experts Régionaux, le 20 avril 2004 avec nécessité de permettre
           aux intéressés de prendre connaissance de l'ensemble des documents du projet ;
        c. Mise en place avance de démarrage (DRF N°01), le 8 juillet 2004 ;
        d. Acquisition et mise en place équipements informatiques en septembre/octobre 2004
        e. Recrutement Experts Nationaux en mai, juin et juillet 2004 (sur financement BM et
           PNUD) ;

II.1. Objectifs
Le projet FEM, objet de l'Accord de Don/FEM signé le 17 novembre 2003 pour sa partie
exécutée par la Banque Mondiale et de l'Accord de Financement FEM signé le 29 septembre
2004 pour les composantes exécutées par le PNUD, a démarré ses activités par l'atelier de
lancement du 20 avril 2004 à Dakar (République du Sénégal).

L'objectif de développement du projet de Gestion des ressources en Eau et de l'environnement du
fleuve Sénégal est d'établir un cadre environnemental stratégique et participatif pour le
développement durable du Bassin du fleuve Sénégal et de lancer au niveau de l'ensemble du
bassin, un programme coopératif pour la gestion transfrontalière des ressources en eau et en terres.

Pour atteindre cet objectif, le projet se propose de renforcer les capacités institutionnelles
régionales et nationales pour aider leurs institutions compétentes à répondre aux priorités
identifiées dans l'ensemble du Bassin et relatives aux eaux transfrontalières et à la gestion de
l'environnement. Cela permettra ainsi aux Etats riverains du fleuve Sénégal (Guinée, Mali,
Mauritanie et Sénégal) de consolider conjointement les initiatives en cours dans le Bassin,
d'élaborer une approche régionale participative de la gestion de l'environnement et de contribuer
à l'utilisation efficace des ressources en eau.

Le projet est conforme aux objectifs sectoriels des stratégies d'assistances (SAP) et des
Documents de Stratégie pour la Réduction de la Pauvreté (DSRP) des 4 pays riverains; mais
également aux Objectifs de Développement pour le Millénaire (ODM) et à ceux du Nouveau
Partenariat pour le Développement Economique en Afrique (NEPAD).

Il est mis en oeuvre conjointement par la Banque Mondiale (composantes 1, 2 et 3) et le PNUD
(composantes 4 et 5) et exécuté par l'OMVS pour une durée de 4 ans. Il comporte cinq
composantes ainsi qu'il suit:

-   Composante 1 : Renforcement des capacités de gestion environnementale
-   Composante 2 : Gestion des Données et des Connaissances
-   Composante 3 : Analyse Diagnostique Transfrontalière et Plan d'Action Stratégique
-   Composante 4 : Micro subvention, Actions Prioritaires
-   Composante 5 : Information et Participation du Public

II.2 ­ Dispositions institutionnelles :
Au niveau régional, l'exécution du projet est assurée par le Haut Commissariat, à travers la
Cellule Régionale de Gestion du Projet (CRGP) mise en place en avril 2004 ; le Conseil
Interministériel est la plus haute instance du projet et s'assure, tout naturellement, de la cohérence
du projet et de son intégration au niveau régional. Le Comité de Pilotage, placé sous la tutelle du
Conseil Interministériel, veille à la réalisation des actions du projet. Au niveau national et local,
l'exécution du projet se fait par le biais des Comités Nationaux de Coordination (NCC), les
Cellules Nationales OMVS et les Comités Locaux de Coordination (LCC) chargés de la
Coordination.

III - ADMINISTRATION, FINANCES ET PASSATION DE MARCHES

III.1 Administration et finances
Au terme du lancement du projet le 20 avril 2004, le personnel du projet, au titre de
l'administration et des finances s'est attelé à prendre connaissance des documents de base du
projet et à la mise en place des instruments du projet.
Il s'agit notamment :
- de l'Accord de Don/IDA/TF/052900-SE/FEM, signé entre le Haut Commissaire de l'OMVS et
la Banque (Composantes 1,2 ,3), le 17 Novembre 2003 ;
-de l'Accord de Financement /PNUD/RAF 01 G32/FEM, signé entre le Haut Commissaire de
l'OMVS et le Représentant Résident du Pnud au Sénégal (Composantes 4 et 5), signé le 29
septembre 2004.
-des Engagements pris par les Etats membres de l'OMVS, au titre d'une part du versement de
leur contre partie au financement des activités du projet et de ceux relatifs à l'exonération de touts
taxes sur les acquisition d'équipements, de matériels, de matériaux et de services rendus dans le
cadre dudit projet, d'autre part.
-du Rapport d'Evaluation

                                                                                                   61
-du Plan de Mise en OEuvre
-du Manuel des Procédures Administratives Comptables et Financières applicables pour les
Composantes 1,2 et 3, gérées par la Banque Mondiale
-des Contrats de l'Auditeur Externe/CICE/Expertises/Conseils (TF/052900-SE, Fonds de Contre
Partie des Etats membre de l'OMVS, des crédits RAF01 G32/PNUD et du Cofinancement du
Royaume des Pays-Bas /TFH/055192-SE, un peu plus tard).

III.1.1-Administration

   Personnel du projet
A la date du 30 avril 2008, les effectifs du projet, émargeant sur les crédits des sources de
financement du projet, sont de 36 unités. Ce personnel est reparti entre la coordination régionale
et le niveau national (Guinée, Mali, Mauritanie et Sénégal).

La couverture médicale et sociale de l'ensemble du personnel, a été bien suivie et prise en charge
en conformité avec les règlements de l'OMVS.
La gestion administrative de ce personnel a été faite dans les mêmes conditions et en étroite
collaboration avec la Direction Administrative et Financière du Haut Commissariat. Le personnel
a également bénéficié des formations spécifiques de renforcement de capacités pour mener à bien
sa mission.

   Reporting du Projet
En application des termes des différents Accords de Financements, des indications du Manuel des
Procédures Administratives et Comptables adopté pour le projet, des rapports mensuels,
trimestriels et annuels, sont élaborés par la CRGP et transmis à la Banque, au PNUD et aux Etats,
pour un suivi régulier de l'état d'avancement du Projet.
Il en est de même des Rapports des Audits Externes (Rapports d'Audit sur les Comptes Annuels,
Rapports Spéciaux sur l'Utilisation des Comptes Spéciaux et les Rapports de Recommandations)
auxquels sont joints les éléments de réponse de l'Organisation, communiqués à temps, à la
Banque et au PNUD.
Des missions de supervision, de suivi et de contrôle sont effectuées régulièrement par la CRGP en
direction des Cellules Nationales.
III.1.2- Finances

  Financement
Trois principales sources de Financement intervenaient, dans le projet GEF/BFS avec une
contribution de l'UINC dans la composante participation du public. Il s'agit de la Banque
Mondiale et du PNUD en tant qu'agences d'exécution du FEM et des 4 Etats Riverains (Guinée,
Mali, Mauritanie et Sénégal). Le projet a bénéficié d'une quatrième source de financement en
2005 en terme de cofinancement du Royaume des Pays Bas, exécuté par l'IDA.
  Audits Externes des Comptes du Projet par le Cabinet d'Expertises, d'Audits et de
  Conseils C.I.C.E.
Les Comptes du Projet ont fait l'objet des Audits Externes, avec certifications dans les règles de
l'art et dans le respect du manuel de procédure et autres documents contractuels y afférents. Les
Rapports sanctionnant la mission des Auditeurs ont conclu à la certification des dits comptes,
pour la période de référence, et ont été transmis à la Banque et au PNUD par le Haut
Commissariat à bonne date.


                                                                                               62
III. 2 ­ Passation de Marchés

Les activités de la passation de marchés menées depuis le démarrage du projet ont porté sur les
procédures des différents types de marchés autorisés dans le cadre de la mise en oeuvre du Projet.
Les marchés ont été passés sur la base de plans de passation de marchés approuvés par l'IDA et
sur la base des dispositions de l'accord de don (annexe III), les documents techniques de mise en
oeuvre et le manuel de procédures.

Les marchés passés ont portés sur les deux types ci-après :
     Fournitures et équipements
     Services de Consultants.

En plus de la mise en oeuvre des procédures de passation et de suivi de l'exécution des marchés,
le Spécialiste en Passation de Marchés a également fait des appuis ponctuels aux Experts du Haut
Commissariat de l'OMVS et des Etats dans le domaine de renforcement de capacités.

L'état d'exécution de la passation de marchés du Projet est jugé très satisfaisant tant au niveau
des Marchés de fournitures/équipement que de Services de Consultants.

Le Spécialiste en Passation de Marchés a été formé également à travers sa participation à des
séminaires internationaux de renforcement de capacité.

A la veille de la clôture du projet, il convient de noter que certains marchés sont en cours de
passation et pour lesquels l'avis de l'IDA est sollicité pour leur prise en charge après la période
de clôture du Projet.

IV- COMPOSANTES DU PROJET : PRESENTATION ET ACTIVITES REALISEES

IV.1 - Composante 1 : Renforcement des capacités de gestion environnementale
Les actions entreprises dans le cadre de la présente composante ont pour objectifs de : i) établir
un dialogue en Guinée sur la gestion de l'environnement et la législation environnementale
guinéenne ; ii) renforcer par des ateliers, des formations et des échanges d'information, les
capacités institutionnelles et législatives nationales et régionales pour permettre aux pays
riverains de traiter des problèmes prioritaires transfrontaliers relatifs à l'eau et à
l'environnement ; iii) promouvoir et faciliter, au moyen d'un forum régional, l'échange
d'expériences acquises par d'autres projets du FEM dans le domaine des eaux internationales
ainsi que par d'autres projets comparables en Afrique subsaharienne ; et iv) organiser une
conférence des donateurs pour mobiliser les cofinancements supplémentaires nécessaires pour
assurer la prise en compte des questions prioritaires dans le bassin.

    Concertation sur la législation spécifique à la Guinée

 Examen du cadre législatif de la Guinée / Eau Environnement :
Au titre de cette mission, une étude exhaustive portant sur les textes, lois et règlements en matière
de gestion de l'eau et de l'environnement en République de Guinée, a été réalisée par un
consultant national, sous la supervision d'un Groupe de Travail de ce pays à l'instar du Mali, de
la Mauritanie et du Sénégal et comprenant tous les Départements Techniques et Administratifs et
acteurs impliqués dans la problématique de développement intégré et réfléchi du Bassin du
Fleuve Sénégal.



                                                                                                  63
Ledit rapport qui a fait l'objet de plusieurs rencontres de concertations, en Guinée, a également
vu la participation de l'OMVS (Haut Commissariat et projet GEF/BFS).
La finalité de cette mission importante en Guinée, qui s'inscrit dans la prise en charge et au titre
du cadre inclusif, devra conduire ce pays à harmoniser sa législation en la matière, avec les
législations nationales et la réglementation internationale, sur les politiques de l'eau et de
l'environnement.

Pour ce faire, il a été retenu, sur la base d'une part, du rapport du Consultant National Guinéen et
du rapport de synthèse du Consultant International, documents approuvés par l'OMVS et la
Guinée, d'organiser à Conakry un atelier national pour la prise en compte, dans la législation
Guinéenne, des recommandations ayant sanctionné les travaux de l'atelier régional de
Nouakchott, sur cette importante préoccupation des Etats membres de l'Organisation. La dite
rencontre est programmée au courant de la première quinzaine du mois de mai 2008.

 Facilitation Dialogue entre la Guinée et les pays membres de l'OMVS :
La même démarche a été appliquée pour les trois autres pays de l'OMVS.
Les quatre rapports élaborés par les Consultants Nationaux, sur les législations Nationales en
matière de gestion des ressources en eau et de l'environnement ont fait l'objet d'un rapport de
synthèse confectionné par un Consultant International examiné et approuvé à la suite d'un atelier
régional.
Les cinq rapports, ont été transmis à la Banque Mondiale. Le même rapport a élaboré un projet de
Termes de Référence du Code Régional de l'Environnement du Bassin du Fleuve Sénégal,
examiné et validé par l'OMVS.

Comité de Pilotage du projet :
Le Comité de Pilotage du projet a tenu sa première réunion les 8 et 9 décembre 2006, à Dakar.
Cette rencontre a permis de faire le point sur l'état d'avancement du projet, formuler des
recommandations et dégager les perspectives nouvelles pour atteindre les objectifs assignés au
projet.
La deuxième réunion du Comité de Pilotage du projet interviendra après la production et la
validation de l'Etude du Plan d'Action Stratégique (PAS), qui a fait l'objet d'un atelier de
démarrage, à Nouakchott, les 25 et 26 août 2007.
Au terme de la validation du PAS par le Comité de Pilotage, ledit rapport sera soumis à
l'appréciation des Donateurs ou Bailleurs de Fonds, en vue de la libération des investissements
nécessaires.

Forum Régional Africain :
Après l'élaboration des Termes De Référence et le budget qui ont été approuvés par la Banque
Mondiale, ce forum s'est tenu les 22 et 23 juin 2006 à Dakar.
Le rapport sanctionnant les travaux du Forum a été finalisé, traduit en anglais et mis à la
disposition de toutes les parties concernées.

Conférence des Donateurs
La tenue de cet important évènement découlera tout naturellement des résultats qui se dégageront
de l'étude du Plan d'Action Stratégique ainsi que des indications qui seront données par la
mission de supervision de la Banque et du PNUD d'une part, des recommandations qui
sanctionneront les travaux de la seconde réunion du Comité de Pilotage, sur la base de
l'évaluation du projet et des résultats découlant de l'Etude du Plan d'Action Stratégique (PAS),
d'autre part.



                                                                                                 64
     Renforcement des capacités au Plan Régional

 Formation/Information régionale et nationale
Le Plan Programme de Formation (Phases I et II) intéressant le personnel du projet, le Haut
Commissariat, les LCC, NCC et CBO a été entièrement réalisé.
Au plan régional, les Experts du Projet, du Haut Commissariat et des Etats, directement impliqués
dans la mise en oeuvre du projet ont participé, soit à des sessions de formation, soit à des ateliers
nationaux, régionaux ou internationaux. Dans le cadre de la Phase I du Plan Programme de
Formation il a en outre été organisé, au titre de la Phase II, à l'intention des LCC et NCC, un
séminaire de formation spécifique sur deux modules ayant notamment trait à :
- Technique de Plaidoyer et de Mobilisation Sociale,
- La Planification locale ; puissant outil de développement.

Ces deux sessions dispensées par l'Institut Africain pour le Développement de l'Entreprise ont vu
la participation des représentants des 28 LCC, soit 56 responsables.

Afin d'impliquer tous les acteurs et parties prenantes à la nouvelle stratégie de développement
initiée par l'OMVS, et sur accord de la Banque, il a été organisé à l'intention des Parlementaires
et Sénateurs de l'espace OMVS, un séminaire de formation et d'information sur les enjeux et
perspectives de l'OMVS.

Un atelier d'information et de mise à niveau du personnel du Haut-commissariat et du Projet sur
les composantes 1, 2 et 3 (BM) a été organisé.
Cette importante rencontre a été immédiatement suivie du deuxième atelier consacré aux
composantes 4 et 5 (PNUD).
En fait, il est important de signaler que les ateliers nationaux que régionaux organisés par le
projet constituent des supports importants de formations et de perfectionnement continus, dont
l'OMVS et les Etats riverains ont pleinement profité, notamment à travers la mise en oeuvre des 5
composantes du projet.
Au plan financier et gestion administrative, l'installation du logiciel de comptabilité au niveau des
Cellules Nationales et au profit des Assistants Comptables, s'est avérée également d'une portée
certaine, notamment pour la consolidation de leurs informations financières avec celles de la
CRGP, à travers le module utilitaire du logiciel (Exportation et Importation).
Ces missions ont permis de vérifier la conformité des procédures administratives et financières
d'instruction des marchés avec le Manuel de procédures administratives et comptables et aux
directives du PNUD et de la Banque Mondiale en matière de passation de Marchés.

IV.2 - Composante 2 : Gestion des données et des connaissances
   Activités réalisées et Résultats atteints
   Les actions de la composante 2 visent à accroître la base de connaissances et les données
   disponibles pour la gestion du bassin, en mettant l'accent sur le développement des capacités et
   du réseau de suivi de la Guinée, leur intégration dans le réseau existant du bassin et sur
   l'évaluation et l'amélioration des équipements actuels de la Guinée. Cette Composante
   procèdera également à la mise à jour des équipements des réseaux hydrologiques et
   météorologiques du Mali, de la Mauritanie et du Sénégal. Elle favorisera aussi les échanges de
   données entre les quatre pays riverains du fleuve Sénégal et l'Observatoire de l'environnement
   de l'OMVS. Pour l'atteinte des objectifs globaux du projet et spécifiquement ceux assignés à la
   composante 2 , les principales activités ci-après ont été menées avec succès :

                                                                                                  65
A ­ Programmation des activités et actualisation des documents :
La feuille de route de la mise en oeuvre des activités a été actualisée ainsi que le budget de la
composante. Ceci a permis de prendre en compte les contraintes de temps et la nécessité de
consolidation des acquis au regard de la clôture du projet. C'est ainsi que le renforcement des
équipements hydrologiques a été prévu.

B - Réseau d'information compatible établi en Guinée pour la mise en place d'une plate
forme de coopération et de collaboration technique avec les pays riverains
Dans le cadre de la réalisation des études spécifiques pour une meilleure connaissance des
ressources en eau et une bonne compréhension de l'environnement du bassin du fleuve Sénégal
dans sa partie guinéenne, les sept (7) études programmées ont été entièrement finalisée dont la
septième en 2008, portant sur la modélisation pluie/débits et la conception d'un système d'alerte
précoce pour les inondations dans le haut bassin du fleuve Sénégal.
1. Réalisation d'études spécifiques pour une meilleure compréhension de l'environnement du
bassin du fleuve Sénégal dans sa partie guinéenne :
Le rapport final de chacune de ces 7 études est disponible. Il s'agit des études suivantes :
    -   Etude du système guinéen actuel de contrôle des ressources en eau (qualité/quantité) en
        général et du fleuve Sénégal en particulier ;
    -   Evaluation de l'état de l'environnement, des ressources naturelles et des ressources en
        eau dans la partie guinéenne du bassin du fleuve Sénégal, en se servant du système
        d'indicateurs de l'Observatoire de l'environnement de l'OMVS.
    -   Etude comparative des systèmes utilisés par les Etats membres de l'OMVS et
        l'Organisation elle-même avec l'utilisation du système d'indicateurs mis en place à
        l'Observatoire de l'environnement de l'OMVS,
    -   Etude cartographique de la partie guinéenne du bassin du fleuve Sénégal (identification
        des besoins cartographiques et élaboration des TDR pour la mise au point d'une
        méthodologique pour la cartographie et l'interprétation),
    -   Etude d'impact des Feux de brousse sur l'eau, les sols et la végétation dans la partie
        guinéenne du bassin du fleuve Sénégal,
    -   Etude sur le suivi des feux de brousse dans la partie guinéenne du bassin du fleuve
        Sénégal pour la saison 2006 ­ 2007. Cette dernière étude a été réalisée dans le cadre du
        Contrat pour la réalisation de « Etude d'impact des Feux de brousse sur l'eau, les sols et
        la végétation dans la partie guinéenne du bassin du fleuve Sénégal »
    -   Etude sur la modélisation pluie/débits et la conception d'un système d'alerte précoce pour
        les inondations dans le haut bassin du fleuve Sénégal
Ces études ont permis de faire une évaluation correcte de la situation actuelle de la gestion des
ressources en eau, des ressources naturelles et de l'environnement dans la partie guinéenne du
bassin du fleuve Sénégal.
Ces activités ont permis d'atteindre l'un des principaux indicateurs de performance qui porte sur
l'évaluation des conditions existantes et de l'état des ressources en eau et de l'environnement en
Guinée.
2. Installation d'équipements hydrologiques et météorologiques dans le bassin :
Pour l'amélioration de la connaissance des ressources en eau et de leur gestion durable, des
équipements hydrologiques, météorologiques et de communication ont été installés dans tout le

                                                                                               66
bassin et en priorité dans sa partie guinéenne. Au total 19 stations hydrologiques ont été équipées
dont 8 en Guinée. Au cours de cette année 2008, dans le cadre du renforcement de ces acquis,
divers équipements hydrométriques complémentaires ont été achetés et installés dans le bassin.

C - Cadre durable d'échanges                  de données et de gestion des connaissances
transfrontalières :
Dans le cadre de l'exécution des activités de cette sous composante, les efforts ont été déployés
par le projet pour l'atteinte des objectifs assignés.
Les principales réalisations sont les suivantes :
    1   Conception et mise en place du Réseau Guinéen des Données sur l'Eau et
        l'Environnement (RGDEE) :
    Après la mise en place de neuf (9) points focaux thématiques et le point focal national,
    formant le réseau partenaire du Service de l'Observatoire de l'Environnement SOE) de
    l'OMVS, la collaboration avec ledit réseau s'est renforcée en 2008 à travers des ateliers de
    formation et de collecte de données. La partie guinéenne du bassin est entièrement couverte
    par le SOE à travers ce réseau au même titre que les autres parties du bassin du fleuve
    Sénégal.
    2   Organisation d'ateliers régionaux et nationaux de formation dans le domaine de
        l'hydrologie :
    Au terme du projet GEF/BFS, huit (8) ateliers de formations dont 2 au cours de l'année 2008,
    ont été organisés au profit des Experts hydrologues des 4 Etats Riverains, du Haut
    Commissariat de l'OMVS, des Sociétés de gestion (SOGED et SOGEM).
    Ces formations très appréciées par les bénéficiaires, ont contribué au renforcement de leurs
    compétences de gestionnaires des ressources en eau à travers la maîtrise des outils de gestions
    modernes : SIG, Hydracess, Modèles Pluies/Débits, Base Données, ADCP, Thalimèdes,
    VOTA, outils de collecte et traitement du SOE.
    3   Développement d'outils de communication pour le réseau de recherche et de suivi
    Au titre de ce volet, les principales activités sont :
    -   L'élaboration et la publication des bulletins hydrologiques bimestriels commencées
        depuis décembre 2004 se poursuivent avec la Division Hydrologie du Département
        Technique du Haut Commissariat de l'OMVS.
    -   La réception de données hydrologiques en provenance de la Direction Nationale de
        l'Hydraulique de la République de Guinée se renforce davantage. Les informations
        hydrologiques traitées sont diffusées à l'aide du site Web de l'Observatoire de
        l'environnement de l'OMVS. Les activités portant sur la mise en Réseau de la Cellule
        Nationale de Guinée dans le système Informatique du Haut Commissariat de l'OMVS se
        poursuivent avec l'appui du SOE.

 Conclusion :

Les différentes études réalisées ont permis de faire l'évaluation de la gestion des ressources en
eau et de l'environnement dans la partie guinéenne du bassin du fleuve Sénégal. Les réseaux
hydrologiques, météorologiques et de suivi de la qualité des eaux ont été entièrement réhabilités
pour la partie guinéenne du bassin du fleuve Sénégal et mis à jour au Mali en Mauritanie et au
Sénégal. Au terme de cette réhabilitation et mise à jour, nous disposons actuellement dans

                                                                                                67
l'ensemble du bassin du fleuve Sénégal, d'un réseau hydrologique et météorologique homogène
et fonctionnel favorisant l'échange de données entre les quatre Etats riverains du fleuve Sénégal.
La formation des agents des Etats sur l'utilisation et l'exploitation des nouveaux équipements
hydrologiques a été organisée. Les activités indispensables pour l'atteinte de cet objectif ont été
alors exécutées avec satisfaction.

S'agissant du Réseau Guinéen des Données sur l'Eau et l'Environnement (RGDEE), l'OMVS
dispose à l'heure actuelle d'un organe fonctionnel suite aux différentes formations organisées à
cet effet et à son équipement en matériel informatique performant. La formation du RGDEE doit
se poursuivre afin qu'il soit au même niveau que les réseaux du Mali, de la Mauritanie et du
Sénégal.

La publication des bulletins hydrologiques bimestriels pour l'information des différents usagers,
se poursuit normalement en rapport avec la Division des ressources hydrauliques et de la
prévention des risques de la Direction Technique du Haut Commissariat de l'OMVS.

Le renforcement de la capacité des cadres des structures nationales des 4 Etats riverains, du Haut
Commissariat de l'OMVS, de la SOGED et de la SOGEM impliqués dans la gestion des
ressources en eau se poursuit à travers des ateliers régionaux de formation organisés à cet effet.
Au terme de l'année 2008, la totalité des indicateurs de performance de la Composante 2
« Gestion des données et des connaissances » est atteinte.

IV.3 - Composante 3 : Analyse Diagnostique Transfrontalière et Plan d'Action Stratégique
 Activités réalisées et Résultats atteints :
Cette composante a pour but final de doter l'OMVS d'un cadre de coopération pour la gestion des
problèmes environnementaux transfrontaliers prioritaires du bassin du fleuve Sénégal. Cela, en
passant d'abord par une Analyse Diagnostique Transfrontalière (ADT) détaillée au début du
Projet aux fins de préciser et d'élargir la compréhension des problèmes environnementaux et
ensuite l'élaboration d'un Plan d'action stratégique (PAS) participative et inclusive prenant en
compte les grandes questions et problèmes transfrontaliers prioritaires du bassin du fleuve
Sénégal.
Au terme des deux premières années qui ont été couronnées par l'élaboration et la validation de
l'Analyse Diagnostique Transfrontalière (ADT) en 2006, l'année 2008 a été consacrée
principalement à la finition du Plan d'action stratégique (PAS), la poursuite de l'appui au
renforcement de capacités des parties prenantes à travers les Comités Locaux de Coordination
(LCC) et la mise en oeuvres de certaines activités inscrites au cofinancement du projet GEF/BFS
par le Royaume des Pays-Bas.

A ­ Programmation des activités et actualisation des documents :
La feuille de route de la mise en oeuvre des activités a été actualisée ainsi que le budget de la
composante. Ceci a permis de prendre en compte les contraintes de temps et la nécessité de
consolidation des acquis au regard de la clôture du projet.

B - Analyse transfrontalière de diagnostic identifiant les problèmes prioritaires sur l'eau et
l'environnement dans le bassin formulée, préparée au niveau national et régional :
L'ADT du Bassin du fleuve Sénégal a été faite méthodologiquement en 3 grandes étapes
participatives. A chacune des étapes, les parties prenantes ont été impliquées en mettant en avant
le principe de " subsidiarité ".


                                                                                                68
Pour avoir une démarche commune, assurer la participation de l'ensemble des parties prenantes
(populations du bassin, ONG, Associations, Institution de Recherche,.....) aux fins de
l'élaboration du rapport portant sur l'ADT validée, les principales activités suivantes ont été
menées :

 Etape 1 : méthodologie et mécanisme de consultation
- Elaboration du Guide Méthodologique pour la conduite de l'analyse diagnostique
transfrontalière débouchant sur le plan d'action stratégique ;
 - Création et l'installation sur l'ensemble du bassin des structures consultatives (Comités Locaux
 de Coordination et Comités Nationaux de Coordination) jouant le rôle de groupes de travail de
 l'ADT/PAS au niveau local et national. C'est ainsi que 28 LCC et 4 NCC ont été installés.

Etape 2 : Analyse Diagnostique Transfrontalière au niveau national
Pour appuyer l'élaboration des analyses environnementales et la validation de la matrice
d'impacts, un consultant national a été recruté dans chacun des 4 Etats.

L'Analyse Diagnostique Transfrontalière, au niveau national, dans chacun des 4 pays du bassin, a
été menée avec succès en même temps que la validation de la matrice d'impact sur
l'environnement et les actions prioritaires. A cette analyse ont été associés : les populations du
bassin à travers les Comités locaux de Coordination (LCC)/Comités Nationaux de Coordination
(NCC), la communauté scientifique à travers les institutions de recherche, les services techniques
des Etats.

Les rapports nationaux d'analyse environnementale, les matrices d'impacts et actions prioritaires
validés sont disponibles.

Un atelier national de validation a été organisé dans chaque Etat sur l'ADT.

Elaboration du rapport d'ADT du bassin: un contrat a été conclu avec un Consultant Régional
pour appuyer ce processus au niveau de l'ensemble du bassin. Les activités rentrant dans le cadre
de cette prestation ont démarré.

Etape 3 : Elaboration de l'ADT Régional du bassin
A cette étape, un consultant régional a été recruté pour accompagner le processus au niveau
régional.
Un atelier régional d'examen et validation de la note de cadrage et du canevas de rédaction du
rapport régional d'ADT a été organisé à Mbodiène / Sénégal. A cet atelier ont participé, les
représentants des Comités nationaux de Coordination (NCC) des Etats Riverains, les Experts de
l'OMVS, les Consultants nationaux.

La note de cadrage et le canevas de rédaction du rapport régional de l'ADT prenant en compte
les amendements de l'atelier ont été finalisés.

La phase de collecte d'informations et de données complémentaires pour les besoins de l'ADT
régionale après préparation avec les Consultants nationaux et information des Etats, a été réalisée.

Suite à la soumission du rapport d'Analyse Diagnostique Transfrontalière, un atelier régional
regroupant les Experts des Etats et de l'OMVS, les Consultants nationaux et les partenaires au
développement a été organisé les 30 septembre et 1er octobre 2006 à Saint-Louis dans le bassin.
Cette rencontre régionale a examiné et validé le rapport provisoire d'ADT tout en faisant des
observations et contributions qui seront prises en compte dans une version révisée.

                                                                                                 69
Le processus d'ADT est terminé et la version finale du rapport sur l'ADT du bassin du fleuve
Sénégal, prenant en compte les observations de la Banque Mondiale est disponible. Cette
version finale a été mise à la disposition des Etats Riverains et des autres partenaires. Au terme
de ce processus, l'un des deux principaux indicateurs de résultats qui est la présence de l'ADT
est atteint.

C - Plan d'action stratégique (PAS) formulé et adopté

Le programme prévisionnel annuel a été bien suivi. Le chronogramme d'élaboration du Plan
d'Action Stratégique (PAS) s'est déroulé normalement pour l'atteinte des indicateurs contractuels
dans les délais requis.

C'est ainsi qu'au titre de cette sous-composante, dans l'optique d'atteindre les indicateurs de
résultats planifiés, les activités suivantes ont été réalisées :

1. Recrutement de l'équipe de Consultant :
L'équipe de Consultants, composée de quatre (4) nationaux (Guinée, Mali, Mauritanie et
Sénégal) et un régional, a été recrutée.

2. Consultation de démarrage du processus d'élaboration du PAS :
Il s'agit de la rencontre technique restreinte des consultants et de l'atelier régional de démarrage
qui ont permis d'une part l'appropriation de la méthodologie du PAS par l'ensemble des parties
prenantes et d'autres parts d'élaborer une vision commune pour le bassin ainsi que de proposer
des objectifs et mesures à mettre en oeuvre.

3. Consultations locales, nationales et régionales :
Les Consultations nationales et locales : Sur la base de la méthodologie de mise en oeuvre de la
composante ADT/PAS et les Termes De Références de l'élaboration du PAS approuvés, toutes
les consultations des parties prenantes au niveau local et national ont été menées avec succès dans
tous les Etats du bassin, des ateliers locaux regroupant les LCC en passant par les ateliers
nationaux jusqu'au Conseil des Ministres pour approuver les PAS.
C'est ainsi qu'au cours de cette année 2008, suivant la feuille de route et la méthodologie
d'élaboration du PAS, les consultations ci-après ont été tenues :
 Un atelier de préparation à l'élaboration du PAS (Contribution nationale au PAS du bassin) a
 été tenu dans chacun des Etats Riverains du bassin ;
 Un atelier local dans chacun des 28 Comités Locaux de Coordination (LCC) repartis sur
 l'ensemble du bassin ;
 Un atelier d'examen et de validation de la Contribution Nationale à l'élaboration du PAS
 dans chacun des 4 Etats du bassin ;
 Une rencontre restreinte de l'équipe de Consultants et les Experts du Haut Commissariat pour
 la préparation de l'atelier de validation régional du PAS du bassin du fleuve Sénégal ;
 Un atelier Régional d'Examen et de validation du PAS du bassin du fleuve Sénégal ;
 La version du PAS prenant en compte les observations de la Banque, du PNUD a été
 approuvée par le Conseil des Ministres de l'OMVS lors de sa 59 éme session ordinaire à
 Bamako/Mali en juillet 2008.



                                                                                                 70
 Le rapport des ateliers ainsi que les Contributions Nationales (NC-PAS) et la version définitive
du PAS sont disponibles.
D ­ Appui au LCC :
Dans le cadre du renforcement des capacités des LCC, un important lots de matériels
informatiques et bureautiques a été acquis sur les fonds du projet et mis à leur disposition.
 Conclusion :
Les objectifs assignés à cette composante ADT/PAS sont atteints au regard des activités réalisées
et des résultats obtenus. L'un des deux principaux indicateurs contractuels de résultats qui
l'Analyse Diagnostique Transfrontalière (ADT) précédant le Plan d'Action Stratégique (PAS) est
atteint. Le rapport sur l'ADT examiné et validé est disponible. Ce rapport portant sur l'Analyse
Diagnostique Transfrontalière a été transmis aux Etats du Bassin et aux autres partenaires.
Le second indicateur contractuel principal qui est l'élaboration du Plan d'Action Stratégique, a
été atteint. Le Plan d'Action Stratégique du bassin du Fleuve Sénégal est élaboré. Il a été
examiné, amélioré et validé au niveau régional par les Experts des Etats Riverains du fleuve
Sénégal, les Experts de l'OMVS. Il a été soumis à la Banque Mondiale, au PNUD et aux autres
partenaires qui l'ont approuvé en faisant des contributions et suggestions d'amélioration. Il a été
enfin approuvé par le Conseil des Ministres de l'OMVS qui a instruit le Haut Commissariat
d'organiser dans les meilleurs délais la Table Ronde des Bailleurs de fonds pour la mobilisation
de son financement.
Le défis de l'implication des Parties Prenantes à l'élaboration du PAS a été relevé au regard de la
démarche globale de mise en oeuvre du projet GEF/OMVS/BFS et en particulier le processus
d'élaboration du PAS. Il y a eu au moins : 28 ateliers locaux ; 08 ateliers nationaux ; 02 ateliers
préparatoires restreints et 02 ateliers régionaux et un Conseil des Ministres.
IV.4 -Composante 4 : Micro subventions/ Actions prioritaires :
Le Programme de Micro Subvention du GEF/BFS a été progressivement mis en oeuvre en deux
phases successives. La première phase de ces micros subventions a concerné 21 microprojets et a
été financée à hauteur de 114.450.933 FCFA. La seconde phase comprenant 34 micros projets a,
quant à elle, bénéficié d'un financement de 297.476.899 FCFA. Le Montant total des subventions
accordées se chiffre à 411.927.832 FCFA (831.338 US$ ; au taux de 1 US$ = 495, 5 FCFA).
La liste suivante récapitule le nombre des 55 micro- projets ayant bénéficié de subventions, dans
les quatre pays riverains du Bassin du Fleuve Sénégal :

PHASE 1 :

En Guinée, quatre micro-projets ont été financés :
   1. Le projet d'aménagement et de restauration des têtes de sources du fleuve Bafing,;
   2. Le projet de revalorisation du barrage hydro agricole du Bafing:
   3. Projet d'exploitation des plaines aménagées de Tolo,
   4. Le projet de restauration du couvert végétal et de reboisement du fleuve Bakoye,

Au Mali, les subventions ont été octroyées pour six micro- projets :
   1. Le projet de restauration d'un ancien site de placers à Kéniéba,
   2. Le projet de promotion de l'acacia Sénégal à Diangounté Camara,
   3. Le projet de restauration/reboisement du flanc de la colline de Moussoudougou,
   4. Le projet d'appui contre les feux de brousse/régénération des fourrages du parc de la
      boucle de Baoulé à Djidian,
   5. Le projet de renforcement des capacités et d'appui à la lutte contre la dégradation des
      terres, Diéma,

                                                                                                71
    6. Le projet de promotion du baobab par la plantation d'espèces de la Coopérative de
       Djigui-Sembé de Diangounté Camara,

La Mauritanie a bénéficié du financement de quatre micro- projets :
   1. Le projet de protection des terres cultivables et lutte contre la désertification, de Trarza,
   2. Le projet de fixation des dunes, reboisement et protection des berges, Trarza
   3. Le projet de promotion de l'agriculture biologique et reforestation, Gorgol,
   4. Le projet de gestion des terres et lutte contre la désertification, Trarza

Sept micro- projets ont été financés au Sénégal :
   1. Le projet de protection des berges du fleuve Sénégal, Kanel
   2. Le projet d'amélioration de la zone en défens de Gandé, Bakel;
   3. Le projet de renforcement du Périmètre Irrigué Villageois de Boural, Matam;
   4. Le projet intégrée des ressources de Fanaye: maraîchage et protection de l'environnement,
       Podor,;
   5. Le projet d'agroforesterie de Peuls Dios, Dagana, ;
   6. Le projet de régénération naturelle assistée de Fass Ngom, e Saint - Louis;
   7. Le projet d'agroforesterie de Darou Salam, Keur Massamba Diagne, Louga,.

PHASE 2 :

Au cours de cette seconde phase, treize micro- projets ont été financés en Guinée :
   1. Le projet d'appui à la gestion des forêts communautaires, à Dabola,
   2. Le Projet de création d'un verger d'anacardier à Balaki, Mali,
   3. Le Projet de création d'un verger d'anacardier à Arfamoussaya, à Dabola,
   4. Le projet de reboisement de 100 ha de plantation d'anacardiers à Kégnéoula, à Tougué,;
   5. Le projet de restauration et d'ensemencement des étangs de Dow Bodié, à Dalaba,;
   6. Le projet de reboisement de la forêt Communautaire de Nnyényéméré,;
   7. Le projet d'éducation environnementale sur les berges du fleuve Bakoye à Franwalia, de
       Siguiri,
   8. Le projet d'aménagement hydro agricole de 9 ha de bas fonds à Mombéya, à Dalaba,;
   9. Le projet de renforcement de capacités de gestion des feux de brousse, Mamou, ;
   10. Le projet de conservation et de gestion de la biodiversité au niveau Communautaire du
       village de N'diré, à Tougué,;
   11. Le projet de reboisement des têtes de source et berges du cours d'eau de la Falémé;;
   12. Le projet d'éducation environnementale sur les berges du fleuve Bakoye; à Siguiri,;
   13. Le projet d'appui à la gestion durable des ressources naturelles par les Collectivités de
       Kollangui, à Tougué,.

Sept micro- projets ont été financés au Mali; ce sont:
   1. Le projet de restauration des berges du fleuve Bakoye, au village de Mansala, Kita,;
   2. Le projet de protection de la biodiversité et amélioration de la gestion des ressources
       naturelles de la Commune de Tambaga, Kita, ;
   3. Le projet de revalorisation des peuplements de bambous, rôniers dans la Commune de
       Kobiri, Kita,;
   4. Le projet de lutte contre la désertification et les érosions du sol dans la Commune de
       Gory, Yélimané,;;
   5. Le projet de protection de la biodiversité autour de la plaine de Moussala, Kéniéba,;
   6. Le projet de protection et de régénération des ressources halieutiques et développement
       de la pisciculture de la Commune de Diamou, village de Tematesson,; ;


                                                                                                  72
    7. Le projet d'établissement d'une ceinture verte et restauration des berges du marigot de la
       ville de Kolokani Kolokani,

La République Islamique de Mauritanie a bénéficié du financement de huit micro- projets :
   1. Le projet de promotion et de vulgarisation du biogaz de la Coopérative Féminine de
      Dioudé, Brakna,
   2. Le projet de promotion et de vulgarisation du biogaz de la Coopérative Féminine de
      Thide, Boghé,;
   3. Le projet de protection des terres cultivables de Fedde Yellitaare, Brakna;
   4. Le projet action pour la sauvegarde de la nature, Guidimakha,
   5. Le projet de valorisation des ressources naturelles, Gorgol,
   6. Le projet de valorisation de la cuvette de Maydalla, Coopérative de Tachott, Guidimakha;
   7. Le projet de reboisement et de mise en place d'une ceinture verte de protection des
      mailles de production, Gorgol,
   8. Le projet de lutte contre l'ensablement et la valorisation des cultures durables, à Rosso,
      Trarza;

Les micro- projets financés au Sénégal, au cours de cette seconde phase sont au
nombre de six:
    9. Le projet de reboisement et conservation des écosystèmes à Yaféra, Ballou, Mourédy,
        Bakel,
    10. Le projet de reboisement et de restauration du terroir de Dembacané, Orkadiéré, Bokiladji,
        Kanel;
    11. Le projet de régénération en empoisonnement de wendou, Kanel, ;
    12. Le projet de lutte contre l'érosion des berges du fleuve Sénégal dans la Commune de
        Matam;
    13. Le projet de lutte contre la prolifération des végétaux aquatiques nuisibles dans les eaux
        du Gorom-Lampsar et bois villageois à Makhana, Rao, Gandon, Saint-Louis;;
    14. Le projet de régénération forestière et d'apiculture à Doué, GamadjiSaré, Podor,.

Pour conclure, il serait vivement souhaitable que l'expérience acquise par l'ensemble des acteurs
ayant été impliqués dans de l'exécution du Programme de Micro Subvention soit capitalisée pour
permettre la réplicabilité du dit programme ou la pérennisation des acquis, dans les quatre pays
riverains du Bassin du Fleuve Sénégal.

RECOMMANDATIONS :

    Accroître, les moyens nécessaires (financiers et logistiques) aux dispositifs institutionnels
    mis en place dans les pays riverains de l'OMVS (NCC ; LCC...), pour leur bon
    fonctionnement;
    Amplifier le renforcement de capacités opérationnelles des acteurs des projets et programmes
    de l'OMVS dans les pays membres;
    Améliorer la qualité technique et budgétaire des documents de projets afin d'obtenir le
    financement nécessaire à l'exécution des projets;
    Favoriser les rencontres d'échange d'expériences entre les acteurs des 4 pays riverains du
    A l'heure des NTI, accroître, améliorer, renforcer les moyens de communication entre les
    acteurs impliqués dans les activités de l'OMVS au niveau des 4 pays;
    Renforcer en qualité et en quantité le nombre de missions de terrain pour les activités de
    suivis et d'évaluation;
    Favoriser les voyages d'études et des séances de perfectionnement des cadres de l'OMVS
    tant au niveau Régional que National;

                                                                                              73
    Avec l'achèvement du PAS, explorer les voies et moyens permettant de pérenniser et
    d'étendre les activités initiées au titre des micro- subventions du GEF/BFS.

IV.5 - Composante 5 : Information et Participation du Public :
La composante « Information et participation du public » a pour principaux objectifs : a) de
promouvoir les activités du Projet ; b) d'informer le public sur les problèmes environnementaux
existant dans le bassin par des campagnes d'information soutenues par les médias, les ONG
locales, les NCC et les LCC ; c) de veiller à l'implication des communautés dans la planification
et les processus décisionnels relatifs aux ressources du bassin ; d) et enfin d'associer la
communauté scientifique à la recherche de solutions aux problèmes liés à l'eau et à
l'environnement du bassin. Elle compte trois (3) volets :

 « Campagnes médiatiques nationales » : Ces campagnes médiatiques, qui auront lieu dans les
 quatre Etats riverains, viennent en appoint au volet 2, mentionné ci-dessous, consacré à la
 «Participation et à l'implication des communautés du bassin et de la société civile ». Il s'agit
 d'utiliser, divers supports et médias, dont les plus répandus sont la radio, la télévision, la
 presse écrite, le bulletin d'information pour informer sur le Projet et sensibiliser sur la gestion
 des problèmes environnementaux transfrontaliers.

     «Participation et Implication des communautés du bassin et de la société civile» : Elle vise à
    renforcer la participation des populations et de la société civile aux processus décisionnels du
    bassin au moyen d'une campagne de sensibilisation aux questions environnementales
    transfrontalières ciblant les décideurs et les acteurs locaux.

 « Implication de la communauté scientifique » : Elle vise à rendre plus visible et à valoriser
 au mieux la recherche scientifique en vue de la mettre à contribution dans le processus
 d'aménagement et de gestion du fleuve Sénégal.

      Partenariat avec l'Union Mondiale pour la Nature (UICN)
L'OMVS a retenu d'exécuter la Composante 5 en partenariat avec l'UICN. Pour cela, les deux
institutions ont convenu, en décembre 2004, d'un Protocole d'accord de partenariat.
Les principaux axes d'intervention de la stratégie proposée par l'UICN se déclinent comme suit :

        Promouvoir le dialogue entre les divers acteurs ;
        Développer l'échange de connaissances et le renforcement des capacités ;
        Impliquer la communauté scientifique ;
        Développer le partenariat avec des institutions et organisations ;
        Capitaliser et diffuser les expériences réussies en matière de participation du public ;
        Promouvoir toutes ces activités par l'utilisation de médias communautaires et nationaux.

Activités réalisées

Volet 1 : Campagnes d'information multi média
     Emissions radio
Le Plan de Mise en OEuvre de la Composante 5 prévoit la conduite de campagnes médiatiques
nationales. Celles-ci visent l'information, la sensibilisation et l'éducation environnementale des
populations riveraines sur l'OMVS et les problèmes environnementaux du bassin.

La campagne d'information et de sensibilisation des populations a été menée par souci
d'efficacité, exclusivement avec les radios rurales du bassin, repartis entre les 4 Etats (Guinée,
Mali, Mauritanie et Sénégal).

                                                                                                 74
Une première phase s'est déjà déroulée dans les quatre Etats en 2006 ­ 2007 avec des résultats
encourageants. La deuxième phase a démarré en juillet 2007. Pour chaque phase, les documents
de cadrage, guide méthodologique et planification, ont été élaborés et transmis aux Experts
Nationaux. Ces documents définissent les thématiques à traiter, la méthodologie de conduite des
émissions, le budget et le chronogramme de réalisation.

     Autres canaux de Communication, d'Information et de Sensibilisation
En plus des émissions radiophoniques, des bulletins et des plaquettes d'information portant sur
l'OMVS, les activités du projet et les problèmes environnementaux majeurs du bassin, ont été
élaborés et diffusés.

Les panneaux d'information ont été également confectionnés et installés à des endroits
stratégiques et représentatifs du Bassin notamment au niveau des 28 LCC et des barrages de
Diama et de Manantali. Ces panneaux, tout en avisant un grand public sur les problèmes
environnementaux cruciaux, ont renforcé la visibilité et la présence de l'OMVS dans tout le
bassin.
 Dans les domaines de la préservation de l'environnement et de la connaissance du bassin et de la
mise en exergue l'approche participative initiée pour une gestion concertée des ressources du
bassin, un documentaire télévisé est en cours de réalisation

Une page web a été créée pour le Projet GEF/BFS sur le site de l'Observatoire de
l'Environnement

Volet 2 : Participation et Implication des communautés du bassin et de la société civile

     Réunions d'information et d'échanges avec les LCC, NCC
L'information étant un pré requis à la participation du public, un processus de promotion du
dialogue, riche en enseignements, a été conduit en 2005 avec l'appui de l'UINC partenaire dans
la mise en oeuvre de la composante 5. Ce processus a permis d'échanger avec les LCC/NCC, les
organisations de la Société civile et les membres de la communauté scientifique.

L'objectif était de permettre à tous ces partenaires incontournables de s'imprégner des objectifs
et du contenu du Projet en vue de leur implication. Par la même occasion, les besoins en
information de ces acteurs devaient être identifiés pour servir d'éléments de base à la confection
d'outils d'information - communication et de formation à élaborer dans une phase ultérieure. Les
rapports de ces échanges sont disponibles.

     Vulgarisation de la Charte des Eaux
Une fois cette mise à niveau rendue effective, la vulgarisation des nouvelles règles de gestion des
ressources édictées dans la Charte des Eaux du fleuve Sénégal, instrument novateur et avant-
gardiste a été l'étape suivante de ce processus d'implication des acteurs du bassin.

Une stratégie de vulgarisation a été élaborée et déroulée. Deux ateliers, aux niveaux national et
local, se sont déroulés dans chaque pays avec la participation des membres des NCC et LCC
élargis aux institutions privées impliquées dans la gestion du fleuve Sénégal, administrations
centrales chargées de l'eau, collectivités locales, institutions de la République, partenaires
intervenant dans la problématique de l'eau, ONGs et réseaux de l'eau, universités, médias, projets
de développement, etc.

La vulgarisation de la Charte des Eaux a permis de répondre à une interpellation récurrente lors
des différents ateliers d'information sur les mécanismes de gestion de l'eau du fleuve.

                                                                                                75
Tout en lançant un processus de plaidoyer en direction de la société civile, dans la foulée, des
ateliers, des panels de discussions, des émissions radio en français et en langues locales sur la
Charte ont été réalisés et diffusés avec succès.

Volet 3 : Implication de la communauté scientifique

         Ateliers nationaux de partages de connaissances et d'expériences avec les universités
         et institutions de recherche des quatre pays
Il s'agissait de favoriser la mise en place d'un cadre d'échange et de concertation entre ces
différentes structures au niveau national et régional sur la gestion durable des ressources
naturelles du bassin.

Ces ateliers ont offert l'opportunité aux institutions impliquées dans la recherche de présenter
leurs différentes activités, de faire le point sur les leçons pertinentes à tirer et d'échanger sur la
valeur ajoutée que pourraient apporter les résultats de la recherche scientifique dans le processus
de la gestion de l'Eau et de l'Environnement du Fleuve Sénégal.

Cette initiative, qui a permis de mettre ensemble les chercheurs d'un pays pour leur faire partager
leurs expériences, a été très bien accueillie et appréciée par les participants. Au-delà de la
découverte mutuelle des liens étroits existant entre leurs activités, ces ateliers ont été l'occasion
d'une prise d'engagement d'un partenariat au niveau national en vue de contribuer efficacement à
la Gestion de l'Eau et de l'Environnement du fleuve Sénégal.

     Conférence Régionale avec la Communauté scientifique des quatre pays.
Dans la continuité des ateliers nationaux de partage de connaissances et d'expériences entre
membres de la communauté scientifique de chaque pays, une Conférence régionale a été
organisée.

Cette Conférence Régionale avait pour objectif global d'engager, au niveau régional, le débat sur
la coopération OMVS ­ Communauté Scientifique aux de contribuer à asseoir une base de
gestion durable des ressources du bassin sur la base d'un protocole d'accord de coopération
OMVS ­ Communauté Scientifique.

Ces résultats escomptés ont été pleinement atteints dans la mesure où au sortir de cette
Conférence, les thématiques de recherche pertinentes pour l'OMVS ont été retenues, un Protocole
d'Accord validé et un dispositif de collaboration OMVS ­ Communauté Scientifique qui
s'inspire d'expérience d'autres partenariats proposé.

        Rencontre OMVS ­ Communauté Scientifique : signature des Accords de
        Coopération
A la suite de la Conférence Régionale de Dakar, une rencontre OMVS-Communauté Scientifique
a été organisée les 31 mars et 1er avril 2008, à l'hôtel Novotel à Dakar avec la participation des
Recteurs des Universités de Dakar, de Saint Louis et de Thiès, de la Vice Présidente de
l'Université de Nouakchott, des Représentants des Recteurs des Universités de Conakry et de
Bamako, des Représentants des Ministères de tutelle de l'OMVS et des Ministères en charge de la
Recherche Scientifique, des Directeurs d'Institutions de Recherche, des Directeurs Nationaux et
des responsables de l'OMVS.

L'objectif de cette rencontre était de signer les Accords de Coopération et de mettre en place des
structures partenariales que sont le Comité de Pilotage du Partenariat OMVS ­ Communauté

                                                                                                   76
Scientifique et le Conseil Scientifique, conformément aux recommandations de la Conférence
Régionale. Ces structures ont été mises en place. Concernant les Accords de Coopération,
l'OMVS a signé avec certaines Universités et Institutions de Recherche des Etats du Bassin.

Cette réunion a servi également de cadre d'échanges pour la constitution d'équipes
pluridisciplinaires pour mener des recherches à caractère transfrontalier. Les thèmes de ces
recherches seront choisis parmi la liste de thématiques validées lors de la Conférence Régionale
de Dakar, tenue en avril 2007.

Pour terminer, l'OMVS et les membres de la Communauté Scientifique ont fait l'ébauche, dans le
cadre de travaux de groupe, d'un programme d'actions conjoint.

Les étapes suivantes de ce processus consisteront à consolider ce programme d'actions conjoint
OMVS ­ Communauté Scientifique et à le mettre en oeuvre. La première enveloppe de 100
Millions Fcfa dégagée par le Haut Commissariat sera utilisée dans ce sens.

Conclusion
L'un des objectifs majeurs de cette Composante était le renforcement du processus participatif,
cela avec l'appui de l'Union pour la nature (UINC). A cet effet, le nombre des Comités Locaux
de Coordination a doublé: de 14, ils sont passés à 28 dans le Projet GEF permettant ainsi un
meilleur maillage de l'espace du bassin. La société civile élargie à l'ensemble des segments
communautaires (enseignants, journalistes, etc.) a été pleinement impliquée grâce à des sessions
d'information et de formation, à l'animation d'émissions radios et à la mise à disposition de
supports d'information comme des plaquettes, bulletins et autres. La mise en place d'un réseau de
partenariat avec 16 Universités et Institutions de recherche des quatre Etats, vient compléter le
dispositif.

V. CONCLUSION ET ENSEIGNEMENTS

Au terme de la mise en oeuvre du projet, on peut affirmer qu'une synergie et une solidarité se sont
développées entre les différents acteurs pour l'atteinte de l'objectif général visé par le Projet qui
est  d'établir un cadre environnemental stratégique et participatif pour le développement
durable du Bassin du fleuve Sénégal et de lancer au niveau de l'ensemble du bassin, un
programme coopératif pour la gestion transfrontalière des ressources en eau et en terres. En
effet, hormis les volets couverts par le cofinancement, la quasi totalité des indicateurs de résultats
a été atteinte pour toutes les composantes.

Des étapes décisives ont été franchies tant sur le plan organisationnel des parties prenantes à tous
les niveaux (local, national et régional) que sur le plan de mise en oeuvre des activités. C'est ainsi
qu'entre autres, les acquis ci-après méritent d'être soulignés et consolidés :

        Mise en place dans chaque Etat et au niveau régional d'un cadre institutionnel
        opérationnel d'exécution du projet (Coordination régionale, Cellules nationales, Comités
        Nationaux de Coordination, Comités Locaux de Coordination)
        Existence d'un partenariat avec les populations du bassin, la société civile et la
        Communauté scientifique
        Amélioration considérable de la gestion des données et des connaissances dans les
        domaines de l'eau et de l'environnement par l'équipement d'un réseau de stations
        hydrologiques et météorologiques.


                                                                                                   77
        Présence des études transversales ou thématiques d'approfondissement des problèmes
        environnementaux et de gestion des ressources en eau
        Création d'un cadre de plus en plus opérationnel de mise en oeuvre des microprojets de
        préservation de l'environnement visant de plus la réduction de la pauvreté dans le bassin
        Réalisation d'une analyse diagnostique transfrontalière (ADT) et d'un plan d'action
        stratégique (PAS) de façon participative, dotant ainsi l'OMVS d'un outil de planification
        stratégique.

Pour consolider ces principaux acquis et s'assurer de la réussite du Projet, l'OMVS, avec le
concours de ses partenaires doit s'atteler à trouver le financement de ce plan d'action stratégique
qui est le fruit d'une concertation sans précédent de tous les acteurs du bassin du fleuve Sénégal.
Ceci permettra de mettre en oeuvre dans les meilleurs délais pour maintenir l'espoir des
populations du bassin qui se sont beaucoup investies pour lui donner un contenu réel et concret
durant ces quatre années d'exécution.

Cette expérience nous permet d'affirmer que l'exécution des projets FEM dans un contexte
transfrontalier est complexe d'où la nécessité de faire preuve de flexibilité, d'initiative et
d'adaptation aux réalités de chaque bassin. Par ailleurs la mise en place du cofinancement du
Royaume des Pays Bas a permis le renforcement de certaines composantes et avec la mise en
place de l'assistance technique, des actions seront menées rapidement sur le terrain (mise en place
des associations d'usagers, lutte contre les végétaux aquatiques et la dégradation des berges, ...)
conformément aux objectifs stratégiques du Projet. Ainsi grâce à ce projet, on peut dire que
l'OMVS est en train de franchir un pas supplémentaire dans la consolidation des principes
fondateurs de l'OMVS que sont : la solidarité, le partage et l'équité.




                                                                                                78
Annex 9. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders

In addition to input from the UNDP contracted consultant at time of the ICR mission, UNDP
regional team leader provided comments directly into the text. Comments referred to the ICR's
evaluation of the co-implementation arrangements for the project by the World Bank and UNDP.

No comments were received from Dutch Embassy/Ministry of Development Cooperation.




                                                                                          79
Annex 10: Additional Information for GEF purposes

1 Analysis of attainment of global environmental objectives

The global environmental objective was to provide a participatory strategic environmental
framework for the environmentally sustainable development of the Senegal River Basin and to
launch a Basin-wide cooperative program for transboundary land-water management. This
objective was fully attained with the successful participatory development and completion of the
TDA and SAP and subsequent approval of the SAP by the inter-ministerial council. The
TDA/SAP process played an important role for mainstreaming environmental aspects into multi-
purpose development planning for the Senegal River Basin and for leveraging reorganization of
the Regional River Basin Commission (OMVS) towards a more inclusive institution with cross-
sectoral functions. The SAP is further expected to become a chapter of the broader multi-purpose
master plan guiding future investments for the Basin. With the harmonization process of Guinea's
national water legislation vis-à-vis the regional water charter in advanced stage, the Basin-wide
harmonization of water legislation for all riparian countries is now nearly complete and thus
forming the foundation for Basin-wide cooperative land-water management. The Basin-wide
cooperation is further strengthened by a now fully operational and functional data exchange
network and regular environmental status monitoring of the Senegal River Basin. The
rehabilitation of the hydrological and meteorological networks for the overall river Basin, and in
particular the upper Basin in Guinea, has contributed substantially to environmental status
monitoring.

For additional information and analysis, please refer to sections F. `Results Framework Analysis'
with detailed information on results attained against Key Performance Indicators as well as
section 3.2 `Achievement of GEO' and section 3.4 `Justification of Overall Outcome Rating'.
Further details on outputs delivered can be found in Annex 3 `Outputs by Components'.

2 Country ownership and driveness

The project has benefited substantially from strong country ownership and driveness
demonstrated in the form of full endorsement of OMVS mandate by the riparian countries.
OMVS can demonstrate exceptional levels of trust and confidence from its member countries on
all aspects ranging from strategic development planning to fiduciary accountability. Throughout
the project preparation and implementation phase, the regional project further remained relevant
to the sectoral strategies of involved governments as well as the World Bank's CAS for the
respective countries, and the GEF's strategic priorities for International Water projects. For
additional information and analysis, please refer to section 3.1. `Relevance of Objectives, Design
and Implementation' of this document.

3 Stakeholder participation and public involvement (including gender)

Stakeholder participation and public involvement have featured as particularly strong aspects
starting from project preparation. In particular the TDA process was praised for its strong
participatory qualities at local, national and regional levels that were achieved with support of
IUCN. The multi-level institutional structure that included national as well as local coordination
committees further supported wide representation of stakeholders in the planning and priority
setting process. For further details see outputs achieved under Component 5 `Public Participation
Program' in Annex 3 `Outputs by Components'.


                                                                                               80
4 Replication approach/potential

The project provides important lessons that will guide replication of this successful project in
other major river Basins in Africa and throughout the world. Key lessons that can be drawn of
this project are:
 The common assumption, that the weakest participating country is the main limitation for the
     success of a regional project, has proven invalid; this is especially true when a strong regional
     institution is in place, which has the full endorsement and confidence of the different riparian
     countries of a shared river Basin.
 GEF grant funding can play a critical role in leveraging an inclusive reorganization of a
     regional institution.
 The TDA/SAP process played an important role for mainstreaming environment at all levels
     and should continue to play an important role for GEF projects targeting transboundary water
     bodies or river Basins.
 Catalytic role of GEF to leverage supplementary funding and set the stage for a larger multi-
     purpose, multi-sectoral development investment (IDA funding).

For additional information and analysis, please refer to section 6 `Lessons learned' of this
document.

5 Monitoring and evaluation
Project progress monitoring was based on process indicators due to the nature of this project,
which was clearly catalytic in nature and aimed to mobilize institutional and regulatory reform as
well as environmental mainstreaming. In addition to project progress monitoring against Key
Performance Indicators, the project supported OMVS with establishing and rehabilitating an
environmental status monitoring network of environmental, hydrologic and meteorological trends
and a regional data network including an early warning system are now fully functional.

For additional information, please refer to Section 2.3 `Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Design,
Implementation and Utilization' of this document.

6 Cost Effectiveness

The project was designed and implemented in a cost-effective manner. Excessive administrative
hurdles were avoided and key project management functions were fully integrated into OMVS.
With the establishment of national and local coordination cells fully mainstreamed in existing
institutional structures, the project achieved effective interface at local, national, and regional
levels. For additional information, please refer to Section 3.3. `Efficiency' of this document.

7 Financial Planning/Costs

Refer to Annex 1 of this document for a comparison of actual cost compared to cost estimated at
appraisal as well as a comparison of co-financing realized.
Refer to Annex 3 of this document for a detailed summary of outputs achieved by component.

Additional associated funding for the Multi-purpose Water Resources Development project for
the Senegal River Basin was leveraged during the implementation of the project, including:
IDA                     US$m 110.00
OMVS/Countries          US$m 12.00
AfDB:                   US$m 2.00


                                                                                                   81
EC:           US$m   1.80
AfD:          US$m   8.32
Netherlands   US$m   6.63
TOTAL         US$m   140.75




                              82
Annex 11. List of Supporting Documents

GEF:
   - Secretariat : Project review, July 2003
Legal :
   - Arrêté interministériel portant création, organisation et modalités de fonctionnement du
        Comite National de Coordination des Projets de l'OMVS dans chaque pays membre
   - Arrêté interministériel portant création, organisation et modalités de fonctionnement du
        Comite Local de Coordination des Projets de l'OMVS dans chaque pays membre
   - Arrêté prefecturels création, organisation et modalités de fonctionnement du Comite
        Local de Coordination des Projets de l'OMVS
   - Décisions nationales portant création du groupe de travail sur la législation en matière
        d'eau et d'environnement et nomination de ses membres dans chaque pays membre
OMVS :
   - OMVS : Analyse Diagnostique Environnementale Transfrontalière du Bassin du Fleuve
        Sénégal, Synthèse Régionale, Juin 2007
   - OMVS/HC : Atelier Séminaire d'Information, de Formation et d'Echanges, Organise à
        l'intention des Parlementaires et Sénateurs de l'Espace OMVS, Novembre 2007
   - OMVS : Cellule Nationale Guinée : Atelier d'évaluation du niveau de prise en compte
        par la Guinée des recommandations du groupe de travail élargi au haut commissariat en
        matière de législation, rapport synthèse, Juillet 2008
   - OMVS : Cellule Nationale Sénégal : La mise en oeuvre au Sénégal du Programme de
        Micro Subventions, Septembre 2008
   - OMVS : Cellule Nationale Sénégal : Rapport de l'atelier national d'échanges sur le
        programme de micro subventions au Sénégal, Septembre 2008
   - OMVS : Cellule Nationale Sénégal : Rapport de l'atelier national d'information,
        échanges et de capitalisation des expériences du PMS au Sénégal, Octobre 2007
   - OMVS : Cellule Nationale Sénégal : Rapport d'exécution de la Composante 4
        « Programme de micro subventions et actions prioritaires (2004-2008). Rap par Mme
        Wone A.D. Expert National en Microprojets, Dakar, Avril 2008.
   - OMVS : Charte des Eaux du Fleuve Sénégal, Mai 2002
   - OMVS : Conseil des Ministres : Rapport et Programme d'activités du Haut Commissariat
        Bilan 2007 ­ Perspectives 2008, 58eme Session Ordinaire, Novembre 2007
   - OMVS/HC : Décision No. 0017 ER/HC instituant le comite de pilotage du partenariat
        entre l'OMVS et la communauté scientifique des états membres de l'OMVS, 28 mars
        2008
   - OMVS : Forum régional africain sur la contribution des projets FEM a la gestion des
        bassins transfrontaliers : cas du bassin du fleuve Sénégal, Juin 2006
   - OMVS : Le journal : Juin 2006, Septembre 2007
   - OMVS/HC : Le projet de Gestion des Ressources en Eau et de l'Environnement du
        bassin du fleuve Sénégal (FEM/BFS)
   - OMVS : Manuel des Procédures Administratives et Comptables, Mars 2004
   - OMVS : Nouvelles du Bassin : Juin 2005, Juillet 2006
   - OMVS : Plan d'Action Stratégique de Gestion des Problèmes Environnementaux
        Prioritaires du Bassin du Fleuve Sénégal, 29 juillet 2008
   - OMVS : Projet de gestion des ressources en eau et de l'environnement du bassin du
        fleuve Sénégal : Protocole d'accord avec l'UINC
   - OMVS/UINC : Pour mieux connaître l'OMVS, Mai 2007
   - OMVS : Rapport annuel sur l'état de l'Environnement et des Ressources Naturelles du
        Bassin du Fleuve Sénégal, Décembre 2006
   - OMVS : Rapport de la première réunion du comite de pilotage, Décembre 2005

                                                                                          83
    - OMVS/HC : Facilitation du Dialogue entre les états membres de l'OMVS, sur leurs
      cadres législatifs et politiques nationales respectives en matière de gestion des ressources
      en eau et de l'environnement, Mai 2007
  - OMVS/HC : Projet de Gestion des Ressources en Eau et de l'Environnement, rapport
      final d'activités du projet, Septembre 2008
  - OMVS/HC : Rapport d'audits des comptes projets GEF/BFS/OMVS, 2007
  - OMVS/HC- CRGP : Plan de Mise en OEuvre du Projet, Mars 2004
  - OMVS/HC- CRGP : Projet de Gestion des Ressources en Eau et de l'Environnement,
      Programme de micro subventions, synthèse du manuel de procédures
  - OMVS/HC- CRGP : Projet de gestion des ressources en eau et de l'environnement du
      bassin du fleuve Sénégal, LE PROGRAMME DE MICRO SUBVENTION DU GEF/BFS
      DE L'OMVS
  - OMVS/HC-CRGP : Projet de gestion des ressources en eau et de l'environnement du
      bassin du fleuve Sénégal, cofinancement du royaume des Pays-Bas, 20p.
  - OMVS/HC-CRGP : Rapport final activités du projet GEF/BFS/OMVS, Septembre 2008
  - OMVS-SOE : Rapport du Service Observatoire de l'Environnement, Novembre 2006
  - OMVS/HC-CRGP : Rapports de Suivi Financier 2007
  - OMVS-HC/GEF/BFS : Termes de Références pour l'amendement du manuel de
      Procédures, la prise en compte par le logiciel de comptabilité et de gestion financière des
      spécificités du cofinancement hollandais ainsi que l'appropriation par les exploitants du
      système intègre, Novembre 2005
UNDP :
  - UNDP : Projet de gestion des ressources en eau et de l'environnement du bassin du
      fleuve Sénégal, Document de projet RAF/01/G32
  - UNDP/GEF : Annual project Report, Senegal River Basin Water and Environmental
      Management project, (APR/PIR) 2006, reporting period 1 July 2005 to 30 June 2006
  - UNDP/GEF: Annual project Report, Senegal River Basin Water and Environmental
      Management project 2007, reporting period 1 July 2006 to 30 June 2007.
  - UNDP/GEF : Annual project Report, Senegal River Basin Water and Environmental
      Management project, (APR/PIR) 2008, reporting period 1 July 2007 to 30 June 2008
  - UNDP/CIG : Projet FEM/Bassin du Fleuve Sénégal, Composante « micro subventions et
      actions prioritaires », Manuel de Procédures, rapport final, Novembre 2003
WB :
  - WB : Aide-Memoires at preparation and implementation stages covering 1998, 2001-
      2008
  - WB : Country Assistance Strategies (CAS), CAS Guinea 2003, Mali 2007, Mauritania
      2007, Senegal 2007
  - WB : Implementation Status Reports #1 - #10
  - WB : Integrated Safeguards Data Sheet, October 2002
  - WB: Letter of Agreement, Dutch Grant for Support to the Senegal River Basin Water and
      Environment project, Grant No. TF055192, June 1, 2005
  - WB : Report No: 26632-AFR, project Appraisal Document to the OMVS for the Senegal
      River Basin Water and Environmental Management project, October 3, 2003
  - WB : Report No: 34945-AFR, project Appraisal Document to the Republic of Mali, to
      the Islamic Republic of Mauritania, to the Republic of Senegal and to the Republic of
      Guinea for the Senegal River Basin Multi-Purpose Water Resources Development project,
      May 10, 2006
  - WB : Letter of Agreement, November 17, 2003
  - WB : Minutes Decision-Meeting, August 2002
  - WB : Minutes of Negotiation, August 2003
  - WB : Quality Assurance Group, QEA7 assessment report, July 13, 2005

                                                                                              84
