D    _cmet of
The World Bank
FOR OmCIL USE ONLY
1qwt No. 5667
PROJECT CONPLETION REPORT
SOALIA - SOMALI DEVELOPMENT BANK (SDB)
(CREDIT 698-SO)
May 24, 1985
Eastern and Southern Africa Projects Department
Tndustrial Development and Finance Division
Th*sdocuamt hs a retrictd distri_bdo  ad rmy be wed by rec_piets only in te perfoance of
.thr offidil dute  lb  m s my st othrwise be dladoi wid_t Wedd Bank audz.tioa.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit  Somali Shilling (So_ Sh) = 100 cents
Up to June 30, 1981: US$1.00 = So. Sh. 6.295
July 1, 1981 - June 30, 1982: US$1.00 = So. Sh. 6.295 (for essential
imports)
US$1.00 - So. Sh. 12.590 (for all other
foreigu* transac-tons)
July 1, 1982: US$1.00 = So. Sh. 15.227
Fiscal Year
SDB: January 1 - December 31



FOR OMCLAL USE ONLY
PR:OJECr COMPLETION REPORT
SOMALIA:  SOMALI DEVELOPMENT BANK (SDB)
(CREDIT b98-SO)
Table of Contents
Page No
PRFACE . . . . . .
BASIC DATA SHEZT .  .......i. .  .  .  .  .  . -
KIGHLIGHTS  . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  . .
I.   INTRODUCTION  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                   1
ILI.  MACROECONOMIC, INDUSTRIAL AND FINANCIAL OBJECTIVES .  .         -        2
III.  THE INSTITUTION.                    . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .      5
IV.  ALLOCATION OF THE LOAN  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    12
V.   OPERATIONAL AND FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE . . . . . .   .           . .      14
VI.  CONCLUSIONS   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    18
1. Somalia:  Structure of Iterest Rates                                    21
2. List of Subprojects Fiuanced under Credit 698-S0                         22
3. Characteristics of Subprojects Finauced Under Credit 698-SO              23
4. Analysis of Loan Approvals as of December 31, 1982                       24
5. Comparison of Actual and Forecast Operations (1977-1982)                 25
6. Equity-Investments as of June 30, 1913                                   26
7. Performance of Subsidiary Companies                                      27
8. Summary Description and Present Status of Selected Subprojects           28
Financed Under Credit 698-SO
9.  Comparison of Projected and Actual Income Statements (1977-1982)        31
10.  Comparison of Projected and Actual Balance Sheets (1977-1982)           32
11.  Projected and Actual Financial Ratios (1977-1982)                       33
12. Comments Received from Borrower                                          34
This document has a resticted distribution and may be used by reipicats only in the perfonnance
of their offica dutis Its contents may not otherwise be disckled without Wodd Bank authoriadon.



PROJECT COMPLETION REPOMT
SOMALIA: SOMALI DEVE.WPMENT BANK
(C3EDIT 698-SO)
PRkFAcE
This report preseuts an evaluatiou of Credit 698-SO to Somali
Development Bank (SDB). The credit was approved in April 1977, and was
declared effective ia February 1976.  Disbursements were closed in August
19U3.
The Associatiou's Eastern and Southeru Africa Reglonal Office has
prepared this report on the basis of informacion gathered durring a mission
to Somalia in October 1983. The report reviews SDB's use of the credit
proceeds and its i;astitutional development over the past six years-  Comments
received from the Borrower have been taken into account in finalizing the
report and are reproduced as Annex 12.
This project has not been audited by the Operations Evaluation
Department.



- ii -
Ph OJECT COMPLETION REPORT
SOMALIA - SALI DEVELOPMENT BANK (SDB)
(CREDIT 698-SO)
J5ASIC DATA SHEET
(Amounts na USu mxLioa)
As of April 30, 1985
Original     Disbursed      Caucelled      Repaid     Outstanding
Credit No. 698-S0            5.0           4.52            .48          -           4.52
Cumlative Disbursements
Fiscal Year                  1978        1979       1980        1981       1982        1983
(i)    Estimated             1.5        4.3 -       5.0          -          -           -
(ii)   Actual                0.01       0.13        0.54         3.6        4.3        4.52
(iii3  (ii) as Z of (i)      0.7        3          11          72          86         90
PROJECT DATA
Original Credit Dates        Actual/Revised
Board Approval                                 4/19/77                  4/19/77
Credit Agreement                               6/01/77                  b/O1/77
Effectiveness                                  2/27/78                  2/27/78
Completion of Commitments                      6/3U/79                  6/30/81
Credit Closing                                 6/30/81                  6/30/82
_ISSION DATA
No. of     No. of
Month/Year      weeks       Persous    Staff Weeks      Dates of Report
Identification         1/76           2             2            4.0              3/03/76
Appraisal              8/76            1.1          2            2.2               3/31/77
Supervision 1         11/77           1.5           2            3.0              1/26/78
Supervision 2          9/78           1.0           2            2.0             11/13/78
Supervision 3          3/79           1.0           1            1.0              4/03/79
Supervision 4          4/80           2.5           2            5.0              6113/80
Supervisiou 5          1/81           1.4           3            4.2              2/13J81
Supervision 6          3/82           1.0           2            2.0              5/10/82
Completion            10/83           2.0           1            2.0              b/30/84



- iii -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
SOMALIA - SOMALI DEVELOPMENT BANK (SDB)
(CREDIT b9d-SU)
HTGULIGHTS
The Somali Development Bank (SDB) was appra-sed for the first IDA
credit in 1976.  SDB played a major role in the Somali economy; apart from
being the only institution providing medium and long term financing for
industrial, agricultural and livestock activities, it took the initiative
in promoting projects in the industrial and agro-i adustrial sectors and
provided management where necessary.  SDA's effectiveness in carrying out
these respousibilities was handicapped by several iusticutional
weaknesses.  One of the main objectives of credit 698-SO was to help
strengthen SDB's institutional capabilities in order to enhance its role in
Somalia's development, especially i'i the industrial sector.  The IDA credit
(USW5 million) i-cluded a technical assistance component of US$260,000 for
financing the contracts of key expatriate persounel and for training Somali
staff.
At the time of appraisal, SDB had several shortccmiugs.  It had
an unsuitable organizational structure, iuadequate and weak staffiug, and
lacked appropriate procedures for accounting, financial coutrol, project
promotion, appraisal and follow-up. During the period of credit
implementatLon, SDB made an effort to address some of these weaknesses.
With the assistance of its expatriate staff and cousultants, some of whom
were financed under the credit, It established Drocedures for project
appraisal, supervision, account4ng and financial control (para. 3.1e). SDB
also made progress in providing external tra-in'ig to Somali professional
staff. However, further progress towards dealing with these shortcomings
was hampered by two major factors: SDB did not make full use of the
services of its expatriate staff, especially in utilizing them to provide
on-the-job traiaing to Somali professional staff; and was slow in
implement.ing some of the procedures which had been established (paras.
3.08, 3.09). As a resuLt SDB still has a number of weaknesses to overcome
especially regarding on-the-job staff training, project appraisal,
implementation and supervision, and portfolio management.  The growth in
SDB's volume of operations over the past six years was lower than
anticipated at appraisal partly due to a difficult economic environment in
Somalia especially in the industrial sector and due to several
iistitutional problems (para. 5.03).  SDB's financial performance was below
appraisal expectation; its financial condition on the other hand has
remained sound due to regular increases in its pa-id-in share capital
(paras. 5.08, 5.09).
Other points of interest are:
- A more positive Guvernment attitude towards the role of the
private seccor (para. 2.05);
- Delays in commitment and disbursement of the credit (para. 3.11);
- Cost overruns experienced by IDA financed projects (para. 4.03);
and
- Performance of projects financed under the credit (Annex 8).



PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
SOMALIA - SMALT DEVELOPMENT SANK (SDB)
(CREDIT 698-SO)
I. INTRODUCTION
1.01      The Somali Development Bank (SDB) was established in 19b8 as a
Government owned institutiou to take over the loug-term loan portfolio of
Credito Somalol1, a Government-owned bauk which was bei;g wound up. SDB's
original objective was to assist productive enterprises in various sectors
and to take any other initiative aimed at the economic development of the
country, with particular reference to encouraging the development of the
private sector and within the framework of development programs and
priorities set by the Government. Following the establishmnt of a
revolutionary Government in 1969 however, development policies and
priorities were revised and SDB became the primary institution providing
ass_stance to public enterprises although it continued to assist the
development of small farmers and small private industrial activities.
1.02      The World Bank Group's involvement with SDB began in 1969 when,
at the request of the Somali Government, a Bank mission visited Mogadishu
to review SDB's organization, potential role, and financial requirements.
Before the baiik could start any substantive dialogue witir the Somali
authorities on this matter, major political changes took place in Somalia
inhibiting further action from the Sank. Contacts with SUB were renewed at
the 1975 Annual Meeting and a reconnaissance mission visited Somalia in
January 1976. The mission found SDB to be a suitable iustitution for
channelling assistance to productive enterprises in Somalia and recommended
its appraisal for au IDA credit.
1.03      An IDA mission appraised SDB in August 1976 (Appraisal Report
No. 1341a-SO) and an IDA credit of US$5 million including technical
assistance of US$260,000 to finance the training of SDB staff and the
contracts of key experts was approved on April 19, 1977; it was signed on
June 1, 1977 and became effective on February 2, 1978. -Commitments and
disbursements under the credit were slower than anticipated at appraisal.
As of June 30, 1979 - the original terminal date for submission of subloan
applications - only 25% of the credit had been committed. The Subproject
Submission date was extended twice to June 30, 1980 aud to June 30, 1981.
The original closiug date was June 30, 1981 but had to be extended to June
30, 1982. Disbursements under the credit were closed on August 30, 1983
resulting in cancellation of unutilized amount of US$483,000.
1.04      The proceeds of the credit were oulent by the Government to SDB
at 5% per annum for 15 years, including a five-year grace period. The
importaut features of the credit included an individual subproject free
1/   Credito Somalo, a Governmeut-owued bank established in 1959, had
obtained from USAID a loan of US$2 million for investment in
development projects. Most loans turned out to be bad and
unrecoverable. Subsequently, the Government dissolved Credito Somalo
in 1968 and trausferred its long-term loau portfolio to SDB.



- 2.-
limit of $5O,O0O with an aggregate free limit of $1.5 million. SDB agreed
to charge minimum interest rates of 5-1/2X per annum on medium-term (up to
6 years) and 6Z per annum on loug-term (over 6 years) subloans to
agricultural and handicraft euterprises and a minimum of 7-1/2Z per annum
on subloans to industrial and other enterprises.  These interest rates were
considered to be m-aginally positive in real terms, as at that time,
inflation was not expected to exceed 5 to 6% p.a. SDS would maintain a
debt/equity ratio not exceeding 4:1.  The foreigm exchange risk on Loans
made by SDB would be borne by the Government. The appointment by SDJs of
five Somali University graduates (para. 3.01 (ii)) amd its adoption of an
appropriate policy statement were set as conditions of effectiveness of the
credit.
1.05      The main objectives of the credit were to: (i) provide SDB with
foreign resources to enable it to provide medium and loug-term financing to
productive enterprises in the industrial and agricultural sectors within
the framework of Somalia's development programs and priorities; (ii) build
up SDB into a strong institution with adequate capability to promote,
appraise and supervise projects and to pursue sound investment policies
and, (iii) provide an opportunity for the Association to engage in a
dialogue with the Government on its industrial policies, particularly
iuterest rates.
*I. MACROECONOMIC, INDUSTRIAL AND FINANCIAL OBJECTIVES
2.01      Somalia, a large, sparsely populated country, is one of the
world's poorest and most handicapped nations In terms of potential for
ecouojric development. Its population of about 4.5 million people is
unevealy distributed over a land area most of which is semi-arid. Only 13%
of the land area is potentially cultivable. About 60X of the populatiou
are nomads and semi-nomads who depend ou livestock for their livelihood.
Livestock production accounts for about 35% of GDP and provides over 80Z of
export earnings. During the past 10 years, Somalia has experienced a
number of serious events which led to a deterioration in the economic
situation. Apart from the severe drought of 1973-1975 which caused great
human suffering, loss of livestock and led to a large influx of people into
towus, Somalia has been affected by external events-the severing of
relations with the Soviet Union in 1977 and the conflict with Ethiopia
between 1977 aud 1980. After the 1977 severing of relations with the
Soviet Union and departure of Soviet experts, some important industries
which were built and ran by them virtually stopped production while other
on-going iuvestmeuts were disrupted. Economic planniug and management were
also disrupted. During the time of close ties with the Soviet Union,
little attention was paid to the function of market, price and incentive
mechanisms. Emphasis was placed on state interventiou and coutrols system
which required extensive management in the Government and in state-owned
enterprises. Consequently, the departure of Soviet technical experts left
a void which has not been filled because of an acute shortage of skilled
maupower at all levels. This problem has been exacerbated by an outflow of
Somali workers including skilled and professional people to nearby



-3-
oil-producing countries where they obtain higher renumeration than in
Somalia.  The conflict with Ethiopia had an adverse effect on the Sonali
economy.  It led to an influx of refugees estimated at over one million
people, equivalent to about one quarter of Somalia's owa population.  The
cost of meetiug the essential needs of these refugees in 1980 alone was
estimated at $120 million, which Somalia could hardly afford.
2.02      Growth of the Somali economy, especially in the productive
sectors was slow in the 1970s. GDP in real terms is estimated to have
increased by about 2.8% per year between 1972 and 197t5, at about the same
rate as population growth. The productive sectors have grown at au average
rate of only about 1X p.a., while the service sector grew at nearly 7% per
aunum reflectiug to a large extent increased Government employment. Tne
conditions that prevailed in the 1970s resulted in an economic and
financial crises in 1978 and 1979. Apart from stagnation in production and
exports, the economy faced rapidly rising deficits which were met through
increased borrowings from the banking system, a steeply rising rate of
inflation and a worsening balance of payments position. As the financial
crisis deepened through 1978 aud 1979, the Goverument became couvinced of
the need to take remedial action. In 1980 the Government adopted a
stabilization program supported by a one-year stand-by arrangement from the
IMF. In 1981 and 1982 it embarked ou two successive stabilizatiou programs
which were both supported by IMF scandby arrangerents. The core of these
measures comprised adjustment of the exchange rate, fiscal and monetary
restraints, and increases in producer prices. As' part of stabilization
under the first standby program, a dual exchauge rate was introduced wuich
meant a substantial devaluation of the Somali Shilling.  These measures
have had some positive impact. The budgetary deficit and rate of credit
expansion have been substau_ially reduced, the rate of inflation which had
risea to 59% in 1980 dropped to 44Z in 1983, aud the Government was able to
pay off some arrears ou its external borrowings and increase slightly its
foreigu exchange reserves. These improvements were, however, achieved
partly at the expense of a drastic cut in development expenditure, a
decline in imports of iuvestment goods and of inputs needed to utilize
capacity.
2.03      Somalia's development objectives, stated in development plans
published since the Revolutiou (October 1969) largely reflect the
Government's socialist political philosophy. As such, emphasis has been
placed on the promotion of social sectors and equitable distribution of
natioual output. The Goverument has sought to attain these objectives
primarily through public sector investments, coupled with Goverament
coutrols.  In industry, the primary objective is to meet as fully as
possibly, from local production, the needs of the domestic market tor
manufactured goods and to make maximum use of the couutry's resources
especially in agro-iadustries and building material industries.
2.04      Somalia's manufacturing sector is still relatively small,
accounting for only 8% of GDP, and is dominated by some 15 state-owned
enterprises employing nearly 11,000 workers. Agro-processing industries



-4-
mainl-y for import-substitution, account for about half of total value added
and employment in the sector. The large import-substitution industries,
include i textile mill, two sugar refineries, a urea plant and a petroleum
refinery. Other important import substituting industries, some of which
are privately owned, include grain processing and the manufacture of edible
cils, cigarettes, packaging materials, leather and footwear. The
performance of public-sector manufacturing/processlig industry as a whole
has been poor. Some evideuce suggests that the relatively smaller private
manufacturing sector has performed much better than public sector
enterprises. It is estimated that in the past 10 years, real value added
per employee in private industry grew at a rate of 10% per annum while that
in public manufacturing enterprises declined at an average rate of 11% per
annum. A large number of public-sector enterprises are producing at far
below capacity (as low as 25Z or_less in some cases) and most are
consistently making financial losses. The poor performance of Somalia's
industry, (especially in the public-sector) is to a large extent
attributable to shortcomings in the policy framework which both directly
and indirectly result in some of the major constraints facing the sector.
These include excessive goverument control, scarcities of agricultural raw
materials, essential imported inputs including spares, workiug capital,
complementary iufrastructure, and qualified managerial and technical
personnel.
2.05   - Measures such as rationalization of pricing policies, giving
autonomy to mauagmeut of public sector enterprises, overhauling the present
system of employment and iucentives, and mobilization of private
iuitiatives and resources are needed in order to raise productivity and
improve efficiency in the industrial sector. In the past two years, the
Government has become more responsive to the idea of encouraging private
iuitiative and investment in the sector. However, no explicit policy
pronouncements or specific measures have been made to back-up signals of
liberalization. Prospective entrepreneurs appear to remain uncertain of
the policies and intentions of Government especially in light of occasional
pronouncements asserting the coutinued predominance of the public sector.
A clear statement of policy in regard to eacouragement of private economic
activity would help to clarify the current confusion and to allay fears
that the receut trend towards liberalization is only transitory.
2.06      Somalia's financial sector consists of four financial
institutions, all publicly owned: the Ceutral Bank (CBS), the National
Commercial Bauk of Somalia (NCBS), Somali Development Bank (SDI) and an
insurance company (SICOS).  The commercil bauk has a national network of
branches and has played an important role in mobilization of savings. Its
total deposits of which 45% represent small individual savings accounts,
increased from So. Sh 510 milliou (US$81.0 million) in 1975 to about So. Sh
2.6 billion (US$170.7 million) in 19ff2, represeuting a nominal average
growth rate of 302 per annum.  The financial institutions have, in the past
decade, operated under pressure to meet the finaucial needs of public and
private enterprises. Public enterprises in particular have relied very
heavily on commercial credit because of chronic problems cadsed by



-5-
inadequate capitalizatiou, mounting losses and failure of governmeut
agencies to settle their debts. Between 1970 and 1980, credit expansion to
public enterprise aloue grew from So. Sbh 160 milliou to So. Sh 1,300
million, and as a result domestic commercial credit from the financial
system is estimated to have grown at an average rate of 29% per annum in
current prices over this period. Without the Franco-valuta system2l
through which a significant part of foreign trade especially in consumer
goods was financed, growth of domestic commercial credit would have been
much higher.
2.07      Despite upward revisions in 1975 and 1979 and more recently in
1981 aud 1982, interest rates in Somalia have remained negative in real
terms throughout the credit implementation period. Until 1981, rates paid
on savings were subject to a maxi:mum of 7% per annum. The Commercial Bank
and SDB charged a maximum rate of 7-1/2% on their loaus. They could only
charge higher interest rates on loans to private sector and foreign owned
enterprises. In 1981 the Central Bank revised upwards both deposit and
lending rates and increased these further in 1982. Deposit rates currently
range from 8% per annum on ordinary savings to 11 per annum ou time
savings of over 24 months. Lending rates range from 1IX per aunum on
medium term (2-6 years) loans to agricultural and handicraft enterprises to
a maximu of 14% oa long-term loaus for activities such as trausport,
construction and retail trade (see Annex 1). In order to mobilize the
savings-of Somali workers in the oil producing countries in the diddle
East, the Central Bauk has since 1982 authorized non-resident Somalis to
operate savings accounts denominated in foreign currencies (external
accounts). Interest rates paid on these savings rauge from 8% on demand
deposits to 10.5% per aunum on deposits for 24 months.
III. THk INSTITUTION
3.01      During the course of appraisal, negotiations and credit
implementation, the following issues were discussed with SDB and the Somali
authorities. Issues relating to the utilizatiou of technical assistance
and procedures are discussed in paras. 3.08 and 3.10 respectively.
(i)   Interest Rates and Exchange Risk.  At the time of
appraisal, Somalia followed a low interest rate regime.
Although commercial banks' interest rates on deposits aud
on short-term loans to the private sector had been revised
upwards, interest rates oa short-term loans to parastatals
and medium and long-term development loans had remained low
2/ A parallel free market for foreigu exchange through which the earnings
of Somali workers in the oil producing Arab countries financed a large
proportion of imports by private traders in Somalia. Tnis market grew
extensively, leading to large disparities between the parallel market
and official market rates and was banned in 1981.



6-
and unchanged for a long time. The appraisal mission
recommended rhat the differential in SDB's lending rates to
various sectors be abolished and that SD0S charge a uniform
9Z across the board. During negotiations the Somali
authorities argued that abolishing the differertial
interest rates and allowing SDB to charge rates beyond 7-
1/2Z would represeut a major departure from the existing
level and structure of interest rates In the country, and
would require careful study. The Government assured the
Association that it would undertake such a study which
would form the basis i-or continuing the dialogue on
interest rates between Somalia and the Assoclatiou during
implementation of the credit. It was agreed that peuding
the review of interest rates, SDB would charge a miuimum of
5-1/2% per annum ou its medium term loans (2-6 years) and
6X per annum ona long-term loans to agricultural
and handicraft enterprises, and 7-112% per annum, on its
loans to industrial and other enterprises regardless of
loan maturities.  For three years following effectiveuess
of the credLt, the Association urged the Somali authorities
to carry out the study and to revise the interest rate
structure. The study was subsequently carried out and the
Somali Government announced a general increase in deposit
and lending interest rates in July 1981. -As a result, SDB
increased its interest rates; these uow -ange from 10% on
medium term loans to agricultural and handicraft
enterprises, 12% per aunum on loans to industrial and
mining enterprises to the maximum rate of 14% per aunum on
loans for all other activities such as retail trade,
transport aud construction. Despite the increase, SOB
interest rates remain negative in real terms.
(ii)  Staffing and Technical Assistance.  At the time of
appraisal, the general level ot SDB's professional staff
was found to be in need of upgrading as a matter of
priority. On the appraisal mission's recommendation, SOB
agreed to undertake an extensive staff development program
which would include: (i) the recruitment of five Somali
graduates-two graduates in ecoaomics, an engineer, a legal
advisor and an agricultural economist; (ii) four
expatriates-a Financial Advisor, an Industrial Engineer,
au Iuvestmeat Advisor and an Agricultural Advisor; aud
(iii) the trainnLg of Somali professional staff in
accounting, finaucial management and in project appraisal.
The Association agreed to include in the credit a training
and tachnical assistance component of US$260,000 to finance
the coutracts of the Iavestment aud Agricultural Advisors
and the training of Somali staff. The coutracts of the
Finaucial Advisor and Iudustrial Engineer would be financed
under a technical assistance grant (US$340,000) from the



7
Arab Fund for Ecouomic and Social Development.  The
effectiveness of this grant aud the appointment by SDB of
au Agricultural Economist, an Engineer, a Legal Advisor and
two graduates in Ecouomics were set as a condition of
effectiveness of the IDA credit.
(iii) Investmeut Policies.  As the main  institution financing
development projects, SDB assumed the role of an
entrepreneur, a promoter and a financier. In the process
it exceeded exposure limits stipulated in its by-laws.
Violation of its exposure limits arose in particular
from SDS I's equity holdings in subsidiary companies.  During
negotiations, the Somali authorities clarified that SDB
would not carry out a holding company function on a
permanent basis and that SDB proposed to divest itself of
its equity investments in subsidiaries by December 31,
1977. The Somali authorities indicated that in the absence
of any alternative institutional ar-rangements for settiug
up and managing public sector industrial enterprises, SUB
would be called upon in certain cases to undertake these
functions as a temporary measure. To enable SDB to do so
without violating its by-laws, the latter had been ameuded
to authorize SDB to exceed its exposure limits iu the case
of Government-sponsored projects.  An understanding was
reached at negotiations that SDB would selectively
undertake such projects provided: (a) such projects were
first approved by its board and, (b) the credit risk in
such cases was assumed by Government.
(iv)  Legal Status of SDB Projects.  During negotiations, the IDA
representatives expressed concern that SDB made loans
and/or equity investments in enterprises which were not
incorporated as legal entities. Three projects, which had
been promoted by the Miuistry of Industries and
subsequently taken over by SUB, were cited as examples.
SUB representatives indicated that although it was SUB's
policy not to make loans to unuicorporated enterprises,
exceptions had been made in case of Government-sponsored
projects upon the understanding that such enterprises would
be incorporated expeditiously. SDB assured the Association
that with the services of an in-house legal advisor who
would be engaged shortly, the time taken for the
preparation of relevant legislative instruments would be
shortened and that all s';uch enterprises would be
incorporated. Subsequeutly however, Government agreed to
the treatment of SDB subsidiaries as one entity in order to
reduce their combined tax liability by setting off the
losses of unprofitable subsidiaries against the profits of
the others. As a result some of SDB's subsidiaries remain
unincorporated; their technical legal status in terms of



"*-
incorporation and ultimate ownership disposition has not
been determined.
{v)   Provisions.  While SDB had maintained a reasonable
provisioos policy with respect to its loan portfolio, it
did uot make any provisious for its equity investmeuts.
During negotiatious, SDB's representatives assured the
Association that adequate provisions would be made for all
doubtful loans and equity investments on a regular basis
starting from 1977.  SDB has complied with this
understanding; provisions have averaged 2.6% of average
portfolio over the past five years.
(vi) Operational Policy Statement. A draft SDB operational
statemeut was reviewed by the Associatiou at negotiations
and it was agreed that such statement would be adopted by
the SDB Board before effectiveness of the credit. The
policy statement was implemented as agreed and SDB has
complied with its key guidelines.
(vii) Financial Covenants. The Project Agreement between the
Association and SUB included three principaL financial
covenants under which SDB agreed to: (i) furnish to the
Association-its audited financial statements and those -of
its subsidiaries not later than four mouths after the end of
each fiscal year, (ii) maintain a consolidated debt/equity
ratio not exceeding 4:1 and, (iii) not to carry exchange
risk on foreign currencies used in its operations. SDB has
complied with the debt-equity ratio limitatiou. However, it
has violated the exchange risk covenaut and experienced
delays in meeting the reporting requirements. Although the
Somali Government agreed at negotiations to protect SDB from
foreign exchange risk, a formal written agreement to this
effect only exists for the IDA credit. Despite repeated
recommendations by IDA through the credit implementation
period, Goverument has not given a formal written  
undertaking to bear (through the Central Bauk) the foreign
exchange risk on SD1i's other foreign borrowings.  The  level
of SDB's foreign exchauge borrowings has increased
significautly in the past one year and there is uow greater
need for protectiou from potential exchange loss risks.
With respect to reporting requirements, SDB was, on average
six mouths late in submitting its audited financial
statements and those of its subsidiaries to the
Associatiou. These delays were mainly due to weaknesses in
SDB's finance department and due .to the dependence on
auditors from outside Somalia as there are no resident
auditing and accounting firms in the country.



-9-
Developments During Credit Implementatiou and Present Status
3.02      Management.  Until 1978 SDB's President was a dynamic ex-civil
servant who had occupied high positious in the Governmeut. In part because
of his decisive leadership, IDA staff felt reassured about the project's
chances for success. In 1978, he was appointed to a senior position in the
Government (Governor of the Ceutral Bauk) and SDB's management in
subsequent years has required cousiderable strengthening. For example, the
appointment of a managemeut advisor with a stroug background in fiuance and
project appraisal would now be desirable.
3.03      Organization: At the time of appraisal, Sub was organized into
five departments and a separate internal audit unit. In view of the small
number of professional staff and the need to use it productively, the
appraisal mission and subsequent IDA supervisiou missions suggested to SDB
to cousider reduciug the number of departments. SDB management was slow in
implementing the suggested organization structure due primarily to
management discontinuities. In 1982, however, SDI adopted a more
appropriate orgauizatiou structure. Uader this structure, SOB is divided
into three distinct departments, namely Operations, Finance and
Administratiou. The three departments are headed by Somali nationals.
3.04      Staffing:  SDB professional staff has increased from 16 in 1977
to 29 in 1983, incluaig seven who are seconded to SUB subsidiaries and two
expatriates-a Chief Accountant ou secoudment from The Pakistan Industrial
Credit and Investment Corporation (PICIC) and an Economist funded by the
German Government. One half of the Somali professional staff are graduates
of the National University of Somalia. Five of tne staff have degrees in
economics, four in agricultural science, four in engineering and one in
law. Although the level of training of Somali professional staff has
improved significantly over the past five years, and most of the
professional staff have been with SDh for a considerable time-seven years
on average-the general quality and productivity of the staff still
requires improvement, partly due to inadequate on-the-job training.
To-date, only about four Somali professioual staff have the capability to
carry out detailed-project appraisals.  Until two years ago, most medium
aud large scale projects financed by SDB were essentially appraised by the
expatriate staff with modest participation of Somali protessional staff.
SDB has faced two key constraints in building up a cadre of well trained
and experienced professional staff. Partly due to a shortage of trained
manpower, the Goverumeat, until recently allocated college graduates to
public institutions, including SDB. Somali high school and college
graduates were allocated often without regard to the particular needs of
recipient institutions. As a result, staff allocated to SDB generally
lacked the uecessary background. Secondly, due to Government coutrol over
salaries for the public sector, SDB could not offer adequate renumeratiou



- 10 -
to retain its trained staff.  As a result, SDi- has had a problem of a high
rate of professional staff turnover. Duriug the period of credit
implementation, SDB lost eight professional staff who resigned and took up
employment elsewhere especially iu countries in the Middle East where
salaries are much higher.
3.05      During the course of supervisiou of the credit, it became evident
that SDB was not making satisfactory progress in building up an adequate
professional staff capability.  Upon IDA recommendations, SDB hired a
cousultant in 1980 who prepared a medium-term staff development plac for
strengthening the capabilities of existing professioual staff and for
meetiug SD]'s future professional staffing recruitment in view of
anticipated growth in operations. The Association assisted in preparing
terms of reference and fiuanced the consultant under the technical
assistance component of the credit. The consultants' recommendations
focussed ou measures for strengthening both external and in-house trainiug
of Somali professional staff. Although SDB management agreed with most of
the consultant's recommendations, it has not implemented any of the major
recommendations and inadequate professional staff capabilities remains one
of SDB's key iustitutional weaknesses.
3.06      Training.  SDB made a major effort to arrange  external training
for its staff in the past seven years. Since 1976, 13 SDB professional
staff have attended various external EDI-type, short-term courses mostly in
project appraisal, accouuting and general development banking. Six
additional professional staff have attended six months to one year courses
in general banking, elementary accounting and project management at the
Somali Institute of Development, Admanistration and Management (SIDAM).
SDB's staff training effort has, however, been frustrated by resignations
of staff who have been trained.  Six of the staff who participated in these
training courses have left SDB; and two staff who were sponsored by SDB on
higher degree programs overseas did not return to SDB on completion of
their studies.
3.07      Although SDB has been active in providing external training to
its staff, it has not been able to develop an adequate ia-house staff
training capability. The cousultant who reviewed SDB's manpower
development needs had recommended on-the-job traini-g as the most effective
means of strengthening SDB's professional and technical staff
capabilities. The Association agreed with this view and urged SDB
management to designate staff training as the principal role of the
expatriate staff. The Association recommended that in addition to
providing on-job training to their Somali counterparts, che expacriate
staff should regularly conduct in-house courses in accounting and project
appraisal. The three key expatriates (the Technical Advisor, Financial
Advisor and Investment Advisor) left SDB without having played a major role
in the training of staff (para. 3.08) 3/.  In the past year, however, SDO
3;, SDB management asserts that the institutiou was not successful in
developiug iu-house staff training capabilities mainly due to
difficulties in recrutiug capable expatriates to provide ou-the-job
training to Somali professional staff (see page 38 of Annex 12).



- 11 -
has become more responsive to the need for in-house and on-the-job staff
trainuig. In July 1983, SDB's expatriate Chief Accountant started
conducting classes in bookkeeping and elementary accounting for junior
staff.  SDJ plans to conduct similar classes in basic financial management
and project anpraisal.
3.08      Utilization of Techuical Assistance.  in line with the
iustitutiou building objective of the  ADA credit, SDB recruited expatriate
advisors who would provide assistance 1i  strengthening SDB's institutional
cappbilities through establishing appropriate procedures and training
Somali staff. IDA supervisions found that SDB was not fully utilizing the
services of the expatriate staff in the way originally envisaged. Instead,
the advisors were assigned day-to-day operational responsibilities
especially for project appraisals and spent little time on traiunig Somali
staff.  The use of expatriate advisors in this manuer was, in part, to
compensate for the weaknesses of SDB's line persounel but also reflected
lack of appreciation on the part of SDB management of the advisors' other
responsibilities. The Somali staff who had been informally designated as
counterparts to the advisors were either too inexperienced or lacked the
necessary professional background to derive benefit from the Advisors'
presence.
3.09      IDA made various recommendations to SDB's managemeut for
improving the effective utilization of the expatriates including
improvement and implementation of operational procedures, assigunig to them
suitable Somali counterparts and designating training of Somali
professional staff as the principal role of the expatriate staff as
originally set out in their terns of reference. SDB was slow in carrying
out the necessary measures and the expatriate advisors left SDB at the end
of their contracts before the problems regarding their role were resolved.
3.10      Procedures.  During the course of supervision of the credit, IDA
missions noted major weaknesses in SDB's procedures and recommended
measures for alleviating these weaknesses.
(i) Project Appraisal. At the time of appraisal, the quality of
SDB's project appra-sals tended to be erratic especially for medium and
large scale industrial projects.  In line with IDA recommendations and with
the assistance of its Investment Advisor, SDS prepared a manual
establIshlng standard procedures for project appraisal. During the
J:mplementation of the project, however, SDS relied to a large extent on the
expatriate technical staff for the appraisal of medium and large size
projects, with Somali professional staff providing mainly translation
support 4/. Over the last two years, however, Somali professional staff
have assumed the principal responsibility for project appraisals. Despite
some improvements over the years, the quality of SDB's appraisals remains
generally poor. Major project features such as the management capability
of the promotor, adequacy of the market and financial viability of proposed
4/   SDB management disagree with this statement (see page 38 of Anuex 12).



- 12 -
iuvestments are treated in superficial manuer in most cases. SDB does not
always scrutinize the information provided by project spousors and as a
result, Droblems which could have beeu detected aud possibly rectified
during appraisal, emerge after projects have been approved. Delays in tiLe
implemeutatiou of three IDA financed projects due to promotors' subsequent
failure to acquire suitable premises are examples of this weakness. The
Association has urged SDB to carry out detailed indepeudent appraisals of
projects before they are submitted to its Board for approval.
(ii) Supervision. To improve project supervision, the
Association recommended that SDB prepare and implement guidelines for
project supervision. A manual was prepared with the assistance of the
Investment Advisor and was translated into Somali to facilitate its use by
Somali professional staff. The Association also recommended the
establishment of a unit to follow-up on the portfolio particularly in the
case of projects experiencing operational problems. Although the unit was
set-up, it comprised of only one project officer and was under staffed in
view of more than 700 loans in SDB's portfolio that required regular
follow-up. As a result, the supervision function remains weak. Two
professional staff and an expatriate advisor were recently assigned to the
unit and the supervisiou function is expected to improve considerably.
3.11      Project Implementation.  SDB's levels of operations during the
period of project implementation were lower than projected at appraisal due
to slow growth in the Somali economy during this period and a lack of
adequate project promotion capability in SDB (para. 5.U3). The IDA credit
was committed and disbursed at a slower pace thau anticipated. by June 30,
1979-the original terminal date for subproject submission, only US$1.25
million or 25% of the credit amount had been committed. As a result, the
subproject submissioa date was extended twice to June 30, 1980 and to June
30, 1981. Giveu delays in the commitment of the credit, the closing date
was extended from June 30,  -  to June 30, 1982.  Disbursements were
closed on August 30, 1983 rt  iting in a cancellatiou of an unutilized
amount of US$480,000.  Summary data on the schedule of disbursements
estimated at appaisal and actual disbursements are presented i-n the Basic
Data. The cancelled amount included undisbursed balances of subloans to
four projects which were implemented in full at less cost than previously
estimated and three projects experiencing serious implementation problem.
Rather than request an extension of the closing dare to enable completion
of disbursements of subloans to the three subprojects, SDB plauned to
arrange alternative financing. The cancelled amount also included a
balance of US$140,000 under the Technical Assistance component which was
not fully utilized because: (i) a training grant obtained from the Arab
Fund for Economic and Social Development was available to finance part of
SDB's staff training resource needs, and (ii) due to problems of SDB's
management perception of the role of expatriate advisors, the contract of
the IDA financed Investment Advisor was not renewed and the funds
previously earmarked for this purpose remained unutilized.
IV. ALLOCATION OF TtlE CILEDIT
4.01      The proceeds of the subloan component (US$4.74 million) of the
credit were utilized to finance a total of thirty two subprojects including



- 13 -
(i) seven medium and large subprojects, all above the free limit, mainly in
the manufacturiug sector, (ii) twenty-four small subloans to Somali farmers
for the purchase of tractors and other farm implements, and (Mii) ooe small
ice making plant (Annex 2). The total cost of the 32 subprojects amounted
to US$11.7 million of which $6.3 million (including $4.3 million in IDA
funds) was finauced by SDB.  The Associatiou reviewed in detail the seven
larger subprojects and approved the 25 small subloans ou the basis of
summary project profiles submitted by SDB.  The size of the seven above
free limit subloaus rauged from US$131,746 for a medium size plastic
uteusils manufacturing plant to US$1.9 million (38Z of the credit amount)
for a wheat flour milling and pasta processing factory.  The twenty five
small subloans ranged in size from US$5,000 to US$49,000 and averaged
US$13,305 per subloan. All the seven above free limit subloans carried an
interest rate of 7-1/2% per annum and were for terms ranging from b to 11
years including grace periods of two years. The smaller subloans were made
at interest rate of 5-1/2% per aunum for periods of up to five year; a few
subloans were grauted for four years.
4.02      Characteristics of the above free limit IDA financed projects are
summarized in Aunex 3. The seven projects include a thermo electricity
generating plant, a wheat flour milling and pasta processing factory, a
molasses storage facility, and four projects for the manufacture of school
paper stationery, plastic utensils, roof tiles and aluminum utensils. Five
of these projects are located in the capital, Mogadishu.  Five of the large
subloans were approved for new projects and two were for the expansion of
existing projects. Four of the seven projects depend entirely on imported
raw materials. With the exception of the molasses storage project, which
consisted of construction of port facilities for storing molasses before
shipment to export markets, all IDA financed projects cater exclusively for
the local market.
4.03      ODly three of the seven projects were implemented on schedule;
the implementatiou of three projects was on average 1-1/2 years behind
schedule and one project is yet to be completed.  The implementation of
three projects was completed at much higher costs than estimated at
appraisal. ln two cases, cost overruns represeuted as much as 120&.of
original cost estimates. Cost overruns were mainly due to project
implemeatation delays resulting from late arrival and iustallation of
machinery aud the devaluation of the Somali shilling in 1981.         -
4.04      The six projects which have been implemented geuerated 244 new
permanent jobs. The investment cost per job varied from $11,300 for the
alulminum manufacturing project to US$74,400 for the Wheat Flour and Pasta
factory; the average investment cost per job for the six projects is
US$34,000. The roof tiles manufacturing project, which is yet to be
completed, is expected to generate 39 jobs at an investment cost per job of
$22,000.  Data on the employment impact of the small agricultural
subprojects financed by IDA is not available.  SDJi calculated ex-aate
economic rates of return for five of the seven above free limit subprojects
and these ranged from 17% for the aluminum utensils manufacturing project
to 50% for the roof tiles manufacturing project. Each of the other above



- 14 -
free limit subprojects had an ex-aute financial rate of return of over
20%. SOB has not calculated ex-post economic and financial rates of return
for the subprojects. Summary descriptions of the seven above free limit
projects financed under the credit, their historical performance and
present status are provided in Annex B.
V. OPERATIONAL AND FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE
5.01      Operations.  From the date of its establishment in 1968 up to
1976, SDB approved 576 loans totalling Shs 182.8 million and made equity
investments amounting to Shs 38.5 million in five companies.  in the six
years following approval of the IDA credit in 1977, SDB approved an
additional Shs 278.2 million for 780 projects and ^hs 12.0 million in
equity investments. An analysis of loan approvals during the period
1977-1982 5/ is given in Annex 4.  The majority (86%) of the number of
loans approved were less than So. Shs 200,000 each and accounted for 17% of
the amount approved. While large loans of over So. Shs 5 million accounted
for ouly 1% of the number of loans approved, they represented 41Z of the
amount of approvals. The average size of loaus approved was about So. Shs
353,500.
5.U2      Agriculture and livestock are the principdl economic activities
for which loans were approved; 55% and 47% of tthe number of loans and
amounts approved respectively were for these activities followed by
manufacturing which account for 27% and 35% of the number of loans and
amounts approved respectively. The majority of the loans were for terms of
four to seveu years. Eighty-three percent of the number of loans were made
at an interest of 5-1/2% per annum; ouly 5% of the loans carried interest
rates higher than 102 per annum.  The majority of loans (73Z by number and
81% by amount) were for new projects; and 99Z of the loans were made to
privately owued projects which accounted for 7bZ of the amount of loans
approved. Public sector projects, mainly parastatal enterprises, received
only IZ of the number of loans but these accounted for 24% of the amount
approved.
5.03      Annex 5 provides a summary of SUB's actual operatious in the
period 1977-1982, and comparative data as forecast at the time of appraisal
for 1977-1981. During the credit implementation period, SDB's total
approvals grew from So. Shs 29.3 million in 1977 to So. Shs 62.5 in 1982
and were ou average 30% lower than the annual volume of approvals forecast
at appraisal. This was mainly due to slow growth in the Somali economy
during this period and a lack of adequate project promotion capability in
SDB.
5.04      At appraisal it was anticipated that loan and equity investments
approved by SDB would be fully committed in the year of approval. However,
due to delays in finalizing loan documentation and in some cases collateral
5/   As there are no detailed data on approvals prior 1977, the analysis
relates to SDB's approvals from 1977 to 1982.



- 15 -
arraugemeuts with borrowers, commitments during the period averaged about
57Z of aunual approval. Due to project implemencation weaknesses, the rate
of disbursements was lower than anticipated at appraisal; duriug the six
year period, annual disbursements represented about 752 of commitments as
compared to a rate of 9O0 estimated at appraisal. Implementation of the
IDA credit is discussed _n para. 3.11.
Portfolio
5.05      Loans.  As of June 30, 1963, SDB's total portfolio amounted to
So. Shs 250.8 milliou, consisting of So. Shs 230.3 million in loans and
So. Shs 50.5 million in equity investments. Industrial activities account
for 49Z of the loan portfolio, agriculture, livestock and fisheries for 37%
with the remaining 14% outstanding in various other activities notably
transport, metal/wood working and retail trade. Due to project monitoring
weaknesses (para. 3.10) SDB does not maintain accurate data on the
performauce aud status of most of the projects it has financed.  SDB does
not, for example, have information on which projects in its portfolio are
operating profitably aud which are not. It is thus not possible to
accurately assess the quality of its portfolio. On the basis of arrears
data available, however, the portfolio appears to be weak. Arrears of over
three months amounted to So. Sh 4U.6 million or 18Z of total outstanding
loan portfolio. The portfolio affected by these arrears was So. Sh 81
million,-that--is 35% of total portfolio. While this level of arrears is
worrisome, it should be noted that many development banks in developing
countries are encountering portfolio problems. About b8X of SDB arrears
originate mainly from niue projects. Two of these, ITOP and the Brick
Factory are SDR subsidiaries and are discussed in detail in para. 5.06
below. The other projects with serious arrears include four public
projects-an asbestos factory which though completed, has not gone into
production due to technical problems, three grain mills which operate well
below capacity due to inadequate grain supplies, and a shoe factory which
has had severe implementation problems. The loans to the public
enterprises, except the shoe factory, are guaranteed by Governmeat.
Although Government has recently paid So. Sh 20 million to SDB to reduce
tiie loa- amount owed by public enterprises, it has not as yet, due to
budgetary constraints, specified the time frame by which it would pay off
the public enterprises' arrears. SDB made provisions representing 4.9% and
2% of tdtal portfolio in 1981 and 82 respectively. The level of provisions
is considered adequate. In general, S1jis's private sector loan portfolio is
in better condition than its portfolio outstanding in public enterprises
largely due to overall better project design and managemeut of private
sector enterprises. SDB has recently strengthened its supervision unit
(para. 3.10) and expects improvements in the arrears situation as a result
of the planned increase in follow-up on projects experiencing operational
problems.
Equity Investments.
5.06      SDO's equity investments as of June 30, 1983 amounted to So. Sh
50.5 million (in eight companies) of which So. Shs 48.3 milliou (9b%)



- 16 -
represented investments iu four wholly-owned subsidiaries. The performance
of the eight compauies is mixed. Four of them make losses while the other
four are profitable. Overall, SDB6 earns an adequate return of about 2WX
p.a. ou its investment in the eight companies. Details on the equity
iuvestments are summarized in Annex 6.  Seven of the eight companies are
locally owned. The financial performance of the four subsidiaries is
summarized iu Annex 7. SDB's iuvestment in these enterprises varies from
So. Shs 2,000 in INCAS, a plastic containers manufacturing company to So.
Shs 4 milliou iu the Wheat Flour and Pasta Factory. All the eight
companies are located in Mogadishu. The Wheat Flour and Pasta Factory, a
wholly-owned subsidiary is SDB's most profitable investment (Annex 8 para.
4). ITOP, the fruit aud vegetable processing factory, set up in 1973
continues to make losses largely due to under utilization of capacity
resulting from inadequate supplies of tomatoes and vegetables for
processing.  Due to accumulated losses, SDB's initial capital investment of
So. Shs 5 million was wiped out and in 1982 SDB iuvested an additioual So.
Shs 6 million. ITOP's prospects appear bleak since SDB's earlier plans for
starting tomato and mango plantatious to produce the necessary inputs have
uot been implemeated. FIMA which is eigaged in the sale of automobile
spares is profitable. Return on equity has averaged 16X in the past few
years aud the company has regularly paid dividends, averaging So. Shs 3
million a year, to SDB. The company potentially faces difficulties because
of coustraining effects of foregn exchange shortages on i-ts ability to
import.  The Brick aud Tiles Factory has faced various operational and
technical difficulties for a long time. As a result of construction of a
new kilu in 1981 however, both technical efficiency and capacity
utilization have improved considerably. In 1982 the company was
financially restructured to improve its prospects. SDB converted a So. Shs
5 million loan into share capital and wrote off loans totalling another
So. Shs 5 milliou. As a result of the physical rehabilitation and
financial restructuring the company made for the first time a profit in
1982. The Aluminum Utensils Factory, owned b2.5Z by SDB, coutinues to face
ope.ational problems resulting mainly from its dependence on imported raw
materials (Annex 8, para. 2). The company makes losses and SDB has not
earned a retura ou its investments. The Somali Molasses Company,
established in 1980 to set up ?acilities for the storage and handling of -
molasses for export, is operating profitably and declared a 15% dividend to
its shareholders in 1982 (Annex 8, para. 5). INCAS, a manufacturer of
cardboard containers, is a profitable operation but its performance is
somewhat erratic because demand for its product depends on the level of
banana production and exports. SDB has not yet received dividends from its
investment in INCAS.  The textile mill, Somaltex, operates at about 60Z of
capacity partly due to frequent machinery breakdowas and is marginally
profitable. Rehabilitation of the plant could significantly improve the
company's prospects.
5.07      Because of a shortage of qualified maupower in Somalia, SDB
provides management to its subsidiary companies.  At the time of appraisal
in 1976, five SDB senior professional staff were on secondment to its
subsidiary compauies. The appraisal mission noted that by carrying out the



- 17 -
role of a holding company SDB was diverting its scarce resources away from
its primary functiou as a development bauk. The appraisal mission
recommended that in order for SDB to focus its attention and resources on
its development banking activities, it should divest itself of its equity
holdings.  Although au uaderstanding was reached at negotiations that SDB
would divest itself of its equity iuvestments in subsidiary companies by
December 31, 1977, it has not been able to do so primarily because of
Government's decision that SDB could only divest itself of a-l the
subsidiary companies and not only the unprofitable ones. As a result SDB
has been in a dilemma: getting rid of the loss making subsidiaries would
mean divesting itself of the Wheat Flour and Pasta Factory and FIHA, the
two profitable subsidiaries that are a major source of its revenue. On the
other haud, hanging on to these two profitable investments means a
continued drain of resources to the unprofitable companies which are not
attractive to private investors and which require regular infusion of funds
in order to remain operational. SDB has invested cousiderable resources in
the rehabilitation of the loss making companies wrlh a view to improving
their performance. These efforts have paid off in the case of the Brick
and Tiles project. Prospects for ITOP ou the other hand remain bleak.
Financial Performance and Conditiou
5.08      Annexes 9, 10, and 11 show SDB's forecasted and actual income
statements, balauce sheets and financial ratios in the pefrod 1977-1981 as
well as actual results for 1982. SDB's financial performance has been
below IDA's expectatious at the time the credit was appraised.  During each
of the five years 1977-1981, net profit was about 85% lower than forecast
at appraisal. After tax profits averaged a low 0.2% of average total
assets compared to a 1.2X return forecast at appraisal. The return on
equity averaged 0.2% p.a. compared to 1.7% p.a. estimated at appraisal.
Poor financial performance was largely due to two causes: first, due to a
number of factors-internal operational inefficiencies, lack of appropriate
procedures, low staff productivity and the high cost of administering a
large number of small loans-SDM's administrative expenses were
significantly higher than forecasted at appraisal.  These averaged 3.4% of
average total assets as compared to the appraisal estimate- of 1.8%.
Secoud, a large proportion (about 60Z) of SDB's approvals during this
period comprised mostly of small agricultural and livestock loans at low
interest rate of 5% per annum. Only about 18% of the amount approved
during the period carried interest over 10% per annum. As a result loan
income represented only 4.5Z of average loan portfolio as compared to about
7% projected at appraisal. Dividend income received by SDB from its
profitable subsidiary companies-the Wheat Flour Pasta Factory and
FIKA--was much higher than estimated at appraisal; it accounted for 31Z of
total income in 1977 and as much as 85% in 1981. Tnus without dividends
from its subsidiary companies, SDB would have made losses throughout the
five year period.
5.09      Despite low profitability, SDB's financial condition has remained
relatively sound since 1977 due to regular increases iu SDB paid-iu share



- 18 -
capital which grew from Sc. Shs 140 million in 1977 to So. Shs 200 milliou
in 1982.  With a lower volume of operations than forecast at appraisal,
SDB's borrowings grew at a slower rate than previously anticipated. Loug
term borrowings amounted to So. Shs 52.2 million as of December 31, 1981
compared to So. Shs 136 milliou estimated at appraisal. As a result, SD51's
debt equity ratio has not exceeded 0.4:1 over the period, remaining well
below the 3:1 limit agreed with the association. With a curreut ratio and
debt service coverage ratio averaging 2.2 and 3.6 respectively over the
period SDB has maintained a sound liquidity position and the ability to
meet its debt obligatious. Overall its fiuancial couditiou remains sound.
Resource Mobilization
5.10      SUB has been relatively successful in mobilizing resources to
meet its needs. It has received several loans in local currency from the
CentraI Baak of Somalia and So. Shs 50 millio-a local curreucy loan from the
United States Agency for International Development.  In additiou to the IDA
credit, SDB has raised foreign exchange resources from the Algerian
Government, the European Investment Bauk (EIB), the Islamic Developmeut
iiauk aud the African Development Bank. Followiug the Somali Government's
decision to allow the participation of foreign institutions in SDB as
minority shareholders, SDB is seeking foreign shareholders. The German
Development Company (DEG), has receutly carried out an appraisal and is
likely to invest in SDB.
VI. CONCLUSIONS
6.01      Progress made during project implementation towards achieving the
objectives of the credit (para. 1.05) has been mixed. Om the one haud,
IDA's objective of providing SDB with resources to finauce productive
enterprises in the industrial and agricultural sectors has substantially
been met. On the other hand, the outcome of the iustitution building
objective is disappointing. Although one of the Association's objectives
was to use the credit as a medium for a dialogue with the Somali Goverument
ou 4its industrial policies, no specific policies that would be addressed
during the credit implementation were identified at the outset. No
substantive policy dialogue evolved in the context of the credit except
with regard to interest rates. Even then progress in this respect was
unsatisfactory since interest rates in Somalia are negative in real terms..
With the benefit of hindsight, it is clear that this small credit did not
prove to be an effective vehicle for couvincing Government to allow SDB to
set its oulending rates at positive levels in real terms. Even if SDB's
rates had been raised to satisfactory levels, however, it is questionable
how useful this would have been if the country-wide regime of interest
rates had remained negative iu real terms-as, in fact, has been the case.
6.02      Thirty two subloans were approved under the credit of which
twenty four went to small farmers for the purchase of tractors and other
farm implements. Of the seven above free limit projects financed under the
credit, six have been implemented and three of them are performing well.
The other projects are gradually resolving their management, techuical and



- 19 -
operational problems although shortages of foreign exchauge for the
importatiou of their raw material requiremeuts will coutinue to depress
their performance. The relatively small number of medium-size projects
financed under the credit reflects to a large exteut a difficult economic
environment in which SDB operated during the period of project
implementation. The effects of the drought in the mid-seventies, the
conflicts with Ethiopia and shortcomings in the Goverument's economic
policies resulted in economic and financial couditions in the late 1970s
which inhibited the growth of productive investments. Due to these
conditions aud partly due to inadequate project promotion and appraisal
capabilities, SDB's volume of operations was about 302 below appraisal
forecasts.
b.03      The progress made in achieviug the institution building objective
of the credit was disappointing despite significant technical assistance
input in the project and intensive supervisiou by the Association.
Although SDB made some progress in addressing some of its principal
institutional shortcomings, it remains a weak institution in many
respects. Its management and professional capabilities still need
strengthening. Despite the availability of procedural mauuals prepared by
its expatriate advisors, project promotiou, appraisal, and follow up
functions remain inadequate partly due to staffing weaknesses and failure
to fully implement the procedures and guidelines set out in the manuals.
-With, once again, the benefit of tiidsight, the Association underestimated
the difficulties which efforts to improve SDB would face. While the first
SUB operation can best be viewed as a pilot -probe- to help a key Somali
financial institution to improve, Government, SDB and IDA should agree on a
comprehensive program to tackle SIJB's outstanding iustitutlonal
shortcomings before proceeding to a possible follow-up project. Moreover,
it would be advisable for Goverument and SDB to take initial steps -up
frout- to strengthen SDB's management before IDA considers a second credit
so as to minimize the risks that a second operation might also yield mixed
results.
6.04      SDB made creditable efforts in providing overseas training to its
staff and hired a consultant to review its manpower situation and recommend
appropriate measures for improving its professional staff capabilities and
for meeting its future manpower aeeds. However, SDB focused its efforts on
providing external training to the staff and has made little progress in
providing in-house and on-the-job training to its staff. One of the main
causes for SDB's slow progress in developing the professional and technical
capabilities of its staff was its failure to fully utilize the services of
its expatriate personnel (para. 3.08). The expatriate advisors who were
assigned routine day-to-day operational respousibilities, made little
progress in accomplishing what should have been their most important task
of in-house and on-the-job training of Somali professional staff. Apart
from SDB's own internal weaknesses, however, enviroumental ceuditious
beyond SDB's control contributed to SDB's slow progress in improving the
quality of its staff during the project implementatiou period. Due to
centralized allocati-oa of trained manpower in Somalia (para.3.U4), SDB had



- 20 -
little freedom in the selection of its staff. As a result, some of the
staff allocated to SDB lacked the necessary background. Also, due to
Government coutroJ over salaries iu the public sector, salaries paid by SDB
were very low a-ad led to the loss of a number of professional staff who
took up higher saying jobs in the oil producing countries in the Middle
East. Although SZ' could not have been able to pay salaries comparable to
those in the Middle East, periodic increases in its salaries coupled with
other fringe benefits could have mitigated the high rate of professional-
staff turnover.  In retrospect, g-ven the importance of developing an
adequate professional staff cadre in the institutiou building objective of
the credit, the Association should have sought agreement from the
Government and SDB at the time of project preparation on appropriate
measures for facilitating SDB's recruitment and retention of adequate
professional staff.  Measures, such as allowing SDB to play a major role in
the selection of its staff, granting it freedom to determine its own salary
structure and to offer incentives such as hous-ng to its staff, would have
been beneficial.
6.05      SDB has an important role to play ia the development of the
Somali economy.  Its ability to carry-out this role has however been
curtailed by institutional weaknesses and various constraints prevailing in
a difficult economic environment.  Prospects for enhancing SDB's role and
its effectiveness In the promotion and development of productive economic
activities are unlikely to improve until: (i) SDB's management,
professional staff and overall institutional capabilities have been
strengthened; (ii) policy -ssues which affect the growth of economic
activity especially ia the agricultural and industrial secturs are
resolved. Of particular importance is the ownership/coutrol of
manufacturing/processing activities: public sector investments which
Government has used as the principal means of attaiaing some of its
development objectives especially in the industrial sector, are plagued
with problems, and perform poorly, largely due to excessive Government
control, poor management and lack of technical skills. Private sector
enterprises, on the other hand, perform relatively better in terms of their
contribution to the total manufacturing/processing sector output. In order
to raise prodiuctivity aud improve efficiency in the productive sectors
therefore, private entrepreneurship and resources should be encouraged aud
mobilized. In the past few years, the Government appears to have become
more responsive to the idea of encouragiug private initiatives and
investments, although uo policy measures or pronouncements have been made
to support these intentions. A clear statement of policy and appropriate
inceutives are essential for the mobilization of private sector initiatiYes
and resources.



: -~~~~~~.
21
X~~                                                                                                 ANNE  1
.., - zy*
:~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~M I
SOMi.&a
S7lDCIIE OLF MEREST RA7E
- _- > ~~~~~~~~~~(Z Per Annm
up toI/         From          rom         Ira.         From
1l1301Y9      12101179     06/30,81     06/30182     01101/83
-  Csst-                                                               -  
A. DEPOSIT RA7ES
Cantral Bank
Hffscll Discount Rate       3.5           4.0          6.0          8.0
--  .iedt Sector
--Ohrdinary savlanp         2.0            4.0          6.0          8.0
-Use savIngs 3 months       4.0            4.5          6.5          8.5
-11e savings 6 months       4.5            5.0          7.0          9.0
Usee savlngs 12 ancha       5.0            5.5          7.5          9.5
im savlngs 24 months        6.0            6.5          8.5         10.5
71m  savnpgs over 24 months  6.5.          7.0          9.0         11.0
Public sector 2,
Oinaty savings               1.0
flue savIngs 3 moths        2.5
?la* avlngs 6 mouths        3.0
Tlu  savings 12 fant;w      4.0
fLue avlngs 24 morbs        4.5
Le- savlnp over 24 mcths  5.0
1xtenal Accouts
Ord.Inay sving                                                                    7.0
-    lUe savlngs 3 months                                                             8.0
Ue savilgS 6 mochs                                                                8.5
TUe savings 12 uonths                                                             9.0
Tlue savings 24 months or longer                                                 I0.5
S. LNDN  RATES
Comercial Ra,nr
Credi to cooperatives
sad small-scale farmers    5.0           6.0)                    )
CrediLt to Public Enterprises 7.0          7.5)                    )
ciudit to Ezport            7.0            7.0)        10.0        )12.0  -
creaim to National private                                         )
nterprises                 9.0            9.5)
Credit to Foreign
Enterprise.               12.0           12.5         12.S          14.5
Soali Devlopment  *
Iediur-tera (2-6 year) loans
to agricultur and
handicraft                 5.5            5.5         10.0          10.0
Nad1r-cera (2-6 year)
loams to Industry and
mniLg                      6.0            6.0         11.0          11.0
Nadluw-term (2-6 year)
loans to others            6.5            6.5         12.0          12.0
loeg-car (7-20 year)
loans to agricultue and
handlcraft                  6.0            6.0         11.0          11.0
Loag-term (7-20 years)
loans to industry mnd mining 6.5          6.5          12.0          12.0
long-cern (7-20 years)
lan. to others              7.5            7.5         14.0          14.0
1/ Netwen January 1975 - November 1979 the Interest rate. were kept unchged.
Private sector and Public sector deposit cates were standardized dith effect from
December 1979.
RAPID
NW   1984



-22-
Al 2
94U.TA
S    EESEa U E
Us  ESpmesMF         m r6Oni  9-
CM0
Dam      Amunt
1.  }4  nSL ft  4FCK.                       A-1         V79         S06,744     494.649
2. S=1 &Idw urlfdl ME. Tnur-7               A-2        I"7          6M,IMD      533,412
3. DeaEvmI=Book Lic                         A-3         10          4181,33 295,498
4. 2      F - fa1C7A4                                     0       1,925,000   1,925,443
5. S=Ni Mlas        CA. LtS-                            liat        2%6,00      286,OOD
6. PL      ntl    cLU Itt                   A           4/81        131,746     127,7795
7, Bat 'Nt  Et. b.                          A-7         7/81        393,2M      378,129
8. Iixlr 1mc  MIM                                      1sIW8          5,682       5,738
9.       Sbef  om                           B- 2       iwB            7.974       8,0%5
la. El#Mv,fbm                              B-3  lQ6                   8.B46D      81.536
IL%4, h AbCCWNo                            B4         10/78          B,546       8,so
M  BL<s am= %#                            D4         I78            8,682        8,769
13, . oU Dat r Dd                                     mm             6,W          6,935
14 Abdn           >mIaC=B7   lt m                                     7,M 7   8,055
15 AlAM~dMwq                               B-6         10V7B          5,M13       5,053
16. desm  Am     >ltB9                                 lam            8B,446      8.530
17. -h4xn  B erab                         1B78                      - .46         8,S30
19. H7wCb.                                *-12          7/79    l     0,615      IC,615
-x EWJ ANL&    Imat                       B-3           7/79         13,45D      13,450
-2t,1 1NM-A     LiGoe                       -4          7/79         11,420}   U,420
23 N*mdMm    Alam                          31-16        7/7A         13,4SD      12,4S0
2S. lUlx Mm Aff                            B-17         7/79   lO0CW             1.0,697
2     S..i B*m   o   d=D18                              7/7          11,42D      ll.UI)
2Ih AU  1om  Qr                           _J -19        7/79         12,727      1Z,727
27. M;~ Aza Bo                             B-2D         7/79        lB,313       18.313
29.     ft~    AmZZ                       IH           19            11,113   1 1,113
30. b~   o3E   -1                         B-23         12/79         13,590   l 5s,fO
31. Udclv=  Mwloe  Gacp.                  B-25,         6/80         49 950      S0,245
32. Bllem rkc                             B-25          :/tI         44,516      ZB,611
33   ,c    of uvstm  Ad-s          a E       -          61     0     8 9,1L.
34.6f T--    Bmd    a                     ILl           6,178        19.2:    1 119,815
35. 2SI  P Daprc.,  O_rtL                  Ik2          3/81         27,ax
36. AconU    '~w  CsmauyM3    Y                          82    6      0,000      39,300
L                                       ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~4,8B,ZJ1   6,SlS,56S
FSPM
May 1984



*                                                                                                                                    r~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 
mtu bwvlnpt N*d
O.tucu,htiin ci Mao.'. F~Us        aujoedsirm         OMhr Cuift 6-9D
kw%&"                                                                                fzdur of
Wi lb                       NW  Ur    p                                v xt  S?Il rPln Vala f I  Cqdty   I  mU*    I Of ftcsk         nzn dal           . c hrnmnt
of ak"id                        aT lcU                     t           b         r ula  jt 1A1tV    :ta1    Ftntlon tU tl 1' Hatertals   hb.r                    c b tewr d  1   . . hbt a  !/ & k t
1. lrC  J.0Atrtdity lrq  EIctrkl kRan Cb ItiM   NM    bhlem  2.15    32.2    So7  4.8                    4,8     n.&          00          100           -                2               -                21
2, ilmsi Akunma Vt*aMU   I'auIsata  of Ahniau 
Unill                   tmUha    NW        2.4     3.3   S.7  3.6    .1    4.1         5.4         41          -             -                21              17               95
3, 1o.g Unted            InLH* tce    at circes
110*11                 114Wla5u   1a       5.4    4.2    9.6  2.7       -   2.1        9.3         83          -             -                24              15               U4
4. hua/Vlaout actury     $"At lour HMi IrW        HohpdIstu  3 um1 s   5.3    51.8   21.1 10.3     -    19.3    79.0          70         -              -                24             1U               9.      j
S. Sauli   wwC1m1 ny  Swrip of i4 saa dAinY, HLy                     2.0    6.9    S.S  1.0    .S       2.)    11.2         100          100          100               4               46              -
6. Plastic U5wleul Nmand- Snlactu  of l PlUc
ctulrgr Cawl ty Uaaab II 5lsau   hwv    l.9    4.1    6.6  1.0                                  -     1.0    2.4          81           -            _4                               50               IS     1
7. c  Tni!.               lmudacatcuz     b   Tile.   SVipiau   5w    3.4    9.5   12.9  3.0       -     20 _    7_j_         90          90                             29              -                _
V5W.              22.9      7.6   70,S Y.t       1,0  31.1                                                                                             24'
LWD
SHy 194
I!



- 24 -
ANNEX 4
-    SlOMALIA
Somali Development Bank
Analysis Loan Approvals 1977-1982
(Amnouts Sh. million)
A. SIZE                         NUMBER     z      AMOUNT     Z
Up to 200,000                677      86       48.0      17
200,001 - 500,000             44       6       17.5       6
500,001 - 1,000,000           23      3        15.4       5
1,000,001 - 2,000,000         14      2        21.9       8
2,000,001 - 5,000,000         18       2       60.9      23-
Over 5,000,000                11       1      114.5      41
-   787    100       278.2     100
B.  MAJOR ECONOMIC ACTIVITY
Agriculture & Livestock     437       55      131.7      47
Building Materials           18        2       17.3       6
Retail Trade                 36        5        5.1       2
Metal/Wood Working            31       4       11.1       4
Transport                    29        4        6.3       3
M"n facturing               213       27       99.5      35
Kiscellaneous Services       23        3        7.2       3
TOTAL                   787     100       278.2     100
C. T      OF LOANS
Up to four years            360       46       39.4      14
Four to seven years         382       48      175.1      63
Over seven years             45        6       63.7      23
TOTAL                  7WU      100       278.2     100
D.  INTEREST RATE
5 to  6Z                    652      83       166.9      60
6 to  8Z                     57       8        34.0      12
8 to lOZ                     36        4       23.8       8
Over 1OZ                     42        5       53.5      20
MTAL                    787     100  ---  278.2     100
E.  TYPE OF PROJECTS
                    New                          598      76       225.3      81
Expansion                   164      21        38.3      14
Rehabilitation               25       3        14.6       5
MOTAL                   787     100      278.2      100
F.  TYPE OF OilERSHIP
Prrvate                     776      99       211.4      76
Public                       11        1       66.8      24
TMTAL                   787     100      278.2      100
EAPID
May   1984



KIwI [EaELir0~ M     (EU)
Ccarpaton d Actual & Vornaast Cperatl    (1977-1982)
(Awhuita in Sh mil.Ion)
Year Vaiod Oiecisr 31           1977                 1978                   1979                   19B0                   1961                  1962
rw.ctakActutml    Po.iectZ Actual           PrqJectml   Act0al     Pmje          h3       PetU Actuae                zt       AJ tual
APMVAIS
toen                   45.0       29.3       52.0       40.8        60.0       60.3        69.0       32.9        79.0        44.9        -         51.5
3qdjty Twnetwite         6.0       -           6.0        8.7         6.0        0.5         6.0        7.8         6.0         7.5       -          11.0
51,0      29.3        B.0       49.5        66         60.8        75.0       40.7        85.0        52,4        -        62.5
lna"s                   45.0        9.5       52         26.7        60         42.8        69.0       46.4        79          19,8        -        20. 
Vqutyl qnvnstnts         6.0       -           6         -            6           .2         6.0                    6         -            _        -       N
5.0       9.5       58         26.7        66         43.0        75.0       46.4        8S          19.8        -         20.1
DISOU1MH13
~10l     ~37,0                      19.0      46.0       23.7        48.0       48.9        67.0       52.9        76          66,8        -        70.0
eqdty Ihtetnt8           6.0       -_          6*0        8.7         6.0         .3         6.0        7.8         6           7.5       -          11.0
43,0       19.0      52         324         54         49.2        73.0       60.7        82          74.3        -         81.0
10.0       9.8       10.0       16.4        16.0       10.0        19.0       19.4        -           3847       -         47,3
Saleoflnwebt- -                                    -           -          -           -          -                -           -           -          2.0
10         9.8       Po.        16.4        16.0       30.0        19.0       19.4        -           38,7       -         49.3
j/ Optiraom for 1982 ere nOt projected at qlpra1aal, actuda. wlun of opertions for 1982 aro prowntad to provde a mis romnt plctum of the
evlutio  of SUI o1 irtlo                                                                                                                                I
VAPMD
May 1984



MKWA~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~h 
OM    FULUWBN
Zidty LweatotBas of  A  30, 1983
(A.mnta In Sh 'W) 
l!lncmLc             X Si I            o       e of  Dte of bard  hmwt   ,    wu t        S's u&old       a
Activity             Omlrship   &nterprae        J>              &           MbWred    X of gm  Capita
1,  fiat 1lr S Pasta Yactoy   MilUlg & Pasta fTocnm              la)         k3w            5/76          25,000        25,000         100
2, 1X                            Phlit ProB1ig                   100         HIW            4/73           11,000       1100000
3. FI                            Auto Spawas lba1auhlp           100         ?bw            5/74           5,300         5,300         100
4. Brick & TAas Factory           Bick Idng                      100         N w            6/76            7,000        7,00          10o0
5. AIuim. Utensils Factory       Mlfacturitg of Uill 100                    Nrw           12/79             500           50D          62.5
6, Sam1 1blaseS Colpq            IbluIses Storwgp                 19         Nw             1/81             532           532          19
7. DrAS                            amanacWlae of Plutlc
Oxtainers                     100        tNw             1/72                2            2          15
8. SximltaX                      Textiles                        1)          NBW            2/69            I L203f,     12             20
TOIDL                                            50,534        50,534
EAPED
Ihy 19B4
. ,~~I



Pderormno of SUsidlary Omplmes
(&o1  Sh. '000)
Faminp (ltas) before Interest
SI  IDwsuitatiun                                1                   ProfElt (law) Before  hos
l                         ~Yr. nr   Yr. Ehi g    Yr. MEdr  Yr. Iding  Yr. Eding   Yr. Iraz     lvens Reied by  B
E ty    loans    Imwtent          12/31/80     12/31/81     12/31/82     12/31/80     12/31/81     12/31/82   Iwo       1981       1982
1. Meat Flour & Pata
Factory               25,00D   23,114     48,114        13,472        7,954       8,849         11,436       11,077       (2,598)  6,500      12,250    3,500
2, FP11 e.p.a.            5,000       147      5,147         6,437        3,551       2,584          6,252        3,374        2,376    2,000      3,000    3,000
3. 1X'                    11,000    9,453     20,453            34          847      (5,027)          (501)         (76)      (2,296)    -           -       -
4. Brick & 'lla Factory    7,000    28,179    35,179        (2,130)      (1,607)     (2,636)        (3,500)      (1,886)      (2,264)          -             -    '
ImPL          48,682   61,160    109,842                                                                                     8,500     15,250   6,500
IAPL1
May 1984



- 28 -
ANNEX 8
Page 1 of 3
SaMALIA
Somali Development Bank (SDB)
Summary Description and Present Status of Selected
Subprojects Financed Under Credit 698-SO
1.*       Merca Electricity Agency.  Subloan $504,744. The subloan was
approved in February 1979 to finance the purchase and installation of
additional generators and ancillary equipment in order to increase the
capacity of Herca power station from 375 KVA to 1175 KVA of which 250 KVA
was required for cold storage of bananas, a major export item. Due to
delays in the delivery and installation of equipment, project
implementation was slower than-anticipated resulting in cost overruns of
about Shs 1.6 million. To finance part of the cost overruns SDB approved
an additional loan of Shs. 400,000 (US$ 60,000). The National Energy and
Electricity Board, a parastatal body that owns the Nerca Electricity Agency
provided the rest of the financing required to complete the project. The
expanded power station is expected to become fully operational by June 1984
and wil1 provide 21 new permanent jobs at an investment cost per job of
$17,900. Merca Electricity Agency is a well managed and despite low
tariffs, which are used as an incentive to attract industries in the Merca
region, the agency is profitable.
2.        Somali Aluminium Utensils Manufacturing Co. Subloan $608,120.
The project, sponsored by the Ministry of Industry was established in 1978
to manufacture aluminum cooking and household utensils from locally rolled
aluminum sheet. The project was designed to produce 150 tons of utensils
per annum and was completed at a total cost of Shs 7.3 million. The IDA
subloan which accounted for 52Z of total project cost financed the purchase
of machinery and equipment. While implemented on schedule, the project run
into operational problems right from the beginning largely due to its
dependence on imported raw materials-aluminum coil, handles,chemical
components. As a result of persistent foreign exchange shortages in Somalia
and the subsequent devaluation of the Somal shilling, the company has met
difficulties in obtaining both local currency and foreign exchange
resources for the importation of raw materials. While it was anticipated
that the plant would operate at 50% of capacity after completion, it has
operated at only about 25Z of capacity and has made losses since its
inception. Management of the company remains weak despite the assistance
of four experts from Philco Steel Co. Ltd.-an Indian company which
provides technical assistance to the project under a management agreement.
The company is the sole producer of aluminum utensils in Somalia and has a
ready market. Its prospects however remain bleak in view of total



- 29 -
ANNEX 8
Page 2 of 3
dependence on imported raw materials. The project has created 91 new jobs
at an investment cost per job of US$11,300.
3.        Deega Exercise Books Limited.  Subloan $481,322.  The company was
established by two Somali nationals in 1978 to manufacture and
miscellaneous paper stationary items for use in offices and schools. The
IDA subloan was approved in 1980 to finance the necessary machinery and
equipment. Project implementation was delayed for over 2-112 years as
sponsors failed to get allocation of the necessary land to build factory
premises in Mogadishu's industrial area. Subsequently, the sponsors scaled
down the size of the project and selected small machinery and equipment
that could be accommodated in rented premises. As a result, only
US$295,498 of the IDA subloan was utilized; the balance was eventually
cancelled (para. 3.11). The project began production in 1983 but operates
at only about 50Z of installed capacity largely due to inadequate supplies
of imported raw materials. The stationery items produced are considered to
be a high quality and local demand for these products exceeds current
production. The company has not produced accounts and the status of its
financial performance is not known., Twenty four jobs have been created by
the project at an investment cost per job of $13,400. The SDB loan is in
arrears and the sponsors have asked for rescheduling of the loan in view of
the 2-1/2 delay in project implementation.
4.        Wheat Flour and Pasta Factory.  Subloan $1,925,000. The factory
was established by the Government of Somalia in 1975 for the production of
wheat flour, spaghetti and macaroni for the local market. Production at
18,000 tons per annum was inadequate to satisfy local demand. The IDA
subloan, approved in 1980,financed additional plant and equipment to expand
production capacity to 30,000 tons p.a. The total cost of the expansion
program amounted to $6.7 million of which $1.9 million (25%) was financed
by IDA. The factory is a very profitable operation; except for 1982 when a
loss was incurred due to frequent production stoppages to allow extensive
machinery maintenance, it has made a profit each year since its
establishment. It should be noted, however, that its profitability can, in
great part, be attributed to the fact that it has guaranteed access to
wheat at the official exchange rate which, at times, was grossly
overvalued. The Wheat Flour and Pasta Factory is a wholly owned subsidiary
of SDB and regularly pays dividends averaging Shs 6.5 million per annum
since 1979. These dividends account for about 31 of SDB's total annual
income and have represented in some years a return of 35Z on SDB
investment. This project produces pasta-the staple food in
Somalia and as such is considered to be a priority project. In a less
positive vein, the expansion project created 90 additional jobs at an
investment cost per job of about US$74,000. This is a high figure,
reflecting the fully automated nature of the plant. The factory employs a
total of 298 workers.
5.        Somali Molasses Co. Ltd.  Subloan $286,000. The Somali Molasses
Company Limited, jointly owned by the German Development Company (DEG) and
the three Somali public institutions, was established in 1980 to operate



- 30 -
ANNEX 8
Page 3 of 3
molasses storage and handling facilities at Kismayo to facilitate the
export of molasses, a by-product of the Juba Sugar refinery. The cost of
the project amounted to Shs 9.4 million and was partly financed by a loan
of Shs. 2.4 million from IFC and the IDA subloan. The project was
implemented on schedule and went into operation in 1981 and handles the
export of about 21,000 tons of molasses a year. The company is well
managed and made a 27% return on equity in 1982 and declared a 15%
dividend. The project has excellent financial prospects and should service
its debt obligations with ease.
6.        Plastic Utensils Ltd.  Subloan $131,746.  The project, sponsored
by a Somali businessman,was started in 1980 to produce plastic household
utensils-cups, knives, jugs, plastic coat hangers, ashtrays, toys etc.
Due to delays in the delivery and installation of machinery, the project
implementation was completed about 12 months behind schedule. Coupled with
the devaluation of the somali shilling in 1982, total project cost
increased from Shs. 2.0 million estimated at appraisal to Shs 5.1 million
on coupletie- of the project. The IDA subloan financed the importation of
machinery -ad equipment. The rest of the funds required for the completion
of the project, including the cost-overruns, were provided by the sponsor.
Although the plan has capacity to produce 80 tons of plastic products, its
output has averaged only about 40 tons in each of the past two years due to
periodic shortages of raw materials which are all imported. To increase
the volume of output,-the company has started collecting disused plastic
articles which are melted and reused in the production of utensils. The
project has capable management and 18 workers including three technical
experts. Four of the Somali women have been trained in the operation and
maintenance of the machinery by the suppliers. The 18 jobs were created at
an investment cost per job of $18,600. The company has not yet produced
books of accounts and its financial performance and condition are not
known. SDB expects its loan will be repaid on schedule.
7.        Roof Tiles Manufacturing Company.  Subloan $393,249.  The project
owned by private Somali investors involved the establishment of a roof
tiles manufacturing factory to meet local demand. The project would
utilize cement from the local Berberu Cement plant as its principal raw
material. At the time of the subloan was approved, the project had been
allocated a plot of land. Subsequently however, after machinery and
equipment had been purchased, the Government cancelled the land
allocation. As a result, implementation of the project is 2-1/2 years
behind schedule. The project sponsors have recently acquired an
alternative plot of land and construction of the factory is almost
complete. Production is expected to start by June 1984. Due to
implementation delays, total project costs have increased from the initial
estimate of Shs. 6.0 to Shs. 13.0 million as of September 1983. The
project sponsors will finance the cost overruns from their own resources.
The sponsors have rot requested a rescheduling of the loan and regularly
pay loan interest charges as they were due. The project appears to have
great potential as it does not depend on imported raw materials and its
output has a ready market in the construction industry. When completed,
the project is expected to generate 39 jobs at an investment cost per job
of $22,000.



I                                    I                                           a 
SGALIA
M4LI DEEII8W  A
Ca4rison Of Projected   A Atial rrea  Statenonts 1977-1982
1977                1978                 1979               1980                1981         1982
ProjectdActual  Pmjected  Actual  Proj ected   ual  Project3ACtual  ProJectedAatuaL   ictuil
Year Ending [ecirnr 31
1     EiiThcim~              8.9        6.0        11.4      4,1      14.4      6.5       17.7      8.0      20.9      12.5      17.0
Uv1doalei1s                   .9        3.0         .5       4.9        .5      6.7        .7      8.5         .9      15,2       6.5
Other Inmma                   .5        .5          .6       1.0        .5      1,3        ,5       ,7         .4       1.8       1.9
lbtal Tnconm              10.3        9.5        12.5     10.0      15.4    14.5        18.9    17.2       22.2      29,5      25.4
enes                                                                                                               ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~w
Muinastrativ Expenses        3.4        3.5         3.8      5.2       4.3      6.6        4.8     8.5        5.4      12.7      14.0
Finarne CUJrges              1.3        1,3         1,9      1.3       3.2      1.2        4,3     1A4        5.8       1.6       3.2
Dmciatlin                     ,3        .6          .4       1.0        A4      1.2        ,5      1.4         ,5      18        1.7
Pmvislons                    3.5        4,0        2.1       2.1       2.0      4.4        2.0     4.8        1.8      12,8       5.7
'flja Ixpnsea              8.5        9.4        8.2       9.7       9.9    13.4        11.6    16.3       13.5      28.9      24.6
Profit Before Mhx            1.8        .2         4.3        .3       5,5      1.2       7.3       .9        8.7        .6       .8
lhXl!B                        ,7       -           1.8        .1       2.3       .4        3.1      ,3        3.6        .2        .3
14t Pp3fit                   1.1        .1          2.5       .2       3,2       ,7        4,2      ,6        5,1        ,4        ,5
EAPU)
May  1984



SOULI DEN=r ANK
Cqpadson of PrJected & Actual balm=a llts 1977-1982
Ah  at lod  r 31
3977                1978                  1979                 1980                 1981          1982
oJected  Ah    al  Projected   Actual   Projec ctActual   Pnl -ectActul    gJaca -Actual. h-1ik
=Wiad Deposits                      23.8         24.6       16.0      37.0      38.1       21.2      17.5       27.6      6.6        16.6     11.3
Dbtaora  Other Quramt Assets        19.3        15.6       21.5      26.7      31.3       34.3      42.4        30.4     55.2        42.4    38.6
'Ltal Qunnt Assts                  3          V          1          7        W          5,           .9       56.0    61.8         59.0      99
[brtfoliot
lbars                            140.4       128.2      176.4     132.4    211.1        166.1    244.2       194,8   275.5        227.6   230.9
lqidty II   ncYals                23.1        17.1       29.1      25.7      35.1       26.0      41.1       34.0    47.1          41.5    50.5
U1M.                            163.5       145.3      205.5     158.1    246.2       192.1    285.3       228.8   322.6         269.1   281.4      w
laes ProvisLoi                    (5.3)       (5.0)      (7.4)     (6.7)    (9.3)    (11.2)    (11.3)       (15.5)  (I3.3I)       (28.3)  (24.9)
Stt IbrtfoUo                     158.4       140.3      198,1     151.4    236.9       380.9    274.0        213.3  3X.5          240.8   256.5
Nlt fixed Allts                      2.7         9.7        2.7      17.4       2.5       12.5       2.3        13.2      2.1        12.7     21.9
'ID1PJ. ASSElS.                 204.2       190.2      238.3    232.5    288.8        248.9    336.2       284.5   373.4        312.5   328.3
lAIIILI'1l1F  &IT W3rW3l
irumnt UlAblUttes                   15.6        15.8        17.2     25.0       17.8      25.1       17.4       31.1     19.2        34.9    21.9
luwj llimu Borrnwciyp               44.9        45.1       54.9      43.0      01.6       38.7     105.1       46.5    135.6        52.2    70.9
omits. '4                                                              . '3     -          -                     ' I                 -          .4
'RAII. IJAIl.lMES                60.5        61.3       72.1      683.3     99.4       63.8     122.5       77.7    154.8         87.1    93.2
Swm Car  1tal                      140.0       126.8      160.0    153.4      180.0      173*4    200,0       186.8   200.0        200.0   211.2
1li.raca                             3.7         2.1        6.2      10.8       9.4       11.5      13.7       20.0    18.6         25.4    23.9
Kit WrtIi                          143.7       128.9      166.2    164,2    189.4        184.9    213.7       206.8    218.6       225.4   235.I
*j)s. IJAILt.ITIES & WrT WCIII     204.2       190.2      238.3    232.5    288.8        248.7    363.2       248.5   373.4        312.5   3286.3
EAPID
May 1.984
/                                I



SALI
Szo   Dall   1 t  Be*t
PmJctad        z wA Actwd  hirmOT Ratios
(2)
1977             1978                1979               1960                19U1             1982 /
Law Dnm Debt/Equity Ratio    0.4       0.4     0.4      0.3       0.5      0.2       0,5       0.2      0,7       0.2     -          C,3
awrrmit Ratio.6  2.6                           2.2       2.6      2,8      2,2       3.4       1.9      3.2       1.7     -          2.3
Dobt Sertom  Orapn Ratio    4.8        4.3     3.0       4.1      2.9      3.9       3.9       3.6      5.5       2.4     -          1.8
Protit After Tot as I of
hAerm Total Aaett            0.6      0.1      1.1      0.1      1.2      0.3        1.4      0.2      1.4       0.2      -         0.2
Profit After Mu m 2 of
Ayerq  Eqity                 0.8      0.1     1.6       0.2      1.6      0.4       2.3       0.3      2.4       O.2      -         0.3
Rr&vWa FqesF         an X of
hvr  Total Asate             0.7      0.7     0.9       0.6      1.2      0.5        1.4      0.5      1.6       0.6      -         1.0
Afntattive WnI   as                        /                               I
X of Awrp Total Ansts        2.0      2.3     1.9       3.0      1.8      3,2        1.7      3.7      1.7       4.8     -          4.9
In,  frm Loan PbrtfoUo a 
X of hWra  tam PbrtfoUo    6.5        4.8     6.6       3.2      6.8      4.4       6.9       4.4      7.0       5.9     -          7.4
Praviion as I of Oatandir
bgtfolto                    3.2       2.7     3.6       1.3      3.8      2.3       4.0      2.1       4,1       4.7     -          2.0 L
1982 ratios wer rot projected at qprapp alll abial 1982 ratIos sm pented to prwde a wero   nt picture of 818 fiolnal perfo     ai
eatlon.                                                                                                                             an
IMrdl 1984
l~~~~~~~~~~~~



A3NNEX 12
-  -     ~   34  ~         Page i /
lankiga Noruuarinta Soomulida                                   Somali Desslopment Bink
GUDDOONAYE PRESDENT
TELEPH. 322 - 38
1B/G/2/1
03?7                                                       P.O. Box 1079
APR -41985                                                        Tegrams BANKHORUMAF
COENTS RECEIVED FROMTHEBORROW            Telex   :635 SDB MGD SR
Code   :Peesons' 4th Ed-
M(arch 21st,1985.
Mr. Yukinori Watanabe
Director,
Operations Division Department
The International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington. D.C. 20433
U. S. A.
Dear Mr. Watanabe,
Re: Project Completion Report -
Somalia - Somali Development Bank
Credit 698-SO.
I wish to acknowledge with thanks rec2ipt of your
Project Completion Report dated January 24, 1985 which
reached us on February 20,1985.
In examining the report, we have found certain points
which, in our opinion, are not fair and need clar --ications
that have duly been dealt with in our comments to your
report which we hope will be reproduced in the fir.l report
as mentioned in your covering letter.
ince'e   Yours,
* ur
President.
Attachment: SDB's comments on the report.



AINEX 12
Page 2
_35 -
SDI'm CoMents on "Proiect Completion'Report
Somalia - Somali Development Bank (SDB)
(Credit 698-SO)
The project completion repert prepared by IDA's
Operation Evaluation Department concerning Credit 698-So to
SDB contains in our opinion. some serious shortcomings
leading to negative conclusions about the situation of the
Somali Devlopment Bank and its management.
In our vlew, the concerned credit and the concomitant
tefchnical assistance have bad much more positive and lasting
effects on the SDB than intimated by the report. To be sure
the effects of the programme would have been more imuediate
and spectacular had the invirnoment, in whcih SDB operated.
at the time been less severe.   It is the fact that the effects
of the exogenous constraints. although mentioned in the report.
are underestiwated and the lack of immediate success in certain
aspects of the programme is largely attributed to the assumed
weakness of the management of the Bank, -which is the most disturbing
feature in the report. In addition, the report does not adequately
take into account the decisive changes in the environment that
were already detactable in October 1983 (at the time of the
mission that gathered information on which the report was based)
and their effects on the Bank.
Drring the last three years,SDB has undertaken a number
of decisive steps (largely recommended by IDA), and it is in the
process of undertaking others, so that the present shape and
profspects of SDB are. in our opinion, umch better than assumed
by the authors of the project completion report.
The period of implementation of the credit has been particularly
difficult for SDB. However, in the current post-implementation
period the environment has radically improved and given to the
Bank the opportunity to undertake some decisive measures that were
not r-5sible during the preceding period.



-   -                                               s~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~AN4RIX IZ
--36-                          Page 3
The Project Preparatlon and Implementation Period
In 1975. the Somali Development Bank approached the
International Development Association (IDA) for a credit for
the first time. Subsequently, IDA has undertaken a detailed
appraisal-of SDB and. as a result. granted the Credit line
subject to many conditions. all of which SDB assented to.
Although it was in existence for about seven years.
SDB was handicapped by serious institutional weaknesses at
the time of appraisal. It was found to have "an unsuitable
organizationalstructure, inadequate and weak staffing and to
be lacking appropriate procedures for accounting, financial
control, project promotion, appraisal and follow-up".
As a result the project was given three main objectives:
1) To provide SDB with foreign exchange reaou-:ces for
mnedium and long-term financing of productive investments;
2) Develop SDB to a robust institution capable of
performing its development banking fuctions adequately, and
3) To provide IDA witb an opport :.-ity to engage with the
Somali Government in constructive dialogue on the
country's industrial policy.
For the achievement of the second objective a technical
assistance component of US$260.000 was included in the credit
(USS 5-Million).
For the same purpose IDA has kindly assisted SDB to obtain from
the Arab Fund for Economic and Social Development an additional
grant of US$340,000 to be fully utilized for training and technical
assistance for SDB.
According to the project implementation report the first
objective of the programme, i.e. the utilization of the credit
for financlng productive investment, has been achieved with some
delays caused by factors 1imitiug the absorptive capacity of the
Bank including the diffrl-r e'-nnmic environ4pnr of thar period



ANNEI 12
-37-                      Page 4
It Is the outcome of the second objective, i.e. the institutior
building objective, that ia seen es a major disappolntment by the
authors of the project implementation report. In our opinlon, the
main reasons why this objective was not fully attained, despite
considerable efforts on the part of both SDB and IDA. was the
difficult environuent that hbs particularly frustrated the staffing
of the Bank witb suitable professionals. Secondly, the recruitment
of suitable expatriate experts. to train Somali staff. has proven
more difficult than expected.
The implementation report described the exogenous difficulties
(limitations in the hiring and firing of perionnel. insufficient
renumeration and brain drain towards the Arab oil producing countri-
etc) that were outside the control of the Bank and bampered the
Se3 P0ra    appropriate staffing of the Bank.  The report, however does not
footnote    deal with the difficulties encountered by SDB to recruit, with
the assistance of IDA. capable foreign experts that could perform
the crucially important training on the job for the Somali professic
-als.   The expatriate agricultural eccniomuist that was forseen in
the programme has not been found during the whole implementation
period. The recruited investment adviser proved intractable and
inaccessible for the very staff that he was expected to guide and
-train on the job. His service had been discontinued prematurely
not because of 'problems of SDB's management perception of the
role of expatriates advisors" as the implementation report asserts,
but because of the aforementioned shortcoming in his service
performance.
The two other expatriate experts. particularly the technical
adviser, performed their training functions satisfactorily. The
authors of the project implementation report seem to have been
See para.    grossly misinformed when they assert Lhat " dtiring the implementatic
3.10 (i)     of the project.hovever. SDB relied to a large extent on the
footnote
#4           expatriate technical staff for the appraised of medium and large
size projects with Somali professional staff providing mainly
translation-support!
The management of SDB has has. particularly since the beginning
of the implementation of the IDA credit. the firm intention to
Increase the n'vher of its profes.:inal staff and to motivate



ANNEX 12
Page5
-38 -
then to perform their duties efficiently. For this purpose the
management of the Bank has introduced a project appraisal fee
of 0.5Z on loan.s exceeding So.Shs. 500.000.- to be distributed
to the professional staff active in the appraisal and follow-up
of projects according to their performance. This arrangement which
was introduced in 1981. seems to have helped the Bank also to retain
its professional staff.
Current Situation and Prospects
Currently the Somali Government is pursuing a policy aimed
at promoting the private sector's role in the devlopment of the
economy and the liberalizing economic activities. At the same time.
the Government is endeavouring to increase the efficiency of
public services, particularly through an efficiency oriented
personnel policy. As a result of this policy the engagement of the
private sector in economic activities has markedly increased and
induced SDB to increase its operations.
In addition, the Bank has been able to undertake some measures
of fundamental importance for its development during the last two
years.
Operations of the Bank
The private initiative is currently i. ch stronger than during
the IDA credit implementation period and. as a consequence. the
operations of the Bank have experienced tremendous increases and
vere concentrated in the private sector during the last two years.
In fact total loans increased from So.Shs. 7 Million in 1982 to
So.Shs. 81.1 a. and around So.Shs. 200m in 1983 and 1984 respectivel
It is noteworthy that the first loan of the African Development
Bank to SDB (around US$5 million). which became effective in 1984.
has been utilized to the extent of around 75Z in the same year.
It is forseen that the remaining balance will be utilized during the
first half of the current year. It is also foreseen that the total
ADB loan amount w13l be absorbed by tine private sector.



ANNEX 12
39--               ~~~~~Page b
Hoveover, a substantial share of the equity/leasing line of
I.D.5.0 million that was extended by the Islamic Development Bank
to SDB will be. absorbed in 1985/86, In addition, the Bank plans,
in line with the structural adjustment policy of the Coverhment.
to extend :t least So.Shs. 250 million to the agricultural sector
during 1985/86. By shifting towards the private sector, the
quality of the Bank's portafolio is also improving.
Reosurces
In view of the increasiitg demand for SDB support and in
order to enhance SDB's role in the country's economic development,
the Bank decided to augeent its equity capital base.
It has opened up its share capital for foreign financial
institutions and it may eventually allow local and foreign
private shareholders to participate in its equity capital.
DEG (German Develop=ent Company) has already appraised SDB
and decided to come intc the Bank with an equity participation
of DM 5.0 million. Besides increasing the resources of the
Bank this step has a particular significance within the context
of the above policy. The subscribed share capital of SDB has been
increased from So.Shs. 250 million to So.Shs. 600 in February 1985.
In order to obtain sufficient foreign exchange resources,
the Bank is endeavouring to raise credits from the African Developmer
Fund and from other Internatiobal and-bilateral sources.  SDB would
therefore. appreciate if IDA. in view of the changed situation,
consider a second credit line to SDB.
Manpower Development
The management of the Bank has always been conscious of the
need to take the following steps to increase its efficiency:
1. Release the redundant staff,.particularly with the aim to
restore the right proporatfon between professional and



ANEX 12
-40-                        Page7
support staff.
2. To increase the renumeration of the staff to motive, and
retain the efficient staff members and. in addition, to make
the employment in the Bank uttractive for the professional
staff that nias to be recruited.  This does not involve only
the raising of salaries and allowances but also the provision
of such facilities as housing to the staff.
3. Recruitment of a substantial number of suitdble professional
staff.     -
4. Intensive txaining particularly of the professional staff.
Currently, the Bank is supported by the Gcvernment policy
to undertake the above measures. In addition, the economic situation
in the Arab Oil producing countries has changed in such a way that
the brain drain towards those countries is decreasing.
In 1984. the Som1li Government has commissioned a study financed
by USAID to increase the efficiency of the Somali Civil Service.
Presently. the Government is trying to implemert the recommendations
of that study. In line with this policy, the Bank has been given
the opportunity to freely undertake the above rtntioned steps.
The list of redundant staff members has been already prepared and
their release will be effected very soon in co-ordination with
Government policy measures aiming at easing the transition from
Government employment to other occupations. The release of this
staff will give the Bank the possibility to increase the salaries
of the retained personnel.
As far as the provision of housing to the Bank's professional
staff is concerned. the Bak has already acquired a suitable site
and the construction is planned to start in 1965.
At present, the Bank is practically free to recruit the
necessary professional staff and it is in tlhe process of recruiting
such staff along the lines of the medium term plan laid down in
Devconsult study which was financed by IDA Cre'it 698-SO.



ANNEX 12
Page 8
As for training, the Bank has started in 1984 to hold inhouse
courses on development banking. In addition. we are holding, in
cooperation with the IDA/SIDAMIFresno University Programme, the
third of which within a year is being held this week.
SDB Subsidaries
Another Important measure that has been taken along the lines
suggested by IDA is the vithdrawal of the Bank from its folly owned
subsidazies. Since 1983, the Bank has divested itself completely
of its equity investments in three of the four wholly owned
enterprises. ITOP, the fruit and vegetable processing factcory at
Afgoye. has been taken over by the National Cooperative Association
in 1983, and it has been agreed that the total investment of the
Bank in that enterprise (So.Shs.180) be converted into a medium
term loan to the Association. On the same terms and conditions
the Afgoye Brick Factory was taken over by the same Association
In 19B4.
FIMA, the vehicles apare parts shop, has been incorporated
into the National Trading Agency for Vehicles and spare parts.
From all the enterprises the Bank divested itself, it has
withdrawn its professional staff that was temporarily attached
to these subsidiary enterprises.
The Pasta Fe,.ctory. the only re=aining subsidairy enterprise
of the Bank. is planned to be discEarges at more favourable terms
in due course.
Conclusion
The IDA credit, to which the rroject implementation report
refers, has been more useful to SDE and the Somali economy than
the project implementation report intimates.
The implemenatation of the credit was slowed down and its
pt.
institution building effect temporarily frustrated mainly



AMEX 12
-42-                      Page 9
by environmental conditions outside SDB's influence. However,
the valuab3c recommendations includt in IDA's appraisal report
Of SDB and those given by subsequent supervision missions h,ave
pocitively influenced SDB's management, and as the environment
improved during the last few years. SDB has undertaken decisive
steps in line with IDA recommendations.                                            a
Presently. the Bank is in a rnuch better shape than at the
time of implementation of the credit and it is institutionally
improving.
It bas almost completely ceased to own and manage subsidairy
enterprises and it is concentrating its attention and efforts on
its primary (development banking) functions.
SDB has a better organizational structure and its professional
capability is presently much higher than before the implementation
of the IDA credit. and given the new opportunities a quick improveme
is forseen in the immediate future.
In addition, the financial situation is better; the Bank has
a broader capital base. the quality of its portofolio has improved
and arrears have been reduced to acceptable levels.
As a result of active Government policy and private sector
is today more confident and its economic initiatives more intensive.
Therefore, the demanci for SDB credits from the private sector is
increasing tremendously.  On the other hand, the foreign exchange
resources of the country are scarcer.   Therefore, the Bank neees
today external financial resources more than ever before and an
IDA credit with all its concomitant beneficial effects (transfe-
of valuable experience etc) would be nost welcome.



