Report No. 1341a-SO                                                     FILE  COPY
Somalia: Appraisal of the
Somali Development Bank (SDB)
March 31, 1977
Industrial Development and Finance Division
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Document of the World Bank
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients
only in the performance of their official duties. Its contents may not
otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENT
So. Sh 6.295 = US$1
ABBREVIATIONS
AFESD     Arab Fund for Economic and Social Development
CBS       Central Bank of Somalia
DLS       Development Loan Section, Credito Somalo
ECA       Economic Commission for Africa
GOS       Government of Somalia
NCB       National Commercial Bank
SDB       Somali Development Bank
SIDAM     Somali. Institute of Development Administration and
Management
SICOS     State Insurance Company of Somalia
SRC       Supreme Revolutionary Council
UNDP      United Nations Development Program
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
SOMALI DEVELOPMENT BANK
Table of Contents
Page No.
BASIC DATA  ..............................                                                 i - ii
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS  ................. .......................                         iii-vi
I.    INTRODUCTION  ..................................... .        ....... .........1
II.  ENVIRONMENT ................................                                               1
The Economy  ........... .......................................... 1e
Major  Sectors  ....................................... ........... ..           2
Industrial  Sector  ......... . . . . . .   .................... ......  .       3
Financial  Sector  ...................................                           6
III.     SDB's ROLE  .................... .................                                       9
Volume and Characteristics  of Financing  ............                           9
Promotional Activities   .............................                          10
Management  of the Development Loan  Section  (DLS)  ...                        11
IV.    THE INSTITUTION  ...........................* ...........................               11
(.harter  .........................................................             11
Capital  ............................................                           11
Board  ................. ........ ..........................                    *1
Management  .............. ........................................             12
Organization and  Staff  ......................... ....                         13
Staff Development and Technical  Assistance  .........                          13
Procedures  ... ................................ .. . ... .. .....              14
Policies  ................................... 0   ............. 0......         15
V.    PORTFOLIO,  FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESOURCES  ............                             18
Portfolio  Evaluation  .. ...................... .. .. .   .    -  18
Financial  Position  ......              ...........................            18
Financial Results  ......             ...................... ......             19
Resources  ..........................................                           19
This report was prepared by Messrs. Zia Ahmed and Ismail Dalla on the basis
of their mission to Somalia in August 1976.
This document has a  tets   d dtribution and may be USW by hcipients only In the performance
od their offciW duts. Its cotents maY not otherwbe be dbclosed without Wodd Sknk authoruzation.



-2-
Pase No.
VI.  PROSPECTS .................................................   20
Business  Outlook   . .... ...   ...... .........  ........ .. . . ...  20
Strategy ...................................... 000....  20
Forecast of Operations .... .........................   21
Resource Requirements . ..... ........ . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    21
IDA  Credit  ... o ..........- ......................... -*oe ... .o .ooo..  22
Projected Financial Position .......... .. ..........    23
Projected Financial Results    -.o- ..... .........    23
VII.   RECOMMENDATIONS  .o..   . .     .. . . .. . . . ....... . ...... *...24
List of Annexes
Somalia
1. An Overview of the Industrial Sector in 1973
2. Outstanding Loans of the Commercial Bank by sectors
3. Interest Rates Structure
4. Mogadiscio Consumer Price Index (December 1971-February 1976)
SDB
5. Summary of Operations (1968-1976)
6. Loan Approvals by sector (1968-1976)
7. Board of Directors
8. Proposed Organization Chart
9. Draft Statement of Operating Policies
10.  List of Equity Investments Outstanding as of December 31, 1976
11.  Balance Sheets (1972-1976)
12.  Income Statements (1972-1976)
13.  Pipeline of Projects as of December 31, 1976
14.  Assumptions for Operations and Financial Projections
15.  Forecast of Operations (1977-1981)
16.  Projected Balance Sheets (1977-1981)
17.  Projected Income Statements (1977-1981)
18.  Projected Cash Flow (1977-1981)
19.  Actual and Projected Financial Ratios (1973-1981)
20.  Estimated Disbursement Schedule for Proposed Credit



(i)
SCMALI DEVELOPMENT BANK
BASIC DATA
Exchange Rate: US$1 a So. Sh 6.295
Date of Establishment: May 1968
Ownership (as of December 31, 1976; amounts in Sh million)
Authorized             Paid-in
Capital        %      Capital      %
Government                  120.0         60.0     87.3       87.5
Central Bank of Somalia      60.0         30.0     21.6       12.2
National Commercial Bank      15.0         7.5      3.2         0.3
Somali Insurance obmpany      5.0          2.5      1.2
Total                  200.0        100.0   113.3       100.0
Resource Pbsition (as of December 31, 1976; amount in Sh million)
Uses
Net Fixed Assets                           2.0
Equity Investments                        17.1
Loans - Disbursed & Catstanding          120.0
Undisbursed Commitments                    7.8
Total Uses              147.
Sources
Share capital                            113.3
Retained earnings & reserves               3.3
Long & Medium term loans:
IRAQ                      4.5
USAID                     0.3
Central Bank              2.9
Somali Government        26.1         33.8
Total long & medium term sources     150.4
Cooperative fund                       1.0
Total sources                        151.4
Available for new commitments           4.3



(ii)
Cperations (Sh million)
Year ending December 31                         LOANS                      Equity
Approvals    Commitments   Disbursements
1973               49.4            49.4            34.1           3.7
1974               35.8            35.8            36.7           2.8
1975               39.5            39.5            45.9           5.2
1976               13.3            13.3             9.6           3.0
Cperating Results (Sh million)             1974            1975              1976
(Provisional)
Profit before taxes                    1.8             3.9               1.4
Prifit after taxes (PAT)               1.3             0.4               0.8
PAT as % of average networth           2.0             0.4               0.7
Financial Position (Sh million)
Net Worth                              79.3            101.5             116.0
Long-term debt                        12.9              10.3              33.8
Total Assets                          98.0             140.3             161.1
Long-term debt/equity                   0.2              0.1               0.3
Provisions as % of total portfolio      0.1              1.5               1.2
Administrative expenses as % of
average total assets                 1.6              1.1               2.0
Interest Rates and Other Charges
Interest Rates                         Agriculture/    Industry &        Others
Handicraft         Mining
Medium-term (2-6 years)                    5.5,           6.0%             6.5%
Long-term (7-20 years)                     6.o%           6.5%             7.5%
Charges
Commitment fee:                       1% of undisbursed loan balances
Loan investigation fee:                0.5% of the loan amount
Late Payment fee:                      2% on amount overdue for 30 days or more
IDA/ EAPID
February 28, 1977



- iii -
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS
(i)       The Somali Development Bank was established in 1968 as a publicly
owned institution to take over the long-term loan portfolio of Credito Somalo,
a Government-owned bank which was being wound up, and to provide financial
assistance to productive enterprises in various sectors within the framework
of the country's development programs and priorities.
(ii)      Since 1969, when the revolutionary government took over power,
Somalia has adhered to "scientific socialism". Despite its poverty, it has
performed creditably in recent years in its attempts to achieve economic
growth which will benefit the bulk of its people. Except in 1974 and 1975
when sizeable resources had to be diverted to drought rehabilitation, Somalia
has contributed substantial amounts to financing development expenditure.
Livestock, agriculture, industry and fisheries constitute the major sectors
of the Somali economy.
(iii)     The Somali manufacturing sector, which contributes approximately
9% to GDP, consists of a few relatively large-scale publicly owned enterprises
and a large number of privately owned small scale enterprises, mainly engaged
in producing consumer goods out of local raw materials for the domestic mar-
ket. The only export-oriented industries are two factories producing meat
and meat products and five factories engaged in fish processing. The main
problems affecting the growth of the manufacturing sector are scarcity of
natural resources, smallness of the domestic market, lack of skilled man-
power and ability to prepare and execute projects. The private sector has
only a limited role and future industrial investments will predominantly be
in the public sector.
(iv)      Parastatal enterprises have constraints of skilled manpower, man-
agement and financial discipline. Most of them are not very efficient.
There is also a multiplicity of public sector agencies, including SDB and
the Ministry of Industry, each carrying out a number of functions starting
with project identification to ownership and management of industrial enter-
prises. The Government needs to rationalize these functions. A Bank para-
statal mission, which visited Somalia in April 1976, is presently studying
various policy alternatives for initiating discussions with the Government
to improve the overall situation.
(v)       The Somali economy is largely non-monetized and Somalia's only four
financial institutions, all publicly owned, are the Central Bank, a commercial
bank, a development bank, and an insurance company. Somalia's financial
authorities tend to discount the role of interest rate in mobilization and
allocation of resources. An upward revision in private deposit rates in
January 1975 did not lead to any increase in the rate of growth of private
savings and time deposits. The authorities propose to mobilize private
savings through opening commercial bank branches in rural areas and through
the postal savings system. Resource allocation is made on criteria of
import substitution, availability of raw materials, foreign exchange earnings
and employment potential and the opportunity cost of capital has little
relevance in this context. The interest rate structure in Somalia reflects



- iv -
the Government's emphasis on the various sectors of its development program.
Commercial bank rates on short-term loans are the lowest for public entities,
higher for the private domestic borrowers and highest for the foreign borrow-
ers. SDB's long-term rates are lower than the commercial bank's short-term
rates and the SDB rates for loans to agriculture and handicrafts are lower
than those to industry. The Somali financial authorities justify these
differentials on grounds of higher profitability of commercial operations
than that of industrial enterprises and the need to give incentives for
increasing production in agriculture and handicraft sectors.
(vi)      Somalia has had a low inflation rate until 1973.  The Consumer
Price Index (CPI) increased by 1.4% in 1971 and decreased by 1% in 1972.
However, as a result of the drought in 1973 and 1974 and the world wide
inflation, the CPI rose by 17.8% and 19.4% respectively. In 1975, CPI
increased by only 8%. The Somali authorities estimate that under normal
conditions inflation will not exceed 5-6% per year. If this estimate is
borne out by experience, real interest rates in Somalia would be marginally
positive. At the negotiations the Somalis agreed to increase their interest
rates on mediumm-term and long-term loans to industrial sector from 6% and
6.5% respectively to a uniform 7.5%, while maintaining the existing rates
on loans to agriculture and handicraft sectors.
(vii)     Despite its limited professional and management capabilities, SDB's
performance so far has been creditable. It is the single most important
source for medium and long-term funds in Somalia. Its disbursements in recent
years have increased sharply from the Sh 8 million annual average prior to
1973 to Sh 46 million in 1975 accounting for 13% of total investments in
Somalia and 27% of industrial investment. As of December 31,1976, SDB's cumu-
lative approvals (net of cancellations) amounted to Sh 180 million of which
Sh 17 million were equity investments. The main reason for SDB's large
increase in operations since 1973 is its investment of Sh 70 million in
subsidiaries two of which were promoted by it. SDB's financing has concen-
trated in industrial and agricultural (crop-production) sectors. SDB is keen
to diversify its portfolio further and in particular is paying greater atten-
tion to the fisheries sector. Most SDB clients are private Somalis parti-
cularly in the agricultural sector. The average size of agricultural loans
was Sh 76,000 compared with an overall average size of SDB loans of Sh 353,000.
Most industrial loans are large and are to the public enterprises as well as
to SDB's directly promoted projects. Due to problems of infrastructure most
SDB loans are concentrated in three major urban areas, namely, Mogadiscio,
Kismayu, and Berbera.
(viii)    SDB is managing on behalf of the Government the long-term portfolio
of Credito Somalo, known as the Development Loan Section (DLS), transferred
to SDB on the former's dissolution. This section has a paid-in capital of
Sh I million and accumulated losses of Sh 11 million. The Somali Government
has accepted responsibility for all portfolio losses of the DLS.
(ix)      During 1976 SDB's paid-in capital was raised from Sh 99.8 million to
Sh 113.3 million.  It is further proposed to raise it to Sh 200 million by 1980.



- v -
The Government and the Central Bank will take up 90% of the capital whereas
the commercial bank and the insurance company will subscribe the remaining 10%.
(x)       SDB's management is dynamic and influential but SDB lacks profes-
sional staff with competence in project appraisal and financial management.
It has agreed to recruit a few more Somali professionals and undertake an
extensive staff development program including recruitment of four experts for
an initial period of two years each and deputing staff to overseas institu-
tions for training. IDA will help SDB organize this program. The Arab Fund
for Economic and Social Development (AFESD) has agreed to provide a technical
assistance grant of about $340,000 to SDB. The overall cost of the technical
assistance program agreed by SDB with IDA is $600,000 of which $260,000 will
be provided out of the proposed IDA Credit.
(xi)      The overall quality of SDB's loan portfolio is satisfactory.  As
of June 30, 1976, SDB's loan portfolio (including loans to its subsidiaries)
consisted of 356 loans amounting to Sh 117 million, of which Sh 23 million
were affected by arrears of over three months. Some of these arrears have
since been cleared and only loans totalling Sh 15 million were affected by
arrears as of August 15, 1976; these include three loans aggregating Sh 11
million to parastatal enterprises guaranteed by the Government. Of the 6
equity investments amounting to Sh 17 million, outstanding as of December 31,
1976, four involving Sh 16 million were in SDB's subsidiaries. SDB's equity
investments in projects in serious difficulties amounted to Sh 7 million. As
of December 31, 1976, SDB's unaudited accounts show provisions against loans
amounting to Sh 1.7 million, which appear to be inadequate. No provisions
have yet been made against SDB's investments in its subsidiaries, but SDB
has informed us that it will make adequate provisions there in its 1977
accounts.
(xii)      SDB's financial position is quite good due to its relatively large
equity base, and very small long-term debt. SDB's long-term debt/equity ratio
of 0.3:1, as of December 31, 1976, was much less than 4:1 allowed by its law.
Although SDB's provision of Sh 1.7 million is not adequate, its equity base is
large enough to take care of possible portfolio losses without affecting SDB's
creditworthiness.
(xiii)    Somalia is currently implementing an investment program of Sh 3.9
billion for the period 1974-78, of which agriculture and industry account
for Sh 1.1 billion and Sh 0.6 billion respectively. In the industrial sec-
tor the emphasis is on modernization and balancing of existing enterprises,
which is in the right direction.
(xiv)     SDB has a reasonable pipeline of projects and good prospects of
increasing its business. It is considered to be a suitable institution
for an IDA credit of $5 million. Our association will enable SDB to improve
its appraisal capability and help better allocation of resources in Somalia.
Also, it will give IDA an opportunity to discuss industrial policies with the
Government.
(xv)      Given the need for SDB to have a reasonable spread on its borrowed
funds and considering the interest rate situation in Somalia, IDA funds



-vi -
will be on-lent to SDB by the Somali Government at 5%. SDB needs to have
a spread of about 3% on its borrowed funds during the next two years to
enable it to meet its administrative expenses, to make adequate provisions
against a rapidly increasing portfolio, and to build up some reserves. The
Somali representatives informed the Association at the credit negotiations
that the Government will charge an interest rate of 2.5% on its loan of
Sh 26 million to SDB to enable SDB to maintain the average cost of its bor-
rowed funds at about 4% p.a. during the next two years. With the average
yield on its future loans during this period at 7%, SDB will be able to
have a 3% spread on its borrowings.
(xvi)     A $5 million IDA credit is recommended, of which an amount up to
$260,000 will be available for financing the services of an Investment Advisor
and an Agricultural Economist and for meeting a part of the costs of the staff
development program. The balance amount of $4.74 million will be available
for meeting the foreign exchange cost of sub-projects financed by SDB. SDB
will have a free limit of $50,000 for approval of a sub-project and an aggre-
gate free limit of $1.5 million. Foreign exchange risk on SDB subloans will
be borne by the Central Bank of Somalia. SDB should have a fixed amortiza-
tion schedule of 15 years with five years of grace for the sake of adminis-
trative simplicity and convenience.



I. INTRODUCTION
1.01      The Somali Development Bank was established in 1968 as a publicly
owned institution to take over the long-term loan portfolio of Credito
Somalo, 1/ a Government-owned bank which was being wound up, and to provide
financial assistance to productive enterprises in various sectors. The
World Bank's involvement with SDB commenced in 1969 when at the request
of the Somali Government a Bank mission visited Mogadiscio to examine the
investment outlook and SDB's prospective role, but no lending resulted from
the mission. The Bank renewed contacts with SDB in 1975. A Reconnaissance
Mission visited SDB in January - February 1976 and found SDB to be a suitable
institution for channeling credit to productive enterprises in Somalia and
recommended its appraisal for an IDA Credit. This report appraises SDB
for an IDA Credit of $5 million.
1.02      Objectives.  IDA's main objectives in approving the proposed credit
should be:
(a) to supply SDB with foreign resources to enable it to
provide medium and long-term financing to productive
enterprises in various sectors within the framework of
Somalia's development programs and priorities. This is
important since SDB is the only financial institution
providing such assistance;
(b) to build up SDB into a strong institution with ade-
quate capability to promote, appraise and supervise
projects and to pursue sound investment policies; and
(c) to provide an opportunity for the Bank to engage into a
dialogue with the Government on its industrial policies.
II. ENVIRONMENT 2/
The Economy
2.01      Somalia is one of the poorest developing countries; its per capita
GDP is only about US$100 (1975). The bulk of the population (3.2 million),
1/   Credito Somalo, a Government-owned bank established in 1959, had obtained
from USAID (through the Somali Government) a loan of US$2 million for
investment in development projects. Most loans turned out to be bad and
uncollectible. Consequently, the Government dissolved Credito Somalo in
1968 and transferred its Development Loan Section (DLS) that is, its
long-term loan portfolio, to SDB to be managed as a separate fund.
2/   For a detailed analysis of Somalia's economy, see IBRD report no.
702-SO dated 8/20/75 "Somalia: Recent Economic Developments and
Current Prospects" in 2 volumes, and the Economic Updating memoran-
dum dated November 12, 1976.



- 2 -
35-40% of whom are nomads, is very poor with a simple and largely non-
monetized economy depending on subsistence from livestock and agriculture.
While there are no national income accounts in Somalia, GDP estimates, pre-
pared by the Economic Commission of Africa, at constant factor cost during
the period 1970-74, indicate an average growth rate of 5.3% per annum. How-
ever, indications are that overall domestic output declined in both 1973 and
1974 due to drought but recovered slightly in 1975, with the return of better
weather conditions. The main sectors of the economy are livestock, agricul-
ture and industry.
Major Sectors
2.02      Livestock.  Livestock is the principal source of livelihood of
about two-thirds of the country's population. Livestock exports have
traditionally constituted over 50% of Somalia's total exports. Despite
the tremendous losses of livestock during the drought the value of live-
stock exports was kept high due to higher prices and a 25% increase in
volume. Export earnings increased from Sh 223 million in 1974 to Sh 360
million in 1975. The processing of meat in Somalia has improved recently
and prospects for meat and leather industries are good.
2.03      Agriculture.  Next in importance to livestock is the agricultural
sector. Bananas represent the second most important export item after live-
stock and in 1974 accounted for 20% of export earnings. Total production
during 1971-74 averaged about 150,000 metric tons per year but declined to
130,000 metric tons in 1975 due to persistence of drought in the early part
of the year. The National Banana Board (NBB), is planning to increase the
production to 200,000 tons by 1979. Although banana exports, which have
traditionally been of the order of about 100,000 metric tons, declined to
82,000 tons in 1975, their value increased from Sh 80 million in 1974 to
Sh 87 million in 1975 due to a sharp increase in export prices.
2.04      Fisheries.  Considering Somalia's long coastline and continental
shelf, the fisheries sector has remained relatively underdeveloped. A 1974
FAO fishing survey estimated that exploitable marine resources in Somalia
range from 200,000 to 2 million tons annually. An initial target to in-
crease national production to 125,000 tons from the current catch of 5,000
tons has been recommended. Somalia's 1974-78 development plan has given
high priority to development of this sector and the planned outlay is about
Sh 48 million. Presently there are five fish processing plants, including
three canneries and two freezing and storage facilities.  The industry has
been operating far below capacity due to insufficient catch. The Government
is planning to increase the capacity of the fishing fleet, establish three
fish harbors, and set up boat construction, repair and maintenance facili-
ties. Fishing cooperatives are also being formed to operate the national
coastal fleet. About 80% of the total output is exported, the main export
being canned tuna. The value of fish exports has increased from Sh 2.9 mil-
lion in 1969 to about Sh 15 million in 1974. It is believed that the volume
of exports in 1975 was twice that in 1974.



-3-
Industrial Sector
2.05      Although the industrial sector in Somalia is rather small, its
importance is increasing. The only comprehensive study on the industrial
sector was carried out by UNIDO in 1973. The contribution of the manufac-
turing sector to GDP was estimated to be 9% in 1973 and the number of work-
ers employed was about 7,000. However, the share of the sector in GDP is
estimated to have increased in 1974 and 1975 when significant increase in
capital expenditures in the sector took place. During 1971-73 investments
in the sector averaged Sh 26.0 million per year. In 1975, Sh 130.5 million,
or 38% of estimated total annual investment, were invested in 19 industrial
projects including Sh 73 million for the expansion of a textile factory.
Annex 1 provides an overview of the Somali industrial sector. The sector
consists of a few relatively large-scale publicly owned enterprises and a
large number of privately owned small enterprises. In 1973, there were 273
manufacturing establishments employing five or more workers, of which 241
were in the private sector and 32 in the public sector. Most industries
are agro-based, depending on local raw materials from agriculture, livestock
and fisheries sectors and produce consumer goods. There are, however, seven
export-oriented enterprises engaged in production of meat and meat products
(2) and canned fish (5). Of the 273 manufacturing units, 77 are engaged in
the manufacture of food products, 41 in wearing apparel, 37 in structural
clay products'and 30 in furniture. The gross value of output has grown
steadily from Sh 81.4 million in 1968 to Sh 246 million in 1973, at an aver-
age annual rate of 25%. Value added in industry increased from Sh 51 mil-
lion in 1968 to Sh 125 million in 1973 at an annual rate of 16%. Public
sector enterprises accounted for about 65% of industrial employment, 74%
of value of gross output and 85% of value added. Mogadiscio and the sur-
rounding area are the main commercial centers and account for 75% of total
industrial establishments and 80% of the industrial output.
2.06      Objectives.  Although the Government's objectives in the industrial
sector are not explicitly stated, they appear to be the following: (a) reach-
ing self-sufficiency in some essential goods such as sugar; (b) encouraging
agro-based industries primarily for local consumption; (c) promoting important
import substitution industries particularly consumer goods; (d) creating jobs
sufficiently to absorb all university and high school graduates; and (e) in-
creasing exports. These objectives are reflected in actual investments during
last two years and in planned investments for 1976. Out of Sh 154 million
earmarked for industry in 1976, 58% is to be invested in modernization and
expansion of existing enterprises like the sugar, textile, meat and fish
factories. It appears that the Government has not placed enough emphasis
on export oriented industries, particularly livestock, where Somalia has a
relative competitive advantage. Because of the very early stage of industrial
development in Somalia, and the scarcity of skilled manpower, the Government
is moving rather slowly in developing export oriented industries.
2.07      Strategy.  In line with its political ideology, the Government has
selected public enterprises as a major vehicle to accomplish its objectives



- 4 -
in the industrial sector. The main elements of Somalia's "industrial strat-
egy" are: (a) improving the efficiency and profitability of existing pub-
lic sector enterprises; (b) setting up new enterprises vital to the econ-
omy in the public sector; (c) consolidating small units into cooperatives;
(d) permitting foreign investors to set up joint ventures with public enter-
prises.
2.08      Role of the Public and Private Sectors.  The Government has not
so far clearly spelt out the areas for public and private sector participa-
tion. But it is clear that major new enterprises will be set up in the pub-
lic sector in line with the Government's socialist orientation, although
foreign investors particularly from Arab countries may be allowed to par-
ticipate in equity in minority positions.  The private sector's role is
relatively small and likely to be further reduced; the current plan in-
cludes only nine small projects in the private sector, of which eight have
already been implemented.
2.09      Institutions for Industrial Development.  There are a number of
ministries and other Government authorities (Ministry of Industry, Ministry
of Fisheries and Marine Transport, municipalities and SDB) involved in the
establishment, supervision, and management of manufacturing enterprises.
Of these, the Ministry of Industry and SDB are the most important. They
have been involved in some projects from the identification stage. Neither
of them possesses adequate expertise in preparation of feasibility studies,
project implementation or industrial management; they were compelled to
assume responsibility in these areas in the absence of alternative insti-
tutional arrangements. In doing so they had to overstretch their limited
staff capability and since they were unable to recruit good managers, the
management quality of most enterprises is poor. The future role of these
agencies in industrial development has not been clearly defined. However,
this does not appear to be a problem at this time due to the fact that the
concerned agencies are represented in all decision making committees and
there is frequent consultation among them concerning the selection and imple-
mentation of projects.
2.10      A UNIDO expert recently submitted a proposal to the Government
for setting up of an Industrial Holding Agency which would establish new
enterprises, make equity investments in and loans to industrial enterprises
and supervise and monitor the progress of projects; the prospects of the
acceptance of the proposal in this form by the Government are slim because the
new institution would duplicate in certain respects, the functions for which
SDB was created. However, some of the functions currently executed by SDB,
are not typical functions of a development finance company, and could perhaps
more appropriately be discharged by another agency.  This is a problem which
should be reviewed, and a suitable forum could be the discussions on the report
of the Bank mission which has reviewed the parastatal sector in Somalia. SDB
could carry out its development financing functions better if it concentrated



-5-
on providing an independent check on its projects through its financing. It
could also promote projects without assuming responsibility for their control
and management.
2.11      Performance of Public Enterprises.  Most public enterprises are
not efficient due to various reasons including shortage of natural resources,
exacerbated by the recent drought, smallness of the domestic market, lack
of financial expertise and poor management. A number of them did not have
adequate long-term funds and used short-term commercial bank funds to finance
fixed assets, large inventories and inter-enterprise debt during the last few
years. Primarily for this reason, commercial bank advances to trade and
industry jumped from Sh 330 million in 1972 to Sh 865 million in September
1975 (see Annex 2), which led to a liquidity crisis compelling the central
bank to advance huge sums to the commercial bank. To rectify the situation
a law was passed in October 1975 empowering the Central Bank to reorganize
the financial structure of parastatals. The main objective of the legislation
is to settle inter-enterprise debt in order to have a clear picture of each
entity's financial situation. The Central Bank has undertaken an exercise
to take over from the commercial bank such portion of the outstanding short-
term loans as had been used by the parastatal enterprises to finance fixed
assets and to convert them into long-term debt of about 10 years maturity at
2.5%. This exercise is still underway and should contribute to a healthier
financial picture of the parastatals.
2.12      The Somali authorities have recently initiated a few other pro-
grams to develop the accounting and financial skills of the staff working in
parastatal enterprises. Firstly, the central bank has intensified its train-
ing program in the areas of accounting and financial control for the benefit
of the junior and intermediate level staff of parastatals in addition to the
training facilities available in SIDAM. Secondly, the Government has recently
invited a leading British firm of chartered accountants to make an offer as to
costs, time, etc., for strengthening auditing capability in Somalia and for
finding solutions to the present financial situation of a number of parastatal
agencies. Thirdly, a UNIDO expert has been commissioned by the Government to
draw up a "National Unified Accounting System" for the parastatal enterprises.
Also a Bank mission recently visited Somalia to look at the parastatal sector
and to suggest measures for improving its performance. Its study is under-
way. These are steps in the right direction and should contribute to the
evolution of an environment wherein parastatal enterprises could operate more
efficiently.
2.13      Small-Scale Industries and Industrial Cooperatives.  There is a
large number of small scale enterprises in Somalia. Sixty-eight percent
of the total or 151 such establishments employed 5-9 workers and 84% employed
5-19 workers. 1/ Small family units or proprietary concerns employing less
1/   Source:  "Small Scale Industry Development:  Proposal and Programs
for its achievement in Somalia". UNIDO, July 1974.



-6-
than five workers were estimated in UNIDO's 1973 Survey Report at about 3,700,
employing over 4,700 workers. In view of the limited role of the private
sector in meeting industrial investment targets under the Plan, an investment
of only Sh 1.5 million is expected to be made in 1976 in small-scale indus-
tries and handicrafts. The bulk of this amount is earmarked for development
of cooperatives. The Ministry of Industry, has so far organized 16 coopera-
tives with a total membership of 1,164 and more are expected in the near
future. Those already established include six cooperatives of hand loomers
and two each of iron workers and basketery producers. These cooperatives
employ nearly 1,200 workers. The Ministry has so far spent Sh 3.75 million
in providing worksheds to the cooperatives and is planning to spend more on
mechanizing some of the units.
Financial Sector
2.14      Somalia has only four financial institutions, all publicly owned:
the central bank (CBS), a commercial bank (NCB), a development bank (SDB) and
an insurance company (SICOS). NCB was established in 1975 by merging the then
existing two commercial banks (the Somali Commercial Bank and Somali Savings
and Credit Bank). NCB has a paid-in capital of Sh 15 million contributed
equally by the Somali Government and CBS and reserves (as of December 31,
1975) of Sh 9.5 million. It has a network of twenty-five branches of which
six are located in Mogadiscio. NCB normally provides only short-term loans 1/
and charges interest rates ranging from 7-12%. As of December 31, 1975,
NCB's total assets amounted to Sh 1,270 million; its deposits totalled Sh 564
million of which Sh 179 million were in savings and time deposits.
2.15      Commercial credit to the private sector and public enterprises,
which had increased by about 69% in 1973, rose at substantially reduced rates
of 49% and 4% in 1974 and 1975 respectively. The bulk of the credit expansion
is related to trade and industry, although in recent years agriculture has
received a markedly higher percentage (see Annex 2). The credit expansion is
due not only to rising world prices of Somali imports of food grains, oil etc,
but also to the dependence of many public enterprises on the banking system
for their capital requirements. The absence of inventory control and per-
sistence of inter-agency indebtedness among Government entities have also
contributed to pressures on bank credit (see para 2.11).
2.16      SICOS was set up in 1969, with a paid-in capital of Sh 1 million
to be the sole insurer in Somalia to undertake fire, accident, marine, avi-
ation and motor insurance. It invests its surplus funds in fixed deposits
with NCB. SICOS is also contemplating to set up a reinsurance corporation
as a joint venture with an Italian insurance company.
1/   A few parastatal enterprises have in the past used short-term funds
from the commercial bank for capital expenditures.



-7-
2.17      Despite an upward revision of interest rates on private deposits in
January 1975, savings and time deposits rose by 16% in 1975 compared to an
annual average rate of about 36% in the preceding three years. This slow-down
in the rate of increase is partly attributable to a reduction of idle commer-
cial bank deposits of public enterprises following increasingly strict credit
policies pursued since 1974. The slower growth in deposits in 1975 also
appears to be due to a decline in the savings potential of the employees in
the monetized sectors where adjustments in salaries and wages have not kept
pace with the rising cost of living. The Government is now placing greater
emphasis on encouraging savings habits among farmers and nomads through the
postal system.
2.18      The Interest Rate Structure
The main characteristics of the interest rate structure shown in
Annex 3 are as follows:
(a) Historically, Somalia has followed a low interest
rate regime. While the Central Bank has recently
revised upwards the commercial bank's interest
rates on deposits from and short-term commercial
loans to the private sector, interet rates on short-
term loans to parastatals and medium- and long-term
development loans have remained unchanged for some
years.
(b) The differential rates for both deposits and loans
for the public and private sectors charged by the
commercial bank and for loans to various sub-sectors
of economic activity by SDB reflect Government's
priorities:
(i) the medium- and long-term rates on loans charged
by SDB (5.5% to 7.5%) are lower than the short-
term commercial bank rates (7% to 12%); and
(ii) the medium- and long-term rates charged by SDB
on loans for agriculture and handicraft (5.5-6%)
are lower than those for industry (6.0-6.5%).
2.19      At the present time, Somalia does not seem to have a well devel-
oped policy on the role of interest rates. The Somali authorities defend
the existing interest rate structure as follows:
(a) in view of the low level of monetization of the
economy and of the level of disposable incomes,
interest rates do not currently play a significant
role in mobilizing resources. The Government plans
to step up efforts to mobilize private savings by
the establishing a number of branches of the commer-
cial bank in rural and semi-urban areas and through



-8-
the postal saving system. The level of interest
rates might then play an increasing role in genera-
ting private savings through these means;
(b) interest rate plays very little role in resource
allocation in Somalia. New private investment in
the future is likely to be minimal. Investment
decisions in the public sector are taken by Gov-
ernment agencies and the criteria for project
selection generally are import substitution, avail-
ability of raw materials, foreign exchange earn-
ings, and employment and training of local staff.
The concept of opportunity cost of capital is
also nebulous in the Somali context. The commer-
cial bank and SDB are the only sources of funds
in Somalia and their interest rates "represent"
the cost of capital available in the country.
Foreign resources available to Somalia in recent
years have all been at concessional rates of in-
terest;
(c) interest rates on short-term commercial loans are
higher than on medium and long-term development
loans because of higher profitability of the com-
mercial operations which have long experience.
Somalia's experience in managing and running
industrial enterprises is limited. In view of
the acute shortage of skilled manpower to operate
and manage industrial enterprises the Somalis do
not wish to "burden" such enterprises with high
financial costs;
(d) low rates on loans for agriculture and handi-
crafts are designed to increase production and
to attract a larger number of nomads to settled
occupations.
2.20      While the allocative and mobilization role of interest rates in
Somalia might not be irrelevant, it is not of critical importance. However,
the Somali Authorities have agreed with the Association to carry out a study
of the level and structure of interest rates during the implementation of
the proposed project to determine their adequacy (para 4.18). Somalia has
had a low inflation rate until 1973 as shown by the Mogadiscio Consumer Price
Index (CPI) in Annex 4. The CPI increased by 1.4% in 1971 and decreased by
1% in 1972. As a result of the drought in 1973 and 1974, and the world wide
inflation, the CPI rose by 17.8% and 19.4% respectively. This was mainly due
to an average increase of 25% in food prices. The inflation rate declined to
7.9% in 1975. The Somali authorities estimate that under normal conditions
inflation will not exceed 5 to 6% p.a. If this estimate is borne out by
experience, real interest rates in Somalia would be marginally positive.



- 9 -
III. SDB'S ROLE
3.01      SDB was established to promote, assist and develop productive
enterprises in agricultural, industrial, mining, tourist, fisheries and live-
stock sectors. Despite the various handicaps under which it has operated so
far, namely limited professional and management capacities and lack of support
from international institutions, SDB's performance has been quite creditable.
Due to lack of entrepreneurship in Somalia and the predominant role earmarked
for the public sector, SDB took the initiative in promoting a number of proj-
ects in the industrial and agro-industrial sectors and even provided manage-
ment, where necessary. In doing so, while it has stretched its capability to
the extreme, it has demonstrated great dynamism in accomplishing its tasks
and is, therefore, regarded as an important development agent in the country,
enjoying the support of the highest Government authorities.
Volume and Characteristics of Financing
3.02      Volume of Operations.  SDB is the single most important source for
medium and long-term funds in Somalia. In 1975, SDB's disbursements of Sh 51
million accounted for 14% of total investments in Somalia and 27% of indus-
trial investment. SDB's operations since its inception in 1968 are summarized
in Annex 5. As of December 31, 1976, SDB's cumulative approvals (net of
cancellations) amounted to Sh 180 million of which Sh 17 million were equity
investments. Except for about Sh 8 million, all SDB's loan commitments as of
December 31, 1976, were disbursed. SDB operations recorded a sharp increase
from 1973 onwards, mainly because of its investments amounting to Sh 69.6
million in subsidiaries, including projects promoted by it (see para 3.07).
Prior to 1973, SDB's annual approvals averaged only Sh 8 million.
3.03      Sectoral Distribution.  SDB's financing has concentrated mainly on
two sectors; industry and agriculture. An analysis of SDB's loan approvals
by sector is provided in Annex 6. SDB made 51 loans to manufacturing amount-
ing to Sh 119 million, or 65% of total approvals. The second most important
sector, agriculture, received Sh 30 million or 17% of approvals. Other
sectors receiving loans from SDB and their relative proportions were:
transport (7%); tourism (2%); livestock (2%); construction and housing (2%);
fisheries (1%); and others (4%). Although the manufacturing sector was the
main beneficiary of the loans, the agricultural sector was the most important
in terms of number of operations; during 1968-1976 SDB approved 443 loans,
or 77% of the total, to the agricultural sector mostly for small banana
plantations. SDB is keen to diversify its portfolio further and is paying
greater attention to the fisheries sector in particular.
3.04      Client Characteristics.  Most SDB clients are private Somalis
particularly in the agricultural, livestock and fisheries sectors. Thirty
percent of loans to agriculture were for amounts up to Sh 18,000; the average
size of agricultural loan was Sh 76,000 compared with an overall average size
of SDB loan of Sh 353,000. In the industrial sector, the average size of SDB
loan was Sh 2 million. Most industrial loans are to the public enterprises



- 10 -
as well as to SDB's directly promoted projects. However, SDB's industrial
clientele also includes 12 private borrowers, three of whom have recently
set up a soap factory, a paint factory and a tile factory. The private
projects are reportedly operating profitably. In line with the Government's
policy SDB embarked on a program to actively assist cooperatives in 1973. As
of December 31, 1976, SDB had made loans to 37 cooperatives amounting to over
Sh 5 million. Cooperatives receiving loans from SDB were in the folllowing
categories: Fisheries (16 loans); agriculture (10 loans); handicrafts (7
loans); chalk (2 loans); and salt (2 loans). SDB is planning to increase its
lending substantially to cooperatives particularly in agriculture and handi-
crafts sectors.
3.05      Geographical Distribution.  Most SDB loans are concentrated in 3
major urban areas: Mogadiscio, Kismayu and Berbera. This is due to the pat-
tern of infrastructure development in Somalia; Benadir, the region where
Mogadiscio is situated, has 75% of total number of establishments and accounts
for 80% of industrial output. To expand its activity in other regions of the
country, SDB recently opened a branch in Hargeisa in the northern region and
has plans to open two more branches, one in the south and the other in the
midlands (see para 4.06).
3.06      Economic Impact.  SDB's activities have made substantial economic
impact by encouraging development of agro-industry and providing employment
to Somalis in both rural and urban areas. SDB has not kept statistics on
employment creation from all its projects but a rough estimate from a few
large industrial projects shows that investment cost per job ranged from
Sh 87,500 - Sh206,000 ($13,900 - $32,000); this appears rather high but it
is based on a very small sample. There are no data on investment cost per
job in the agricultural sector but they are believed to be much lower.
Promotional Activities
3.07      Due to lack of a Government investment promotion agency, SDB has
shouldered the responsibility of promoting projects in the industrial sec-
tor. In recent years SDB has promoted a number of projects, including 6
grain mills, a fruit processing factory (ITOP), and a flour and pasta mill.
SDB has primarily provided 100% loan funds to these enterprises and directly
managed these enterprises by seconding its senior and qualified staff. This
has strained SDB's scarce manpower resources and has somewhat weakened SDB's
ability to perform its primary function of financing productive enterprises.
While SDB should continue its promotional activities, it should avoid, as
far as possible, assuming management responsibilities for these projects and
should try to find independent management for them. SDB's management is
agreeable to such a suggestion, but feels that in the absence of an institu-
tional framework for implementation and management of industrial enterprises,
it may have to undertake these functions on a temporary basis in exceptional
cases in the future also. The Bank's parastatal sector mission is still
studying appropriate recommendations in this area (see para 2.10) and will
discuss them in due course with the Somali authorities. Meanwhile the tech-
nical assistance arrangements which are an integral part of this project



- 11 -
should help improve SDB's project promotion capabilities (paras 4.09 and
4.10).
Management of the Development Loan Section (DLS)
3.08      On SDB's establishment in 1968, the Government transferred to it
the management of DLS as a portfolio to be kept separate from SDB accounts.
DLS has a paid-in capial of Sh 1 million funded wholly by the Somali Gov-
ernment, and a long-term USAID loan of Sh 9.5 million, originally on-lent
to the defunct Credito Somalo by the Somali Government. As of December 31,
1975, DLS's accumulated losses amounted to Sh 11.2 million. SDB realized
from the DLS in 1975 a management fee, at the rate of 25% of SDB's admini-
strative expenses for that year, for looking after the operations of DLS.
SDB shareholders have since decided to discontinue this fee. The Minister
of Finance has confirmed to the Association that SDB has no financial respon-
sibility in respect of DLS.
IV. THE INSTITUTION
Charter
4.01      SDB was originally established under a Presidential Decree Law in
1968 and its Charter was issued on April 30, 1970. Since the enactment of the
Charter, Somalia's policy environment has undergone substantial changes, the
revolutionary Government having announced adherence to "scientific socialism,"
and SDB has outgrown its original dimensions. SDB's original objective was
to assist productive enterprises in various sectors and to take any other
initiative aimed at the economic development of the country, with particular
reference to encouraging the development of the private sector and within the
framework of development programs and priorities established by the Govern-
ment. In view of the revised priorities set in the country after the estab-
lishment of the revolutionary government, SDB's main role is actually in the
public sector with the exception of assistance to small farmers and to a few
small private industrial projects.
Capital
4.02      SDB's authorized capital has recently been increased from Sh 100
million to Sh 200 million. No shareholder other than the Government of
Somalia (GOS) and the Central Bank of Somalia (CBS) is allowed to own more
than one-fourth of SDB's subscribed equity capital. SDB's paid-in capital
as of December 31, 1976, was Sh 113.3 million and is being increased to
Sh 200 million by 1980 in almost equal four annual tranches.
Board
4.03      Annex 7 contains a list of the Board members as of August 15,
1976. According to the by-laws, SDB's Board is required to have a minimum



- 12 -
of five and a maximum of eleven members. SDB's Board presently consists of
Dr. Mohamud Jama Ahmed, Chairman (who is also the President), two represen-
tatives of the Ministry of Finance, two nominees of the Central Bank of
Somalia and a representative of INCAS. 1/ SDB's Board meets about four times
a year and appears to be independent in making investment decisions. With
the proposed new structure of SDB's equity, the Board would also probably be
restructured to accommodate representatives of NCB and SICOS. In order to
expedite the approval of routine agricultural loans, SDB Board has delegated
powers to the President to approve loans up to Sh 200,000 in any one case
without an aggregate limit.
Management
4.04      Dr. Mohamud Jama Ahmed, an ex-civil servant and a former Minister
of Information and National Guidance, is the President of the Bank. He is
very dynamic and influential. He is ably assisted by Mr. Mohamud Mohamed
Noor, General Manager since 1970. Mr. Noor joined Credito Somalo in 1964
after serving the Eastern Bank Ltd., Aden, for 13 years. He is responsible
for the day-to-day management of SDB's affairs.
Organization and Staff
4.05      Organization.  SDB is presently organized into five departments:
Loan, Finance, Technical, Secretariat and Personnel. In addition it has
a separate unit for Internal Audit. The Loan Department receives all loan
applications, appraises agricultural loan applications up to Sh 200,000, and
does documentation, disbursement and follow-up work. The Finance Department
maintains books of accounts, statistics and loan records. The Technical
Department is responsible for project identification and promotion, technical,
financial and economic appraisal of projects and implementation of projects.
The Secretariat and Personnel Departments carry out routine service and per-
sonnel functions. In view of the small number of professional staff and the
need to use it productively, IDA suggested to SDB to consider reducing the
number of departments by having all appraisal and follow-up work done in one
department, to be called the Operations Department, and to carry out the dis-
bursement and treasury functions in the Finance Department. Similarly, the
Personnel and Secretariat Departments could be combined in one Administration
Department. IDA also suggested that SDB should have separate units for legal
work and SDB's subsidiaries. Annex 8 contains the proposed organization
chart, which is being implemented by SDB.
4.06      In order to expedite the processing of small agricultural loans, SDB
established a branch office in 1975 at Hergeisa in the northern region of the
country.  It is managed by the former Chief Accountant of SDB who has been
delegated the authority to approve and disburse routine agricultural loans up
to Sh 60,000 in any one case without any aggregate limit. Other branch
offices at Kismayu in the south and at Baidoa in the midlands are planned for
1977.
1/   A joint venture manufacturing corrugated board cartons for bananas.



- 13 -
4.07      Staff.  SDB employs 61 staff members, of whom 16 are professionals;
of the latter, three have been seconded to management positions in SDB's sub-
sidiaries. Included among the professionals is Mr. D.L. Prasad, an Indian
chartered accountant who, until February 1976, was on secondment from the
National Industrial Development Corporation (India) and is presently under a
UNDP-financed UNIDO assignment up to June 1977. He is doing a fine job and
SDB will need a man of his experience for the next 3-4 years. SDB intends
to retain him under the proposed financing arrangements for the technical
assistance program (para 4.10).
4.08      SDB currently needs to recruit five new Somali professional staff
to carry out its existing operations adequately and also to cope with the
increasing volume of work in the foreseeable future: (a) two with under-
graduate degrees in Economics 1/ to help appraise financial and economic
aspects of projects, (b) one with a degree in Agriculture or Agricultural
Economics to assist appraisal of projects in agricultural sector, (c) one
engineer to appraise technical aspects of projects, and (d) a legal advisor
to take charge of the legal aspects of SDB's work. SDB has agreed to recruit
most of the new staff before the effectiveness of IDA credit.
Staff Development and Technical Assistance
4.09      The general level of skills of SDB professional staff is rather
low and needs to be upgraded. While SDB has in the past sent some of its
staff to training courses in Italy and to the EDI's project appraisal
courses, 2/ the training needs are still substantial. SDB has agreed
with IDA to undertake an extensive staff development program as early as
possible, on the lines indicated in the following paragraphs.
(i) Recruitment of the following experts for a minimum
period of two years: (a) Financial Advisor to assist
in financial planning and control; (b) Investment
Advisor to assist SDB in introducing appropriate
appraisal and follow-up techniques; (c) an Industrial
Engineer to assist in technical appraisal of indus-
trial projects; and (d) an Agricultural Advisor,
with some experience in organizing cooperatives, to
assist in appraisal of applications for financial
assistance from the farmers and agricultural cooper-
atives and in organizing cooperatives on sound lines.
Somali counterparts will be attached to the experts
who will be required to give on-the-job training to
the other professional staff members as well in the
concerned areas.
1/   Degrees in Business Administration, Commerce or Accounting are not
awarded by the Somali National University.
2/   Two staff members have attended EDI's Agro-industrial Project courses
in Washington and Kuwait and a third has attended the Industrial Proj-
ects Course in Washington.



- 14 -
(ii) Training of 4-5 SDB staff in institutions special-
izing in project appraisals. This will be a long-
term program extending over 4-5 years.
(iii) Training of 2 professionals in financial control
and management in experienced DFCs for a period of
6 months each.
(iv) Training of at least one suitable staff member with
some financial/accounting background to work for an
accountancy qualification (ACA or ACCA).
4.10      The Arab Fund for Economic and Social Development (AFESD) has
approved a technical assistance grant of Kuwaiti Dinars 100,000 (about
US$340,000) for financing over the next two years the costs of (a) a Finan-
cial Advisor and an Industrial Engineer for a period of two years each and
(b) a major portion of the staff development program for the Somali staff
spelled out above (para 4.09 (ii) to (iv)). The effectiveness of this grant
will be a condition of effectiveness of the IDA credit. For financing the
costs of an Investment Advisor, an Agricultural Economist and part of the
staff development program, it was agreed at the negotiations to set aside a
sum of $260,000 out of the proceeds of the IDA credit.
Procedures
4.11      Appraisals.  The quality of SDB's appraisals (which are carried out
in the Somali language) is somewhat mixed. While appraisal of routine agri-
cultural loan applications up to Sh 200,000, which constitute the majority of
applications appraised by SDB, is done in a standard format and is adequate,
other appraisals are weak. For example, (i) contingencies and pre-operating
expenses are not included in the cost of project; (ii) summarized financial
projections are prepared for only three years without indicating the main
assumptions; (iii) internal rate of return calculations are not carried out;
and (iv) management capabilities of the sponsors and technical training
arrangements are not adequately assessed. SDB plans to carry out internal
financial and economic rates of return calculations in its project appraisals
in order to determine the financial viability and the economic soundness of
projects. SDB also informed us that, before making commitments in the future,
it will ensure that the beneficiaries of its assistance are legal entities.
In the case of a few projects it promoted in the past, SDB first set up the
projects and then went about giving them a legal status. In order to involve
the heads of Technical, Finance and Loan Departments in the decision making
process to a greater degree than in the past, SDB is planning to set up a Loan
Committee, consisting of these officials and presided over by the General
Manager, to review all appraisals before they are put up to the President
for approval or clearance for presentation to the Board.



- 15 -
4.12      Follow-up.  Although SDB's internal procedures include basic fol-
low-up of projects, these are not regularly implemented because of lack of
adequately trained staff. However, in respect of projects experiencing
difficulties, the management takes personal interest in investigating the
situation and in resolving their problems. Some of the major projects ex-
periencing difficulties are SDB's own subsidiaries, located near Mogadiscio
and managed by SDB's own staff; in such cases there is frequent consultation
and reporting of operational position. The expatriate accountant also helps
in improving the quality of accounting in these projects and in evaluating
those experiencing difficulties.
4.13      SDB's procurement and disbursement procedures are adequate.  In
case of imported goods and equipment, SDB insists as far as possible, on
competitive quotations, and disbursements are normally made to suppliers of
goods and equipment. SDB's standard loan contract appears adequate but it
will have to be amended to include the usual covenants regarding IDA's rights
to visit projects financed out of IDA Credit, etc. SDB has not in the past
prepared amortization schedules of projects at the signing of the loan agree-
ments but has now agreed to do so in the future. Also, SDB plans to obtain
adequate insurance cover on project assets mortgaged to it.
4.14      Audit.  SDB's accounts are audited by Messrs. Pannell Bellhouse
Mwangi and Co., a Nairobi-based associate of the British firm of Pannell
Fitzpatrick and Co. The auditors' certificate to SDB's 1975 accounts had
two important qualifications: a) the auditors were unable to ascertain the
value of SDB investments; and b) SDB had exceeded in some cases the exposure
limits laid down in its by-laws. The reasons for the first qualification
were that some of SDB's "subsidiaries" had not been given a legal status,
they did not maintain proper accounts and no information regarding their oper-
ations was available to the auditors. Out of four subsidiaries three have
since been given legal status and the drafting of the legislation in respect
of the fourth is in progress. Audited accounts of three subsidiaries, as of
December 31, 1975, and of the fourth as of June 30, 1976, have been submitted
to IDA. For the future also SDB will have its subsidiaries' accounts audited
at the same time as its own accounts by the same auditors. The position in
respect of the second qualification has since been regularized by amendment of
SDB by-laws. The auditors and SDB have confirmed to IDA that future audit of
SDB accounts will be carried out along the lines indicated in the Bank Group's
"Illustrative Form of Audit Reports for DFCs".
Policies
4.15      SDB's statement of policies is incorporated in its law and by-laws.
With a view to consolidating these policies in one place, SDB agreed at the
negotiations to adopt an operational policy statement as per Annex 9, before
the effectiveness of the proposed IDA credit. This statement spells out SDB's
operational policies, investment criteria, exposure limits, loan conditions,
financial policies etc. SDB is precluded from:



- 16 -
(a) borrowing more than four times its net worth;
(b) lending for less than one year and more than 20 years;
(c) lending more than 75% of the total capital requirement
of any individual project;
(d) providing financing (including guarantees) to an enter-
prise in excess of 20% of SDB's net worth and making
equity investments in an enterprise exceeding 5% of
SDB's net worth;
(e) participating in excess of 49% in the equity of an
enterprise;
(f) making equity investments in excess of 50% of SDB's own
net worth; and
(g) managing an enterprise except as a temporary or transitional
measure.
4.16      Investment Policies.  Because major investment activities in
Somalia are earmarked for the public sector and SDB is the only institution
established to promote or finance development projects, SDB in the past
assumed the role of an entrepreneur, a promoter and a financier. In the
process it exceeded its exposure limit in financing a few enterprises pro-
moted by it or salvaged by it out of the portfolio of the defunct Credits
Somalo. Some of these are still SDB subsidiaries while some others have
been handed over to local bodies or other agencies of the Government after
completion. The Somali representatives at the credit negotiations clarified
that it is not SDB's intention to carry out a holding company function on a
permanent basis even in respect of its existing subsidiaries (3) and that in
the near future SDB proposes to divest itself of its equity investments in
these enterprises and to assist them in recruiting independent management.
However, the Somalis stated that in the absence of any alternative institu-
tional arrangements in Somalia at present for setting up (and managing) pub-
lic sector industrial enterprises, SDB may be called upon in certain cases
to undertake these functions, in addition to its normal functions of promoting
and financing projects, as a temporary measure. To enable it to do so without
infringing any provision of its by-laws, the latter have recently been amended
to authorize SDB to exceed its exposure limits in case of Government-sponsored
projects, provided (a) such projects are first approved by SDB shareholders;
and (b) credit risk in such cases is assumed by the Government. These amend-
ments should provide adequate protection to SDB from undue direct exposure in
Government-sponsored projects.
4.17      SDB's Autonomy.  Many authorities and agencies are usually involved
in the investment decision making process in Somalia. Very often the project
ideas are generated in the Ministries of Industry, Agriculture or Planning.



- 17 -
Once these ideas are passed on to SDB for further examination and implementa-
tion, SDB makes its own independent appraisal of the project (often with the
help of outside consultants); it can suggest changes in the design of the
project and even reject it outright.
4.18      Interest Rate.  SDB charges interest from 5.5% to 7.5% on its
loans, with the lowest rate applicable to medium-term loans for agriculture,
livestock, and handicrafts (see Annex 3). Considering the fact that these
rates would only be marginally positive, (should the long-term Somali fore-
casts of inflation at 5-6% p.a. be borne out by experience), IDA suggested
to the Somali delegation at the negotiations that SDB charge a uniform 9%
on all its loans. The Somalis stated that any rate beyond 7.5% would repre-
sent a major depature from the present level and structure of interest rates
in Somalia and would require a careful study and examination. The Government
has agreed to undertake such a study which will form the basis for continuing
the dialogue on interest rates between Somalia and IDA during the implementa-
tion of this project. Further, the Somalis were keen on maintaining the
existing rates for loans to agriculture, and handicraft sectors. An agree-
ment was reached during negotiations that SDB will in the future charge 5.5%
and 6% on its medium- and long-term loans respectively to agricultural and
handicraft sectors and a uniform 7.5% on all loans to industrial and other
sectors. Pending the outcome of the proposed interest rate study, the main
criterion for agreeing to the aforementioned rates was to ensure that SDB
would have a spread of about 3% on its borrowed funds during the next
two years to enable it to cover its operating expenses, make adequate pro-
visions against doubtful investments, and build up some reserves. It was
also agreed that the Somali Government would on-lend IDA credit to SDB
at 5% p.a. and that the Government would charge 2.5% p.a. on the present
Government loan of Sh 26 million to SDB. Since this loan and the proceeds
of the IDA credit would constitute the major portion of SDB's borrowed
funds for the next two years or so, the average cost of borrowed funds for
SDB during this period would be around 4%. With loans to industrial enter-
prises constituting about 80% of the operations, SDB's average yield on new
loans during the next two years would be about 7%.
4.19      Foreign Exchange Risk.  Until recently SDB was assuming exchange
risk on its foreign currency loans (USAID and Iraqi loans), which in the
past resulted in some exchange losses. As the outstanding amount of these
foreign exchange loans is only Sh 4.8 million ($800,000) and SDB also has
a revaluation reserve of Sh 78,887, its future exposure to exchange fluc-
tuations is limited. SDB has recently amended its By-laws to the effect
that it will not assume such risks in the future. The Somali delegation
at the negotation stated that such risks in the future will be assumed by
the Central Bank of Somalia. The Somali Government is against collection
of any fee from the ultimate borrowers of the IDA credit for the assump-
tion of this risk by the Central Bank for the reason that this would amount
to increasing the cost of foreign currency sub-loans. It however, agreed to
study this question also when carrying out the interest rate study (see
para 4.18).



- 18 -
V. PORTFOLIO, FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESOURCES
Portfolio Evaluation
5.01      Loan Portfolio.  As of June 30, 1976 SDB's loan portfolio (in-
cluding loans to its subsidiaries but excluding DLS) consisted of 356 loans
amounting to Sh 117 million. Loans to the industrial sector amounted to
Sh 85 million (or 72% of the total loan portfolio), of which Sh 46 million
accounts for loans to SDB's own subsidiaries. However, in terms of number
of loans, agriculture accounted for 80% of total number of loans outstand-
ing. SDB's loan portfolio also included 22 loans amounting to Sh 2 million
to cooperatives, most of which were engaged in fishing and crop production.
5.02      The overall quality of SDB's loan portfolio is satisfactory.  As
of June 30, 1976, out of 356 loans totalling Sh 117 million, 103 loans amount-
ing to Sh 23 million, or 20% of SDB's loan portfolio, were in arrears of over
three months. Some of these projects have since cleared their arrears and
only Sh 15 million of the loan portfolio was affected by arrears as of August
15, 1976. The major defaulters were three parastatal enterprises accounting
for Sh 11 million of the portfolio; loans to these borrowers are guaranteed by
the Government and SDB is pursuing the recovery of the defaulted amounts from
the Government. The remaining arrear-affected portfolio of Sh 4 million con-
sisted of 93 small loans to farmers, most of which SDB believes are collect-
able.
5.03      Equity Investments.  Annex 10 provides details of SDB's six equity
investments as of December 31, 1976 amounting to Sh 17 million. Four equity
investments aggregating Sh 16 million were in SDB's subsidiaries; two subsidi-
aries are problem-free, while the other two involving equity investments
of Sh 7 million are facing difficulties. Of the remaining two equity invest-
ments, only one investment in INCAS, a producer of corrugated banana boxes
and polyethylene bags, was in serious difficulties. SDB decided towards the
end of 1976 to write off Sh 1.048 million out of this investment in three
equal annual installments commencing December 1976.
5.04      Provisions.  SDB has generally followed a resonable policy for
making provisions in respect of its loans and equity investments except its
loans to or equity investments in its subsidiaries in respect of which no
provisions in the past were made. As of December 31, 1976, as per SDB's pro-
visional accounts, total provisions against loans amounted to Sh 1.7 million
which appear to be adequate only in respect of SDB loans to enterprises other
than its subsidiaries. SDB's two wholly-owned subsidiaries (involving
equity investments of Sh 7 million), which are in difficulties, had cumula-
tive losses, aggregating over Sh 10 million, as of December 31, 1975. Under-
standings were reached at the negotiations that SDB will make adequate pro-
visions against them in its 1977 accounts.
Financial Position
5.05      SDB's financial position is sound due to its large equity base, and
very low long-term debt. SDB's audited balance sheets covering 1972-1975 and



- 19 -
provisional balance sheet as of December 31, 1976, are summarized in Annex 11.
SDB's assets have increased fivefold from Sh 33 million in 1972 to Sh 161
million in 1976. Such a rapid increse was mainly due to SDB's promotional
efforts and financing of a few large projects such as the flour and pasta mill
and the fruit processing factory. The increase in portfolio was primarily
financed by SDB's paid-in capital which increased from Sh 21 million in 1972
to Sh 113 million in 1976. As of December 31, 1976 SDB's total assets were
Sh 161 million consisting of loans (75%), equity investments (10%) fixed
assets (2%) and current assets (13%). SDB's long-term debt/ equity ratio of
0.3:1 was much less than 4:1 allowed by its law. Although SDB's provision of
Sh 1.7 million is not adequate (see para 5.04), SDB's equity base is so large
that even if it were necessary to write off the entire amount of doubtful
debts and accumulated losses of its subsidiaries, SDB would still be credit-
worthy.
Financial Results
5.06      Since its inception SDB has been able to consistently generate a
modest profit. Annex 12 provides SDB's audited income statements for 1972-
1975 and provisional accounts for 1976. SDB's net profit after taxes de-
creased from Sh 1.3 million in 1974 to Sh 0.4 million in 1975, or 0.4% of
average equity, due to provisions for bad debts of Sh 1.7 million and losses
on investments amounting to Sh 0.4 million written off. According to the
provisional 1976 accounts SDB's profits for the year are likely to be about
Sh 0.8 million of 0.8% of average equity. SDB's administrative expenses
which were 1.1% of its average total assets in 1975 increased to 2% in 1976
due to recruitment of a number of new staff members, shifting of SDB Head
office to more spacious premises and establishment of a Branch office in
Hargeisa. SDB's profitability is marginal due mainly to its interest rate
structure which allows it a very modest spread and to a very low leverage.
SDB paid a dividend of Sh 16 per share of Sh 1000 in 1976 for 1974. This
distribution of unappropriated profits was done in view of the likelihood
of the Libyan Arab Foreign Bank participating in SDB's equity to the extent
of 40% of the proposed Sh 200 million paid-in capital. However, the Libyan
participation did not come through. Otherwise, SDB's shareholders do not
have dividend expectations from their investments in SDB's equity.
Resources
5.07      As of December 31, 1976, SDB had resources of Sh 4 million for
future commitments; it had committed Sh 147 million as against its total
resources of Sh 151 million. SDB's local resources consisted mainly of its
paid-in capital (Sh 113 million), retained earnings (Sh 3 million), and a
medium-term loan of Sh 3 million from the Central Bank. SDB also received a
loan of Sh 26.1 million from the Government, regarding which understandings
were reached at the negotiations that it would have a maturity of 10 years
with interest at 2.5% p.a. SDB's foreign resources include a Sh 4.5 million
loan from Iraq and a small loan of $50,000 from USAID. SDB's resource posi-
tion became tight in mid-1976 because the earlier proposal of an equity in-
vestment of about Sh 80 million from Libya did not materialize. To rectify



- 20 -
this situation the Government approved an increase in SDB's equity from
Sh 100 million to Sh 200 million in five equal annual tranches starting
October 1976. However, during 1976 SDB received only Sh 13.5 million out
of the first tranche of Sh 20 million; the unpaid Sh 6.5 million is likely
to be received in 1977 in addition to the second tranche of Sh 20 million.
VI. PROSPECTS
Business Outlook
6.01      SDB's business prospects for the next few years appear to be good.
The Five Year Development Program (1974-1978) envisages an investment of Sh
3,863 million. The shares of the major sectors are as follows: agriculture
Sh 1,124 million; transport Sh 945 million; and industry Sh 588 million.
The Annual Development Plan for 1976 involved an investment of Sh 813 million,
including Sh 154 million for industry, Sh 151 million for agriculture, Sh 38
million for livestock and Sh 12 million for fisheries. Out of Sh 154 million
earmarked for industry, 58% was to be invested in modernization and expansion
of existing enterprises like the textile, sugar, fish and meat factories.
While data on actual investments in these projects in 1976 are not yet avail-
able, it is known that their modernization programs were underway in 1976.
Some of the new projects to be implemented in the near future include another
sugar factory, a cement factory, a fibreglass boat factory, an oil refinery,
a hide and skins development center, a fishing gear factory, and salt works.
SDB, being the only Somali institution providing term finance for development,
is expected to finance a sizeable portion of the projected investments.
Strategy
6.02      SDB perceives the following as areas of most immediate concern to
it in the near-term:
(i) recruitment of professionally qualified Somali
staff and their training;
(ii) obtaining technical assistance in the areas
of financial, economic and technical appraisal,
follow-up and financial control;
(iii) organizing independent corporate set-up for
wholly-owned projects and maintenance of
adequate independent accounts;
(iv) locating independent management for subsid-
iaries and wholly-owned projects; and
(v) reaching out to the small farmers by estab-
lishing branch offices in agricultural
development areas.



- 21 -
Forecast of Operations
6.03      While SDB's annual net approvals averaged Sh 42 million per year
during 1973-1975, they declined to Sh 16 million in 1976 primarily due to lack
of resources. With the proposed foreign resources from IDA and appropriate
staff development and technical assistance programs to improve SDB's capacity
to appraise projects, SDB should be able to start operating at a much higher
levelin the near future. SDB expects to commit Sh 142 million (US$22.5
million) over the period January 1, 1977 - June 30, 1979 in loans and equity
investments. Given SDB's past record of financing about 15%-20% of the
planned investment in the industrial sector and its pipeline of projects as of
December 31, 1976, the forecast of operations is attainable. Annex 13 provides
SDB's pipeline of projects which consisted of 92 projects needing financial
assistance of over Sh 46 million. These projects are in addition to the
projects being identified by SDB for promotion and those specified in the Five
Year Development Program (see para 6.01). SDB also expects to provide Sh 8
million in loans to 80 agricultural cooperatives.
Resource Requirements
6.04      SDB's forecast of operations during the next five years (1977-1981)
and the underlying assumptions are provided in Annex 14 and 15. SDB's fore-
cast level of commitments during January 1977 - June 1979, and the projected
resources position are likely to be as follows:
Resources                               1977      1978      1979    TOTAL
(Sh in million) (June 30)
Resources (gap) at the beginning
of the year                             4        (3)      (31)
SDB Capital increase                     27        20        10       57
Algerian Development Bank loan            6         -         -        6
Internally generated funds               14        15        12       41
51       32       ( 9)      104
Uses
Loan commitments                         45        52        30      127
Equity investments                         6        6         3       15
Debt repayments                            3        5         2        10
54       63        35       152
Surplus (gap)                           (3)       (31)      (44)
6.05      SDB needs Sh 152 million (US$24 million) to cover its projected
commitments and debt repayments up to June 30, 1979. SDB expects to finance
this by new equity of Sh 57 million, internally generated funds (loan collec-
tions, depreciation, earnings and provisions) of Sh 41 million, a loan of



- 22 -
Sh 6 million from the Algerian Development Bank and SDB's uncommitted
resources of Sh 4 million as of December 31, 1976. This will leave a
gap of about Sh 44 million ($7 million), of which IDA will provide Sh 31
million ($5 million, that is, 22% of SDB's projected commitments for the
period). SDB's other sources of long-term foreign exchange funds in the
near future are likely to be the European Investment Bank, which has re-
cently shown interest in SDB's operations, and the AFESD. Furthermore,
SDB has an understanding with the Government that should SDB need addi-
tional resources earlier than the present projections indicate, the Govern-
ment and the Central Bank would accelerate payment of their shares of
SDB's increased paid-in capital.
IDA Credit
6.06      The proposed IDA credit of $5 million would be on-lent by the
Somali Government to SDB at 5% p.a. SDB would be able to use up to $260,000
of the credit for financing part of the technical assistance program involv-
ing an expenditure of about $600,000, of which $340,000 is being provided
by AFESD (see para. 4.10). The balance amount of $4.74 million would finance
the foreign exchange cost of goods and services of sub-projects approved by
SDB. Foreign exchange risk on the sub-loans would be borne by the Central
Bank of Somalia.
6.07      Amortization schedule.  For the sake of administrative simplicity
and convenience a fixed amortization schedule of 15 years with five years
grace has been proposed. SDB sub-loan terms are likely to range between four
to ten years, with an average life of seven years. Principal grace periods
will vary between one to three years. About 80% of SDB borrowers by number,
accounting for about 20% of SDB sub-loans, are likey to be small agricultur-
alists with loans having maturities of about four years. About 80% of the
amount would be lent by SDB to parastatals, which are so intimately linked
to the Government, and the latter to SDB, that a composite repayment schedule
appears inappropriate. The fixed amortization schedule would involve roll-
over of IDA funds by SDB. This is intended to improve SDB's resource position
during the coming years when IDA will be one of SDB's main external sources
of funds. Secondly, this should give SDB greater autonomy in planning and
managing its cash flow, by reducing the need to go back to Government so fre-
quently for resources.
6.08      Free Limit.  IDA should require prior approval of each sub-project
using more than $50,000 of the proceeds of the credit. This limit will enable
SDB to approve the vast majority of its sub-loans, which are individually for
amounts below the free limit. An appropriate aggregate free limit would be
$1.5 million which would ensure that at least 70% of the amount of the credit
would come to IDA for approval.



- 23 -
6.09      Disbursements.  The proceeds of the proposed credit would finance
100% of the CIF cost of direct imports, and appropriate percentages, to be
agreed with SDB, of invoice price of goods previously imported into Somalia
or of those manufactured locally and of construction costs, representing in
all cases the import component of such costs.
Projected Financial Position
6.10      Projected balance sheets for 1977-1981 (see Annex 16) show that
SDB will continue to be a sound financial institution. SDB's assets are
projected to increase from Sh 161 million in 1976 to Sh 373 million in 1981,
an annual growth rate of 18%. This appears attainable. The increase in
assets will be primarily financed by equity increase (Sh 87 million), bor-
rowed funds (Sh 100 million), and internally generated funds (Sh 25 million).
SDB's long-term debt/equity ratio is expected to remain below 0.7 throughout
the projection period reflecting substantial additional borrowing capacity;
SDB's authorized debt/equity limit is 4:1. SDB's debt service coverage for
interest and principal payments is projected to increase from 2.5 in 1976
to 5.5 in 1981, leaving ample cushion for any unforeseen shortfalls in loan
collections. Provisions are projected to increase from 1.2% of loan and
equity portfolio in 1976 to 4.1% in 1980. This is reasonable.
Projected Financial Results
6.11      SDB's projected income statements and cash flows are shown in
Annexes 17 and 18. Annex 19 shows relevant financial ratios. Projections
show that SDB's profit after tax is estimated to increase from Sh I million
in 1977 to Sh 5 million in 1981. The figures allow for provisions to be
maintained at 3% of year-end loan portfolio and 5% of year end equity invest-
ments which are considered adequate. Net profit after tax as percentage of
average total assets is estimated to gradually increase from 0.5% in 1976
to 1.4% in 1981. Given SDB's large equity base and its low interest rates,
returns on its equity are projected to average only 1.7%. This is a very
low return. Since SDB's shareholders have no dividend expectations from SDB,
this can be considered acceptable. Returns from SDB's loan portfolio are
estimated to increase gradually from about 3.7% in 1976 to 6.6% in 1978 and
to 7% in 1981 while the cost of borrowed funds is estimated to increase from
2.4% in 1976 to 3.4% in 1978 and 4.6% in 1981. During the next two years
the average spread will be over 3%, but it will gradually decrease to 2.4%
in 1981; this appears to be satisfactory. SDB's administrative expenses at
2% of the average total assets in 1976 were rather high due to expenses asso-
ciated with SDB's expansion but are estimated to gradually decline to 1.5%
by 1981 with the projected increase in SDB's operations.
6.12      SDB's projected financial results are based, among other things, on
the critical assumptions that (a) SDB would charge an average 7% on all its
new loans; (b) it would pay 5% on IDA credit and other future foreign credits;
(c) it would pay 2.5% on the Government loan of Sh 26 million; and (d) it would
have no other domestic currency borrowings. On these assumptions, SDB would
have an average spread of 2.8% during the next five years on all its borrowed
funds. While the average cost of all long-term resources to SDB will be much
lower due to the projected increase in its equity, SDB would need a spread of



- 24 -
the magnitude indicated above on borrowed funds to be able to meet is admin-
istrative expenses, make adequate provisions on a rapidly expanding port-
folio, and create some reserves. Any increase in the interest rate on
future foreign borrowings would adversely affect SDB's profitability; this
underscores the need for the Somali authorities to complete their interest
rate study (para 4.18) as soon as possible and for SDB to review its interest
rate structure periodically.
VII. RECOMMENDATIONS
7.01      It is recommended that an IDA credit of $5 million be approved for
on-lending by the Somali Government to SDB on the following terms and condi-
tions. In view of the need to allow SDB a reasonable spread on the IDA credit,
it is recommended that the credit be on-lent by the Somali Government to SDB
at 5% per annum. The foreign exchange risk on the sub-loans would be assumed
by the Central Bank of Somalia. For the sake of administrative simplicity and
convenience the credit should have a fixed amortization schedule of 15 years
with a five year grace period. The proposed term of IDA credit would allow
a rollover of funds by SDB which would help improve SDB's resource position.
IDA should require prior approval of each sub-project using more than $50,000
of the proceeds of the credit. An appropriate aggregate free limit would be
$1.5 million, which would ensure that at least 70X of the amount of the credit
would come to IDA for approval. SDB will be required to maintain a debt/equity
ratio of 4:1.
7.02      The following are recommended as conditions of effectiveness of the
above credit:-
(a) that SDB has appointed an Agricultural Economist, an
Engineer, a Legal Advisor and two graduates in Eco-
nomics (para 4.08);
(b) that the AFESD Technical Assistance grant has become
effective (para 4.10); and
(c) that SDB's Board of Directors has adopted the State-
ment of Operating Policies, as at Annex 9 (para 4.15).



ANNEX 1
SOMALIA
An Overview of the Industrial Sector in 1973
Public        Private         Total
Manufacturing establishments                   32             241           273
Employment                                  4.,482         2,377          6,859
Wages & salaries (Sh million)                  2500             7.2          32.2
Value of Gross Output (Sh million)            181.9            64.1         246.0
Value added (Sh million)                      106.8           18.7          125.5
Gross fixed capital formation                  18.7            4.7           23.4
(Sh million)
Source: Industrial Sector Review,, UNIDO - DP/SOM/72/007, January 1976
IDA/EAPID
February 28, 1977



ANNEX 2
SOMALIA
Outstanding Loans of the Commercial Bank by Sectors /
(in Sh. million)
Sectors             1971        1972        1973        1974         Hpt .
Agriculture         18.3        46.1        64.9         184.1       207.2    19.0
Industry and
Handicrafts       69.0        48.2        75.9        159.2        217.4    20.0
Trade              181.2       281.6       470.6        616.5        647.6    59.5
Other loans         28.8        27.2        61.8          6.8         16.7      1.5
Total          297.3       403.1       67302        966.6    1,088.9   100.0
1/ Including loans of public enterprises.
Source: Central Bank of Somalia
IDA!EAPID
February 28, 1977



ANNEX 3
SOMALIA
Interest Rates Structure
(as of Aug. 1,1976)
Central Bank of Somalia (CBS)
Discount rate ------------        3.5%
Government Credits ------------ 2.5%
National Commercial Bank (NCB)
Deposits                                 Private                Public
Domestic Foreign
Savings (ordinary)                    2.0        2.0              1.0
Fixed Deposits
3 months                        4.o       4.0               2.5
6 months                        4.5      4h5               3.0
12 months                        5.0       5.0              4.0
24 months                        6.o       6.0              4.5
Over 24 months                   6.5       6-5              5.0
Lending rates - overdrafts
and advances             9.0       12.0              7.0
Somali Development Bank (SDB)
Agriculture/ Industry/
Handicraft    Mining        Others
Medium Term-tZ-6 years)               5.5%          6.o%        6.5%
Long-term (7-20 years)                6.o%          6.5%        7.5%
Source: Central Bank of Somalia
IDA/FAPID
February 28, 1977



ANNEX 4
SOMALIA
Consumer Price Index
December 1971-February 1976-
(1970=100)
Rent &                  Fuel &                          General     Annual
Period       Food     Water      Clothin       Lighting      Miscellaneous    Index        Charge
Weight         m        (13)                     (4)             (16)          (100)
1971
December   97.2     141.2       102.8         101.5            97.9         101.4        1.4%
1972
December  101.0     110.5       107.8          6665            98.5         100.4       (1.0%)
1973
December  123.8     121.0       115.2          80.4          107.9          118.3       17.8%
1974
December  152.1     117.2       137.4          84.0           128.2         141.2       19.4%
1975
March     154.9     117.6       138.6          83.9           145.1         146.1
June      163.8     120.1       1145.9         91.0          148.3          153.0
Sept.     158.7     125.0       151.4          79.3          148.7          150.5
Dec.      160.8     125.3       158.4          79.3           149.1         152.4        709%
1976
Jan.      167.8     125.1       160.1          79.3           152.9         157.6
Feb.      166.8     126.5       162.0          79.3           156.9         157.9
General Index:  average annual increase (1970-75) = 9.1%
Food            average annual increase (1970-75) = 10.4%
1/ Based on Mogadiscio surveys.
Source: Central Bank of Somalia
IDA/EAPID
February 28, 1977



ANNEX 5
SOMALI DEVELOPMENT BANK
Summaa of Operations
(1968-1976)
(Amount in ShIOOO)
Year Ending December 31                       LOANS             EQUITY                TOTAL
No.  Amount       No.   Amount            Amount
1968-1972     Approvals                    184   35,429      4       2,454           37,883
Commitments                 184   35,429      4       2,454            37,883
Disbursements               n.a.  27,670      4       2,454            30,124
1973          Approvals                     90   49,357      4       3,679            53,036
Commitments                  90   49,357      4       3,679            53,036
Disbursements               n.a.  34,138      4       3,679            37,817
1974          Approvals                     75   35,820      3      2,824            38,644
Commitments                  75   35,820      3       2,824            38,644
Disbursements               n.a.  36,716      3       2,824            39,540
1975          Approvals                     91   39,460      3      5,210            44,670
Commitments                  91   39,460      3       5,210            44,670
Disbursements               n.a.  45,915      3       5,210            51,125
Cancellations               n.a. (10,105) 1J -          -             (10,105)
1976          Approvals                    136   22,784      2      9,5o8             32,292
Commitments                 136   22,784      2       9,508            32,292
Disbursements               n.a.   9,618      2       9,508            19,126
Cancellations                 2   (9,500) 2/ 4       (6,573)3/        (16,073)
Cumulative
(1968-1976)   Approvals                    576  182,850      6     23,675           206,5Z5
Commitments                 576  182,850      6      23;675           206,525
Disbursements               n.a. 155,478      6      23,675           179,153
Cancellations               n.a. (19,605)    -       (6,573)          (26,178)
1/  Including a transfer of Sh.  4.5 million loan to ITOP's equity and cancellations of
undisbursed portion of some small loans.
2/  Transfer of a Sh. 7.5 million loan to the equity of Flour and Pasta Factory and a
Shs. 2.0 million loan to the equity of the Brick Factory.
a/  Includes investments sold or written off.
IDA/EAPID
February 28, 1977



ANNEX 6
SOMALI DEVELOPMENT BANK
Loan Approvals by Sector
(1968-1976)
(Amounts in Sh'OOO)
SECTOR                 Up to 1975          1976             1968-1976             %
No. Amount       No. Amount         No.  Amount       No.   Amount
Industry              48   107,950       3   11,264       51    119,214       9       65
Agriculture          327    25,069    116    4,892       443      29,961     77       17
Livestock              7     3,494       1      300         8      3,794      2        2
Fisheries             29     1,778       3      229       32       2,007      5        1
Transport             13      8,899      3    3,493       16      12,392      3        7
Water Development      4      2,517      -      -          4       2,517      1        1
Construction and
Housing           2     2,800       1      811        3      3,611       -        2
Tourism                2     4,201       -      -          2      4,201       -        2
Others                 8     3,358       9    1,795       17       5.153      3        3
Total           440   160,066    136   22,784       576    182,850    100       100
IDA/EAPID
February 28, 1977



ANNEX 7
SOMALI DEbELOPMENT BANK
Board of Directors
(As of Aug. 15, 1976)
Board Member                         Position                       Appointed By
Dr. Mohamud Jama Ahmed!/             Chairman & President           President
Mr. Sherif Abubaker M'ed             Deputy General Manager          Central Bank of
Somalia
Mr. Ali Mohamed Ibrahim              Senior Officer                  Central Bank of
Somalia
Mr. Omar Haji Said                   Senior Officer, Ministry       Government
of Finance
Mr. Ahmed M. Nur2/                   Director of Budget,            Government
Ministry of Finance
Mr. Adam Abdi Hussen                 Director, INCAS                Government
1/ Alternate Governor of the World Bank
2/ Alternate Governor of the International Monetary Fund.
IDA/EAPID
February 28, 1977



SOMALI DEVELOPMENT BANK
PROPOSED ORGANIZATION CHART
(As of August 15, 1976)
HOARD OF DIRECTORS
I 
PRESIDENT
Mohamud Jansa Ahmned
Advi,sor                                  GENERAL MANAGER   |
Investment Advisor                            Mohamrud Mohatned NoDo
(vacant)                                                                                       BRANCHES
Fiwancial Advisor        S_BRANCHE5
(D.L. Prasad)
Industrial Engineer
(vacant)                                                                                           LOAN
Agricultural Economist                                                                                 C      TTE
(vacawt)
SUBSIDIARIES                    INTERNAL AUDIT                      OPERATIONS                           FINANCE                     ADMINISTRAFION                           LEGAL
vacant                   Mohamned Shaikh llmi                      vacant                      Hassan Nur Osman                                                           vacant
3 p..tessionals                                                                                        I Professional
PROJECT DIVISION           LOANS DIVISION                               PERSONNEL                SECRETARIAT
Hussen Mobhaniud Siad     Mohamed Dirie Khayre                         Ahmed Abdi Isse          Onmar Idosir Shaik
1 professional           2 professionals
Positions           Filled         Vacant
Professionals
at l        .'dqar tars    18          12              6
Professninals dt
Subsidisrses         4                  3              1
Non .roIvssis   45                    45               -
C.patriates 
Atisms               4                  1              S
T,,tal      71                 61              10
World Bank 16454
IDA/ EAP ID
February 28, 1977



ANNEX 9
Page 1 of 3
SOMALI DEVELOPMENT BANK
DRAFT STATEMENT OF OPERATING POLICIES
OBJECTIVES
1.      The objectives of the Bank shall be to promote, assist and develop
or modernize any productive enterprise in the agricultural, industrial,
mining, tourist, fisheries and livestock sectors and, in general, to take
any other initiative aimed at the economic development of the country, within
the framework of development programmes and priorities established by the
State.
OPERATIONS
2.      The Bank will promote the agricultural and industrial development
of Somalia through one or a combination of the several of the following
methods:
(a) Provision of medium and long-term loans
(b) Direct equity investments
(c) Provision of guarantees for loans from other sources
(d) Underwriting security issues, shares, stocks and similar
obligations
(e) Preparation of feasibility studies
3.      The Bank  shall seek to diversify its investments by location, size
and economic sectors.
4.      The Bank shall give special consideration to projects utilizing con-
siderable local raw material and emphasizing the use of national labor
resources and to export oriented projects.
5.      The Bank shall not normally refinance the existing indebtedness of
enterprises.
INVESTMENT CRITERIA
6.      The Bank operations shall be guided by sound banking principles.  Its
investment decisions shall be based on sound appraisal methods and will partic-
ularly take into account the total financial requirements of the project and
the soundness of the resulting financial structure for the enterprise.
7.      The Bank shall finance only economically sound, financially viable,
technically feasible projects and those which have or will have competent
management; in determining the soundness and viability of the projects it
proposed to finance, the Bank will normally carry out internal rates of
return calculations. It will also take into account the other economic benefits
of projects, such as employment potential and investment cost per job created,
foreign exchange savings or earnings, transfer of technology etc.



ANNEX 9
Page 2 of 3
CRITERIA FOR DIVERSIFICATION OF RISK
8.      The Bank shall not extend loans exceeding three fourths of the total
capital requirements of any individual project and shall further require
that at least one-fourth of the total capital requirements of the project be
actually paid in by the sponsor before the loan funds are released.
9.      The Bank's total financing including guarantees to any individual
enterprise shall not exceed 20% of the Bank's paid in capital and reserves.
10.     The Bank's equity participation in any individual enterprise shall
not exceed 5% of the Bank's paid-in capital and reserves and 49% of the
company's paid-in capital.
11.     The Bank's total equity participations shall not exceed 50% of the
Bank's paid-in capital and reserves.
12.     In exceptional circumstances where the Bank is required to provide
financing to large Government-sponsored projects, in excess of the limits
laid down in the preceding paragraphs (8-10), the Bank shall do so provided
the credit risk on the concerned projects is assumed by the Government.
LOAN CONDITIONS
13.     The Bank shall not make loans for a period longer than 20 years or
shorter than one year.
14.     The Bank's Board of Directors shall determine from time to time the
rates for interest, commission, fees and other charges for the Bank's funds
or services. The charges will, as far as possible, be in line with the pre-
vailing market rates for similar funds and services and will be at levels
which will enable the Bank to cover its administrative and financial expenses,
make adequate provisions against possible bad debts and provide a reasonable
return on the paid-in capital.
15.     The Bank shall at all times seek to protect itself against exchange
risks of foreign borrowings.
16.     The Bank shall take such security for its loans and guarantees as its
Board shall determine.
SUPERVISION OF PROJECTS
17.     The Bank shall supervise its investments to protect its interests and
to enable it to assist its projects to the maximum extent possible.



ANNEX 9
Page 3 of 3
PROHIBITION OF BUSINESS
18.     The Bank shall not accept from the public any deposits for periods
of less than twenty-four months.
19.     The Bank shall not directly manage or administer any enterprise
except as a temporary or transitional measure.
FINANCIAL POLICIES
20.     The Bank's total borrowings shall not at any time exceed four times
its paid-in capital and ordinary reserve funds.
21.     At the close of each financial year, the Bank shall carry out a
thorough review of the quality of its portfolio and on the basis of this
review make adequate provisions for possible bad debts and equity invest-
ments out of its income for the year.
22.     At the close of each financial year the Bank shall prepare the
Profit and Loss Statements and the Balance Sheets of its own operations
as well as those of its subsidiaries and have them audited by independent
auditors appointed by the Bank's shareholders.
23.     Before the close of business each year the Bank shall prepare its
budget for the next financial year, showing the estimated receipts and
expenditures of the Bank.
24.     Before the close of business each year, the Bank shall prepare the
forecast of its operations and resource requirements for the next two years.
25.     The Bank shall allocate not less than 25% of its net profit each
year to its Reserve Fund.
STAFF
26.     The Bank shall recruit, as far as possible, qualified Somali staff for
its operations. It shall employ foreign nationalsonly on contract for speci-
fied periods for setting up adequate operational and financial procedures and
for providing training to the Somali staff. The Bank shall also arrange for
training of its staffin appropriate institutions inside or outside Somalia in
project appraisal, supervision, and financial control and management.
IDA/EAPID
February 28, 1977



ANNEX 10
SOMALI DEVELOPMENT BANK
List of Equity Investments
(As of December 31, 1976)
SD 's Share
Economic          Amount            as % of          Net Profit        Dividend
Name                        Activity         Outstanding        Total Equity       (Loss)           Received    Remarks
(Sh'000)                          (Sh '000)          (Sh'000)
A. Enterprises operating
profitably or problem-
free
1.  FIMA                Auto spare        1,400                100%            918                880        Subsidiary.
part distri-                                         (1975)            (1975)       Received SDB loan
bution                                                                              of Sh 200,000.
Good prospects.
2.  Flour & Past        Flour & Past      7,500                100%            801                 -         Subsidiary.
Plant               production                                           (6 months ended                Received SDB loan
June 30, 1976)                of Sh22.8 million.
Good prospects.
B. Enterprises in
implementation/
rehabilitation stage
3.  Somaltex            Textile           1,200                n.a.            n.a.             nil         Recently modernized,
and new management
installed. Good
prospects.
C.  Enterprises operating
at a loss or in
technical difficulties
4.  I.T.O.P.            Fruit             5,000                100%          (2,144)           nil          Subsidiary.
processing                                           (1975)                         Cumalative loss as
of December 31, 1975
Sh6.4 million.
Prospects improving.
Received SDB loan
of Sh12.5 million.
5.  Brick Factory       Bricks and        2,0nn                100%          (3,938)           nil          Being incorperated as
tiles pro-                                           (1975)                         a subsidiary. Uncertain
duction                                                                             prospects. Received
SDB loan of ShlO.4
million.
6.  INCAS               Corrugated             2              n.a.           (7,000)           nil          Being reorganized.
cardboard boxes                                      (1975)                         SDB wrote off its
& polyethylene                                                                      investment of
bags production                                                                     Shl,048,000. Uncertain
prospects.
17,102
IDA/EAPID
February 28, 1977



ANNEX 11
SOMALI DEVELOPMENT BANK
Balance Sheets 1972-1976
(Amounts in Sh T000)
As of December 31                  1972     1973       1974      1975       19
Assets
Cash, deposits & S T Inveatments  8,900    10,200       8,800     2,354    14,948
Accrued interest on loans            400     1,100     1,400      4,904     4,576
Other current assets                 700     1 300     1,200        -       1 503
Total current assets           =        1 2,600            71,25 ,
Equity investments                2,500      4,900     7,800    12,952    17,102
Loan portfolio                   18,800    50,000    76,500   118,524   121,932
Less: provisions                    (400)     (700)   ( (500)   (2 079)   (1,687)
Loan Fbrtfolio (net)              1 0       49,200    760        I        120,245
Net Fixes Assets                     200       400       400      1,203     2,039
Deferred expenses                                                             699
Total Assets               -3,__0 69,10          ",0    1 2           16,1
Qaarantees as per contra          2,000      2,000     2,400      2,400     2,314
J-iabilities and Net Worth
Interest suspense                    -         100       100      1,565     3,903
Short-term borrowings                -         -         -       19,600
Tax payable                          -         -          -         215       592
Other current liabilities            700     2,100      3,300     3,650     5,791
Total current liabilities     700      2,200     3,400    25,030    10,286
Cooperative funds                    -         -          -       1,007       962
Z*dium and long-term liabilities
Loan from the Central Bank           -       7,000     5,700      4,345     2,946
Government loan                      -         -          -         -      26,071
Foreign loans                      9,4oo     8,300      7,200     5,994     4,842
Total medium-& long-term    9,400    15,399    12,900    10,339    33,859
loans
Paid-in share capital             20,600    48,600    76,800    99,807   113,307
Reserves and surplus                 400     1,000      2,200     1,425     2,698
Grant                                -         -          300       250      -
TItal Net Worth            21,00      49,6      7g,300   101        lI,
Total Liabilities and Net  33 100    69,100    98,000   140,258   161,112
kbrth   ..L..       -___               ___
Guarantees as per contra           2,000     2,000      2,400     2,400      2,314
P Provisional
IDA/EAPID
February 28, 1977



ANNEX 12
SOMALI DEVELOPMENT BANK
Income Statements (1972-1976)
(Amounts in Sh '000)
Year BEding December 31               1972      1973       1974      1975       1976 l/
Revenue
Interest on loans                      763     2,143      3,279     4,359     4,245
Commitment fees                         98        84        330        52       230
Tncome from equity investments           -         -          -          6       880
Interest from short-term investments   277         57         (6)       -          50
Management fees  /                       -        227        329        -          -
Other Income                              3        17         64        60        94
Total Revenue                1,141      2,528     3,996      4,477     5,499
Expenses
Interest on borrowings                 266       315        440       439       521
Commitment fees                         -          -         -         -          -
'rOtal financial expenses              266       315        440       439        521
Salaries and allowances                475       578    ! 785         741     2,054
Other administrative expenses          168       273        411       495     1,028
Depreciation                            40        56        108       150       146
Total administrative expenses                   6T3 907 774
Provisions for bad debt                 94       787        69      1,648         _
Investment written off                  -          -         -        395        350
Total expenses                  855     2,009     1,813      3,868     4,099
Net Profit before Tax                  286       519      2,183       609     1,400
Taxes                                   _        187        922       215       592
Net Profit                             286       332      1,261       394       808
1/ Provisional
2  Fees for managing the Development Loan Section and Cooperative Funds.
IDA/EAPID
February 28, 1977



ANNEX -iJ
SOMALI DEVEIOPMENT SANK
Pipeline of Projects as of December 31, 1976
Name of the Project                                    SDBts Financing needed
1.  Sugar Mill (Expansion)                                     3,000
2.  Fishing                                                    3,000
3. Oil seeds processing                        .4,000
4. Sponge factory                                              2,000
5. Plastic Industry                                            2,000
6.  Fbundry                                                   10,000
7.  Bottling factory                                           4,000
8.  Sisal project                                              9,000
9- 18.  Small industries and handicrafts                           1,255
19- 22.  Smnll Fishing projects                                       262
23- 92.  Small agricultural projects                                7.547
46,o64
Pro.jects in Identification Stage
Name of the Project                                  Estimated Cost
(Sh in million)
1.  Vegetable Oil Complex                                   20.0
2.  Banana Fibre Project                                     15.6
3.  Alumrinum Utensils                                       18.0
4. Animal Feed                                               4.0
5.  Sanitary Ware and Tableware                             60.0
6.  Dry Battery Cells                                        3.0
7.  Fertilizer Blending                                     15.6
IDA/EAPID
February 28, 1977



ANNEX 14
page 1 of 2
SOMALI DEVELOMENT BANK
Assumptions for Operational and Financial Projections
Approvals
1.                                            1977     1978      1979     1         1981
(Amounts in Sh'millionT
Loans                                    45        52       60        69        79
Equity Investments                         6        6        6         6         6
Total                             51        58       66        75       85
Eighty five percent of agricultural loans are for imports compared with eighty
percent of industrial loans. All equity investments are in local currency.
Commitments
2.  All approvals are committed in the same year.
Disbursements
3.  Seventy five percent of loan commitments are disbursed in the year of commitments
and twenty five percent in the following year. Equity investments are disbursed in the
year of commitment.
Tnterest Income
U.  cExisting loan portfolio and               : an annual average yield of 6.1%
Undisbursed commitments
New loan portfolio                        :  7.0%
Dividend Income
5.   For existing portfolio                    : an annual yield of 5.5% in 1977. Thereafter,
a return of 3% per year is assumed.
New portfolio                             : an annual yield of 3% after the third year.
Other income from Loans
6.   An appraisal fee of 0.5% on full amount of the loan.
7.  A commitment fee of 1 percent on the average undisbursed commitments.
Income from Short-term Investments
8.  An annual average yield of 1.75%.



ANNEX 14
Financial Expenses                                                            Page 2 of 2
9.    Amounts and terms of outstanding debts are as follows:
Repayment   Commitment
Source                          Amount      Interest    Pi-rind       Fee
(Sh million)
Central Bank of Somalia                   2.9         3.5%      1977/1978        none
Iraq                                      4.5         2.5%      1977/1980        none
USAID                                     0.3         2.5%      1980/2010        none
Government loans                         26.1         2.5%      1978/1987        none
10.   New Borrowirls
IDA (1977-1979)                    31.5           5%     15 years, 5       0.75%
years grace
Algeria (1977)                      6.0         2.25%    5 years, 2
years grace
Administrative Expenses
11.  Salaries and allowances   increase at an annual rate of 10%.
12. Other administrative expenses increase at an annual rate of 15% per year.
Provisions for losses
13. Provisions are to remain at 3% of year-end loan portfolio and 5% of year-end
equity investments.
Taxes
14.   Income tax                           30% of net profit before taxes
Municipal tax                      : 16.7% of net profit after income tax
Stamp duty                         : 1% of net profit after income and municipal taxes
Effective tax rate                 = 42.4%
Equity Increase
15.   SDB's equity is to be increased by Sh 26. 7 million in 1977 and Sh 20 million
per annum during the next three years.
Loan Collections
16.   For existing loans, projected collections are based on actual repayment
schedules. It is assumed that the new bans will have an average maturity of 7 years
including 2 years grace.
Receivables
17.   Seventy five percent of interest income to be collected in the same year and
25 percent in the following year.
Fixed Assets
18.   Expenditure on fixed assets will be Sh 300,000 per year.  The building is to
be fully depreciated in 20 years on a straight line basis. Other assets are to be
depreciated in 5 years.
IDA/EAPID
February 28, 1977



ANNEX 15
SOMALI DEVELOPMENT BANK
Forecast of Operations (1976-1980)
(Amounts in Sh million)
Year Ending December 31               1977      1978     1979    1980       1981
Approvals
Loans                                  45        52       60       69        79
Equity Investments                      6         6        6        6         6
Total Approvals                  51        58        66       75       85
Commitments
Loans                                  45        52       60       69        79
Equity Investments                      6         6        6        6         6
Total Commitments                51        58        66       75       85
Disbursements
Loans                                  37        46       58       67        76
Equity Investments                      6         6        6        6         6
Total Disbursements              43        52        64      73        82
Recoveries
Loan collections                       10       10        16       19
Sales of investments                  -         -         -        -
Total Recoveries                 10        10        16      19
IDA/EAPID
February 28, 1977



ANNEX 16
SOMALI DEVELOPMENT BANK
Projected Balance Sheets (1976-1980)
(Amounts in Sh '000)
As of December 31                             1977    1978    1979    1980    1981
ASSETS
Cash, depesits and short-term invest.         23,847  16,034  18,080  17,465   6,616
Accrued income                                 5,128   5,747   6,489   7,284   8,075
Current maturities of loan portfolio          12,681  14,241  23,302  33,641  45,641
Other current assets                           1,503   1,503   1,503   1,503   1,503
Total current assets                          43,159  37,525  49,374  59,893  61,835
Loan portfolio                               140,437 176,446 211,144 244,253 275,487
Less: provisions                              (4,070) (5,946) (7,623) (9,280)(10,773)
Loan portfolio (net)                         136,367 170,501 203,521 234,973 264,714
Equity investments                            23,102  29,102  35,102  41,102  47,102
Less: provisions                              (1,140) (1,440) (1,740) (2,040) (2,340)
Equity investments (net)                      21,962  27,662  33,362  39,062  44,762
Net fixed and other assets                     2,730   2,663   2,535   2,348   2,100
Total Assets                        204,218 238,350 288,792 336,276 373,411
Guarantees as per contra                 510     510      510      510     510
LIABILITIES AND NET WORTH
Tax payable                                      740   1,814   2,354   3,098   3,635
Current maturities of term debt                5,183   5,747   5,756   4,621   5,871
Other current liabilities                      9,694   9,694   9,694   9,694   9,694
Total current liabilities                     15,617  17,255  17,804  17,413  19,200
Foreign Currency borrowings                   20,386  33,004  62,283  88,524 121,604
Domestic borrowings                           24,496  21,886  19,275  16,664  13,954
Total medium and long-term liabilities        44,882  54,890  81,558 105,188 135,558
Total Liabilities                      60,499  72,145  99,362 122,601 154,758
Paid-in share capital                        140,000 160,000 180,000 200,000 200,000
Reserves and surplus                            3,719   6,205   9,430  13,675  18,653
Total Net Worth                       143,719 166,205 189,430 213,675 218,653
Total Liabilities & Net Worth         20  2-8 2-38-350 2 88792 336 276 373N41i
Guarantees as per contra                   510    510      510      510     510
IDA/EAPID
February 28, 1977



ANNEX 17
SOMALI DEVELOPMENT BANK
Projected Income Statements (1976-1980)
(Amount in Sh '000)
Year Ending December 31                                1977    1978    1979    1980    1981
REVENUE
Interest on loans                                      8,540   11,016  13,984  17,164 20,327
Comimitment fees                                         112       131      146      173     199
,-Jrmission                                              249       283      323      368     420
I:ncome from loans                                     8,901   11,430  14,453  17,705 20,946
Dividend income                                          941       512      512      693     873
Interest on short-term investments                       480       569      430      477     307
Other income                                               50       50       50       50      50
Total Revenue                              10,372   12,561  15,445  18,925 22,176
*EXPENSES
Interest on borrowings                                 1,198    1,843   2,907   4,285   5,772
Commitment fees                                          148        29      259       47      75
Total financial expenses                               1,346    1.822   3.166   4.332   5,847
Salaries and allowances                                2,259    2,485   2,733   3,007   3,307
Other administrative expenses                          1,182    1,359   1,563   1,798   2,067
Depreciation                                             308       368      428      488     548
Total administrative expenses                          3,749    4,212   4,724   5,293   5,922
Provisions for losses: loans                           2,383    1,876   1,677   1,657   1,493
equity investments            1,140       300      300      300     300
3,523    2,176   1,977   1,957   1,793
Total Expenses                              8,618    8,260   9,867  11,582  13,562
Net Profit before taxes                                1,754    4,301   5,578   7,343   8,614
laxes                                                    740    1,815   2,354   3,098   3,635
-iet Profit                                            1,014    2,486.  3,224   4,245   4,979
IDA/EAPID
February 28, 1977



ANNEX 18
SOMALI DEVELOPMENT BANK
Projected Cash Flow (1976-1980)
(Amounts in Sh '000)
Year Ending December 31                                1977    1978    1979    1980    1981
SOURCES
Net profit before taxes                                1,754   4,301   5,578   7,343    8,614
Depreciation                                             308      368      428     488       548
Provisions                                             3,523   2,176   1,977   1,957    1,793
Cash from operations                                   5,585   6,845   7,983   9,788   10,955
Incresae (decrease) in
Current maturities of term debt                5,183      564       10  (1,136)   1,250
Other current liabilities                        -        -        -        -
Borrowings - foreign                          15,544  12,618  29,280  26,240   33,080
- domestic                        (5,483) (2,611) (2,611) (2,611)  (2,711)
Paid-in share capital                         26,700  20,000  20,000  20,000         -
Total Sources                           47,529  37,416  54,662  52,281   42,574
USES
Increase (decrease) in
Loan portfolio                                31,186  37,569  43,759  43,448   43,234
Equity investments                             6,000   6,000   6,000   6,000    6,000
Dividends                                        -        -       -         -         -
Fixed and other assets                            300     300      300      300       300
Accrued income receivable                         552     619      742      795       791
Payment of taxes                                  592     740   1,814   2,354    3,098
Total Uses                             38,630  45,228  52,615  52,897   53,423
Increase (decrease) in
Cash, deposit and short-term                  8,899   (7,812)  2,047    (616)  (10,849)
investment.
IDA/EAPID
February 28, 1977



SOMALI DEVELOPMENT BANK
Actual and Projected Financial Ratios (1973-1981)
Actual                             Projected
Year Ending December 31                      1973    1974    1975    1976    1977    1978    1979    1980    1981
A. Income Statement Items as
Percent of Average Total Assets
Gross Income                             4.9     4.8      3.2 1/  3.6 1/  5.7       5.7      5.9     6.0      6.2
Less: Financial Expenses                 0.6      0.5     0.3      0.3     0.7      0.8      1.2     1.4      1.6
Administrative Expenses 2/         1.8     1.6      1.1      2.0     1.9      1.7     1.6      1.5      1.5
Provisions                         1.5     0.1      1.3     0.2      1.9      1.0     0.8      0.6      0.5
Net Profit after taxes                   0.6      1.5     0.1      0.5     0.6      1.1      1.2     1.4      1.4
B. Net Profit and Dividends
Net Profit as % of Average Net Worth   0.9       2.0      0.4      0.8     0.8      1.6     1.6      2.3      2.4
Dividend as % of Year-End Share
Capital
C. Selected Income and Cost Items
Income from Loans as % of
Average Loan Portfolio                6.5     5.7      3.6 1/  3.7 1/  6.5       6.6     6.8      6.9      7.0
Cost of Debt as % of Average
borrowed funds                        2.6     3.1      3.6      2.4     3.2      3.4     4.2      4.3      4.6
Margin                                   3.9     2.6       -       1.3     3.3      3.2     2.6      2.5      2.4
D. Structural Ratios
Long-term Debt/Equity                    0.3     0.2      0.1     0.3      0.4      0.4     0.5      0.5      0.7
Provisions as % of Year-End Loan and
Equity Portfolio                      1.4     0.1      1.5     1.2      3.2      3.6     3.8      4.0     4.1
E.  Debt Coverage
Debt Service Coverage (DSC)              n.a.    n.a.    n.a.    2.5       4.8      3.0     2.9      3.9     5.5
1/ SDB changed its accounting policy in 1975 by not realizing income from irregular loans.
2/ Excludes depreciation.
IDA/EAPID
February 28, 1977



ANNEX 20
SOMALI DEVELOPMENT BANK
ESTIfATEL DISBURSIMEZN' SCHEDULE FOP, PR0OPOSED CRIIIT
Amount ( 'COO)
FY 1978
First Quarter
Second Quarter                                                 50G 000
Third Quarter                                                   500,000
Fourth Quarter                                                  500,000
FY 1979
First Quarter                                                  700,000
Sbcond Quarter                                                 700,000
Third Quarter                                                   700,000
Fourth Quarter                                                  700,000
FY 1980
First Quarter                                                  700, 000
Total                                     5,000,000
IDA/EAPID
February 28, 1977



