Document of                   R ETUL  3M';Sj  6C
LLtn S             YJ          The Wodd Ban                    I EPOR-         D LI
IFOIR OFIFR¢CAL USE ONLY             O NE    WEEK
Report No. P-1975-SO
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT
TO THE
SOMALI DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC
FOR A
SOMALI DEVELOPMENT BANK PROJECT
April 6, 1977
Thas dcumenft hais n restictKed dIstrbntbotn and imny be unsed by reciphents oimly fin the perform¢ce of
tletir ofcial dufles. Its eontents imiay not othemlse be disclosed withont Woo-Ed Bok nfaonhorIzton.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit    - Somali Shilling (So.Sh.)
US$1             - So.Sh. 6.295
So.Sh.1          - US$0.159
So.Sh. 1 million = US$159,000
ABBREVIATIONS
AFESD - Arab Fund for Economic and Social Development
CBS   - Central Bank of Somalia
DLS   - Development Loan Section, Credito Somalo
ECA   - Economic Commission for Africa
GOS   - Government of Somalia
NCB   - National Commercial Bank
SDB   - Somali Development Bank
SIDAM - Somali Institute of Development Administration and Management
SICOS - State Insurance Company of Somalia
SRSP - Supreme Revolutionary Socialist Party
UNDP - United Nations Development Programme
GOVERNMENT OF SOMALIA
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED DEVELOPMENT CREDIT
TO THE SOMALI DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC FOR A
SOMALI DEVELOPMENT BANK PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
development credit to the Somali Democratic Republic for the equivalent of
US$5 million on standard IDA terms to help finance a development finance
company project. The proceeds of the credit would be relent to the Somali
Development Bank for 15 years, including five years of grace, with interest
at 5 percent per annum.
PART I - THE ECONOMY.'
2.        An economic report entitled "Somalia:  Recent Economic Developments
and Current Prospects" (Report No. 702-SO) was distributed to the Executive
Directors on August 20, 1975. An economic updating mission visited Somalia in
April/May 1976 and the resulting Country Economic Memorandum will be distributed
to the Executive Directors shortly. Country data sheets are attached as Annex I.
3.        The Somali Democratic Republic was formed in 1960 by a merger of the
former Italian Trust Territory of Somalia and the British Protectorate of
Somaliland. Following a decade of parliamentary rule, the Government was taken
over by the military in 1969. The Supreme Revolutionary Council, consisting of
army and police officers, was the highest decision-making body until mid-1976
when a political party, the Somali Revolutionary Socialist Party was formed
and became the key political institution.
4.        In 1970, the Government announced its adherence to a program of scien-
tific socialism, emphasizing egalitarianism and social justice, development
through the public sector, nationalization of certain foreign enterprises, and
the formation of cooperatives. While the Government has always stated that there
is room for private initiative in Somalia and several privately financed projects
have been implemented, the main emphasis has been given to development of the
public sector. The Government's development efforts have been characterized by
what have become national virtues: austerity and self-reliance. Somalia joined
the Arab League in February 1974. This step has significantly increased the
country's receipts of assistance from the Arab oil-surplus countries.
5.        Somalia is located on the horn of Africa with 3,000 kilometers of coast-
line on the Gulf of A2en on the north and the Indian Ocean on the east. It has
an area of 637,700 km . The topography varies from a hot and arid coastal plain,
which gives way to sparsely wooded savannah, to rugged mountains, agricultural
plateaus and lowlands of varying fertility and rainfall. Much of the country is
arid; water supplies are scattered and often unreliable, and periodic droughts
bring great hardship to both the people and their livestock. Only a small pro-
portion of the land, approximately 13%, is arable. While the existence of several
minerals has been confirmed, exploration is still in the early stages and commer-
cial viability remains to be proved. Lacking other known resources, development
plans center on agricultural and livestock development. However, progress in the
development of stock-raising and agriculture will depend upon careful management
of scarce land and water resources.
1/ This section is substantially the same as that of the Somalia Third Road
Project.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance |
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- 2 -
6.        With an estimated per capita income in the order of US$100 in 1975,
Somalia is classified by the UN as one of the 25 least developed countries of
the world. Of the total population of approximately 3 million, about two-
thirds are nomads and semi-nomads, who depend on livestock for their livelihood
and about 20-25% are farmers cultivating land along the Juba and Shebelli
rivers and in the higher-rainfall Northwest region. The small monetary sector
of the economy provides only limited opportunities for employment. Apart from
the traditional export of livestock, commercial agriculture is mainly centered
on the production of bananas for export, in which Italian concession holders
are still important, and the production of sugar for the domestic market.
Manufacturing and other sectors of the economy are restricted in their poten-
tial by the small size of the market, poor infrastructure, and the shortage of
capital and entrepreneurial experience. No income distribution data exist, but
we estimate that about 70% of the population live at subsistence levels of about
US$200-250 per family of five in 1975. Social services are still very inadequate;
the school enrollment ratio was until recently among the lowest in the world but
has taken a great leap forward in the past two years.
Recent Economic Performance
7.        There is little economic data on Somalia.    Even basic figures such
as GNP, population, number of livestock, or output of major agricultural crops
are only rough estimates. Therefore, it is extremely difficult to measure
economic performance except in a very rough and ready manner.
8.        Poor rainfall in 1973 and a virtual absence of rain during 1974
and the first half of 1975 led to widespread crop failures. The drought
hurt exports of livestock and bananas, the two largest earners of foreign
exchange, and required large imports of maize, sorghum, rice and sugar.
The drought affected the entire central and northeastern parts of the country
involving a large part of the population, mostly noniads. The Government moved
quickly to respond to the situation and began to set up relief camps in
November 1974. Relief camp population peaked at about 270,000 in late May and
early June 1975, with nearly 400,000 other people being assisted outside the
relief camps. While the Government's foodgrain reserves were almost totally
exhausted by the end of 1974, food aid was received in sufficient volume to
cope with the immediate problem of hunger. However, despite prompt action by
the Government and the response of foreign aid donors, the loss of human lives
reached 19,000 by the end of summer 1975. Given the size of the disaster,
this was a relatively low figure and is an indicator of the growing effective-
ness of the Government. However, there was extensive loss of livestock,esti-
mated at 20-25% of the national herd.
9.        The drought was finally broken in 1975 when the summer rains were
quite good. Meanwhile, the Government established a number of agricultural
settlements in the south and fisheries settlements along the coast to provide
a permanent livelihood for the inhabitants of the relief camps. In August
1975, the relief camps were disbanded and about 110,000 people were resettled
in the three agricultural areas and about 15,000 were settled in three locations
along the coast which have potential as fishing ports. The remaining 100,000 or
so inhabitants returned to nomadism. The Drought Rehabilitation Credit (623-SO)
is assisting the three agricultural settlements.



- 3 -
10.       Somalia's manufacturing sector consists of a few relatively large-
scale public-owned enterprises and a large number of small private enterprises.
Out of an estimated value added in industry of US$20 million in 1973, the most
recent year for which sectorwide statistics are available, about 80% was in
the public sector. Most of the industries are agro-based, depending upon
locally produced raw materials. After making strong progress in the period
1968-70, relative stagnation started in 1971 and lasted until 1973; however,
indications are that industrial activity has picked up in 1974-75, especially
in the public sector. Several significant manufacturing investments were made
in the latter period such as a brick factory, a flour and pasta mill, grain
mills, and a corrugated carton factory. In addition, expansion and moderniza-
tion of existing plants, especially the sugar complex and the textile factory,
will come to fruition in the near future. Also, the expansion of the fishing
fleet is contributing to the improved performance of the fish factory. Con-
struction is reportedly starting on a 500,000-ton oil refinery financed by
Iraq.
11.       Somalia's fiscal performance has continued to be encouraging and
public savings through current budget surpluses will remain an important goal
of the Government. Together with the many self-help projects, the ability of
the country to help finance its investment plan is the most concrete embodiment
of the national policy of self-reliance. The turning point came in 1971 when
the Government first succeeded in reversing a 10-year history of budget deficits.
Since then, a surplus has emerged every year. However, the increasing supply of
all types of governmental services nationwide and the recurrent cost implication
of the recent large public investments will make it increasingly difficult for
the budget to act as a generator of savings in the economy.
12.       To raise the revenues required to finance a high level of governmental
activity will require a reform of the tax system and identification of new
sources of revenue. Specifically, since the Government has invested heavily
in the parastatal sector where financial performance has been poor, ways of
improving efficiency are necessary to ensure that they generate a larger and
growing source of revenue. A World Bank mission recently studied state firms
and will be discussing its findings with the Government.
13.       Somalia's balance of trade on goods and services has been in deficit
since Independence. The gap has grown from US$18.6 million in 1970 to US$106
million in 1975, largely as a result of rapid growth in imports. Imports have
risen steadily from US$56.8 million in 1971 to US$178 million in 1975. Fast
import growth is taking place in spite of the Government's comprehensive import
licensing system and of selective measures to constrain imports of some goods.
Measures to compress non-essential imports can only have limited impact since
development-related imports already accounted for 40% of the total in 1974 and
undoubtedly account for a higher share at present. The remaining import bill
is dominated primarily by non-compressible items such as food. Exports, on
the other hand, jumped from US$31.9 million in 1970 to US$85.3 million in 1975.
A stronger-than-expected performance in livestock and meat products is largely
responsible for the high exports of 1975. Also, higher banana prices more than
offset a marked decline in volume exported (down about 20% from 1974). However,
the main positive developments in 1975 concern unrequited transfers and capital



- 4 -
inflows. As a result of the drought, Somalia received the equivalent of
US$65.8 million in cash grants and food and other assistance in kind valued
at more than US$36 million. Capital inflows totalled US$41.5 million. These
factors led to an overall balance of payments surplus of US$51.9 million.
However, since exports of livestock are likely to drop in the future as nomads
restock their herds and unrequited transfers may fall to pre-drought levels,
future years will probably show roughly balanced transactions with neither
large gains nor losses in reserves.
14.       Foreign aid has at times been the sole source of financing for
investment. In recent years, it has been supplemented by modest sums of
public savings. However, for the foreseeable future, foreign assistance
will continue to play a major role in the development of the country.
The Somali Government is well aware of this fact and, while pushing for
self-reliance by emphasizing domestic savings and self-help programs, it
has mounted a major effort to attract commitments of funds from the OAPEC
countries. The large inflows of foreign funds during 1975 indicate that
the effort has been successful.
15.       The source of foreign assistance has been changing from the western
countries (except for the EEC which continues to have a fairly large program)
towards the socialist group (mainly China and the Soviet Union) and the Arab
countries and Arab funds. Loans from the socialist countries typically bear
interest at 2-1/2% but have rather short maturities (10-15 years) while the
Arab countries tend to have terms which, while soft compared to commercial
rates, resemble Third Window more than standard IDA terms.
16.       The total public foreign debt of Somalia, as of December 1975, was
approximately US$433.7 million, of which about US$250 million were disbursed
and outstanding. IDA commitments, as of December 1975, accounted for 14% of
total debt outstanding. Although a large share of this debt is on fairly
soft terms, the debt service ratio has increased from 3.4% in 1972 to about
4% in 1975, and will probably triple by the early 1980's. At present, IDA's
share of debt service is negligible; however, it is projected to account about
3% of Somalia's total debt service payments in 1981. In view of the country's
poverty and uncertain export prospects. Somalia should concentrate its efforts
on obtaining assistance on the softest terms possible.
Development Planning Achievements
17.       The long-range objectives of the Government are strongly influenced
by the desire to be self-reliant. In line with this goal, the Government is
seeking to make the country self-sufficient in agriculture through both an
expansion of the area under cultivation and the development of irrigation.
In this process the Government intends to provide permanent settlement for
many of the nomads. Considerable emphasis is given to modernizing and mobi-
lizing the population. Of central importance for achieving these objectives
are education, rural literacy and self-help programs such as the agriculture
and public works "crash" programs. Finally, the Government places emphasis
on developing infrastructure, especially transportation and communications,
which are necessary to facilitate the above objectives.



- 5 -
18.       Since the bulk of the population is engaged in herding or in sub-
sistence farming, a development strategy for Somalia must start with agri-
culture and livestock as a base. The major development goals of the Somali
Government include self-sufficiency in foodgrains, the partial substitution
of other food imports (oils, rice) and improvement of the lot of the tradi-
tional nomadic herdsmen through settlement programs and improvements in live-
stock production and marketing facilities. The current Plan's emphasis on
irrigated agriculture is meant to make the country less dependent on the
erratic pattern of rainfall, and assure more stable and predictable increases
in output. Attention is also being given to projects in rainfed agriculture
(mainly through the Self-Help Program, the Rainfed Crop Production Project under
the Juba-Shebelli Area Emergency Settlement Scheme, and the N rth-West Region
Agricultural Development Project) which focus on making the best use of the
limited amount of rainfall. Improvements in livestock production and marketing
are being promoted by the IDA-financed Trans-Juba Livestock Project, designed to
provide market access to the nomads in the southern part of the country and the
Kuwait Fund-financed Northern Rangelands Project with emphasis on rehabilitation
of the denuded rangelands in the North. The Plan continues to base its develop-
ment of industry on the processing of domestic raw materials to substitute for
imports.
19.       The 1974-78 Five-Year Plan,as originally conceived,was probably overly
ambitious and its implementation has been rendered even more difficult because
of the recent disastrous drought which forced the Government to concentrate
resources on measures to save the drought-stricken population. A review of Plan
implementation after two years shows rates of implementation of 46.2% and 40.8%,
respectively in 1974 and 1975. If adjustments for investments outside the Plan
(mainly drought relief and rehabilitation) were made they would show implemen-
tation rates (in financial terms) of about 60% in 1974 and 55% in 1975. In
absolute terms, annual investment therefore increased from about So.Sh. 340
million in 1973 to an average of So.Sh. 500-600 million in 1974-75. These
figures suggest an increase in the country's capacity to absorb investment funds.
20.       The Government's achievements over the past several years have been
impressive by any standard. Before the present Government came to power in
1969, the economy was stagnant and the Government financially unviable. Today
the economy is developing in a dynamic manner and a far higher level of public
services is being supplied. Whereas, a few years ago, a bilateral budget support
grant was necessary to finance the deficit in a current budget which financed
a dismally low level of services, today, even though the country has been
beset by national calamities and is carrying on new tasks, the budget is not
only balanced but actually produces a modest surplus.
21.       Two fields where the Government's achievements have been particularly
outstanding have been ir, the settlement of nomads and in education. As noted
above (para. 9), within a period of less than one year beginning in the summer
of 1975, more than 100,000 nomads were transported from the arid rangelands of
the North and settled on unutilized agricultural areas in the South. Land
clearing is taking place and irrigation facilities are being built. Small
harvests have already been reaped and this has encouraged both the Government
and the settlers. In education, the Government has concentrated on two aspects:
basic education as a necessity for people, young and old, to enable them to



- 6 -
effectively participate in the social, economic and political process; and
specialized manpower training as a requirement for national development.
With respect to the former, the mass literacy campaign conducted in the vears
1973, 1974 and 1975 at a cost of So.Sh. 100 million (US$16 million) has
resulted in an increase in the adult literacy ratio from about 5% to about
50-60%, according to the Government's own estimates. The formal primary
school enrollment ratio has risen from less than 15% of the relevant age
group a few years ago to approximately 34% at present, and universal primary
education is a goal that possibly could be achieved by the early or mid-1980's.
A script introduced by the Government in 1972, made the writing of the Somali
language possible for the first time, and this removed one of the major con-
straints to progress in the field of education. With respect to manpower
development, the Government is concentrating on the training of high and middle-
level personnel in its principal development sectors -- agriculture and livestcck.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN SOMALIA
22.       Starting in 1965, IDA has made 11 credits totalling about US$76
million, about 48% of which has been made for transportation development includ-
ing construction of two trunk roads and a new deepwater port and associated
extensions at Mogadiscio. IDA credits were also made for education in FY71 and
FY75, livestock development in FY74 and drought rehabilitation and agricultural
development in FY76. No Bank loans or IFC investments have been made in Somalia.
Annex II contains a summary statement of IDA credits as of February 28, 1977,
and notes on the execution of ongoing projects. Performance on ongoing projects
has been generally satisfactory.
23.       We plan to concentrate our efforts on the country's directly productive
sectors -- agriculture and livestock -- and also on education and transportaticn.
In addition to these sectors, we plan to support the Government's industrial
development efforts (and assist in the formulation of an industrial development
policy) through our country economic work and DFC projects. While agriculture
and livestock offer potential for development, most rural development activities
are only at the beginning stage. Moreover, agricultural development in Somalia
is particularly difficult because most of the people in the rural area are nomadic.
Our first agricultural project for Somalia was the Drought Rehabilitation Pioject
in the South which, together with the North-West Region Agriculturzl Development
Project, would contribute to balanced agricultural development in Somalia.
24.       The country's transportation facilities are inadequate and the
Government plans to continue transportation development in the next few years.
The Second Highway Project, which was completed recently, provided for the
feasibility studies and detailed engineering for the improvement of the
Hargeisa-Borama Road in the northern region, which is the basis of the pro-
posed Third Road Project. We are submitting the Third Road Project at the
same time as this proposed credit for the Somali Development Bank. Within
a few weeks, we plan to seek you approval for a credit for a third education
project.
25.       In order to help Somalia make the best use of assistance available
from neighboring Arab countries, and also to ensure that IDA Funds have the



- 7 -
greatest impact, we have agreed with the Government to spread available IDA
resources over a relatively large number of projects. Accordingly, the
Association will make a major contribution to project identification and
preparation but would, in most cases, finance a small share of project costs
and help mobilize complementary funds from other external sources. This
strategy requires extensive use of Bank Group staff, which is fully justified
in view of Somalia's state of development and its strenuous efforts to improve
its absorptive capacity.
26.       To facilitate the development and implementation of the Association's
growing operational program in Somalia, we have recently decided to establish
a one-man Resident Mission in Somalia. The Mission will represent the Bank in
its dealings with the Government, will assure an efficient and smooth day-to-day
working relationship with the Government and will help coordinate co-financing
arrangements on the basis of the strategy outlined above.
PART III - INDUSTRIAL AND FINANCIAL SECTORS
Industrial Sector
27.       Although the industrial sector in Somalia is rather small, its
importance is increasing. The contribution of the manufacturing sector to
GDP was estimated at 9% and employment at about 7,000 in 1973, the last year
for which sectorwide statistics are available. However, the share of the
sector in GDP is estimated to have increased in 1975 and 1976 as a result of
previous large capital investments in the sector. In 1975, So.Sh. 130.5 million
or 38% of estimated total annual investment, were invested in 19 industrial
projects including So.Sh. 73 million for the expansion of the textile factory.
In 1973, there were 273 manufacturing establishments employing five or more
workers, of which 243 were in the private sector and 30 in the public sector;
84% of all firms with more than five workers employed fewer than 19 workers.
Also, UNIDO estimated that there were 3,700 small proprietary concerns with
less than five workers, which employed 4,700 people in the aggregate. The
Five-Year Plan supports small-scale industrial ventures especially those that
adopt the cooperative format. The Ministry of Industry has so far organized
16 cooperatives with about 1,200 members and provided them with worksheds.
28.       There are seven export-oriented enterprises, two engaged in production
of meat and meat products and five in fish canning. Of the 273 manufacturing
units, 77 are engaged in the manufacture of food products, 41 in wearing apparel,
37 in structural clay products and 30 in furniture. Value added in industry
increased from So.Sh. 51 million in 1968 to So.Sh. 125 million in 1973 at an
annual rate of 16% (with slower rate of growth in the latter years of this
period). In 1973, public sector enterprises accounted for about 65% of indus-
trial employment, 74% of value of gross output and 85% of value added.
Industrial Policy
29.       The Government's objectives in the industrial sector appear to be
the following: (a) reaching self-sufficiency in some essential goods such as
sugar; (b) encouraging agro-based industries primarily for local consumption;



- 8 -
(c) promoting important import-substitution industries particularly consumer
goods; (d) creating jobs to absorb university and high school graduates; and
(e) increasing exports.
30.       The Government is now trying to consolidate some of the gains made
in industry by strengthening existing plants. For this reason, 58% of So.Sh.154
million earmarked for industry in the 1976 Annual Plan is to be invested in
modernization and expansion of existing enterprises like the sugar, textile,
meat and fish factories. While the Government has set up a few export-oriented
industries, it should try to do more in view of Somalia's needs for foreign
exchange. In line with its socialist orientation, the Government has selected
public enterprises as a major vehicle to accomplish its objectives in the indus-
trial sector. The main elements of Somalia's industrial strategy are: (a) im-
proving the efficiency and profitability of existing public sector enterprises;
(b) setting up new enterprises vital to the economy in the public sector; (c)
consolidating small units into cooperatives; (d) permitting foreign investors
to set up joint ventures with public enterprises.
31.       The Government has not so far clearly spelled out the area for public
and private sector participation in industry. While major new enterprises will
be set up in the public sector, foreign investors, particularly from Arab
countries, may be allowed to participate in equity in minority positions. The
private sector's share of industry is relatively small and likely to be further
reduced; the current Five-Year Plan includes only nine small projects in the
private sector, of which eight have already been implemented.
Institutions for Industrial Development
32.       There are a number of Ministries and other Government authorities
involved in the establishment, supervision and management of manufacturing
enterprises (Ministry of Industry, Ministry of Fisheries and Marine Transport,
municipalities and Somali Development Bank (SDB)). Of these, the Ministry of
Industry and SDB are the most important. They have been involved in some pro-
jects from the identification stage to the management of ongoing production.
Neither of them possesses adecluate expertise in preparation of feasibility
studies, project implementation or industrial management; each has been compelled
to assume responsibility in these areas in the absence of alternative institu-
tional arrangements. In doing so, they had to overstretch their limited staff
capability and since they were unable to recruit good managers for new enter-
prises, the management quality of most enterprises is poor. The future role
of these agencies in industrial development has not been clearly defined. How-
ever, this does not appear to be a problem at this time due to the fact that
the concerned agencies are represented in all decision-making committees and
there is frequent consultation among them concerning the selection and imple-
mentation of projects.
33.       A UNIDO expert recently submitted a proposal to the Government for
setting up an Industrial Holding Agency which would establish new enterprises,
make equity investments in, and loans to, industrial enterprises and supervise
and monitor the progress of projects. The prospects of the acceptance of the



proposal in its present form by the Government are slim because the new insti-
tution would duplicate in certain respects the functions for which SDB was
created. However, some of the functions currently executed by SDB are not
typical of a DFC and could perhaps more appropriately be discharged by another
agency. This is a problem which is being reviewed in the context of the forth-
coming discussion on the report of the recent Bank mission which studied the
parastatal sector in Somalia.
34.       Most public enterprises are not efficient due to various reasons,
including shortage of natural resources, exacerbated by the recent drought,
smallness of the domestic market, lack of financial expertise and weak manage-
ment. A number of them did not have adequate long-term funds and used short-
term commercial bank funds to finance fixed assets, large inventories and
inter-enterprise debt during the last few years. Primarily for this reason,
commercial bank advances to trade and industry jumped from So.Sh. 330 million
in 1972 to So.Sh. 865 million in September 1975, which led to a liquidity
crisis compelling the Central Bank to advance large sums to the Commercial
Bank. To rectify the situation, a law was passed in October 1975 empowering
the Central Bank to reorganize the financial strcture of parastatals. The
main objective of the legislation is to settle inter-enterprise debt in order
to have a clear picture of each entity's financial situation. The Central
Bank has undertaken an exercise to take over from the Commercial Bank such
portion of the outstanding short-term loans as had been used by the parastatal
enterprises to finance fixed assets and to convert them into long-term debt of
about 10 years maturity at 2.5%. This exercise is still under way and should
contribute to a healthier financial picture of the parastatals.
35.       The Somali authorities have recently initiated a few programs to
develop the accounting and financial skills of the staff working in parastatal
enterprises. Firstly, the Central Bank has intensified its training program
in the areas of accounting and financial control for the benefit of the junior
and intermediate level staff of parastatals in addition to the training facil-
ities available in the Somali Institute for Development Administration and
Management. Secondly, the Government has recently invited a leading British
firm of chartered accountants to help in strengthening the auditing capability
in Somalia and in finding solutions to the present financial situation of a
number of parastatal agencies. Thirdly, a UNIDO expert has been commissioned
by the Government to draw up a "National Unified Accounting System" for the
parastatal enterprises. These steps are reasonable measures and should con-
tribute to the evolution of an environment wherein parastatal enterprises
could operate more efficiently.
Financial Sector
36.       Somalia has only four financial institutions, all of which are
publicly owned: the Central Bank of Somalia, the National Commercial Bank,
the Somali Development Bank (SDB) and the State Insurance Company of Somalia.
The Central Bank performs all central banking functions. In addition, it is
involved in the parastatal sector through its training programs and, more
recently, in the reorganization of parastatal financing and credit. The
National Commercial Bank was established in 1975 by merging the then existing
two commercial banks. The State Insurance Company was set up in 1969, with a



- 10 -
paid-in capital of So.Sh. 1 million, to be the sole insurer in Somalia. It
invests its surplus funds in deposits with the National Commercial Bank.
The State Insurance Company is also contemplating to set up a reinsurance
corporation as a joint venture with an Italian insurance company. SDB is a
publicly owned development bank making medium- and long-term loans and equity
investments for productive purposes, as discussed in the next section.
37.       Somalia's efforts in the mobilization of private savings have not
been very successful. Despite an upward revision of interest rates on private
deposits in January 1975, savings and time deposits rose by only 16% in 1975
compared to an annual average rate of about 36% in the preceding three years.
This is partly attributable to a reduction of idle commercial bank deposits
of public enterprises (which are reported under private sector headings),
following the stricter credit policies pursued since 1974 and partly to a
decline in the savings potential of the employees in the monetized sectors
where real wages have fallen.
38.       Somalia has historically followed a low interest rate policy.   With
the exception of interest rates mentioned above, the general level of interest
rates has remained unchanged for some years. The long-term rates charged by
the SDB (5.5% to 7.5%) are lower than the short-term commercial rates (ranging
from 7% for state firms to 12% for foriegn borrowers). Also, the long-term rates
charged by SDB are lower for handicrafts and agriculture (5.5-6%) than for indus-
try (6-7.5%).
39.       While Somalia had stable prices until 1973 (prices rose only 1.4% in
1971 and actually dropped 1% in 1972), the recent worldwide inflationary spiral
affected Somalia in 1973 and 1974, when prices rose 17.8% and 19.4%, respectively.
This was mainly due to an average increase of 25% in food prices. The inflation
rate declined to 7.9% in 1975. The Somali authorities, however, estimate that
under normal conditions, inflation will not exceed 5-6% per annum. If this fore-
cast proves accurate, real long-term interest rates in Somalia would be marginally
positive.
40.       Interest rates have played very little role in resource mobilization
and allocation in Somalia; these functions have been generally carried out by
budget planning and administrative measures. While the allocative and mobili-
zation role of interest rates might not be irrelevant in Somalia, they are not
of critical importance. Therefore, as discussed in paragraph 52, the main cri-
terion in assessing the adequacy of the level of SDB's interest rates has been
the institutional strength consideration.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
41.       A report entitled "Somalia - Appraisal of the Somali Development Bank
(SDB)" (Report No. 1341-SO, dated March 31, 1977) is being distributed separately
to the Executive Directors. A Credit and Project Summary is attached as Annex III
to this report. The project was appraised in August 1976. Negotiations were held
in Washington on February 16, 17, 18 and 25, 1977. The Somali delegation was led
by Mr. Abdurahman Nur Herzi, the Somali Minister of Finance.



Background
42.       The Somali Development Bank (SDB) was originally established under a
Presidential Decree in 1968, and is now operating under a Law of April 30, 1970.
It was established to promote, assist and develop productive enterprises in the
agricultural, industrial, mining, tourist, fisheries and livestock sectors.
Due to lack of experienced entrepreneurship in Somalia and the predominant role
of the public sector, SDB took the initiative in promoting a number of projects
in the industrial and agro-industrial sectors, including the provision of
management where necessary. Some of these projects have since been transferred to
other government agencies for control and management. In promoting such pro-
jects, while SDB stretched its capability to the extreme, it demonstrated con-
siderable dynamism in accomplishing its tasks and has come to be regarded as
an important development agent in the country, enjoying the support of the
highest government authorities. SDB is an institution which plays a central
role in the Government's economic development effort. Its further strengthening
is a matter of importance to the Government.
43.       On its establishment, SDB also took over, on behalf of the Government,
the management of the Development Loans Section of Credito Somalo, a multi-
purpose financial institution which was wound up. The Development Loans Section
had financed various projects with a foreign loan (responsibility for which was
assumed by the Government after the dissolution of Credito Somalo). Most pro-
jects failedbut SDB has reactivated some of them recently.   SDB has no financial
obligations with respect to Development Loans Section's losses which are carried
by the Somali Government.
44.       SDB's authorized capital has recently been increased from So.Sh. 100
million to So.Sh. 200 million. No shareholder other than the Government of
Somalia and the Central Bank of Somalia is allowed to own more than one-fourth
of SDB's subscribed equity capital. SDB's paid-in capital as of December 31,
1976 was So.Sh. 113.3 million and is being increased to So.Sh. 200 million by
1980 in four almost equal annual tranches. In the new capital structure, the
Government will own 60% of the capital, the Central Bank - 30%, the National
Commercial Bank - 7.5% and the State Insurance Company - 2.5%.
45.       SDB is the single most important source for medium- and long-term
funds in Somalia. In 1975, SDB's investments accounted for 14% of total invest-
ments in the public sector and 27% of public industrial investment. As of
December 31, 1976, SDB's cumulative approvals (net of cancellations) amounted
to about So.Sh. 180 million, of which So.Sh. 17 million were ecuity investments.
Except for So.Sh. 8 million, all SDB's loan commitments as of December 31, 1976
were disbursed. SDB operations recorded a sharp increase from 1973 onwards,
mainly because of its investments in subsidiaries.
Board of Directors, Management and Organization
46.       The Somali Development Bank's by-laws require its Board to have between
five and eleven members. The Board presently consists of a Chairman (who is also
the President), two representatives of the Ministry of Finance, two nominees of



- 12 -
the Central Bank of Somalia, and a representative of INCAS (a joint venture of
the Government of Somalia, SDB and foreign investors, manufacturing corrugated
board cartons for bananas). SDB's President is very dedicated, dynamic and in-
fluential. He is ably assisted by the General Manager who has several years of
commercial banking experience abroad. SDB is presently organized into five
departments: Loans, Finance, Technical, Secretariat and Personnel. SDB employs
61 staff members of whom 16 are professionals, including one foreign financial
expert. It needs to recruit five more Somali professionals to carry on its
existing operations adequately. SDB has agreed to recruit these new staff, i.e.,
an agricultural economist, an engineer, a legal advisor, and two graduates in
economics, before effectiveness of the proposed IDA credit (Development Credit
Agreement, Section 6.01(e)). In order to economize on its small professional
staff, SDB plans to reduce the number of departments to three: Operations (in
which all appraisal and follow-up activities will be centralized), Finance and
Administration.
Technical Assistance
47.       The general level of skills of SDB professional staff is rather low
and needs to be upgraded. This is particularly true in the case of appraisal
of larger non-agricultural projects. While SDB has sent staff to be trained
abroad (EDI and Italy), substantial training needs remain to be met. SDB has
agreed that it will undertake an extensive staff development program, consisting
of the hiring of expatriate experts whose qualifications, experience and terms
and conditions of employment would be satisfactory to the Association (Project
Agreement, Section 2.02). Somali counterparts will be attached to these experts
who will also be required to give training to other Somali staff. The program
also includes training of SDB staff in experienced DFC's and other suitable
institutions for project appraisal, financial accounting and control during the
next few years. The World Bank has helped and will continue to help SDB in
carrying out this staff development program.
48.       The cost of the staff development program is estimated at about
$600,000, which is envisaged to be financed pertly through a technical assistance
grant of $340,000 equivalent, by the Arab Fund for Economic and Social Development,
and by $260,000 of the proceeds of the proposed IDA credit. The grant of the Arab
Fund for Economic and Social Development was recently approved. Effectiveness
of the grant would be a condition of effectiveness of the proposed credit
(Development Credit Agreement, Section 6.01(c)).
Operating Policies
49.       SDB's statement of policies is incorporated in its law and by-laws.
With a view to consolidating these policies in one place, SDB has agreed to adopt
a consolidated operational policy statement before the effectiveness of the
proposed IDA credit (Development Credit Agreement, Section 6.01(d)). The policy
statement, which has been reviewed by the Association, spells out SDB's operational
policies, investment criteria, exposure limits, loan conditions, and financial
policies.   By its terms, SDB is precluded from (a) borrowing more than four
times its net worth; (b) lending for less than one year and more than 20 years;
(c) lending more than 75% of the total capital requirement of any individual
project; (d) providing financing (including guarantees) to an enterprise in



- 13 -
excess of 20% of SDB's net worth and making equity investments in an enter-
prise exceeding 5% of SDB's net worth; (e) participating in excess of 49% in the
equity of an enterprise; (f) making equity investments in excess of 50% of SDB's
own net worth; and (g) managing an enterprise except as a temporary or transi-
tional measure. These arrangements are satisfactory.
50.       Investment Policies.   Because major investment activities in Somalia
are earmarked for the public sector and SDB is the main institution established
to promote or finance development projects, SDB in the past assumed the role of
an entrepreneur, a promoter and a financier. In the process, it exceeded its
exposure limit ini financing a few enterprises promoted by it or salvaged by it
out of the portfolioof the defunct Credito Somalo. Some of these are still
SDB subsidiaries while some others were handed over to the local bodies or
other agencies of the Government after completion. It is not SDB's intention
to carry out a holding company function on a permanent basis even in respect
of its existing subsidiaries (3) and in the near future SDB plans to divest
itself of its equity investments in these enterprises and to assist them in
recruiting independent management. However, in the absence of any alternative
institutional arrangements in Somalia at present for setting up (and managing)
public sector industrial enterprises, SDB may be called upon in certain cases
to undertake these functions, in addition to its normal functions of promoting
and financing projects, as a temporary measure. To enable it to do so without
infringing on any provision of its by-laws, the latter have recently been amended
to authorize SDB to exceed its exposure limits in case of government-sponsored
projects, provided (a) such projects are first approved by SDB shareholders;
and (b) the credit risk in such cases is assumed by the Government. These
amendments should provide adequate protection to SDB from undue direct exposure
in government-sponsored projects.
51.       SDB's Autonomy.  Many authorities and agencies are usually involved
in industrial investment decisions in Somalia. Very often the project ideas
originate in the Ministries of Industry, Agriculture or Planning. Once these
ideas are passed on to SDB for further examination and implementation, SDB makes
its own independent appraisal of each project (often with the help of outside
consultants); it can suggest changes in the design of a project, and even
reject it outright.
52.       Interest Rate.  SDB charges interest from 5.5% to 7.5% on its loans
with the lowest rate applicable to medium-term loans for agriculture, livestock
and handicrafts (see para. 38). While retaining the rates for agriculture and
handicraft, SDB has agreed to charge a uniform rate of 7.5% on all loans to
industrial borrowers (Project Agreement, Section 2.04). These rates, although
exceptionally low (especially since the sub-borrower does not assume the exchange
risk) and barely positive in real terms, are nonetheless considered acceptable
for this first DFC operation in Somalia in light of the small-scale level of
the borrowing enterprises and taking account of the special circumstances
described in paragraphs 39-and 40 above. IDA has suggested, however, that SDB
should give serious consideration to both increasing and unifying its lending
rates, and the Government has agreed to undertake a general study of the level
of interest rates in the country which will form the basis for a further dialogue
on the subject with IDA. Pending the outcome of the proposed interest rate study,



- 14 -
the main criterion for agreeing to the aforementioned rates was to ensure
that SDB will have a spread of about 3% on its borrowed funds during the
next two years to enable it to cover its operating expenses, make adequate
provisions against doubtful investments, and build up some reserves. It
was therefore agreed that the Somali Government would onlend IDA credit to
SDB at 5% per annum (Development Credit Agreement, Section 3.01(a)) and that
the Government would charge 2.5% per annum on the present Government loan of
So.Sh. 26 million to SDB. Since this loan and the proceeds of the IDA credit
would constitute the major portion of SDB's borrowed funds for the next two
years or so, the average cost of borrowed funds for SDB during this period
would be around 4%. With loans to industrial enterprises constituting about
80% of the operations, SDB's average yield on new loans during the next two
years would be about 7%.
53.       Foreign Exchange Risk,   Until recently SDB was assuming exchange
risk on its foreign currency loans, which resulted in some exchange losses.
As the outstanding amount of these foreign exchange loans is only So.Sh. 4.8
million ($800,000) and SDB also has a revaluation reserve of So.Sh. 78,887,
its future exposure to exchange fluctuations is limited. SDB has recently
amended its by-laws to the effect that it will no longer assume such risks
which in the future will be assumed by the Central Bank of Somalia. For the
present, the Somali Government does not intend any fee to be collected from
the ultimate borrowers of the proposed credit for the assumption of this risk
by the Central Bank. It will, however, study this question when carrying
out the interest rate study.
Operations and Portfolio
54.       Loan Portfolio.  As of June 30, 1976, SDB's loan portfolio    (including
loans to its subsidiaries but excluding Development Loans Section) consisted of
356 loans amounting to So.Sh. 117 million. Loans to the industrial sector
amounted to So.Sh. 85 million (or 72% of the total loan portfolio), of which
So.Sh. 46 million were for loans to SDB's own subsidiaries. However, in terms
of number of loans, agriculture accounted for 80% of the total number of loans
outstanding. SDB's loan portfolio also included 22 loans, amounting to So.Sh. 2
million, to cooperatives, most of which were engaged in fishing and crop pro-
duction.
55.       The overall quality of SDB's loan portfolio is satisfactory.   As of
June 30, 1976, out of 356 loans totalling So.Sh. 117 million, 103 loans amount-
ing to So.Sh. 23 million, or 20% of SDB's loan portfolio, were in arrears of
over three months. Some of these borrowers have since cleared their arrears
and only So.Sh. 15 million of the loan portfolio was affected by arrears as of
August 15, 1976. The major defaulters were three parastatal enterprises
accounting for So.Sh. 11 million of the portfolio; loans to these borrowers
are guaranteed by the Government, and SDB is pursuing the recovery of the de-
faulted amounts from the Government. The remaining arrear-affected portfolio
of So.Sh, 4 million cosisted of 93 small loans to farmers, most of which SDB
believes are collectable.



- 15 -
56.       Equity Investments.  As of December 31, 1976, SDB had made six
equity investments amounting to So.Sh. 17 million. Four equity investments
aggregating So.Sh. 16 million were in SDB's subsidiaries; two subsidiaries
are problem-free, while the other two involving equity investments of So.Sh.
7 million are facing difficulties. Of the remaining two equity investments,
only one was in serious difficulty. SDB decided towards the end of 1976 to
write off So.Sh. 1.048 million out of this investment in three equal annual
installments commecing December 1976.
57.       Provisions.  SDB has generally followed a reasonable policy for
making provisions in respect of its loans and equity investments except its
loans to, or equity investments in, its subsidiaries in respect of which no
provisions were made in the past. SDB's provisional accounts as of December
31, 1976 show total provisions against loans of So.Sh. 1.7 million, which
appear to be adequate only in respect of SDB loans to enterprises other than
its subsidiaries. SDB's two wholly-owned subsidiaries (involving equity in-
vestments of So.Sh. 7 million), which are in difficulties, had cumulative
losses, aggregating over So.Sh. 10 million, as of December 31, 1975. Under-
standings have been reached that SDB will make adequate provisions against
them in its 1977 accounts.
Financial Position
58.       SDB's financial position is sound due to its large equity base and
very low long-term debt. SDB's assets have increased fivefold from So.Sh. 33
million in 1972 to So.Sh. 161 million in 1976. Such a rapid increase was
mainly due to SDB's promotional efforts and financing of a few large projects
such as the flour and pasta mill and the fruit processing factory. The increase
in portfolio was primarily financed by SDB's paid-in capital which increased
from So.Sh. 21 million in 1972 to So.Sh. 113 million in 1976. As of December 31,
1976, SDB's total assets consisted of loans (75%), equity investments (10%),
fixed assets (13%). SDB's long-term debt/equity ratio of 0.3:1 was much less
than the 4:1 allowed by its law. Although SDB's provision of So.Sh. 1.7 million
is not adequate, SDB s equity base is so large that even if it were necessary to
write off the entire amount of doubtful debts and accumulated losses of its subsi-
diaries, SDB would still be creditworthy.
Business Outlook and SDB's Operational Strategy
59.       SDB's business prospects for the next few years appear to be good.
The Five-Year Development Program (1974-78) envisages an investment of
So.Sh. 3,863 million. The share of the major sectors are as follows: agri-
culture - So.Sh. 1,124 million; transport - So.Sh. 945 million; and industry
- So.Sh. 588 million. The Annual Development Plan for 1976 involved an invest-
ment of So.Sh. 813 million, including So.Sh.- 154 million for industry, So.Sh.
151 million for agriculture, So.Sh. 38 million for livestock, and So.Sh. 12
million for fisheries. Out of So.Sh. 154 million earmarked for industry,
58% was to be invested in modernization and expansion of existing enterprises
like the textile, sugar, fish and meat factories. While data on actual invest-
ments in these projects in 1976 are not yet available, it is known that their



-16 -
modernization programs were under way in 1976. Some of the new projects to
be implemented in the near future include another sugar factory, a cement
factory, a fiberglass boat factory, an oil refinery, a hide and skins develop-
ment center, a fishing gear factory, and salt works. SDB, being the only
Somali institution providing term finance for development, is expected to
finance a sizeable portion of projected investments (see para. 61).
60.       During the next few years, SDB will concentrate on building up its
staff (hiring and training) and will obtain technical assistance in several
key areas of its operations. It will organize its wholly owned ventures as
separate, legally independent entities with their own accounts and try to find
independent management for them. It will also intensify its efforts to reach
small farmers by establishing branches in agricultural areas.
Forecast of Operations and Resource Requirements
61.       While SDB's annual net approvals averaged So.Sh. 42 million per year
during 1973-75, they declined to So.Sh. 16 million in 1976, primarily due to
lack of resources. With the proposed foreign resources from IDA and appropriate
staff development and technical assistance programs to improve SDB's capacity
to appraise projects, SDB should be able to start operating at a much higher
level in the near future. SDB expects to commit So.Sh. 142 million (US$22.5
million) over the period January 1, 1977 to June 30, 1979 in loans and equity
investments. Given SDB's past record of financing about 15-20% of the planned
investment in the industrial sector and its pipeline of projects as of December
31, 1976, the forecast of operations is attainable. SDB's pipeline of projects
include 92 projects needing financial assistance of over So.Sh. 46 million.
These projects are in addition to the projects being identified by SDB for
promotion and those specified in the Five-Year Development Program. SDB also
expects to provide So.Sh. 8 million in loans to 80 agricultural cooperatives.
62.       SDB needs So.Sh. 152 million (US$24 million) to cover its projected
commitments and debt repayments up to June 30, 1979. SDB expects to finance
this in part by new equity of So.Sh. 57 million, internally generated funds
(loan collections, depreciation, earnings and provisions) of So.Sh. 41 million,
a loan of So.Sh. 6 million from the Algerian Development Bank and SDB's uncom-
mitted resources of So.Sh. 4 million as of December 31, 1976. This will leave
a gap of about So.Sh. 44 million ($7 million), towards which it proposed that
IDA provide So.Sh. 31 million ($5 million, that is, 22% of SDB's projected
commitments for the period). SDB's other sources of long-term foreign exchange
funds in the near future are likely to be the European Investment Bank, which
has recently shown interest in SDB's operations, and the Arab Fund for Economic
and Social Development. Furthermore, SDB has an understanding with the Government
that should SDB need additional resources earlier than the present projections
indicate, the Government and the Central Bank would accelerate payment of their
shares of SDB's increased paid-in capital.
Projected Financial Position and Results
63.       Projections show that SDB will continue to be a sound financial
institution. SDB's assets are projected to increase from So.Sh. 161 million
in 1976 to So.Sh. 373 million in 1981, an annual growth rate of 18%. This



- 17 -
appears attainable. The increase in assets will be primarily financed by
equity increase (So.Sh. 87 million), borrowed funds (So.Sh. 100 million), and
internally generated funds (So.Sh. 25 million). SDB's long-term debt/equity
ratio is expected to remain below 0.7 through 1981 reflecting substantial
additional borrowing capacity; SDB's authorized debt/equity limit is 4:1.
SDB's debt service coverage for interest and principal payments is projected
to increase from 2.5 in 1976 to 5.5 in 1981, leaving an ample cushion for any
unforeseen shortfalls in loan collections.
64.       SDB has been able to consistently generate a small profit since its
inception. Projections show that SDB's profit after tax is estimated to
increase from So.Sh. 1 million in 1977 to So.Sh. 5 million in 1981. The
figures allow for provisions to be maintained at 3% of year-end loan portfolio
and 5% of year-end equity investments which are considered adequate. Net
profit after tax as percentage of average total assets is estimated to grad-
dually increase from 0.5% in 1976 to 1.4% in 1981. Given SDB's large equity
base and its low interest rates, returns on its equity are projected to average
only 1.7%. This is a very low return. However, since SDB is not expected to
pay dividends, this can be considered acceptable. Returns from SDB's loan
portfolio are estimated to increase gradually from about 3.7% in 1976 to 6.6%
in 1978 and to 7% in 1981, while the cost of borrowed funds is estimated to
increase from 2.4% in 1976 to 3.4% in 1978, and to 4.6% in 1981. During the
next two years the average spread will be over 3% but will gradually decrease
to 2.4% in 1981; this would be satisfactory. SDB's administrative expenses
at 2% of the average total assets in 1976 were rather high due to expenses
associated with SDB's expansion but are estimated to gradually decline to 1.5%
by 1980 with the projected increase in SDB's operations.
Terms of Proposed Credit
65.       The proposed IDA credit of $5 million would be lent to the Somali
Government on standard IDA terms. The proceeds of the credit would be onlent
by the Somali Government to the Somali Development Bank at 5% per annum with
15 years maturity, including a five-year grace period. SDB will need the
Association's prior approval of each project using more than US$50,000 equiv-
alent of the proceeds of the proposed credit and will not be able to use more
than US$1.5 million equivalent in total without the Association's approval
(Development Credit Agreement, Section 2.02(b)) for such free limit loans.
The Central Bank will assume the foreign exchange risks (see para. 53).
Benefits and Justification
66.       This project aims at strengthening an institution that plays a key
role in Somalia's development, especially in the industrial sector. While
SDB's role has grown, its technical expertise has tended to lag. As a result
of the proposed credit, SDB will benefit from better appraisal and follow-up
techniques which will improve the quality of its portfolio. This project
does not carry any more risk than usual in first DFC operations. SDB, however,
will have to exert a determined and consistent effort to achieve the project's
organizational, financial and industrial development objectives.



- 18 -
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
67.       The draft Development Credit Agreement between the Somali Democratic
Republic and the Association, the draft Project Agreement between the Asso-
ciation and the Somali Development Bank, the Recommendation of the Committee
provided for under Article V, Section l(d) of the Articles of Agreement of
the Association, and the text of a Resolution approving the proposed credit
are being distributed to the Executive Directors separately.
68.       Special features of the proposed Development Credit are referred
to in Annex IV. Effectiveness of the Arab Fund grant for technical assistance,
adoption of a satisfactory policy statement, and appointment of qualified and
competent persons to the positions of agricultural economist, engineer, and
legal advisor, as well as two graduates in economics, are additional conditions
of effectiveness (Development Credit Agreement, Section 6.01(c), (d), (e)).
69.       I am satisfied that the proposed credit would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Association.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
70.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed credit.
Robert S. McNamara
President
by
J. Burke Knapp
Attachments
Washington, D.C.
April 6, 1977



f='T1 .f 4 pages
SOMALIA             - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
LAND AREA ITHOU KM2                   -              -
LANO REA tTHOU KN21                   -          SOMALIA                            REFERENCE COUNTRIES (19701
TOTAL       63T.7                                      MOST RECENT
AGRIC.          .                      1960      1970    ESTIMATE          ETHIOPIA       TANZANIA       SENEGAL *
GNP PER CAPITA (US$I                     60.0       70.0     100.0               70.0       120.0       Z40.0
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
POPULATION (MID-YR. MILLIONl            2.2        2.8       3.2               24.6        12.9         4.4
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQUARE KM.                        3.0        4.0       5.0               20.0        14.0        22.0
PER SQ. KM. AGRICULTURAL LAND        10.0         ..        *.               30.0        23.0        39.0
VITAL STATISTICS
CRUDE BIRTH RATE I/THOU, AVI         47.3       47.7      47.2               50.3        50.5        47.6
CRUDE DEATH RATE (/THOU,AVI          27.6       23.8      21.7               28.7        23.0        24.4
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (/THOU)          ..        ..         ..                 ..       160.0      156.0
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YRS)       35.1       38.5      41.0               38.0        41.8        40.0
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE                ..        3.0       3.0                2.9         3.2         3.0
POPULATION GROWTH RATE IXI
TOTAL                                 2.0       2.4        2.4                2.1         3.0 a       2.6
URBAN                                 2.9        6.1       4.4 4              9.4 8       5.6         6.0
URBAN POPULATION IT OF TOTAL)          18.0       25.6      28.3                9.7         6.0        29.0
AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0 TO 14 YEARS                       43.8      46.5       45.0               43.0        44.4       41.2
15 TO 64 YEARS                       53.5      51.6       53.0                           53 0        54.9
65 YEARS AND OVER                     2.7        1.9       2.0               247          2.6         3.9
2.7        2.39
AGE DEPENDENCi RATIO                    0.9        0.9       0.9                0.9         0.9         0.8
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO               1.1 /      1.2 &     1.2 A                *         1.2/.       ' L.21
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS (CUMULATIVE, THOU)           ..         ..        ..
USERS IX OF MARRIED WOMEN)             ..         ..        ..
EMPLOYMENT
TOTAL LA8CR FORCE ITHOUSAND)          930.0     1100.0    1250.0                  ..     5600.0      1600.0
LABOR FORCE IN AGRICULTURE (2I         88.0       82.0       77.0              85.0        91.0 4      73.0
UNEMPLOYED I2 OF LABOR FORCE)            ..       20.0D       ..                  ..         ..         7.0
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
X OF PRIVATE INCOME REC*D BY-
HIGHEST   5X OF HOUSEHOLDS             ..         ..        ..                 ..        33.5
HIGHEST 20X OF HOUSEHOLDS              ..         ..        ..                  ..       63.3
LOWEST  20X OF HOUSEHOLDS              ..         ..        ..                 ..         2.3
LOWEST  4O0 OF HOUSEHOLDS              ..         ..        ..                  *-        7.8
DISTRIBUTION OF LANO OWNERSHIP
X OWNED BY TOP 102 OF OWNERS             ..         ..        ..
2 OWNED BY SMALLEST IOX OWNERS           ..         ..        ..
HEALTH AND NUTRITION
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN            33220.0    214ZO.0   19300.0k           73300.0     21570.0a, 16640.0
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON        3780.0t    3260.0    2 290O.07L.d      23640.0D     4890.D B0   Z680.0 0
POPULATICN PER HOSPITAL BED           630.0       580.0    570.02 980.0                   7O020 810.0 b
PER CAPITA SUPPLY EF -
CALORIES 12 OF REQUIREMENTSI         77.0       77.0      79.0               92.0        73.0        97.0
PROTEIN (GRAMS PER DAY)              57.0       57.0      56.0               69.0        43.0        64.0
-OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE         19.0&      27.0        ..               25.0        23.0        28.0 a
DEATH RATE I/THOU) AGES 1-4              ..         ..        ..
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENRCLLMENT RATIO
PRIMARY SCHOOL                        9.0       10.0      34.0                18.0 &     36.0        38.0 
SECONDARY SCHOOL                      1.0        4.0       7.0                 .0 a       3.0 a      IS.O
YEARS OF SCHOOLING PROVIDED                                                      . o£
(FIRST AND SECOND LEVEL)             12.0       12.0      10.0               12.0        13.0        13.0
VOCATIONAL ENROLLMENT
(2 OF SECONDARY)                       ..         .        4.0                5.0          ..         7.0
ADULT LITERACY RATE 12)                  ..         ..       50O.&               ..          ..       10.0
HOUSING
PERSONS PER ROOM IURBAN)                 ..         ..        ..
OCCUPIED DWELLINGS WITHOUWT
PIPED WATER (X)                        ..         ..        ..                  ..       30.0 4        .
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY
17 OF ALL DWELLINGS)                   ..        ..         ..
RURAL DWELLINGS CONNECTED
TO ELECTRICITY (2)                     ..         ..        ..
CONSUMPTION
RADIO RECEIVERS (PER THOU POPI         12.0       18.0       22.0                6.0        11.0       69.0
PASSENGER CARS (PER THOU POP)           2.0 0      2.0        3.0                2.0         3.0        9.0
ELECTRICITY (KWH/YR PER CAP)            S.O       10.0       14.0               21.0       31.0 &      73.0
NEWSPRINT (KG/YR PER CAP)                 ..       0.2        0.3                 *-         0.1        0.1
SEE NOTES AND DEFINITIONS ON REVERSE       -----



ANNEXl
Page 2 of 4 pages
VOlES
Unless othersise noted, date foe 1960 esfer to any year betwee    1939 and 1961, for 1970 betwee   1968 and 1970 sod for Most Receet Estimate between
1973 sod 1975.
S Senegal baa been selected as - obj.ctive cwtry because of it. diffsrent *cio--connlc          trutnee end similar ni-aeid ecoog       en& .d popaltios
alas.
SOKALIA        1960    a0 Rat io of population -dter 13 and 65 and over to total labor force;      lb   Including nidwi-es, assistant nurses and nursing
asnilaris ;     Ic  1963.
1970    /s  Ratio of population -dter 13 and 65 and over to total Saber force;       fb  Urban only;     Ic  Including nidvlve  and aaiatent
nurses; /d 1964-66.
MOST RECENT ESTIMATE:    Is  1970-75;     lb  Ratio of poplation sndst 15 and 63 and ovr to total labor foece;        Ic   1971;    /d  Including
nidivea end a..aistet nuss;        I    1972'    If  1969-71 average;     a&  Oovernot setine te.
ETHIOPIA       1970    I   1965-70;    lb  Includng nidives and public health noes           I   7-12 end 13-17 yeses of sge reapectively.
TANZANIA       1970    I   Mainland Tanzaia;      lb  1967;    Ic  Incdluig s.etaitnt medical officers;       Id  me.lodeg nidwiv-    and e.seitant our..o;
_______ ____    __   .  7-13 and 14-19 years of age rspciev            /f  Urban only.
SENEGAL        1970    IaRatio of populatIon under 15 and 65 and ovr to total labor force;         lb  Including asaistent nusa;             ovenet
hoepits1 e.atblialeseta;     Id  1964-66;     Ie  Unetdjated;    /f Lner secondary level.
R6, Januar y 6, 1977
PipFINITIONS OP SOCIAL INDPICATORS
Lend Area I thou ka2)                                                             Population. Par nuring person - Population dividod by nieber of practicing
Total -Total surface ares emprising land area and inland waters.                     flean      fasl  graduate  use   "trainad" or "certified" nuss,ad
dAgri.   H-tM r racen. ..tinaro of agricu1tsrs1 arcs used ranperarily or            eunlisey personnel aith training or enparlance.
peenanetly for crops, psotures, nrbet & kitchen gardens or to lie               Psuetion per, hosPital bed - Population divided by n,mb.    o f hospitsl beds
faSTens                                                                          available in public and private general and speoia1ieed boopita1 and
rahabilite tion renrer, encludee   urnig hmea. end cstsblisisnets foe
iMP onr capite (10$) l- iNP Per capit.a.rtinatee at ctrrent isrkt prices,           custodial and prevetive care.
calculated b   te   se  cnvralon nethod sa Wcrld Bank Atlas (1973-75            Pet capits sapply of ceoresC of requiremets) - Conputed fron energy
basis); 1960, 1970 end 1975 data.                                                 equivalent of net food supplies avilable in coutry Per capita per day;
va-ilable supplies cmpriae dowatie production            imPorta leso euports,
aouato  nd vital statistics                                                   ad cheee     ins.k,nt.np        .e eecldc aninal feed, seeds, qu..nti-
Moulti     feed-r    "ilo)-AsoJuy fie:              i  ntselable,                   tieo used in fod Per   ain   nsd bees in distribution; rqiee
averges orfw     en-yaretimates'; 19'60",17t0 endf 197    dsts.                   wer estimted by FAO basad on physilogical eeedo for        -1a activity
and habtb conidariog eircosmnta1 tenperature, body ceighta, agean
PoP"ularo  density  P-pr aquar   b  - Mid-year Population per square bile-          oe  distributions~ of population, and allowing 10% for waste at house
me ter (100 bectrare) of total area.                                              bold Mlve.
poltion dsneity - onesqar        bef ageio. land - iceputed as abov   for       Per capita  upyo.cri          oe      e   a)-Poeecnoeo               e
agricoltuesl land only.                                      ca~~~~.ptia na  spp-ly of food.per day; ntsply of food iedefined as
abov; reulr~tn  fr sl coutrie st.tsbplishd by USA      -conoic
Vita1 statistics                                                                    iesearcb Servicen provide for s ninism   allowace of 60 gren    of total
Crude birth rste e.     buad vr      ae-Antal lice births per thousan d             prnteie per dsy, end 20 gram   of animal and pulse protein, of which
of nid-pear   epoatio; tn-yar oritbhetic -verag- endiog in 1940 sod               10 grsn  hboud be ainial protein; these standsfds are Inr tban those
1970, nd five-Yes It'esge e~nd-ing      1975 for oust rcceeie .tinate.            of 75 gSns of otetl protein and 23 grac onf .si-al protein     ea
Crudedesbrt        e  tbooad    eenc-_An-l deaths per ihou...cd of old-             average for the world, proposed by FAO in the Third W-old,.$ued-#-.r  y.
year pupulatiou, ten-Yen arithmetic a-a.ge      eudini in 1960 end 1970 sod     Per caita   t.. erool   surel  fros sinl and pulse - Protein supply of food
fiveya    Ivrg     ending in 1975 for mast retest -sti-te.                       derived fron acinsln andPulses in grao per dsy.
Inf.n                    th-at )o  - Annual dearbh  eftefanr  under on  ver of    Dga-tb ra-l/bu)50514 -              Inua  deaths per tboqsad in agr group
sg  pr tbouu..sd live births.                                                  i-   Ceas   tchildreniS thi sic       ru,sgeeda            nidctr
Life epctanc-y at birth (yes)    A-Avrage nonber of years of life remining          malnutrition
at birth, uoually five-yea a-ersoes ending in 1960, 1970 end 1975 foe
developing conrires.                                                            Edoc..tion
irons reprdodctinrt      - vrg       -ber of live daughters a   -ona vill         Adjusted erolLment rsatio - pftryr school - Enrnlloeet of all ages.a
besrinhrora         rerouciv     Period if she' epricneo   prescee age-          percentage of primary schoorl-agerPopulation, includes children sged
ePacific fertility rates; unoeIll5  ftv-y-a averages ending in 1960,              6-11 yers boedjostdfordiffrs          e lengub  of primary sdootion;
197  an  175  ordeveloping cossries.                                         frcorlswth unvra               ducation, ecoietny encaed 100%
Poon.lsron oroth ae     %   - oe-ipud annal growth rates of nid-                    since o-    "Puils are below or ahov  the official sehool age.
eapouatinfor 195-60,1960-70' and 1970-75.                                      Adj- ted anolrrrai           eonayuhol-iptd1ssoe
popuatio  orwib  ate  l)  orbn - mpued lke gowt  rot  oftotal      secondary educationrequiresa at bou.t four years of approvd prinury
popuIetion; different dfntosof urban areas may affect conpara-                    isruction, proide      geneal vocaional or teabertraining
bility of data anog cutries,                                                      instructions for Puilo of'12to 17 Year     of ag;    orespond.nce
tlrban populatiu  (7. of total) - Ratio of urban to total population;               cornes are generally -oclded.
different definitions of urban   eese nay affect conparsbility of data         learn of scbhnlin' ereided (first aducn          ee)-Ttlyaso
anong coentries.                                             s~~~~~~~~~cholisg; at secodary level, voatonl   tnsrctIon my be pot-
Ag  eutore (perceet) - Children (0-14 years), worhig-age (15-64 yearu),         tia11Y or conplerely e.cluded.
end retired (65 years and over   as Percentages of oid-yesr population.         Vocctiona1 enrollen   fo     eodr)- Vocational inetitutiono
Age deeveode..cY ratio - Ratio of population under 15 and 61 and ovr to             include tecbnical   todseial or other progran     shich operate
ibooc of ages 15 through 64.                                                      independently or asdeparteesto of secondary institutions.
Econmic dependenc.Y ratio   - Ratio nf populatien under 15 and 6) snd over        Adult literacy retn Cl) - Literste adults (able to read end write) a
to the laborforce is ape group of 15-64 yeer.                                     percentage of total adolt Population aged 15 years andovr
penle  lanin  -  ccptos  c,nslaiv. tou  C-1ias tiv- e-ber of
occeptore of birth-cntrol device    udrsaPicas of national fanily               Ne-s i.
P.Laeig progre    since is-eption.                                              Pereons  e  on(rol-Aeaoehro                    eon      e  uoi
pe   fchpaningd-buers  las ofeand5     e)-Pecetgesof marid-leed                       d   oventiona   dwelIng    i ura    areas, dwellings e"lude
w~n o ebid-bertog  ge (5-44years) who us  birtb-control devices           n-Peenanen-t structures and unccpied parts.
to all naried wSM  in s  ag  group.                    Ocupied dellings     ithout piped water CZ) - Occu pied uova-tional
OdveLnga 1in arba an.d rurl reas withoutpinoide or outside piped
cuplesanent                                                    wa~~~~~~~~~.ter facilitie  aspercentag  of sI occupied dwellings.
Total labor force (thoussd) - tEconmcai-ly     ctive peron, including             Access to electricity (I of all dwellings) - Csnventional deelling
armed,forces an.dunemployed bet encledig hoesseives    students, etc.;           with eletrticyity is   ivig qoortrer  as percent of totai   eallings in
defntin      isvrious comtrien are not cnparable                                  urban and rural area.i
Lsbor forc  in. giclture     Ml - Agricultural labor force (in faming,            trldwellings connected to electricity CI) - Cmputad so abes        for
foety   hutingnd fiehing) as percentage of total labor force,             P"rural dwelligs only.
Unalosd'Cl sof labor force) - unePloyed are ueually defined as poraee
wb. ere able and willing totake a Job, out of a Job on a give     day,          isartio
remained out ef a Job, and seeking work for a specified   Jinins  period        2Redlo recivers (pee thou Poe) - All types of rsceiv-re   o    ai   bod-
est esce.eding -n  week; naY net be conParable b-etwr coutries due to             cet    ogsea-ulc          e                                 ruad  fppaate;eesdes b-
different deinitions of uneployed and source of data, e.g. , employ-              unlicenoed receivers in ceuntrien add is years wbn ragistratrim    of
neat Office statistics, smaple survys, empu1sory unaPloYsset inaurSs..            radio sets  anineffect; data for reccent years nay net b.e noparable
iceoust conries sbolisbed Ilcening.
lonome distribution, - Peercentage of privats incme (both in c..h and hind) Paseenger care (per thnu poe) - PassengHer cars conprise enter ears
rasvd by rieh.nt 5%, riLchnat 20X, Peorest 201, and pooreat 401 of             sea ting leas tban eight persons, eclades anbela.ee, hearnes and
haeeode.                                                                          ailitry c-hicIen
flec'ticity 7P(kwhlyr per rap) - AnnuaI Cona*iPtion of industrIal,c-
Distribtion cf lend ownrehie - Per'centges of land ownd by wsalthieet               mria,pblic end prin-te eletricity in kilowatt hours per ospits,
I0% end poorest 101 of leand onr.generslly based on production data, without slw                                                      cefor lose      .i
grids hut allown    for imports snd emporta of electricity.
Health ant Nutrition                                                              NesritChI        Per oar) -Prcpt         sna    oaeplni         inrn
PP1seltion ear pbyfician    Population dividad by stusbr of pra-tining              etmtdio        d         -mi  Prodcaptio apu anet imn,prta o of newsprint
physicians quslified fron a medical sebmal at miversity leve.                       t   tdfr     dcat      Pd-im       l   0ti      rtof     -pnt



Annex I
Page 3 of 4 pages
SOMALIA
ECONOMIC INDICATORS
GROSS NATIONAL PRODUCT                                                ANNUAL RATE OF GROWTH (%, constant prices)
US$ Mln.       %                        1961 -69           1969 -73          1974
GNP at Market Prices   (1974)   260.0      100.0
Gross Domestic Investment         *.
Gross National Saving
Trade Balance (1975)            -89.1
Exports of Goods, NFS (1975)     88.5
Imports of Goods, NFS (1975)    177.6
OUTPUT, LABOR FORCE AND
PRODUCTIVITY
Value Added                   Labor Forcel/                  V. A. Per Worker
US$ Mln.   ~  %Mln.                         %U 
Agriculture
Industry                       ....       ..
Services                       ....       ..
Unallocated                    ....        ..
Total/Average
100. O                        100.5 O100.0
GOVERNMENT FINANCE
General Government                             Central Government
5o.Sh Mln.)        % of GDP                    bo.Sh Mln.)         % of GDP
1973         1973        190_9-73                __7        197         19-
Current Receipts                   497.8          ..           ..                   609.5
Current Expenditure                414.7                                            585.2
Current Surplus                     83..                                             24.3       -
Capital Expenditures                327.0         ,             ..                  550.0-3
Eaernal Assistance (net)           247.0         ..           ..                   525.0
MONEY, CREDIT and PRICES -/               1969         1970         1971        1972        P          1974     1975
(Ml:lion SoShoutstanding end periodY 
Money and Quasi Money                                   466         391          518         608        783    1005.1
Bank credit to Public Sector    /100                                 12           13           5        2.4    -238.2
Bank Credit to Private Sector-                          297         254          315         622        916     934.6
(Percentages or Index Numbers)
Money and Quasi Money as % of GDP,          ..
General Price Index (1966 a 100>-/        119.1         108.5       108.5       107.4        126.6     151.1    163.0
Annual percentage changes ins
General Price Index                                     -9.6          0          -1.0         17.9      19.4      7.9
Bank credit to Public Sector                            61.8        -28.0       -81.9       -61.5      -52.0    -98.3
Bwnk credit to P-ivate Sector2/                         27,1        -14,5        24,0         50,2      47,3    - 2,1
NOTE:  All conversions to dollars in this table are at the average exchange rate prevailing during the period
covered.
l/ Total labor force; unemployed are allocated to sector of their normal occupation. "Unallocated" consists
mainly of nnemployed workers seeking their first job.
not available
not applicable
2/ Private sector here includes decentralized, government-owned enterprises.
3/ This is an estimated figure including the Plan investments (about So.Sh. 400 million). Investments for Drought
Rehabilitation (So.Sh. 100-150 million) and other lesser investments not included under the Plan.
4/ Source: Somalia Country Economic Memorandum, 1977.
5/ All data (except C.O.L. index) taken from IMF, IFS.



Annex 1
Page 4 of 4 pages
SOMALIA
TRADE PAYMENTS AND CAPITAL FLOWS
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS                                                  MERCHANDISE EXPORTS (Average 1971-74)
1972      1973      1974-   1975                                       US $ Mln     %
Exports of Goods, NFS          66.3      71.1     55. a/   88.5        Live animals                    28.4    56.3
Imports of Goods, NFS          90.9     140.2    157.44, 177.6         Bananas                         11.3    22.4
Resource Gap (deficit    -)   -24.6     -69.1   -102.4 ~41- -89.1      Meat & meat products             4.4      8.7
Hides and skin                    2.8     5.6
Interest Payments (net)         0.2       1.4      1.9
Workers' Remittances             -         -     -16.6'-/ -21.0-8
Other Factor Payments (net)
Net Transfers                  17.2      28.8      44.9   119.8      All other commodities              3.5      6.9
Balance on Current Account     -7.2     -38.9    -72.2      9.7           Total                        50.4      100
Direct Foreign Investment       7.8       4.7       5.6            EXTERNAL DEBT, DECEMBER 31. 1975
Net MLT Borrowing
Disbursements                                                                                             US $ Mln
Amortization                _                 __*_*
Subtotal                    14,5      27.2     55.7     42.1      Public Debt, incl. guaranteed             433.7%2i
Capital Grants                   -                                   Non-Guaranteed Private Debt
Other Capital (net)              -         -         -               Total outstanding & Disbursed
Other items n.e.i              -0.8        -                 -
Increase in Reserves (+)        1        -7.0     -10.8    51.8    DEBT SERVICE RATIO for 19756/
a/ Includes 4location ot' SDR 2.0 million                                                                    %
Gross Reserves (end year)
Net Reserves    (end year)                                           Public Debt, incl. guaranteed             4.0
Non-Guaranteed Private Debt
Fuel and Related Materials                                           Total outstanding & Disbursed
Imports                       3.9        5.1     11.7    19.9
of which: Petroleum         3.9        5.!     11.7    19.9
Exports                        -    -             -
of which:  Petroleum         -         -       -         IBRD/IDA LENDING, (February 28, 1977) (Millicn US$)
RATE OF EXCHANGE                                                                                       IBRD        IDA
Throuoh  -                                    ~~~~~~~~~Outstanding & Disbursed        -3b).55
Through  -  1971   Since April 1973                Undisbursed                           -          39.2
US   1.00$ ' So.Sh 7.143       US   1.00 = So`.Sh 6.295        Outstanding incl. Undisbursed                    75.75
SoSh 1.00 = US $ 0.140         SoSh 1.00 = US $0.16t
1/ Estimated .-or
I/ Exports f.o.b.
3/ Imports c.i.f.
:/ Trade balance
§/ Net non-factor services
6/ Ratio of Debt Service to Exports of           . . not available
Goods and Non-Factor Services (estimate)
7/ Central Rate (Somalia avails itself of          . not applicable
wider margins); The trade conversion
factor used by IMF is 6.233 So.Sh./US$.
8/ All factor services (net)
9/ Disbursed debt at December 31, 1975 was approximately $250 million
CP-1B, EAN
March 31, 1977



Annex II
Page 1
STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN SOMALIA
A. Statement of IDA Credits (as cf February 28, 1977)
(US$ million)
Amount   Undisbursed
(Net of cancellations
No.        Year      Borrower         Purpose                & exchange adjustments)
Three credits fully disbursed                                  9.7
123-SO     1968     Somalia     Highway Supplementary
(Afgoi-Baidoa Road)            2.3        0.3
295-SO     1972      Somalia    Highway (Hargeisa-
Berbera Road)                9.6        0.7
359-SO     1973      Somalia    Port of Mogadiscio            12.95       2.5
462-SO     1974      Somalia    Trans-Juba  Livestock         10.0        8.1
511-SO     1974      Somalia    Second Education               8.0        6.8
586-SO     1975      Somalia    Mogadiscio Port Extension      5.2        3.0
623-S0     1976      Somalia    Drought Rehabilitation         8.0        8.0
635-S0      1976     Somalia    North-West Agriculture        10.0        9.8
Total                         75.75      39.2
of which has been repaid     0.3
Total now held by IDA         75.45



Annex II
Page 2
B.  PROJECTS IN EXECUTION - SOMALIA-/
Cr. No. 123   Highways Supplement (Afgoi-Baido); $2.3 million Credit of
June 26, 1968; Date of Effectiveness: February 25, 1969;
Closing Date: Originally December 31, 1971 and postponed
six times to December 31, 1977.
The construction of the Afgoi Baidoa road was substantially
completed in March 1971. The contractor has submitted four major claims
for arbitration, and ICC Arbitration Tribunal has awarded 100% in favor of
contractor. The Government believes the arbitration award was unjust and
objects to it. A meeting between Government and contractor for discussion
and resolution of dispute was held recently. The meeting adjourned with a
view of resuming discussions in a second meeting to be held in the near future.
Cr. No. 295   Highway II (Hargeisa-Berbera); $9.6 million Credit of March 30,
1972; Date of Effectiveness: May 11, 1972; Clsoing Date:
originally December 31, 1975 and postponed twice to December 31,
1977.
The construction of the Hargeisa-Berbera road has been completed
and opened to traffic. The Feasibility Study and Detailed Engineering for the
Hargeisa-Borama Road have also been comyleted.
Cr. No. 359   Port of Mogadiscio; $12.95 million Credit of March 15, 1973;
Date of Effectiveness: September 10, 1973; Closing Date:
June 30, 1977.
Cr. No. 586   Mogadiscio Port Extension Project; $5.2 million Credit of October
15, 1975; Date of Effectiveness: January 15, 1976; Closing Date:
December 31, 1977.
The physical execution of the civil works is going well after a
slow start. The contractor is working three 8-hour shifts and completion is
expected in April 1977, 12 months behind the original schedule. A harbor tug
financed under this credit was completed in July 1976. The management consult-
ants to the Somali Ports Authority started their work in April 1976 and are
performing well.
Cr. No. 452   Livestock (Trans-Juba) Project; $10 million Credit of February 20,
1974; Date of Effectiveness: October 29, 1974; Closing Date:
June 30, 1980.
Owing to an apparent large increase in project costs and a 50%
decrease in world market prices of quality beef, an indepth review of the project
was carried out in February 1977. The above review has estimated a 30% increase
in project costs. The study has proposed a smaller fodder farm. wh!ch uculd
1/ These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding the
progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report any problems
which are Ieinih encountereA, -n'A the nctton hein- taven to remed,7 them.
They should be read in this sense, and with the understanding that they do
not purport a balanced evaluation of strengths and weaknesses in project
execution.



Annex II
Page 3
still enable the whole project to be implemented within existing funds.
Economic viability will be assured by a change to selling mainly live
cattle for export, which commands a premium over processing and selling
chilled meat on the world beef market. Some tendering problems and changes
in management and consultants may entail small delays in project implementa-
tion.
Cr. No. 511   Second Education; $8 million Credit of September 19, 1974;
Date of Effectiveness: December 19, 1974; Closing Date: June 30,
1980.
Project implementation is proceeding satisfactorily. The
Elementary Teachers Training College is complete and in use. Construction
of remaining nomadic centers and the Academy of Somali Studies and Marine
Institute are scheduled for a second phase, to commence in mid-1977. Pro-
curement of furniture and equipment is progressing well. Arrangements are
under way for recruiting the three fisheries and marine teclulical assistance
specialists as well as key project unit specialists. Although the project is
proceeding on schedule, current estimate of final project cost is about $1
million above appraisal estimate including contingencies.
Cr. No. 623   Drought Rehabilitation Program -- Juba-Shebelli Emergency Settle-
ment Scheme; $8 million Credit of July 7, 1976; Date of Effective-
ness: September 7, 1976; Closing Date: June 30, 1980.
The Government has fulfilled the conditions of effectiveness by
enacting the law establishing the Settlement Authority, appoint the Authority's
General Manager and opening an account for the Authority. The consultants to
assist in carrying out the project have been appointed. Model tender documents
and specifications for the procurement of land clearing and cultivation machinery
have been sent to the Government.
Cr. No. 635   North-West Region Agricultural Development Project; $10 million
Credit of July 7, 1976; Date of Effectiveness: February 9, 1977;
Closing Date: June 30, 1983.
This Credit has recently become effective with the appointment of
a project manager and the signing of the consultant team contract. Disbursement
has already commenced and implementation is proceeding satisfactorily.



Annex III
Page 1
SOMALIA
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY
BORROWER:                           Somali Democratic Republic
BENEFICIARY:                        Somali Development Bank (SDB)
AMOUNT:                             US$5 million
PURPOSE:                            To meet part of SDB's foreign exchange
requirements through June 30, 1979 and
to strengthen SDB through a technical
assistance program.
TERMS:                              Standard
RELENDING TERMS:                    The proceeds of the credit would be onlent
by the Borrower to the Somali Development
Bank at 5% per annum for 15 years, including
a five-year grace period. SDB will onlend
the funds for up to 15 years at 7.5% to its
industrial borrowers and 5.5%-6% to its
agricultural and handicraft borrowers. The
Central Bank will bear the exchange risks.
CO-FINANCING:                       The Arab Fund for Economic and Social
Development, through a recently approved
grant, will assist in co-financing a tech-
nical assistance program for SDB.
FREE LIMIT:                         US$50,000 for individual projects; US$1.5
million aggregate limit.
DEBT COVENANT:                      Maximum debt/equity ratio of 4:1.
FINAL DATE FOR
PROJECT SUBMISSION:                 June 30, 1979
PROCUREMENT:                        Through normal commercial channels.
APPRAISAL REPORT:                   Report No. 1341-SO
Industrial Development & Finance Division
Eastern Africa Region



Annex IV
SUPPLEMENTARY PROJECT DATA SHEET
1. Timetable of Key Events
(a) Time taken to prepare project: 7 months
(b) Preparation by: Jointly by SDB and IDA
(c) Initial discussion with Bank: At the 1975 Annual Meetings
(d) First/Bank/IDA mission: IDA Reconnaissance Mission, January/February
1976
(e) Appraisal Mission departure: August 1976
(f) Negotiations: February 1977
(g) Planned date of Effectiveness: 90 days after credit is signed
II. Special Bank Implementation Actions
Bank staff are taking action to accelerate project implementation by:
(i) assisting in the search for experts to be employed under the technical
assistance program.
(ii) assisting the Government in drafting job descriptions for the four
experts to be recruited for the technical assistance program.
III. Special Conditions
(i) Employment of experts, under a technical assistance program, whose
qualifications, experience, terms and conditions of employment would
be satisfactory to the Association (para. 47).
(ii) Interest rates and foreign exchange risks (paras. 52 and 53).
IV. Additional Conditions of Credit Effectiveness
Effectiveness of the Arab Fund for Economic and Social Development
grant for technical assistance, adoption of a satisfactory policy state-
ment, and appointment of qualified and competent persons to the positions
of agricultural economist, engineer, and legal advisors, as well as two
graduates of economics, are additional conditions of effectiveness.



Annex III
Page 2
Projected Operations and Financial Results
(So.Sh. Million)
Year Ending December 31                  1977    1978   1979 -1980    1981
Commitments
Loans                                  45.0   52.0    60.0   69.0   79.0
Equity Investments                      6.0    6.0     6.0    6.0    6.0
Total                                51.0   58.0    66.0   75.0   85.0
Income Statements
Total Revenue                        10.?   12.5    15.4   18.9   22.1
Financial Expenses                      1.3     1.9    3.2    4.3    5.9
Administrative Expenses                 3.7    4.2     4.7    5.3    5.9
Provisions                              3.5     2.1    1.9    1.9    1.7
Taxes                                   0.7     1.8    2.3    3.1    3.6
Net Profit                              1.0     2.5    3.2    4.3    4.9
Balance Sheets
Assets
Current Assets                       43.1   37.5    49.3   59.9   61.8
Loan Portfolio                      136.3   170.5  203.5  234.9  164.7
Equity Portfolio                     21.9   27.7    33.3   39.1   44.7
Fixed and other Assets                2.7    2.7     2.5    2.3    2.1
Total Assets                        204.2  238.3   288.7  336.2  373.4
Liabilities & Net Worth
Current Liabilities                  15.6   17.2    17.8   17.4   19.2
Long-term Debt                       44.9   54.9    81.5  105.1  135.5
Net Worth                           143.7   166.2  189.4  213.7  218.7
Total Liabilities
& Net  Worth                      204.2  238.3  28G.7   336.3  373.4
Long-term Debt/Equity Ratio               0.4     0.4    0.5    0.5    0.7
Net Profit as % of Average Net Worth      0.8     1.6    1.6    2.3    2.4



