CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 698 SO
PROJECT AGREEMENT
(SDB Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
and
SOMALI DEVELOPMENT BANK
Dated June 1, 1977


﻿PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated June 1, 1977, between INTERNATIONAL DEVELOP-
MENT ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the Association) and SOMALI
DEVELOPMENT BANK (hereinafter called SDB).
WHEREAS by the Development Credit Agreement of even date
herewith between the Somali Democratic Republic (hereinafter
called the Borrower) and the Association, the Association has
agreed to make available to the Borrower an amount in various
currencies equivalent to five million dollars ($5,000,000), on the
terms and conditions set forth in the Development Credit
Agreement, but only on condition that SDB agree to undertake such
obligations toward the Association as hereinafter set forth;
WHEREAS by a subsidiary loan agreement to be entered into
between the Borrower and SDB, the proceeds of the credit provided
for under the Development Credit Agreement will be made available
to SDB on the terms and conditions therein set forth;
WHEREAS the Borrower intends to contract from the Arab Fund
for Economic and Social Development a grant in an amount of
100,000 Kuwaiti Dinars equivalent to about $340,000 to be made
available to SDB to assist in financing Parts B (i), B (iii) and B
(v) of the Project described in Schedule 1 to the Development
Credit Agreement on the terms and conditions set forth in an
agreement to be entered into between the Borrower and the Arab
Fund; and


﻿-2-
WHEREAS SDB, in consideration of the Association's entering
into the Development Credit Agreement with the Borrower, has
agreed to undertake the obligations hereinafter set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:


﻿-3-
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context shall otherwise require, the several terms defined in the
Development Credit Agreement and in the General Conditions (as so
defined) have the respective meanings therein set forth.


﻿-4-
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project
Section 2.01. SDB shall carry out the Project described in
Schedule 1 to the Development Credit Agreement and shall conduct
its operations and affairs with due diligence and efficiency and
in conformity with appropriate administrative, economic, financial
and investment standards and practices, with qualified and
experienced management and personnel, and in accordance with
the SDB Law and the By-laws.
Section 2.02. In order to assist SDB in the carrying out of
Parts B (ii) and B (iv) of the Project, SDB shall employ experts
whose qualifications, experience and terms and conditions of
employment shall be satisfactory to the Association.
Section 2.03. (a) In accordance with and subject to the
provisions of the Development Credit Agreement, SDB shall submit
Investment Projects to the Association for approval or for
authorization of withdrawals from the Credit Account.
(b) When presenting a sub-loan (other than a free-limit
sub-loan) or an investment to the Association for approval,
SDB shall furnish to the Association an application, in form
satisfactory to the Association, together with (i) a description
of the Investment Enterprise and an appraisal of the Investment
Project to be financed under such sub-loan or investment,


﻿- 5 -
including a description of the expenditures for such Investment
Project proposed to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
relent to SDB under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement; (ii) the
proposed terms and conditions of the sub-loan or investment,
including the schedule of amortization of the sub-loan or of
repayment to the Borrower of the amount to be used for the
investment; and (iii) such other information as the Association
shall reasonably request.
(c) Each request by SDB for authorization to make
withdrawals from the Credit Account in respect of a free-limit
sub-loan shall contain (i) a summary description of the Investment
Enterprise and the Investment Project, including a description of
the expenditures proposed to be financed out of the proceeds of
the Credit relent to SDB under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement; and
(ii) the terms and conditions of such free-limit sub-loan,
including the schedule of amortization therefor.
(d) The amortization schedule applicable to each sub-loan
and the schedule of repayment to SDB in respect of each investment
shall provide for an appropriate period of grace, and, unless
the Association and SDB shall otherwise agree (i) shall not
extend beyond fifteen years from the date of approval by the
Association of such sub-loan or investment, or in the case of a
free-limit sub-loan, of authorization by the Association to make
withdrawals from the Credit Account in respect thereof; and (ii)


﻿- 6 -
shall provide for approximately equal semi-annual, or more
frequent, aggregate payments of principal and interest or
approximately equal semi-annual, or more frequent, payments of
principal.
(e) SDB shall not, without consultation with the
Association, make any substantial changes in respect of the
repayment provisions of any sub-loan.
(f) Except as the Association and SDB shall otherwise agree,
applications and requests made pursuant to the provisions of
paragraphs (b) and (c) of this Section shall be presented to the
Association on or before June 30, 1979.
Section 2.04. SDB undertakes that, unless the Association
shall otherwise agree, any sub-loan shall be made on terms which
shall provide, inter alia, that interest to be paid by the
Investment Enterprise shall be not less than:
(i) five and one-half percent (5-1/2%) per annum on the
outstanding balance of medium-term sub-loan and six
percent (6%) per annum on the outstanding balance of
long-term sub-loan, in the case of such sub-loans to
agricultural and handicraft Investment Enterprises;
and


﻿- 7 -
(ii) seven and one-half percent (7-1/2%) per annum on the
outstanding balance of the sub-loan in the case of
sub-loans to industrial Investment Enterprises and for
all other sub-loans.
Section 2.05. (a) SDB undertakes that, unless the Association
shall otherwise agree, any sub-loan or investment will be made on
terms whereby SDB shall obtain, by written contract with the
Investment Enterprise or by other appropriate legal means, rights
adequate to protect the interests of the Association and SDB,
including, in the case of any sub-loan and to the extent that it
shall be appropriate in the case of any investment, the right of
SDB to:
(i) require the Investment Enterprise to carry out and
operate the Investment Project with due diligence
and efficiency and in accordance with appropriate
technical, financial and managerial standards and
to maintain adequate records;
(ii) require that: (1) the goods and services to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit shall
be purchased at a reasonable price, account being
taken also of other relevant factors such as time
of delivery and efficiency and reliability of the
goods and availability of maintenance facilities


﻿- 8 -
and spare parts therefor, and, in the case of
services, of their quality and the competence of
the parties rendering them; and (2) such goods and
services shall be used exclusively in the carrying
out of the Investment Project;
(iii) inspect, by itself or jointly with representatives
of the Association if the Association shall so
request, such goods and the sites, works, plants
and construction included in the Investment
Project, the operation thereof, and any relevant
records and documents;
(iv) require that: (1) the Investment Enterprise shall
take out and maintain with responsible insurers
such insurance, against such risks and in such
amounts, as shall be consistent with appropriate
business practice; and (2) without any limitation
upon the foregoing, such insurance shall cover
hazards incident to the acquisition, transportation
and delivery of goods financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit to the place of use or installation,
any indemnity thereunder to be made payable in a
currency freely usable by the Investment Enterprise
to replace or repair such goods;


﻿- 9 -
(v) obtain all such information as the Association
or the Borrower shall reasonably request relating
to the foregoing and to the administration,
operations and financial condition of the
Investment Enterprise; and
(vi)  suspend or terminate the right of the Investment
Enterprise to the use of the proceeds of the
Credit upon failure by such Investment Enterprise
to perform its obligations under its contract with
SDB.
(b) SDB shall exercise its rights in relation to each
Investment Project in such manner as to: (i) protect the interests
of the Association and SDB; (ii) comply with its obligations under
this Agreement; and (iii) achieve the purposes of the Project.
Section 2.06. (a) SDB shall furnish to the Association all
such information as the Association shall reasonably request
concerning the expenditure of the proceeds of the Credit, Parts
A, B (ii), B (iv) and B (v) of the Project, the Investment
Enterprises, the Investment Projects, and the sub-loans and
investments.
(b) SDB shall, at the request of the Association, exchange
views with the Association with regard to the progress of Parts A,
B (ii), B (iv) and B (v) of the Project, the performance of its
obligations under this Agreement and under the Subsidiary Loan
Agreement, and other matters relating to the purposes of the
Credit.


﻿- 10 -
(c) SDB shall promptly inform the Association of any
condition which interferes or threatens to interfere with, the
progress of the Project, the accomplishment of the Credit, or
the performance by SDB of its obligations under this Agreement
and under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement.
Section 2.07. SDB shall duly perform all its obligations
under agreements under which funds have been lent or otherwise
put at the disposal of SDB by the Borrower or its agencies or
others for relending, investment or management. SDB shall promptly
inform the Association of any action which would have the effect of
assigning, amending, abrogating or waiving any material provision
of any such agreement.
Section 2.08. If SDB estabishes or acquires any subsidiary,
SDB shall cause such subsidiary to observe and perform the
obligations of SDB hereunder to the extent to which such
obligations shall or can be applicable thereto, as though such
obligations were binding upon such subsidiary.
Section 2.09. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, SDB: (i) shall not sell, lease, transfer, encumber,
mortgage or otherwise dispose of any of its property or assets,
except in the ordinary course of business; and (ii) shall take all


﻿- 11 -
action necessary to maintain its corporate existence and right to
carry on operations and to acquire, maintain and renew all rights,
powers, privileges and franchises necessary or useful in the
conduct of its business.


﻿- 12 -
ARTICLE III
Financial Covenants
Section 3.01. SDB shall maintain records adequate to record
the progress of the Project and of each Investment Project
(including the cost thereof) and to reflect in accordance with
consistently maintained appropriate accounting practices the
operations and financial condition of SDB.
Section 3.02. SDB shall: (i) have its and its subsidiaries'
accounts and financial statements (balance sheets, statements of
income and expenses and related statements) for each fiscal year
audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing principles
consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the
Association; (ii) furnish to the Association as soon as available,
but in any case not later than four months after the end of each
such year, (A) certified copies of its and its subsidiaries'
financial statements for such year as so audited, and (B) the
report of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such
detail as the Association shall have reasonably requested;
and (iii) furnish to the Association such other information
concerning the accounts and financial statements of SDB and its
subsidiaries and the audit thereof as the Assocation shall from
time to time reasonably request.
Section 3.03. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, SDB shall: (i) conduct its operations and affairs in such


﻿- 13-
manner as shall be necessary to maintain, at all times, its
debt/equity ratio within the limit referred to in Section 3.05 of
this Agreement; and (ii) if such ratio shall, for reasons beyond
SDB's control, be exceeded, promptly take all such reasonable
action as shall be necessary or advisable to bring such ratio
within such limit.
Section 3.04. SDB shall not make any repayment in advance
of maturity in respect of any outstanding debt of SDB which,
in the judgment of the Association, will materially affect SDB's
ability to meet its financial obligations.
Section 3.05. Except as shall be otherwise agreed between
the Association and SDB, SDB shall not incur or permit any
subsidiary to incur any debt if, after the incurring of such
debt, the consolidated debt of SDB and all its subsidiaries
then incurred and outstanding would be greater than four times
the consolidated capital and surplus of SDB and all its
subsidiaries. For the purpose of this Section:
(a) The term "debt" means any debt incurred by SDB or
any subsidiary maturing more than one year after the date on
which it is originally incurred, including debt assumed or
guaranteed by SDB or by a subsidiary.


﻿- 14 -
(b) Wherever reference is made in this Section to the
incurring of debt, such reference shall include any modification
of the terms of payment of such debt. Debt shall be deemed to
be incurred: (i) under a loan contract or agreement (including
the Subsidiary Loan Agreement) on the date and to the extent the
loan is drawn down pursuant to such loan contract or agreement;
and (ii) under a guarantee agreement, on the date the agreement
providing for such guarantee has been entered into but only
to the extent that the guaranteed debt is outstanding.
(c) Whenever in connection with this Section it shall
be necessary to value in terms of Somali Shillings debt payable in
foreign currency, such valuation shall be made at the prevailing
lawful rate of exchange at which such foreign currency is, at the
time of such valuation, obtainable by SDB for the purposes of
servicing such debt.
(d) The term "consolidated debt of SDB and all its
subsidiaries" means the total amount of debt of SDB and
subsidiaries, excluding any debt owed by SDB to any subsidiary or
by any subsidiary to SDB or to any other subsidiary.
(e) The term "consolidated capital and surplus of SDB
and all its subsidiaries" means the aggregate of the unimpaired
paid-in capital, surplus and free reserves of SDB and subsidiaries


﻿- 15 -
after excluding therefrom such amounts as shall represent equity
interests of SDB in any subsidiary or of any subsidiary in SDB
or any other subsidiary.
Section 3.06. SDB shall not carry risk resulting from
changes in the rates of exchange between the currencies (including
Somali Shillings) used in its operations.
Section 3.07. The Association and SDB shall from time to
time, at the request of either party, exchange views through
their representatives with regard to the administration, operations
and financial condition of SDB and its subsidiaries, and SDB shall
furnish to the Association all such information as the Association
shall reasonably request concerning the administration, operations
and financial condition of SDB and subsidiaries.
Section 3.08. SDB shall enable the Association's
representatives to inspect the records referred to in Section
3.01 of this Agreement and any relevant documents.


﻿- 16 -
ARTICLE IV
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 4.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect
on the date upon which the Development Credit Agreement becomes
effective.
Section 4.02. (a) This Agreement and all obligations of
the Association and of SDB thereunder shall terminate on the
earlier of the following two dates:
(i) the date on which the Development Credit
Agreement shall terminate in accordance
with its terms; or
(ii) a date twenty years after the date of this Agreement.
(b) If the Development Credit Agreement terminates in
accordance with its terms before the date specified in paragraph
(a) (ii) of this Section, the Association shall promptly notify
SDB of this event.
Section 4.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall
continue in full force and effect notwithstanding any cancellation
or suspension under the Development Credit Agreement.


﻿- 17 -
ARTICLE V
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 5.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to
be given or made under this Agreement and any agreement between
the parties contemplated by the Agreement shall be in writing.
Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been duly given or
made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram,
cable, telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required
or permitted to be given or made at such party's address here-
inafter specified or at such other address as such party shall
have designated by notice to the party giving such notice or
making such request. The addresses so specified are:
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                Telex:
INDEVAS                       440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.               248423 (RCA) or
64145  (WUI)


﻿- 18 -
For SDB:
Somali Development Bank
P.O. Box 1079
Mogadiscio, Somalia
Cable address:
DEVELOPMENT
Mogadiscio
Section 5.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken,
and any documents required or permitted to be executed, under
this Agreement on behalf of SDB may be taken or executed by its
President or such other person or persons as the said President
shall designate in writing.
Section 5.03. SDB shall furnish to the Association sufficient
evidence of the authority and the authenticated specimen signature
of the person or persons who will, on behalf of SDB, take any
action or execute any documents required or permitted to be taken
or executed by SDB pursuant to any of the provisions of this
Agreement.
Section 5.04. This Agreement may be executed in several
counterparts, each of which shall be an original, and all
collectively but one instrument.


﻿- 19 -
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year
first above written.
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ Willi A. Wapenhans
Regional Vice President
Eastern Africa
SOMALI DEVELOPMENT BANK
By /s/ Abdullahi Ahmed Addou
Authorized Representative


