                                      Documentof
                                   The WorldBank

                             FOR OFFICIAL USEONLY


                                                                 ReportNo: 39856-HN




                                   PROJECTPAPER

                                          ONA

                PROPOSEDADDITIONAL FINANCING CREDIT

                     INTHEAMOUNT OFSDR 5.9 MILLION
                          (US$9MILLIONEQUIVALENT)

                                           TO

                          THE REPUBLICOF HONDURAS

                                        FOR THE

                 NATURAL DISASTERMITIGATION PROJECT


                                      May 25,2007




SustainableDevelopmentNetwork
CentralAmericaCountry ManagementUnit
LatinAmerica and CaribbeanRegion


This documenthas a restricteddistributionand maybe usedby recipients only inthe
performanceof their official duties. Its contents maynot otherwisebe disclosedwithout
World Bank authorization.

                        CURRENCYEQUIVALENTS
                   (Exchange Rate Effective M a y 21,2007)
                      CurrencyUnit = US$
            Honduran Lempira (LC) = US$0.053
                            US$1.70 = SDR 1
                                FISCAL YEAR
                          January1      - December31
                   ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

CAS     Country Assistance Strategy
COPECO  ComisidnPermanentede Contingencias(Permanent Commission for Contingencies)
DCA     Development Credit Agreement
EA      Environmental Assessment
FHIS    Fondo HondureAopara la Znversidn Social (Honduran Social Investment Fund)
FM      Financial Management
GAAEX   Grupo deAyudapara la Asistencia Extema (Group for Assistance to ExternalAid)
GDP     Gross Domestic Product
GEF     Global Environmental Facility
GIS     Geographical Information Systems
ICR     Implementation Completion Report
IDA     InternationalDevelopment Association
IDB     Inter-AmericanDevelopment Bank
IPPF    Indigenous People PlanningFramework
ISDS    IntegratedSafeguardData Sheet
ISR     Implementation StatusReport
JSDF    Japan Social Development Fund
MTR     Mid-Term Review
PDO     Project Development Objective
PID     Project Information Document
PMDN    Proyecto de Mitigacidn de DesastresNaturales (Natural Disaster Mitigation Project)
PRS     Poverty Reduction Strategy
SEFIN   Secretaria de Finanzas (Ministry of Finance)
SERNA   Secretaria de Recursos Naturalesy Ambiente (Ministry of Environment)
SIAFI   SistemadeAdministracidn Financiera (Financial Administration System)
SINIT   SistemaNacional de Znformacidn Territorial(National Territorial Information System)
SGJ     Secretaria de Gobemacidny Justicia (Ministry of Interior)
SOE     Statement of Expenditures
TCU     Technical CoordinatingUnit
UNDP    UnitedNations Development Program




                            Vice President:      Pamela Cox
                         Country Director:       Jane Armitage
                          Sector Manager:        LauraTuck
                      Task Team Leaders:         Tova Maria Solo, Enrique Pantoja

                                                                                        FOROFFICIAL USE ONLY

                                            REPUBLIC OFHONDURAS
                                 NATURALDISASTERMITIGATIONPROJECT
                                             ADDITIONALFINANCING


                                                     CONTENTS


        I Introduction      ..............................................................................      1

        I1     Background and Rationale for Additional Financing..............................                  2

        I11    Proposed Changes......................................................................           4

        IV     Consistency with Country Assistance Strategy             .....................................   9

        V      Appraisal of Scaled-Up Project Activities.,          .........................................   9

        VI     Expected Outcomes.....................................................................           11

        VI1 Benefits and Risks.......................................................................           11

        VI11 FinancialTerms and Conditions for the Additional Financing....................                     11



        List of Annexes

        Annex 1Summary Project Description and Costs.               ..........................................  12

        Annex 2 Subprojects Negative List.        ...........................................................   13

        Annex 3 Project Performance and Impact Indicators..              .....................................  15




This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties.Its contents may not be otherwise disclosed without World Bank authorization.


                                 REPUBLICOFHONDURAS
                        NATURALDISASTERMITIGATION PROJECT
                                 ADDITIONAL FINANCING

                               PROJECTPAPERDATASHEET
Date: May 25,2007                             Team Leaders:Tova Maria Solo, Enrique
Country: Republicof Honduras                  Pantoja
ProjectName:Natural Disaster Mitigation       Sector Director/Manager: Laura Tuck
ProjectID:P064913// P105386                   Country Director: Jane Armitage
                                              EnvironmentalCategory: B
Borrower: Republic of Honduras
ResDonsiblea-izencv:the PermanentCommissionfor Contingencies (COPECO)

FY                   08             09             10             11
                                                3,000,000
                                                9.000.000
Current closingdate (for Original Project): 30 September2007
Closingdate for Additional Financing30 September2010
Doesthe restructuredor scaled-upproject require any exceptionsto
Bank policies?                                                          oYes XNo
Havethese been approvedby Bank management?                              oYes oNo
I s approval for any policy exceptionsought from the Board?             oYes oNo
Does the scaled-upor restructuredproject trigger any new safeguardpol :ies? Yes, OP
4.10 (Indigenous Peoples)
                                 For Additional Financing
[ 3 Loan   [X 3 Credit    [ 3 Grant




                   Source                         Local       Foreign         Total
Borrower                                           0.0           0.0          0.0
IBRD/IDA                                           7.5           1.5          9.0
Others                                             0.0           0.0          0.0
Total                                              7.5           1.5          9.0


                                  REPUBLICOFHONDURAS
                         NATURALDISASTERMITIGATIONPROJECT
                                  ADDITIONALFINANCING



I. Introduction

This project paper seeks the approval of the ExecutiveDirectors to provide an additional
credit (# P0105386) inan amount of SDR 5.9 million (US$9 million equivalent) to the
Republic of Honduras for the Honduras Natural Disaster MitigationProject (the Project
Credit #3361-HO).

The additional financing would cover costs associated with scaled-up, updated and
additional activities within the Project's development objective of improving Honduras's
capacity to reduce its vulnerability to natural disasters at the municipal level, to enhance
the impact of what has been a well-performing project, specifically by: (a) strengthening
the national government's institutional capability indisaster prevention, mitigation, and
response; (b) enhancing technical capacity to gather, share, and disseminate knowledge
concerning natural disasters; and (c) buildinglocal capacity to assess hazards and
vulnerability levels, to identify mitigation measures, and to prepare for and respond to
emergency situations. Specific activities to be financed are described inSection 111.
Some sub-components included inthe original project which will not be scaled-up with
the additional financing have been excluded, and some other sub-components have been
added or updated to reflect new Borrower's needs related to disaster risk management,
including for instance, support to the National Territorial Information System (SINIT,
SistemaNacional de Infomzacio'n Territorial),which has been developed recently, and to
the implementation of mitigation measures for drought. Proposed changes also apply to
implementing arrangements that are reordered to institutionalize former project activities
as permanent government functions within a national system for natural disaster risk
management.

The additional financing is expected to lead to the following outcomes: (a) enhanced
flood and drought monitoring and warning capacity, (b) improved local emergency
preparedness through development of vulnerability assessments inat least 20 Eligible
Municipalities, inaddition to the 61Eligible Municipalities already attended under the
Project and (c) reduced vulnerability inat least 40 Eligible Municipalities as a result o f
priority mitigation measures, both structural and nonstructural, inaddition to the 13
Eligible Municipalities that have already benefited from investments inpriority
mitigation measures under the ongoing Project.

N o direct co-financing from other donors was feasible at appraisal, but an ongoing
dialogue with donors, the Global Environment Facility (GEF), the Inter-American
Development Bank (IDB), and with the UnitedNations Development Program (UNDP),
among others, assures the alignment of future financing provided through those entities.
The Honduran Government i s working with donors to assure financing of its Proposed
Natural Disaster Mitigation Program 2007-201 1.

                                               -2-


11.     Backgroundand Rationalefor AdditionalFinancingin the Amount of US$9
million

With coasts onboth the Pacific Ocean and Caribbean Sea, Honduras's historic
vulnerability to natural disasters i s increasing as a result of climate trends that are linked
to a greater number of high-impact storms events. The increase inhydro metrological
hazards over the past 30 years i s dramatic, as seen inFigure 1. At an estimated US$4.7
billion, Honduras's financial loss to disaster events during the last 30 years i s
approximately 50 percent of the total for Central America.

                                            Figure 1.
                      Hydrometeorological Events Affecting Honduras
                                   Have Increased Since 1974

                                 12


                                 10


                            -.--88


                                 6
                             0)
                             0
                          -8E     4

                          2;a
                           p b 9
                           932
                           cco   0
                                    1974- 1979- 1984- 1989- 1994- 1999-
                                    1978  1983  1988   1993   1998  2003


Source: D.Guha-Sapir, D.Hargitt, and P.Hoyois, Thirty Yearsof Natural Disasters, 1974-2003: The
Numbers, Louvain: Center for Researchon the Epidemiology of Disasters [CRED], 2004:94.

Following the devastation wreaked by Hurricane Mitch in 1998, which wiped out 40
percent of Honduras's annual GDP inseven days, the Government recognizedthe need to
introduce measures to reduce vulnerability to hurricane and catastrophic wind andrainfall
events to avoid development losses and to sustain economic growth. With a history of
unplanned landuse and lack of environmental controls and relaxed building standards,
Honduras' traditional vulnerability has been accentuated by rapid urbanization and
uncontrolled settlement. Ever more people, property, and infrastructure are at risk from
natural hazards.

Respondingto the Government's interest inand commitment to disaster risk
management, the Honduras Natural Disaster Mitigation Project was approved by the
Board o f Executive Directors on May 30, 2000, as an International Development
Association (IDA) Credit for SDR8.10 million (US$10.82 million equivalent) and
became effective on February 2,2001. The Project's original objective was to improve
the capacity of Eligible Municipalities to reduce their vulnerability to natural disasters.
As defined inthe Development Credit Agreement (DCA), an Eligible Municipality was

                                             -3-


one o f 61 located inan area subject to floods and landslides, and selected by the
Borrower on the basis of criteria agreed inthe Operational Manual.
The project was formally restructured by the Bank's Board inAugust 2004 to reflect four
main changes: (a) expanding the Project Development Objective (PDO) to include
improvement of the national capacity of the Borrower to reduce its vulnerability to
natural disasters at the municipal level, notjust the capacity of Eligible Municipalities;
(b) expanding the scope of the project beyondtechnical assistanceto include financing of
small-scale mitigation works (subprojects) inEligibleMunicipalities, thus providing
through the Project a more comprehensive approach to local risk management; (c)
adjusting implementation arrangements to enhance project management and
coordination, responding at the same time to the Borrower's request to ascribe the project
to the Secretaria de Gobernacidn y Justicia (SGJ), which had been assigned the role of
coordinating national and local efforts indisaster response and risk management; and (d)
extending the original closing date o f April 15, 2005, by 18 months to January 2,2007.
Two subsequent extensions approved inDecember 2006 and inMarch2007 led to
revised closing dates of April 2,2007 and September 15,2007, the Project's current
closing date.

The PDO, after restructuring, of improving the capacity of the Borrower to reduce its
vulnerability to natural disasters at the municipal level, has been largely achieved and
will not change with the proposed additional financing. The Project's physical goals
outlined under Components A (Monitoring, Forecasting, Early Warning, and Geographic
Information System-based Information Management) and B (Strengthening of National
Capacity to Support Emergency Response at the Municipal Level) have been fully met.
Under Component C (Building Capacity inDisaster Mitigation at the Municipal Level),
inadditionto carryingout the vulnerability analysis anddevelopment of risk reduction
plans inthe 61eligible municipalities, efficiencies achieved inproject implementation
have also permitted: (a) investments inmitigation works in 13 municipalities, (b)
completion of engineering plans for small works in 15 additional municipalities, and (c)
provision of technical assistanceto 8 municipalities threatened by drought, and
development of pilot mitigationplans infive watersheds. Finally, with assistance from a
Japan Social Development Fund(JSDF) grant, the Project has carried out vulnerability
assessments inlow-income and highly vulnerable neighborhoods of Tegucigalpa, and
financed priority mitigation works innine communities and modernization of the city's
emergency response system.

As documented inrecent Implementation Status Reports (ISRs), project impact has been
consistent with agreements set out inproject documents, including the amended DCA.
The Project has been managed efficiently, which has added significantly to the expected
outputs while enhancing project impact. There are no issues of cost overruns or
financing gaps. Accordingly, ISR ratings over the past two years for both
ImplementationProgress (IP)and Development Objectives have been consistently
"Satisfactory" or better, with the exception of a brief period last year duringwhich IP was
rated "Moderately Satisfactory" due to a slowdown duringthe political transition
following the national elections. Currently, 98 percent of investments programmed under

                                            -4-


the Project are completeandthe Credit is 97 percentdisbursed. The Project has no
unresolvedfiduciary, environmental, social, or other safeguardissues.

The Borrower is fully committedto the Project, andparticularly to the scaling-upof the
mitigationmeasures at the local level. The Vice-president of Honduras,as designated
Chair of the Boardof Directorsof the CornisidnPemzanentede Contingencias
(PermanentCommissionfor Contingencies,COPECO), has taken a personalinterest in
the institutionalization of the Projectandclosely followed up the preparationof the
additionalfinancing. A ProjectImplementationPlanhas already beenpreparedand
presentedto Bank.

Recognizingthe needto implement the mitigationaction plans to optimize the benefits of
the vulnerability analyses andto reduceexistingrisks of floods andlandslides, the
Borrower expressed concernduring the original Projectnegotiationsabout the needto
follow the development of these plans with financing for local mitigation measures This
financing was consideredduringthe restructuringof the project in2004. However,
althoughimplementationefficiencies ledto cost savings that permittedfinancing of
mitigationmeasures in 13 municipalities, additionalfinancing is requiredto carry out
priority structural andnon-structuralmitigationmeasures identified inthe remaining
Eligible Municipalities. Furthermore,the Borrowerhopes to extendthe benefits of
vulnerability analysis andrisk reductionto between20 and30 additionaleligible
municipalities,selectedaccording to vulnerability studies carriedout nationally and
agreed on with the Borrower.The new list of 90 Eligible Municipalitiesis presentedin
the Operations Manual and includes Tegucigalpa andSanPedro Sula, the country's two
largest cities. Although Tegucigalpabenefitedfrom a Grant from the JSDF associated
with the Project, neither municipality was includedinthe original list of Eligible
Municipalities becausenegotiations were underway with other donors for support inrisk
reduction.

111.    Proposed Changes

Project Description

The proposedadditionalfinancing cover 100percent of project costs as envisagedby the
Country FinancingParametersinthe case of projectswith strong local community
participation, environmentalprotection, and demonstratedgovernment commitment. In
additionto these elements, the proposedproject also supports a movetoward the
institutionalizationof Project activitiesunder COPECO which will requirerampingup of
management andtechnical expertiseat this moment inorder to build-in staff capacity to
continuedisaster managementactivities inthe future. Thus the 100percent financing
contributes to long-termproject sustainability.

Inaccordance with the PDO, the additionalfinancingwould scale-upactivities that have
beenimplementedunder the ongoing Project, as well as implement additionaland/or
amended activities. For this reasonthe major components are not changed, but some sub-
components will be amended and scaledup under the additionalfinancing, and as

                                             -5-


detailed below and inthe Operational Manual. Annex 1shows a summary breakdown of
subcomponents and costs.

Part A - Monitoring, Forecasting, EarlyWarning and Geographic Information System-
based Information Management. Additional financing would support the following
activities which will cost US$720,000 equivalent or approximately 8 percent of the
additional financing for:

1.Design and installationof an integrated nationalflood forecasting and warning and
decision support system, including: (a) design o f (i) a flood forecasting system; (ii)an
operational computing and communications system; (iii)      an operational response system;
and (iv) a geographic information system; (b) a study of financial sustainability options;
(c) acquisition and installationof all necessary equipment; and (d) training of SERNA's
personnel inthe operation and maintenance of said equipment.

2. Improvement of national capacity to manage information relating to droughts through:
(a) acquisition of necessary software; and (b) design and implementation of a capacity-
buildingplan for drought response, to expand the geographic area covered under the
original project.

3. Supporting and updating the disaster risk information inthe Recipient's National
Territorial Information System (SINIT, Sistema Nacional de Znfomzacidn Territorial);
and training users (municipalities and agencies) inits use and maintenance.

4. Establishment of community-based flood early-warning systems to complement the
main hydro meteorological network insmall river basins.

5. Productionof maps, through: (a) the development of biophysical, socio-economic and
perceptiondata for each Eligible Municipality; and (b) the acquisition o f satellite images
of Eligible Municipalities.

6. Carrying out of studies related to natural disaster mitigation and natural resources
management as approved by the Association.

Part B - Strengthening of National Capacity to Support Emergency Response at the
Municipal Level. Additional financing would support investments listed below for about
US$810,000 equivalent or approximately 9 percent of the additional financing for:

1.Identification and acquisition of (a) the equipment needed by cities, municipalities, and
volunteer groups for operations concerning immediate life-saving search-and-rescue
operations and protection of disaster victims; and (b) the equipment necessary for the
establishment of a national emergency communications system

2. Design and implementationof municipal emergency plans (not prepared under the
Original Project) for Eligible Municipalities; and update of municipal emergency plans
(prepared under the Original Project) for Eligible Municipalities.

                                              -6-


PartC -Building CapacityinDisaster Mitigation at the Municipal Level. Additional
financing would support investmentslistedbelow for US$6,570,000 equivalent or
approximately 73 percent of the additionalfinancing for:

1.Developmentof a database on municipal vulnerability to naturaldisastersto provide
informationto the Honduranpopulation, said informationto be organizedby topics such
as: risks of natural hazards, disaster preparedness,mitigation measures that havebeen
identified, andmitigationmeasures that havebeenimplemented.

2. Carrying out and supervisionof a disaster risk analysis ineach Eligible Municipality,
said analysis to include, amongother things, (a) risk assessment andvulnerability
mapping, (b) the identification of areas at risk within the boundaries of said Eligible
Municipalities, (c) the preparationof disaster preventivelanduse plans, and (d) the
identificationandprioritization of mitigation measures.

3. Carrying out and supervisionof feasibility and engineering studies and final designs of
those mitigation measures referredto inPart C.2 (d) of the Project that meet the criteria
set forth inthe Operations Manual.

4. Carrying out and supervisionof mitigationmeasure subprojects inEligible
Municipalities such as: (a) retrofitting schools andhospitals; (b) identifying high-risk
areas andpostingwarnings of barriersto preventunsuitableoccupationor landuse; (c)
providing systems for identifying unsafe areas, escaperoutes, and shelters, andequipping
andfitting such shelters; (d) preventingsettlements inunpopulatedhigh-risk areas
through the creationof municipal public spaces, sports facilities, community gardens, and
similar programs; (e) controlling landslidesanderosionthroughreforestationprograms
and/or the constructionof retainingwalls andterracing; (f)installationof waste and
stormwater drainage systems inhigh-density areas androadways subject to erosionor
flooding; (g) mitigating drought impactsthrough constructionof community wells, water
tanks and raincatchments; (h) improvingwatershedmanagement; (i) removing sediment
deposits originated inearlier disasters; and (i)carrying out protectiveworks, reinforcing
andretrofitting vital infrastructure (roads, bridges, crosswalks, andwater supply and
energy systems.) Subprojects are not expectedto havenegativeenvironmentalimpacts
andwill not includeany investmentsdescribedina "Negative List" presentedinAnnex 2
and includedinthe OperationalManual. However, as per the Memo of Understandingto
be signedby COPECO, the implementingagency for the additionalfinancing, andthe
HonduranSocialFund(FHIS,Fond0Hondurefio de Inversidn Social), no subprojectwill
receivefinancing without first receivinga written clearance from FHIS confirming that
the subproject is environmentally sound, as determinedby FHIS' environmental
screeningof the respectiveSubprojectproposal. FHIS environmentalproceduresfollow
guidelines set out inthe EnvironmentalAssessment andthose issuedthe Environmental
Ministry, SERNA as per Memo of Understandingsignedby FHIS,and SERNA for the
Original Project.

Both an EnvironmentalAssessment (EA) and an IndigenousPeoplesPlanning
Framework (IPPF)havebeendevelopedfor the additionalfinancing. The safeguard

                                              -7-


documents inSpanish were made available by the Government o f Honduras for local
public review and consultations. These documents have been submitted to the Infoshop,
as have the Integrated Safeguard Data Sheet (ISDS) and Project Information Document
(PID), inEnglish.

Financing for subprojects, which will be carried out with the participationo f the
respective municipality, may cover full or partial costs of the proposed mitigation
measures according to criteria established inthe Operations Manual, which i s consistent
with other Bank projects financing Municipal works, and also takes into account
municipal income, vulnerability, and previous financing receivedunder the Natural
Disaster Mitigation Project (Proyectode Mitigacidn de Desastres Naturales, PMDN).

PartD.ProiectManagement. Additional financing would support costs of consultants,
equipment, training and recurrent costs associated with project management by COPECO
for about US$900,000 equivalent or 10percent of the additional financing. This
represents a new activity compared to the original project insofar as COPECO's
management is not specifically mentioned inthe original project, although the TCU,
which will be transferred from SGJ to COPECO does figure as a recipient of support for
Project Management. As the executing agency for the additional financing, COPECO
would be eligible for project management support, for:

1.Supportingthe Financial and Administrative Group, GAAEX (GrupodeAsistencia
para la Ayuda Externa)to carry out the financial management and procurement aspects
of the Project, including, but not limited to, financing of audits requiredunder the
FinancingAgreement; and


2. Supporting COPECO (including the TCU) and other agencies referred to in the AF
Operational Manual to manage and to monitor the implementation and technical aspects
of the Project, as described inthe AF Operational Manual.

Implementation Arrangements The proposed changes inimplementationarrangements
                                 -
reflect the Republic of Honduras's decision to institutionalize the disaster prevention and
riskreduction activities begununder the Project by transferring project implementation
from the Ministry of Government and Justice (SGJ) to COPECO, the government agency
charged with managing disaster response on a permanent basis. A Project Coordinator, to
be selected competitively as detailed inthe Operations Manual, will work under the
tutelage of COPECO's Board of Directors as official liaison with the Bank. Both
technical staff from the on-going project as well as financial administration staff
(GAAEX) will be transferred to COPECO as described inthe Operations Manual. The
funds will be transferred from Honduras (represented by SEFIN)to COPECO on grant
basis under a Subsidiary Agreement. COPECO will be responsible for all of the
procurement and financial management aspects of the Project. Although there will be no
flow of funds to municipalities, a Subproject Agreement will be signed with each Eligible
Municipality to ensure their cooperation inthe implementation of the respective
subprojects, all inaccordance with the procedures set forth inthe Operational Manual.

                                                  -8-


                                               Figure 2
                      Summary FinancingPlanand ImplementationSchedule
                           Honduras NaturalDisaster Mitigation Project
                                         inUS$Thousands

  Component                               FY2008        FY2009       FY2010         TOTALS
  A. Monitoring, Forecasting, Early          200           260          260           720
  Warning and GIS-based Information
  Management
  B.Strengthening of National Capacity       200           340          270           810
  to Support Emergency Responseat the
  Municipal Level
  C. Building Capacity inDisaster            1,800        2,600        2,170          6,570
  Mitigation at the Municipal Level

  D.Project Management                       300           300          300           900


II Cumulative
  Total by FY                         I      2,500    I   3,500    1   3,000     I    9,000   I


  Procurementand Financial Management.- As the financial administrative unit of credit
   3361-HO, GAAEX has a history of managing both procurement and financial reporting
   for externally-financed projects, in particular the PMDN. As such GAAEX has an
   experienced staff trained in Bank procurement procedures and also in place a basic
   administrative structure and FM systems. GAAEX has consistently earned satisfactory
  ratings from the Bank inISRs for PMDNand has beenreviewed and appraisedpositively
   as procurement agent for the proposedProject. FMcapacity assessment (FMA) has found
   its performance to be satisfactory since its inception in 2000. A stable unit of continuous
   staff, GAAEX was originally located inthe Ministry of Finance (SEFIN), reporting to the
   Minister as head of the Project Coordinating Board. Following Project restructuring in
   2004, GAAEX moved to the Ministry of Government and Justice (SGJ) where it
   continued to manage fiduciary aspects of the project, while reporting to the Minister of
   SGJ. Under the new implementation arrangements, GAAEX will continue to manage
   funds but will be located physically in COPECO and report to the Project Coordinator
   namedby COPECO.

   It is important to note that the project is expectedto use SIAFI(National Financial
  Management System), as well as the information systemutilizedfor credit 3361-HO, for
   accounting and reporting purposes, as these systems would provide adequate information
  for monitoring specific project expenditures. Inaddition to the use of country systems
   (SIAFI),the project is expectedto use the single treasury account to makeproject
  payments.

   WBDesignatedAccount- Uponapproval of the use of advances by the Association,
   SEFINwill open a segregatedDesignatedAccount inBanco Central ofHonduras inUS
  dollars, to be usedexclusively for deposits and withdrawals of loanproceedsfor eligible

                                            -9-


expenditures. As expenditureskommitmentsarise, they will berecordedinSIAFI, and
once approved; funds will beconvertedinto local currencyby the NationalTreasury in
the Ministry of Finance (SEFIN) andchanneledthrough the single treasury accountto
makepaymentsto suppliers, contractorsor consultants.After the designatedaccount has
beenopened, GAAEX-COPECO will submit its first disbursementrequestto the WB,
together with the expenditureand financing needs forecast for the next six months. For
subsequent withdrawals, GAAEX-COPECO will submit the disbursementrequest, along
with the supportingdocumentation(SOEs). For subsequent withdrawals, GAAEX-
COPECO will submit disbursementrequestusing Statement of Expenditures (SOE),
along with the requiredsupportingdocumentation. At any time, the undocumented
advanceto the designatedaccount cannot exceedthe authorizedceiling, which has been
establishedat US$1million.

CZosingDate,PMDN The Credit supportingPMDNwas approvedon May 30,2000,
                        -
andbecame effective onFebruary2,2001, Following restructuringin2004 the Credit's
original closing date, April 15,2005 was extendedby two years, to April 2, 2007. A new
extensionto September 30,2007 was processedinparallel with the Concept notefor
Additional Financingto ensure continuity untilthe saidfinancing is approved.

IV. Consistency with CountryAssistance Strategy (CAS)

The proposedadditionalfinancing is consistent with the current Honduras CAS, Report
No. 37280-HN, datedNovember 30, 2006. Disaster Mitigation is highlighted under the
Government's third of four development priorities-"Environmental ProtectionandRisk
Management" (para. 32, p. 24). It is further highlighted as part of a cross-cuttingtheme
for the Poverty ReductionStrategy (PRS), andfigures as a priority area within the PRS,
one inwhich IDB andthe Bank will collaborate closely (para. 42, p. 28). "Reducing the
Impact of NaturalDisasters" is listed among the CAS goals inthe Chart on CAS
Objectivesunder CAS ObjectiveThree, "Environmental Protectionand Risk
Management" (Figure4, p. 29.) Specific projects appear inTable 1, "IDA Active
Portfolio and ProposedBank Assistance," interms of the ongoingproject(PMDN), a
US$7 million follow-on project, inthis case to be financedby a GEF grant for adaptation
to climate change inFY 2007, anda regionaldisastermanagementstudy inFY09. The
proposedadditional finance replaces the GEF grant for adaptationto climate change,
which has beenpostponedindefinitely because GEFhas redirectedits programto other
regions. Finally, the CAS includes a detaileddescription of Honduras's vulnerability to
natural disasters, of the Bank's past response, presentstrategies, andproposalfor future
support (Annex D, pp. 79-84).

V. Appraisal of Scaled-upProjectActivities

The activitiesproposedunder the additional financing representa continuationof those
already appraised and carriedout under the PMDN. The original appraisal of economic,
financial, technical, environmental, and social aspects is consideredvalid for the
additionalactivities including the updatedand/or new activities. The proposedactivities   I


do not raise the environmentalcategory of the Project. Similarly, neither the
restructuringnor the scale-upinvolve any exceptionsto Bank policies.However, it was

                                             -10-


 identified that an additional safeguard, namely OP 4.10 (Indigenous Peoples) was
 triggered by the Project, and an Indigenous Peoples PlanningFramework (IPPF) was
 prepared and disclosed to the public. At the same time, a new Integrated Safeguard Data
 Sheet (ISDS), and a new Environmental Assessment (EA) were carried out and also made
 public.

 Notwithstandingthe changes inthe Project's Implementationarrangements ,the technical
'and administrative teams-the     TCU and GAAEX, respectively-will        maintain the same
 essential staff that has managed the Project in the past and that has been reviewed and
 found highly satisfactory b y the Bank's task team and by fiduciary teams. The
 management capacity and coordinating capacities of COPECO have been appraised and
 found satisfactory, although certain risks involved with the new arrangement are listed
 below. A Financial Management (FM) review of the proposed institutional arrangements
 was conducted in April, 2007, to assure that the existing financial management and
 procedures which have been found satisfactory by the Bank would be continued.


 Economic Analysis of Additional Financing- Two detailed studies of the benefits of
 investments indisaster mitigation were carried out as part of the original project
 preparation and the conclusions are still considered valid The findings of the first study,
 "Case Study of Natural Catastrophe Risk inHonduras" by Paul K.Freeman, Landis
 MacKellar and Leslie Martin, confirm the highcost of natural catastrophes to economic
 growth. The study concludes, inter alia, that "failing to account for natural catastrophes
 inmacroeconomic planningmeans overstating GDPlevels each year by0.35 percent
 underestimating debt service payments by 18 percent and total external debt by 13
 percent". The second study, by Professor Harold Cochrane o f the University o f Colorado
 at Bolder, analyzed damages resulting from Mitchunder scenarios with and without
 mitigation measures and determined a loan to benefit ratio on the order of 200 for land
 use planning and over 650 for land use restrictions.


 Project investments followed the guidelines o f the studies, focusing on areas vulnerable
 to floods and landslides. Priority investments are selected based on a calculation of costs
 as a function of the number of persons directly affected. Risk mitigation sub-projects
 under the additional financing have been selected according to the same criteria as those
 under the first project. A guide to economic analysis of specific project investments in
 mitigation measures i s included inthe Operations Manual. This analysis includes
 guidelines for selecting mitigation measures on the basis of economic justifications
 derived from an evaluation o f investments made inthe on-going project as a function of
 type of works and number of persons benefited. The guidelines provide an adjusted cost
 threshold to be used as a decision makingtool for the future allocation o f investments.

 Since the PMDNwas originally appraised further studies have shown that, while natural
 disasters represent major obstacles to Honduras's continued economic development, the
 poor are disproportionatelyhurt b y such catastrophes. Hurricane Mitchcaused average
 losses of 80 percent of assets households inthe lowest income quintile, compared with
 average losses of 3 percent to households inthe highest income quintile. Recovery time

                                             -11-


and costs for the poor are, consequently,also relatively higher thanfor the better-off. In
this sense the investmentsdesignedto reducethe impactof natural disasters will have an
added, uncalculatedbenefitof avoidingincreasedpoverty levels following natural
disasters.

VI. ExpectedOutcomes

The proposedadditionalfinancing is expectedto produceoutcomes similar to those of
the original project,but on a broader scale, leadingto risk analysis and vulnerability
reductionmeasures being carriedout ina larger number of municipalities, andto a
greater degree, throughworks that will reducerisks of natural disasters affectingthose
populations. Projectoutcometargets will changesomewhat as a result of the additional
financing. Inparticularthe carryingout of local mitigation measures through subprojects
leadingto the reductionof vulnerability at the municipal level, will be monitoredand the
evaluatedas new outcometargets. Indicatorsfor the Additional Financingare presented
inAnnex 3, with the original Projectindicatorsas well.

VII. Benefitsand Risks

The major risk associatedwith the scaled-upactivities is political, as with severalprojects
inHonduras,which have sufferedfrombothinadequate staffing andmanagementand
from changes inpersonnelassociatedwith governmentalchanges following elections.
This risk is compoundedby the reassignmentof project implementationto COPECO, an
agency which, while commendedfor its commitment, does not have experience
implementingIDA-financedprojectsnor implementingprojects of this scale. COPECO
enjoys high-levelsupport, but also representsa risk for project implementationinsofar as
it has beenactive inthe pastonly under emergency situations. To reducethese risks, the
Project Coordinatorwill report to the Presidentof COPECO (the Vice President of the
Republic, as delegatedby the Presidentof the Republic) andto the Commissioner of
COPECO. Furthermore, the ProjectCoordinatorandthe technical and administrative
teams must fulfill minimumrequirementsset forth inthe Operations Manual and meet
with the `no objection" of the Association as per the OperationsManual, to assure able
managementandcontinuity of personnel.Finally, the project will be closely supervised.

VIII. FinancialTermsand Conditionsfor the AdditionalFinancing

Financialterms and conditions for the additional financing will be standardIDA
conditions for Honduras (10 years grace period and a maturity of 20 years, with the
principalrepayableat 10percent per annumfor years 11-20). The additionalfinancing
will differ from the original credit insofar as the IDA will disburse against 100percent of
eligible expenditures.

Annexes:
Annex 1Summary ProjectDescriptionand Costs
Annex 2 Subprojects NegativeList
Annex 3 ProjectPerformanceandImpact Indicators

                                                 -12-


 Annex 1

 Summary of Project Description and Costs

1Component and Activity




 B. Strengthening of National Capacity to Support Emergency                  I 810,000
 Response
 1. IdentificationandAcquisitionof Equipment for EmergencyResponse  600,000
 2. DesignandImplementationof MunicipalEmergencyPlans               210,000
 C. Building Capacity inDisaster Mitigation at the MunicipalLevel              6,570,000




,

                                            -13-


Annex 2

SubprojectsNegativeList to beincludedinthe OperationalManual

1.      Non-investment activities, including, among other things, (a) mere consumption
or transfer of ownership, (b) financing of debts and liabilities, (c) purchase or rental of
land, (d) provision of welfare or other social assistance, and (e) containment or
extinguishment of existing fires.

2.      Dam construction, reconstruction, rehabilitation, or strengthening.

3.      Activities affecting natural protected areas recognized by central, departmental,
regional, or municipal governments (or buffer zones thereof), other than to rehabilitate
areas damaged by a previous natural disaster.

4.      Land reclamation (that is, drainage of wetlands or filling of water bodies to create
land).

5.      Land clearance and leveling (when affecting natural habitats and natural land
contours, natural habitats for this purpose being those water or land areas where most of
the original plant and animal species are still present), except for clearing of debris
resulting from an emergency.

6.      Hazardous waste management and disposal, as well as manufacture, transport,
anduse of pesticides and other hazardous and/or toxic materials (except small amounts of
solvents, degreasing materials, paints, fuels, andthe like used duringconstruction).

7.      River training (that is, realignment, contraction, or deepening of an existing river
channel, or excavation of a new river channel).

8.      Activities involving industrial plants (large scale) and industrial estates.

9.      New road construction or major upgrading or realignment of roads (major means:
changing the road category, such as from seasonalto all-weather or secondary to primary;
adding new lanes; or changing road surface).

10.     New large-scale irrigation, drainage, or flood control works.

11.     (a) Activities which, when being carried out, would affect, or involve the use of,
water of rivers or of other bodies of water (or their tributaries) that flow through or are
bordered by countries other than Honduras, in such a manner as to in any way adversely
change the quality or quantity of water flowing to or bordering said countries; and (b)
activities involving the installation or construction of facilities which, when operated
after their construction or installation, would affect, or involve the use o f water of rivers
or other bodies of water (or their tributaries) that flow through or are bordered by
countries other than Honduras, in such a manner as to in any way adversely change the
quality or quantity of water flowing to or bordering said countries (unless such bordering

                                              -14-


countrieshave formally expressedinwriting to the Association and to Hondurastheir no-
objection to the activities referred to in(a) or (b) herein).

12.      Activities relating to forestry production.

13.      Development of new, or expansionof existing, ports andharbors.

14.      Aquaculture and mariculture activities.

15.      River basindevelopment activities.

16.      Development of new or expansion of existing thermal power and hydropower
facilities.

17.      Activities of any type classifiable as category A for environmental purposes
pursuantto the Association's Operational Policy (OP) 4.01 datedJanuary 1999.

18.      Conversion or degradation of critical natural habitats (as defined in Annex A to
the Association's Operational Policy (OP) 4.04 datedJune 2001).        '



19       Any project that results in(a) the involuntary taking of landresulting in(i)
relocation or loss of shelter; (ii) of assets or access to assets; or (iii) of income
                                   loss                                    loss
sources or means of livelihood, whether or not the affected persons mustmove to another
location; or (b) the involuntary restriction of access to legally designatedparks and
protected areas resulting inadverse impacts on the livelihoods of the displacedpersons.

                                                           -15-


           Annex 3 ProjectResults ProgressandImpactIndicators
                        -                   -

                         PDOIndicators for       PDO Indicators for        Project Reports        (From PDO to
Objective                 Original Project        Original Project plus                           Program Purpose)
                                                  Additional
                                                 Financing

To improve capacity of    At least 60            At least 81               Stakeholder, customer, Municipalities are able
the Borrower to reduce    municipalities have    municipalities have       and beneficiary        to implement
its vulnerability to      participatedin         participatedin            surveys                municipal ordinances
natural disasters at the  vulnerability          vulnerability reduction                          including "preventive"
municipal level           reduction programs,    programs, (including      Project's MIS reports  planning
                          (including production  production of
                          of vulnerability maps, vulnerability maps,       Independent impact     Municipalities are able
                          and prioritization of  and prioritization of     evaluation report      to implement disaster
                          mitigation measures)   mitigation measures)                             mitigation measures
                                                 and, further, at least 60 IDA supervision
                          Prevention and         have introduced           reports                Adequate maintenance
                          mitigation themes      "preventive"                                      i s given to forecasting
                          mainstreamed into      municipal planning        Mid-term Review        and tracking
                          national primary       basedon the               (MTR)                  equipment
                          education curriculum   vulnerability reduction
                          by end of program.     programs into             Implementation         Forecasting
                                                 municipal                 Completion Report      information is
                          Speed of emergency     development               (ICR)                  adequately
                          responseamong          ordinances by end of                             disseminated
                          population intarget    additional financing
                          municipalities                                                          SINIT is financially
                          increases by 75% and   National Flood                                   sustainable
                          mistakes decreaseby    Forecasting System
                          50% as seen in         and community-based
                          simulation exercises   early warning systems
                          by end of project.     established under the
                                                 project functioning
                          National Flood         adequately by end of
                          Forecasting System     additional financing
                          functioning
                          adequately by end of   National Information
                          project.               Territorial System
                                                 (SINIT) fully
                          National building      operational for disaster
                          code revised to        risk -related
                          include seismic and    information.
                          wind hazardsby end
                          of program (Activities
                          supporting this
                          outcome were
                          canceled)

                                                        -16-



Component             Output Indicators       OutputIndicators,        Project Reports         (From Outputs to
                      Original Project        Additional Financing                             Objective)

4. Moniton'ng,        Diagnostic of           Hydro-meteorological     Project implementation  COPECO continues to
Forecasting,Early     hydrometeorological     network fully            reports                 coordinate well with
Warningand GIS-       network formulated      operational by end of                            municipalities
based Information     and most urgently       additional financing     Project-generated field
Vfanagement           neededequipment                                  reports, maps,          Maintenance funding
                      installed by end of                              assessments, etc.       for forecasting
                      project.                At least 8                                       equipment is adequate
                      Plans to mitigate       municipalities have      Reports from
                      impacts due to changes  adequate early warning   simulations in          Communities continue
                      influvial               systems for landslides   municipalities          to operate community-
                      geomorphology           by end of additional                             based early warning
                      finalized by end of     financing                IDA supervision         systems
                      project (The activity                            reports
                      supporting this output  Monitoring system for
                      was canceled)           droughts established in Mid-term Review
                                              at least 18              (MTR)
                      Data base (DIME)        municipalities by end
                      operational by end of   of additional financing  Implementation
                      project, including                               Completion Report
                      digital files of        Community-based          ((ICR)
                      vulnerability maps for  early warning systems
                      target municipalities.  established under the
                      (DIMEis now part of     Project are sustainable
                      the comprehensive       at the end of additional
                      territorial information financing
                      system - SINIT)

                      Community-based
                      early warning systems
                      functioning in at least
                      35 communities by end
                      of project.

B Strengtheningof     Diagnostic of           At least 75 Municipal    Project implementation  Training is continued
National Capacity to  emergency and           Disaster Emergency       reports                 over time
Support Emergency     communications          Committees
Response at the       equipment needs         (CODEMs) organized,      Project-generated field Emergency plans are
Municipal level       finalized.              equipped and trained     reports, maps, etc.     kept updated
                                              at the end of additional
                      Design of National      financing                Reports from            CODEMs maintain
                      Planfor Diaster                                  simulations             adequate level of
                      Awareness Raising       At least 75 municipal                            personnel and
                                              emergency plans are      IDA supervision         equipment
                      Program for disaster    prepared at the end of   reports
                      awarenessraising has    additional financing
                      taken place in 60                                Mid-term Review
                      municipalities.
                                                                       Implementation
                                                                       Completion Report
                                                                       (IW

                                                             -17-



                        OutputIndicators          OutputIndicators,         Project Reports         (From Outputs to
                        OriginalProject            Additional Financing                             Objective)

C BuiIding Capacity in  At least 60               At least 81               Project implementation  Municipalities continue
Disaster Mitigation at  municipalities have        municipalities have      reports                 to use vulnerability
the Municipal Level     prepared vulnerability     vulnerability analyses                           information
                        maps by end of project.    and priority mitigation  Project-generated field
                                                   measures identified at   reports, maps,          Mitigation measures are
                        At least 60                                         assessments, etc.       adequately maintained
                        municipalities have        end of additional

                        identified and prioritized financing                Reports from
                        disaster mitigation                                 simulations in
                        measures by the end of     At least 66              municipalities
                        project.                   municipalities have
                                                   engineering designs for  IDA supervision reports
                        At least 45                priority mitigation and
                        municipalities have        at least 53 have carried Mid-term Review
                        contracted consultants     out mitigation measures
                        for feasibility studies    at end of additional     Implementation
                        and engineering design     financing,               Completion Report
                        of mitigation works by                              (ICR)
                        end o f project.           At least 15
                                                   municipalities have
                                                   carried out drought
                                                   mitigation measures at
                                                   end of additional
                                                   financing




