Page  1
CONFORMED COPY 
 
CREDIT NUMBER 3361-1-HO 
 
Financing Agreement 
 
(Additional Financing for the Natural Disaster Mitigation Project) 
 
between 
 
REPUBLIC OF HONDURAS 
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
Dated August 9, 2007  
Page  2
FINANCING AGREEMENT 
Agreement dated August 9, 2007, entered into between REPUBLIC OF 
HONDURAS (the Recipient) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT 
ASSOCIATION (the Association) for the purpose of providing additional financing for 
activities related to the Original Project (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement).  
The Recipient and the Association hereby agree as follows: 
ARTICLE I 
—
GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS 
1.01. 
The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement) 
constitute an integral part of this Agreement. 
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this 
Agreement have the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in 
the Appendix to this Agreement.  
ARTICLE II — FINANCING 
2.01. 
The Association agrees to extend to the Recipient, on the terms and conditions 
set forth or referred to in this Agreement, a credit in an amount equivalent to five 
million nine hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 5,900,000) 
(referred to variously herein as Credit and Financing) to assist in financing the 
project described in Schedule 1 to this Agreement (Project). 
2.02. 
The Recipient may withdraw the proceeds of the Financing in accordance with 
Section IV of Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
2.03. 
The Maximum Commitment Charge Rate payable by the Recipient on the 
Unwithdrawn Financing Balance shall be one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per 
annum. 
2.04 
The Service Charge payable by the Recipient on the Withdrawn Credit Balance 
shall be equal to three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum. 
2.05. 
The Payment Dates are March 15 and September 15 in each year. 
2.06. 
The principal amount of the Credit shall be repaid in accordance with the 
repayment schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement. 
Page  3
-2-
2.07. 
The Payment Currency is United States Dollars. 
ARTICLE III 
—
PROJECT
 
3.01. 
The Recipient declares its commitment to the objective of the Project.  To this 
end, the Recipient shall cause the Project to be carried out by COPECO in 
accordance with the provisions of Article IV of the General Conditions. 
3.02. 
Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.01 of this Agreement, and 
except as the Recipient and the Association shall otherwise agree, the Recipient 
shall ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the provisions of 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
ARTICLE IV — REMEDIES OF THE ASSOCIATION
 
4.01. 
(a) 
The Additional Events of Suspension consist of the following: 
(i) 
COPECO shall have failed to comply with any of its obligations 
under the Subsidiary Agreement. 
(ii) 
FHIS or COPECO shall have failed to comply with any of their 
respective obligations under the FHIS-COPECO Agreement. 
(iii) 
COPECO or an Eligible Municipality shall have failed to comply 
with any of their respective obligations under a Subproject 
Agreement to which they are a party. 
(iv) 
Decree No. 9-90 or any provision thereof shall have been 
amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed, waived or not 
enforced in such a manner so as to materially and adversely 
affect, in the opinion of the Association, the ability of COPECO 
to carry out the Project. 
(v) 
The Recipient’s Decree No. 12-90 of February 22, 1990, as 
amended by the Recipient’s Decree No. 19-92 of April 22, 1992 
and the Recipient’s Ministerial Decree No. CM01-94 of January 
31, 1994, and the Recipient’s Decree Number 261-91 of April 2, 
1991, as amended by the Recipient’s Decree No. 153-94 of 
November 4, 1994 and the Recipient’s Decree No. 166-99 of 
November 12, 1999 or any provision thereof shall have been 
amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed, waived or not 
Page  4
-3-
enforced in such a manner as to materially and adversely affect, 
in the opinion of the Association, the ability of FHIS to assist the 
Recipient in the carrying out of Part C.4 of the Project. 
(b) 
Notwithstanding the rights contained in Section 6.02 of the General 
Conditions, it is understood that, if any of the events specified in Section 
(a) (iii) of this Section shall have occurred, the Association may, by 
notice to the Recipient, choose to suspend in whole or in part the right of 
the Recipient to make withdrawals from the Credit Account for 
expenditures solely in respect of the concerned Eligible Municipality. 
4.02. 
The Additional Events of Acceleration consist of the following: 
(a) 
Any event specified in paragraphs (a) (i) or (a) (ii) of Section 4.01 of this 
Agreement occurs and is continuing for a period of 60
 
days after notice 
of the event has been given by the Association to the Recipient. 
(b) 
Any event specified in paragraphs (a) (iv) or (a) (v) of Section 4.01 of 
this Agreement occurs. 
ARTICLE V 
—
EFFECTIVENESS; TERMINATION 
5.01. 
The Additional Conditions of Effectiveness consist of the following: 
(a) 
The Subsidiary Agreement has been executed on behalf of the Recipient 
and COPECO; and 
(b) 
The AF Operational Manual has been issued by the Recipient and found 
acceptable by the Association. 
5.02. 
The Additional Legal Matter consists of the following, namely that the 
Subsidiary Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified by the Recipient and 
COPECO and is legally binding upon the Recipient and COPECO in accordance 
with its terms. 
5.03. 
Without prejudice to the provisions of the General Conditions, the Effectiveness 
Deadline is the date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement, but in no 
case later than (18) months after the Association’s approval of the Credit which 
expire on December 21, 2008. 
Page  5
-4-
5.04. 
For purposes of Section 8.05 (b) of the General Conditions, the date on which the 
obligations of the Recipient under this Agreement (other than those providing for 
payment obligations) shall terminate is twenty years after the date of this 
Agreement. 
ARTICLE VI 
—
REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES
 
6.01. T
he
Recipient’s Representative is its Minister of Finance. 
6.02. 
The Recipient’s Address is: 
 
Secretaría de Estado en el Despacho de Finanzas 
 
Dirección General de Crédito Público 
 Avenida 
Cervantes 
 Tegucigalpa, 
M.D.C. 
 Honduras, 
C.A. 
 
Cable
:
Telex
:
Facsimile
:
HACIENDA 
 1308 
  (504) 
237-4142 
 
Tegucigalpa 
 
FINANZAS HO 
(504) 238-6995 
 
6.03. 
The Association’s Address is: 
 International 
Development 
Association 
 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
 
United States of America 
 
Cable
:
Telex
:
Facsimile
:
INDEVAS 
 248423 
(MCI) 
 1-202-477-6391 
 Washington, 
D.C. 
 
Page  6
-5-
AGREED at the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day 
and year first above written. 
 
REPUBLIC OF HONDURAS 
 
By /s/ Rebeca P. Santos 
 
Authorized Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
By /s/ Jane Armitage 
 
Authorized Representative 
 
Page  7
-6-
SCHEDULE 1 
Project Description
 
The objective of the Project is to improve the capacity of the Recipient to reduce 
its vulnerability to natural disasters at the municipal level. 
 
The Project consists of the following parts included in the Original Project, as 
amended below solely for purposes of the Financing: 
Part A
:
Monitoring, Forecasting, Early Warning and Geographical Information System-
based Information Management
1. 
Design and installation of an integrated national flood forecasting and decision 
support system, including: 
(a)  
design of: (i) a flood forecasting system; (ii) an operational computing 
and communication system; (iii) an operational response system; and (iv) 
a
geographical information system; 
(b)  
a study of financial sustainability options;  
(c)  
acquisition and installation of all necessary equipment; and  
(d)  
training of
 SERNA’s personnel in the operation and maintenance of said 
system. 
2. 
Improvement of national capacity to manage information related to droughts, 
through: 
(a) 
acquisition of necessary software; and 
(b) 
design and implementation of a capacity-building plan for drought 
response, to expand the geographic area already covered under the 
Original Project. 
3. 
(a) 
Supporting and updating the disaster risk information in the Recipient’s 
National Territorial Information System (SINIT, 
Sistema Nacional de 
Información Territorial
); and (b) training users (municipalities and 
agencies) in its use and maintenance. 
Page  8
-7-
4. 
Establishment of community-based flood early warning systems to complement 
the main hydrometeorological network in small river basins. 
5. 
Production of maps, through: (a) the development of biophysical, socio-
economic and perception data for each Eligible Municipality; and (b) the 
acquisition of satellite images of Eligible Municipalities. 
6. 
Carrying out of studies related to natural disaster mitigation and natural resources 
management, as approved by the Association. 
Part B
:
Strengthening of National Capacity to Support Emergency Response at the 
Municipal Level
1. 
Identification and acquisition of: (a) the equipment needed by cities, 
municipalities and volunteer groups for operations concerning immediate life-
saving search and rescue operations and protection of disaster victims; and (b) 
the equipment necessary for the establishment of a national emergency 
communications system.  
2. 
(a)  
Design and implementation of municipal emergency plans (not prepared 
under the Original Project) for Eligible Municipalities; and (b) update of 
municipal emergency plans (prepared under the Original Project) for Eligible 
Municipalities. 
Part C
:
Building Capacity in Disaster Mitigation at the Municipal Level
1. 
Development of a database on municipal vulnerability to natural disasters to 
provide information to the Honduran population, such information to be 
organized by topics, such as: risks of natural hazards, disaster preparedness, 
mitigation measures which have been identified and mitigation measures which 
have been implemented. 
2. 
Carrying out and supervision of a disaster risk analysis in each Eligible 
Municipality, such analysis to include, 
inter alia
:
(a) a risk assessment and 
vulnerability mapping; (b) the identification of areas at risk within the boundaries 
of said Eligible Municipalities; (c) the preparation of disaster preventive land use 
plans; and (d) the identification and prioritization of mitigation measures. 
3. 
Carrying out and supervision of feasibility and engineering studies and final 
designs of those mitigation measures referred to in Part C.2 (d) of the Project 
which meet the criteria set forth in the AF Operational Manual. 
Page  9
-8-
4. 
Carrying out and supervision of mitigation measure subprojects in Eligible 
Municipalities, such as: (a) retrofitting schools and hospitals; (b) identifying high 
risk areas and posting warnings or barriers to prevent unsuitable occupation or 
land use; (c) providing systems for identifying unsafe areas, escape routes and 
shelters, and equipping and fitting such shelters; (d) preventing settlements in 
unpopulated high risk areas through the creation of municipal public spaces, 
sport facilities, community gardens and similar programs in those areas; (e) 
controlling landslides and erosion through reforestation programs and/or the 
construction of retaining walls and terracing; (f) installation of waste water and 
storm water drainage systems in high density areas and roadways subject to 
erosion or flooding; (g) mitigating drought impacts through construction of 
community wells, water tanks and rain catchments; (h) improving watershed 
management; (i) removing sediment deposits originated in earlier disasters; and 
(j) carrying out protective works, reinforcing and retrofitting vital infrastructure 
(roads, bridges, cross walks and water supply and energy systems). 
Part D
:
Project Management
1. 
Supporting GAAEX to manage and monitor the financial and procurement 
aspects of the Project, including, but not limited to, the financing of audits 
required under Section II.B.3 of Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
2. 
Supporting COPECO (including the TCU) and other agencies referred to in the 
AF Operational Manual to manage and to monitor the implementation and 
technical aspects of the Project, as described in the AF Operational Manual. 
 
Page  10
-9-
SCHEDULE 2 
Project Execution 
Section I. 
Implementation Arrangements
A. Institutional 
Arrangements
 
1. 
(a) 
The Recipient shall cause COPECO to operate and maintain, within its 
organizational structure as described in the AF Operational Manual, 
throughout Project implementation, a unit for external aid (GAAEX) and 
a
technical coordination unit (the TCU), both with functions and 
responsibilities satisfactory to the Association. 
 
(b) 
The Recipient shall cause COPECO to ensure that GAAEX and the TCU 
are at all times during Project implementation headed jointly by a Project 
coordinator and assisted by staff in adequate numbers, all with 
qualifications and experience satisfactory to the Association.  The 
Recipient undertakes that, unless the Association may otherwise agree, 
the GAAEX and TCU coordinator and their respective staff shall only be 
hired based on professional criteria and shall only be replaced for reasons 
related to performance. 
B. Subsidiary 
Agreement
 
1. 
To facilitate the carrying out of the Project, the Recipient shall make the proceeds 
of the Financing available to COPECO under a subsidiary agreement (Subsidiary 
Agreement) between the Recipient and COPECO, under terms and conditions 
acceptable to the Association and adequate to protect the interests of the 
Recipient and those of the Association, which shall include: 
(a) 
the provision to COPECO of the funds, facilities, services and other 
resources required to enable COPECO to carry out the Project, including 
the transfer of the proceeds of the Financing on a grant basis; 
(b) 
the obligation of COPECO to:  (i) carry out the Project with due 
diligence and efficiency and in accordance with sound technical, 
economic, financial, managerial, environmental and social standards and 
practices satisfactory to the Association, including in accordance with the 
AF Operational Manual and the provisions of the Anti-Corruption 
Guidelines applicable to recipients of credit proceeds other than the 
Recipient; (ii) provide promptly as needed, any additional resources 
within its control required for the purpose; (iii) procure the goods, works 
and services to be financed out of the Credit in accordance with the 
provisions of this Agreement; (iv) prior to the carrying out of any 
Page  11
-10-
Subproject, enter into a Subproject Agreement with the respective 
Eligible Municipality, as provided in Section I.D.1 (b) of Schedule 2 to 
this Agreement; (v) maintain the GAAEX and the TCU throughout 
Project implementation, as provided in Section I.A.1 of Schedule 2 to 
this Agreement; (vi) maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable 
it to monitor and evaluate in accordance with indicators acceptable to the 
Association, the progress of the Project and the achievement of its 
objective; (vii) (A) maintain a financial management system and prepare 
financial statements in accordance with consistently applied accounting 
standards acceptable to the Association, both in a manner adequate to 
reflect the operations, resources and expenditures related to the Project; 
and (B) at the Association’s or the Recipient’s request, have such 
financial statements audited by independent auditors acceptable to the 
Association, and promptly furnish the statements as so audited to the 
Recipient and the Association; (viii) enable the Recipient and the 
Association to inspect the Project, its operation and relevant records and 
documents; and (ix) prepare and furnish to the Recipient and the 
Association all such information as the Recipient or the Association shall 
reasonably request relating to the foregoing; and 
(c) 
the right of the Recipient to suspend or terminate the right of COPECO 
to use the proceeds of the subsidiary financing, or obtain refund of all or 
any part of the amount of the subsidiary financing then withdrawn, upon 
COPECO’s failure to perform any of its obligations under the Subsidiary 
Agreement. 
2. 
The Recipient shall exercise its rights under the Subsidiary Agreement in such 
manner as to protect the interests of the Recipient and the Association and to 
accomplish the purposes of the Financing.  Except as the Association shall 
otherwise agree, the Recipient shall not assign, amend, abrogate, waive or fail to 
enforce the Subsidiary Agreement or any of its provisions
.
C. Operational 
Manual 
1. 
(a) 
The Recipient shall, and shall cause COPECO to, carry out the Project in 
accordance with an operational manual (the AF Operational Manual), 
satisfactory to the Association, said manual to include, 
inter alia
:
(i) 
the procedures for the carrying out, monitoring and evaluation of 
the Project (including the procurement, disbursement, financial 
management, social and environmental requirements thereof); 
(ii) 
the composition, functions and responsibilities of GAAEX and 
the TCU; 
Page  12
-11-
(iii) 
the criteria for selecting Eligible Municipalities; 
(iv) 
the criteria for the approval, implementation, monitoring and 
evaluation of Subprojects, including, 
inter alia
:
(A) the typology 
of potential Subprojects to be supported through the Credit as 
well as the “negative list” of ineligible activities; (B) the 
framework environmental management plan outlining 
procedures and institutional arrangements to ensure adequate 
screening of each Subproject, identification of potential impacts 
and necessary mitigation measures, implementation of 
environmental measures and monitoring during Subproject 
execution and operation; and (C) the amount of counterpart 
contribution, in cash or in kind required for each type of 
investment under a Subproject; 
(v) 
the procedures to be followed in the event that any “chance 
finds” of archeologically or culturally significant resources are 
encountered during construction; 
(vi) 
the EA and the IPPF; and 
(vii) 
the indicators for Project monitoring and evaluation (the 
Performance Indicators). 
 
(b) 
The AF Operational Manual may be amended from time to time with the 
prior approval of the Association.  In the case of any conflict between the 
terms of the AF Operational Manual and those of this Agreement, the 
terms of this Agreement shall prevail. 
D. Sub-projects 
 
1. 
For purposes of carrying out Part C.4 of the Project, the Recipient shall cause 
COPECO to: 
 
(a) 
prior to carrying out any activity under Part C.4 of the Project, enter into 
an agreement (the FHIS-COPECO Agreement) with FHIS, under terms 
and conditions satisfactory to the Association, which shall include, 
inter 
alia
,
the functions and responsibilities of FHIS under Part C.4 of the 
Project, including, but not limited to, environmental procedures and 
guidelines for Subprojects; 
 
(b) 
prior to carrying out each Subproject, enter into an agreement (a 
Subproject Agreement) with the respective Eligible Municipality, under 
terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association, which shall include, 
inter alia: 
Page  13
-12-
(i) 
the provision to the Eligible Municipality of the facilities, 
services and other resources required to enable the Eligible 
Municipality to participate in the respective Subproject; 
 
(ii) 
the obligation of the Eligible Municipality to:  (A) cooperate in 
the carrying out of the respective Subproject with due diligence 
and efficiency and in accordance with sound technical, 
economic, financial, managerial, environmental and social 
standards and practices satisfactory to the Association, including 
in accordance with the AF Operational Manual, the FHIS-
COPECO Agreement, and the provisions of the Anti-Corruption 
Guidelines applicable to recipients of credit proceeds other than 
the Recipient; (B) provide, promptly as needed, the resources 
required for the purpose, including without limitation the 
counterpart contribution required for each type of investment 
under a Subproject in the percentages set forth in the AF 
Operational Manual; (C) cooperate with COPECO to ensure that 
all goods, works and services to be financed out of the Credit are 
procured in accordance with the provisions of this Agreement; 
(D) maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to 
monitor and evaluate in accordance with indicators acceptable to 
the Association, the progress of the Subproject and the 
achievement of its objectives; (E) enable the Recipient, 
COPECO and the Association to inspect the Subproject, its 
operation and any relevant records and documents; and (F) 
prepare and furnish to the Recipient, COPECO and the 
Association all such information as the Recipient, COPECO or 
the Association shall reasonably request relating to the 
foregoing; and 
 
(iii) 
the right of COPECO to suspend or terminate the right of the 
Eligible Municipality to participate in the Subproject and/or to 
benefit from the proceeds of the Credit, upon the Eligible 
Municipality’s failure to perform any of its obligations under the 
respective Subproject Agreement; and 
 
(c) 
exercise its rights under the FHIS-COPECO Agreement and each 
Subproject Agreement in such manner as to protect the interests of the 
Recipient, COPECO, and the Association and to accomplish the 
purposes of the Credit, and, except as the Association shall otherwise 
agree, not to assign, amend, terminate, abrogate, waive or fail to enforce 
the FHIS-COPECO Agreement or any Subproject Agreement or any 
provision thereof. 
 
Page  14
-13-
E. Safeguards 
 
1. 
Without limitation to the provisions of Section I.C.1 (a) of Schedule 2 to this 
Agreement, the Recipient undertakes that, unless the Association shall otherwise 
agree: 
 
(a) 
Subprojects shall be promoted, identified, appraised, approved, carried 
out and monitored by COPECO, with the participation of FHIS (in 
accordance with the terms of the FHIS-COPECO Agreement) and the 
respective Eligible Municipality (in accordance with the terms of each 
Subproject Agreement), in accordance with the procedures set forth or 
referred to in the AF Operational Manual, including a clearance in 
writing issued by FHIS prior to the commencement of each Subproject, 
confirming that the Subproject is environmentally sound as determined 
by FHIS’ environmental screening of each Subproject proposal; 
 
(b) 
no physical or economic involuntary resettlement (as interpreted in 
accordance with the Association’s Operational Policy 4.12 (OP 4.12)) 
shall take place as a consequence of Project implementation, including 
the Subprojects; 
 
(c) 
no Subproject may involve any of the activities listed under Schedule 5 
of the Original Financing Agreement or in the “negative list” included in 
the AF Operational Manual; and 
 
(d) 
prior to the implementation of a Subproject in which the IPPF applies, it 
shall cause COPECO to: (i) carry out a social assessment and prepare 
and furnish to the Association for its approval, an indigenous peoples 
plan prepared in accordance with the IPPF; and (ii) thereafter, carry out 
such indigenous peoples plan in accordance with its terms. 
F. Anti-Corruption 
 
The Recipient shall ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the 
provisions of the Anti-Corruption Guidelines. 
 
Section II. 
Project Monitoring, Reporting and Evaluation 
A. Project 
Reports 
1. 
The Recipient shall monitor and evaluate the progress of the Project and prepare 
Project Reports in accordance with the provisions of Section 4.08 of the General 
Conditions and on the basis of the Performance Indicators.  Each Project Report 
shall cover the period of one calendar semester, and shall be furnished to the 
Page  15
-14-
Association not later than one month after the end of the period covered by such 
report.  
B. 
Financial Management, Financial Reports and Audits 
1. 
The Recipient shall maintain or cause to be maintained a financial management 
system in accordance with the provisions of Section 4.09 of the General 
Conditions. 
2. 
The Recipient shall prepare and furnish to the Association as part of the Project 
Report, interim unaudited financial reports for the Project covering the semester, 
in form and substance satisfactory to the Association. 
3. 
The Recipient shall have its Financial Statements audited in accordance with the 
provisions of Section 4.09 (b) of the General Conditions.  Each audit of the 
Financial Statements shall cover the period of one fiscal year of the Recipient.  
The audited Financial Statements for each such period shall be furnished to the 
Association not later than six months after the end of such period.
 
Section III. 
Procurement
A. General
1. 
Goods and Works and Non-Consultant Services.
 
(a) All 
goods, 
works
 and services (other than consultants’ services) required 
for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Financing 
shall be procured in accordance with the requirements set forth or 
referred to in Section I of the Procurement Guidelines, and with the 
provisions of this Section. 
 
(b) 
Without any limitations to any other provisions set forth in this Section 
or in the Procurement Guidelines, the following shall expressly govern 
the procurement of goods, works and services (other than consultant 
services) under this Section: 
 
(i) 
Contracts shall be awarded to the lowest evaluated bid in 
accordance with criteria set forth in the bidding documents, and 
without taking into account, in the evaluation, the financial cost 
of foreign exchange components. 
 
(ii) 
Foreign bidders shall not, as a condition for submitting bids, be 
required to: (A) be registered in the Recipient’s territory; (B) 
have a representative in the Recipient’s territory; (C) be 
associated with suppliers or contractors of the Recipient’s 
Page  16
-15-
territory; and (D) certify that, in their country of origin, suppliers 
or contractors of the Recipient
’s territory are allowed to 
participate in competitive bidding procedures under equal 
conditions with other bidders. 
 
(iii) 
Contracts shall not be divided for the sole purpose of reducing 
contract amounts. 
 
2. 
Consultants’ Services.
 
(a) 
All consultants’ services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Financing shall be procured in accordance with the 
requirements set forth or referred to in Sections I and IV of the 
Consultant Guidelines, and with the provisions of this Section. 
 
(b) 
Without limitation to any other provisions set forth in this Section or the 
Consultant Guidelines, the following shall expressly govern the 
procurement of consultants’ services under this Section: 
 
(i) 
foreign consultants shall be permitted to participate in the 
selection process even if there is availability of consultants of the 
Recipient’s territory for the services being procured; and 
 
(ii) 
foreign consultants shall not be required to be registered with 
associations of the Recipient’s territory or to be associated with 
consulting firms of the Recipient’s territory as a condition for 
participating in any selection process. 
 
3. Definitions.
 
The capitalized terms used below in this Section to describe 
particular procurement methods or methods of review by the Association of 
particular contracts, refer to the corresponding method described in the 
Procurement Guidelines, or Consultant Guidelines, as the case may be. 
B. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Goods, Works and Non-Consultant 
Services
1. 
International Competitive Bidding.  
Except as otherwise provided in paragraph 
2
below, goods, works and services (other than consultants’ services) shall be 
procured under contracts awarded on the basis of International Competitive 
Bidding. 
2. 
Other Methods of Procurement of Goods, Works and Non-Consultant 
Services.  
The following table specifies the methods of procurement, other than 
International Competitive Bidding, which may be used for goods, works and 
Page  17
-16-
services (other than consultants’ services).  The Procurement Plan shall specify 
the circumstances under which such methods may be used: 
Procurement Method
(a)  National Competitive Bidding 
(b)  Shopping 
C. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services
1. Quality- 
and 
Cost-based 
Selection.
 
Except as otherwise provided in paragraph 
2
below, consulta
nts’ services shall be procured under contracts awarded on the 
basis of Quality and Cost-based Selection.
 
2. 
Other Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services
.
The following table 
specifies methods of procurement, other than Quality and Cost-based Selection, 
which may be used for consultants’ services.  The Procurement Plan shall specify 
the circumstances under which such methods may be used. 
 
Procurement Method
 
(a)  Least Cost Selection 
(b)  Selection based on Consultants’ Qualifications 
(c)  Individual Consultants 
D. 
Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
The Procurement Plan shall set forth those contracts which shall be subject to the 
Association’s Prior Review.  All other contracts shall be subject to Post Review 
by the Association.
 
Section IV. 
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Financing
A. General 
1. 
The Recipient may withdraw the proceeds of the Financing in accordance with 
the provisions of Article II of the General Conditions, this Section, and such 
additional instructions as the Association shall specify by notice to the Recipient 
(including the World Bank Disbursement Guidelines for Projects dated May 
2006, as revised from time to time by the Association and as made applicable to 
this Agreement pursuant to such instructions), to finance Eligible Expenditures as 
set forth in the table in paragraph 2 below. 
Page  18
-17-
2. 
The following table specifies the categories of Eligible Expenditures that may be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Financing (Category), the allocations of the 
amounts of the Financing to each Category, and the percentage of expenditures to 
be financed for Eligible Expenditures in each Category: 
Category 
Amount of the 
Financing Allocated 
(expressed in SDR) 
Percentage of 
Expenditures to be 
Financed 
(1)  Goods, works, non-
consultant services, 
consultants’ services, 
Operating Costs and Training 
for Part A of the Project 
 
450,000
100%
(2)  Goods, works, non-
consultant services, 
consultants’ services, 
Operating Costs and Training 
for Part B of the Project 
 
550,000
100%
(3)  Goods, works, non-
consultant services, 
consultants’ services, 
Operating Costs and Training 
for Part C of the Project 
 
4,300,000 100% 
(4)  Consultants’ services, 
Training and Operating Costs 
for Part D of the Project 
 
600,000
100%
TOTAL AMOUNT 
 
5,900,000  
3. 
For the purposes of this Section: 
 
(a) 
the term “Training” means:  (i) reasonable travel, room, board and per 
diem expenditures incurred by trainers and trainees in connection with 
their training and by non-consultant training facilitators; (ii) course fees; 
(iii) training facility rentals; and (iv) training material preparation, 
acquisition, reproduction and distribution expenses not otherwise 
covered under this paragraph; and  
 
Page  19
-18-
(b) 
the term “Operating Costs” means the incremental expenses incurred on 
account of Project implementation, including office equipment and 
supplies, vehicle operation and maintenance, communication and 
insurance costs, office administration costs, utilities, travel, per diem and 
supervision costs, and salaries of locally contracted employees (none of 
which would have been incurred absent the Project). 
 
B. 
Withdrawal Conditions; Withdrawal Period 
1.
 
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part A of this Section, no withdrawal shall be 
made for payments made prior to the date of this Agreement.
 
2.
 
The Closing Date is September 30, 2010. 
Page  20
-19-
SCHEDULE 3
 
Repayment Schedule 
Date Payment Due 
Principal Amount of the 
Credit repayable 
(expressed as a 
percentage)* 
On each March 15 and September 15, commencing 
September 15, 2017 to and including March 15, 2027 
 
5% 
*
The percentages represent the percentage of the principal amount of the Credit to be 
repaid. 
Page  21
-20-
APPENDIX 
Section I. 
Definitions 
 
Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the Original 
Financing Agreement have the respective meaning therein set forth, and are hereby 
incorporated to this Agreement.  Additionally, the following definitions also constitute an 
integral part of this Agreement: 
1. 
“AF Operational Manual” means the Recipient’s operational manual for the 
implementation of the Project. 
2. 
“Anti-Corruption Guidelines” means the “Guidelines on Preventing and 
Combating Fraud and Corruption in Projects Financed by IBRD Loans and IDA 
Credits and Grants”, dated October 15, 2006. 
3. 
“Category” means a category set forth in the table in Section IV of Schedule 2 to 
this Agreement. 
4. 
“Consultant Guidelines” means the “Guidelines: Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers” published by the Bank in May 2004 and 
revised in October 2006. 
5. 
“Environmental Assessment” or “EA” means the Recipient’s environmental 
assessment for the Project dated May 3, 2007, as may be amended from time to 
time with the prior approval of the Association. 
6. 
“FHIS-COPECO Agreement” means the Agreement referred to in Section I.D.1. 
(a) of Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
7. “GAAEX” 
means 
Grupo de Apoyo a la Asistencia Externa, 
the unit for external 
aid referred to in Section I.A.1 (a) of Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
8. 
“General Conditions” means the “International Development Association 
General Conditions for Credits and Grants”, dated July 1, 2005 (as amended 
through October 15, 2006), with the modifications set forth in Section II of this 
Appendix. 
9. 
“IPPF” means the Recipient’s indigenous people’s planning framework for the 
Project dated May 3, 2007, as may be amended from time to time with the prior 
approval of the Association. 
10. 
“Original Financing Agreement” means the development credit agreement for a 
Natural Disaster Mitigation Project between the Recipient and the Association, 
Page  22
-21-
dated August 29, 2000 as amended to the date of this Agreement (Credit No. 
3361-HO). 
11. 
“Original Project” means the Project described in the Original Financing 
Agreement. 
12. 
“Performance Indicators” means the indicators for Project monitoring and 
evaluation set forth in the AF Operational Manual. 
13. 
“Procurement Guidelines” means the “Guidelines: Procurement under IBRD 
Loans and IDA Credits” published by the Bank in May 2004 and revised in 
October, 2006. 
14. 
“Procurement Plan” means the Recipient’s procurement plan for the Project, 
dated May 15, 2007 and referred to in paragraph 1.16 of the Procurement 
Guidelines and paragraph 1.24 of the Consultant Guidelines, as the same shall be 
updated from time to time in accordance with the provisions of said paragraphs. 
15. 
“Subproject Agreement” means each of the agreements referred to in Section 
I.D.1 (b) of Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
16. 
“Subsidiary Agreement” means the agreement referred to in Section I.B of 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement pursuant to which the Recipient shall make the 
proceeds of the Financing available to COPECO. 
17. 
“TCU” means the technical coordination unit referred to in Section I.A.1 (a) of 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
Section II.   
Modifications to the General Conditions 
The modifications to the General Conditions for Credits and Grants of the Association, 
dated July 1, 2005 (as amended through October 15, 2006) are as follows:   
1. 
Paragraph (b) of Section 3.03 is hereby deleted in its entirety.
 
