                     Honduras-NaturalDisasterMitigationProject
                                      (Credit3361-HO)
                     ProposedAmendment to the CreditAgreement

 1. This proposal seeks the Executive Directors' approval to amend the Credit
Agreement for the Honduras Natural Disaster Mitigation Project (Credit 3361-HO). The
Republic of Honduras has requested this Amendment be made to reflect significant
factors that affected the course of the project implementation and will have an impact on
the overall project outcome.

2.    First,it hasbecome evident that increasingthe capacity of EligibleMunicipalities is
not sufficient to guarantee the sustainability of programs for emergency preparedness or
the implementation of action plans for mitigation. For this reason it is important that the
Borrower's national capacity to prevent, mitigate and respond to natural disasters be
institutionalizedand strengthened, so local (and national) programs can be managed on a
permanent basis.     Second, at appraisal, the Project focused on technical assistance
through development of risk assessments and disaster mitigation action plans, but didnot
include any financing for mitigation measures (structural or non-structural) beyond the
preparation of engineering designs and feasibility studies for civil works needed for
disaster mitigation. The Borrower requested a review of the Project andor initiation of a
follow-on project to include financing of mitigation measures after the first two years of
Project execution. As a consequence of Hurricane Mitch normal rains cause regular
flooding and landslides resulting in damage to homes, property and loss of life; therefore
financing for mitigation subprojects should be considered at this point of Project
implementation. Third, even though the performance of the implementing agencies
concerned i s satisfactory, a change in Project administration i s seen as necessary for
improving Project management and coordination, and institutionalizing project
development objectives. The Borrower has recently expanded the role of Secretaria de
Gobemacidn y Justicia (SGJ) to oversee decentralization (a key goal of the present
administration). According to a Presidential decree of November, 2002, ratifiedby a law
published on September 4, 2003, two new departments have been assigned to the SGJ,
those of Citizen Participation and Land Management, respectively. The latter includes the
Office of Disaster Management, among others.           Involvement of the SGJ and its
subsidiary departments and offices in the Project i s seen as a means to promote cross-
sectoral collaboration, to capitalize upon thematic synergies, and, above all, to sustain the
development objectives of the Project.        In particular, the new Office of Disaster
Management within the SGJ will develop and institutionalize a National System for
Attention, Prevention andMitigation of Natural Disasters which would be responsible for
coordinating national and local efforts in disaster response and risk management.
Accordingly, the Borrower has proposed that the Project be ascribed to SGJ, which
would house the Project's Technical CoordinatingUnit (TCU) while the Minister of SGJ
would preside over the inter-institutional coordination group (GIC).

3.   Conditions for presentation of the amendment to the Board have been met by the
Borrower, including: (i) presentation of an executive decree establishing the TCU in the
SGJ; (ii) execution of an inter-institutional agreement between the Borrower (through

 SGJ, Ministry of Finance (Secretaria de Estado en el Despacho de Finanzas or SEFIN),
 and the Ministry of Environment (Secretaria de Estado en el Despacho de Recursos
 Naturales y del Medio Ambiente, or SERNA)), the National Commission for Emergency
 Response (Comisibn Permanente de Contingencias, or COPECO) and the National
 Association of Municipalities (Asociacidn de Municipios de Honduras, or AMHON); and
 (iii)revision of the Project operations manual, to the satisfaction of the Association,
 detailing new implementation arrangements and responsibilities, and the scope and
 estimated costs of new activities through the end of the Project.

 4.    An extension of the closing date i s required to ensure completion of Project
 implementation and demonstrate continued support for the Project development
 objectives. This includes the implementation of needed mitigation measures identified
 through local risk analyses. During the Mid-Term Review (June, 2003) it became
 evident that the project objectives are achievable, but Project activities would not be
 finishedby the current closingdate due to a slow implementationduringthe beginningof
 the project and the changes on the TCU. Given the merit of the Project's objectives and
 activities underway, and based on a revised procurement plan, the Borrower has
 requested an extension of the closing date until January 2, 2007. The Borrower has also
 submitted to the Association a satisfactory action plan and schedule to complete the
 project within the proposed extension period.


                                PARTI:BACKGROUND

 5.    The 3361-HO Development Credit Agreement (DCA) for the Natural Disaster
Mitigation Project, hereinafter referred to as the "Project", was signed on August 29,
2000 and became effective on February 2, 2001. The closing date of the Credit is April
 15, 2005. The objective of the Project is to improve the capacity of Eligible
Municipalities (as defined in the DCA) to reduce their vulnerability to natural disasters.
These improvements will be reflected in (a) strengthening institutional capability in
disaster prevention, mitigation and response; (b) enhancing technical capacity to gather,
share and disseminate knowledge concerning natural disasters; and (c) building local
capacity to assess hazards and vulnerability levels, to identify mitigation measures, andto
prepare for and respond to emergency situations.

6.    Although the Project got off to a successful start during its first 18 months, now
after nearly two and half years of operation, or 50% of the project implementation period,
the Credit has only disbursed around SDR 3.08 million out of a total SDR 8.1 million.
Implementation has stagnated notably in the last 12 months. N o new contracts have been
signed, and for this reason disbursement i s not expected to revive, at least in the near
future. Management problems have been identified as the root cause for slow Project
implementation.      At present, the Project is administered by a committee via GIC
composed of the Minister of Finance (head of the Borrower's SEFIN), the Minister of
Environment (head of the Borrower's SERNA), the Commissioner of the National
Commission for Emergency Response (head of the COPECO), and the President of the
National Association of Municipalities (head of the AMHON).                The Office for

 Supervision of External Projects in the Office of the President of the Borrower has been
 tracking the Project and has determined that management by committee has led to
 difficulties. The reorganization of the GIC under a single, strong agency i s therefore
 recommended.

 7.    Component A: Monitoring, Forecasting. Early            Waming and Geographic
Information      System   (GIs)-based    Information      Management.    During     project
 implementation, drought management has become increasingly important in Honduras.
 Currently, more than half of the country i s suffering from a severe drought. In line with
 the Project's expanded development objectives, the Borrower has proposed to expand the
 activities related to floods with activities to build drought management capacity,
including information management and local capacity buildingindrought response.

 8.    Component B: Strengthening of National Capacity to Support Emergency Response
 at Municipal Level. At appraisal, the Borrower proposed to review and reinforce building
codes under the Project, given the failures of many structures during floods and
landslides after Mitch, and a component to deal with building codes was included in the
Project. Subsequently, COPECO has entered into a dialogue with the Borrower's
National College of Engineers which has agreed to undertake the revamping of the
Borrower's National BuildingCode. At the same time, the need for a National System of
Disaster Mitigation and Prevention has become clear to the Borrower, to complement
COPECO's capacity for emergency response. For this reason COPECO and the Borrower
have proposed to add a component to the Project which will support the design and
puttinginto place of a national system for disaster mitigation, prevention andresponse.

9.     Component C: Building Capacity in Disaster Mitigation at the Local Govemment
Level. At appraisal, the Project focused on technical assistance through development of
risk assessments and disaster mitigation action plans, but did not include any financing
for mitigation measures (structural or non-structural) beyond the preparation of
engineering designs and feasibility studies for civil works needed for disaster mitigation.
Duringnegotiations, the Borrower expressed concern that no financing was included for
execution of mitigation measures and requested a review of the Project andor initiation
of a follow-on project after the first two years of Project implementation. As the mid-
term review signaled, the municipalities where vulnerability assessments have been
carried out (the most vulnerable in Honduras), are still suffering after-effects of
Hurricane Mitch.     Topographic changes wreaked by the hurricane have meant that
normal rains cause regular flooding and landslides resulting in damage to homes,
property and loss of life. For this reason, the Borrower has requested that financing for
mitigation subprojects be included inthe Project.

10. ComponentD: Project Management. Financial management of the project has been
found to be satisfactory under the management of External Assistance Supporting Group
(Grupo de Apoyo a la Asistencia Extema, or GAAEX), an office created for the purpose
within SEFIN, representing the first such project management by a national agency
(without support from international donors).      Project monitoring reports (PMRs) and
quarterly reports have all been submitted in a timely way and found to be satisfactory.

 N o audit reports are outstanding for the project. With the growth of SGJ and the TCU,
 however, and in consideration of SEFIN's role to focus on monetary and financial issues,
 to the exclusion of Project administration, the Borrower has moved GAAEX out of
 SEFIN and into the SGJ's TCU. The newly renamed "GAAEX-TCU" continues to
 provide financial and procurement administration services for the Project. Underthe new
 arrangement GAAEX i s thus able to provide similar services for other IDA projects
 managed by the TCU.

 11. The Borrower has requested that its obligation to submit PMRs be replacedwith an
 obligation to submit financial monitoring reports (FMRs),         in accordance with the
Association's current policies. Also to bring the documentation into line with Project
practice, disbursements will be transaction-based (as opposed to report-based) in all
cases.

 12. The creation of a new category of expenditure and a reallocation of funds among
expenditures categories i s necessary to reflect the proposed changes to the Project
description. The inclusion of a method of procurement for small works i s also neededfor
practical reasons.

 13.  Neither the Credit in particular, nor the Borrower i s subject to an ongoing
suspension of disbursements.


                        PART11: PROPOSEDAMENDMENT

14. In order to reflect the necessary changes requested by the Borrower, the following
amendments to the D C A would be needed:

Expansion of Project Objectives
15. The Project's objective would be modified to include improvement of the national
capacity of the Borrower to reduce its vulnerability to natural disasters at the municipal
level, notjust the capacity of Eligible Municipalities, as originally envisioned.

Modification of Project Component A
16. The contents of sub-component A.2 would be modified to include drought
management instead of the studies of the changes in fluvial geomorphology caused by
Hurricane Mitch that were originally planned. Activities to be financed include capacity
building for improved information management related to droughts, including purchase
of needed software, and the design and implementation of a capacity building plan for
drought response. Also, sub-component A.6 would be deleted, as it would be includedin
the new activities under Component D.

Modification of Project Sub-component B.7
17. Instead of carrying out a review of the Borrower's draft building code, the Project
would support the creation of a national system for disaster risk management, prevention
and response.

Addition of Project Sub-componentC.4
 18. A new sub-component C.4 will be added to include the financing of small scale
mitigation subprojects in Eligible Municipalities, such as retrofitting schools and
hospitals; identifying high risk areas and posting warnings or barriers to prevent
unsuitable occupation; providing a system for identifying refuges, unsafe areas and
escape routes; preventing settlements in unpopulated high risk areas through the creation
of parks and sport facilities in those areas; controlling landslides and erosion through
reforestation programs and the construction of retaining walls and terracing; installation
of waste water and storm water drainage systems in high density areas and roadways
subject to erosion or flooding; removing sediment deposits originated in earlier disasters;
and carrying out protective works, reinforcing and retrofitting vital infrastructure (roads,
bridges, cross walks and water supply and energy systems).

 19. Subprojects will be promoted, identified, appraised, approved, carried out and
monitoredby the Borrower (through SGJ and SEFIN), with the participation of AHMON,
the Borrower's Social Investment Fund(Fondo Hondureiio de Znversidn Social or FHIS),
and the respective Eligible Municipality, in accordance with the procedures set forth or
referred to in the Operational Manual, including a clearance in writing issued by FHIS,
prior to commencement of each Subproject, confirming that the Subproject i s
environmentally sound as determined by FHIS' environmental screening of each
Subproject proposal.

20. No physical or economic involuntary resettlement (as interpreted in accordance
with the Association's Operational Policy 4.12 (OP 4.12)) will take place as a
consequence of execution of the Subprojects; no Subproject may involve any of the
activities listed under Schedule 5 Subprojects Negative List to the DCA; and if any
Subproject affects indigenous people, the Borrower, with the cooperation of FHIS, will
ensure that such people shall be allowed to have informedparticipation with regard to the
design and implementation of such Subproject, participate systematically in the
monitoring and evaluation thereof and, in general, derive benefits from such Subproject.

ModiJication of Project Component D
21.   The scope of Component D - Project Management, currently focused on GAAEX,
would be expanded to include the strengthening of the institutional and operational
capacity of SGJ to manage and to monitor the implementation and technical aspects of
the Project.

New arrangementsfor project administration and implementation
22.  The Project will be ascribed to SGJ. Accordingly, SGJ will preside over the GIC
and will be responsible for the TCU. Part A of the Project would be carried out through
SERNA and SGJ; Part B would be carried out through SGJ with the participation of
COPECO; Part C would be carried out by SGJ with the participation of AMHON, FHIS
and Eligible Municipalities; and Part Dwould be carried out by SGJ.

The changefrom PMRs to FMRs with transaction-baseddisbursements
23.  The obligation of the Borrower to submit PMRs will bereplaced with the obligation
to submit FMRs. Disbursements will only be transaction-based.

Reallocation of Funds Among Existing Expenditures Categories
24. It is necessaryto create a new category of disbursement and reallocate funds among
disbursement categories to adjust to the changes inthe Project description.

Inclusion of a Method of Procurementfor Small Works
25. For practical reasons, it i s necessary to include a method of procurement for small
works which are estimated to cost less than US$75,000 equivalent per contract, up to an
aggregate amount of US$915,000 equivalent.

Extension of ClosingDate
26.  Based upon a revised project implementation schedule and procurement plan, the
Project would be expected to be completed by July 2, 2006, and the Closing Date in the
D C A would be extended to January 2,2007.

27.  A copy of the draft Letter of Amendment to the Borrower is available upon request.

                                     Secretariat of Finance
                                    Republic of Honduras


Tegucigalpa, 10May, 2004                                       0.GAAEX 0184-2004


Madame
Jane Armitage
Country Director for Central America
World Bank


                                   Ref; CREDIT 3361-HO
                     NATURAL DISASTER MITIGATIONPROJECT


The general objective of the project and four years of initial execution i s to enhance the
capacity of eligible Municipalities to reduce their vulnerability to natural disasters
institutionalized and strengthened through the Ministry of Environment (Secretaria de
Estado en el Despacho de Recursos Naturales y del Medio Ambiente, or SERNA), the
National Commision of Emergency Response (Comision Permanente de Contigencias, or
COPECO) AND THEnational Association of Municipalities (Asociacion de Municipios
de Honduras, or AMHON) identified as masters of natural disasters theme and as capable
of share and disseminate knowledge concerning natural disasters.

Duringproject appraisal, the projectfocused on technical assistance through the
development of risk assessments and disaster mitigation action plans, but didnot include
any financing for mitigation measures (structural or non-structural) beyond the
preparation of engineering design and feasibility studies for civil works neededfor
disaster mitigation. Inconsequence, we expressed concern that no financing was included
for execution of mitigation measure and requested a review of the project and/or
initiation of a follow-on project after the first two years of project implementation
pointedout on the strengthening of three major purposes:

     1) to promotepositiveconditions for the effective institutionalizationof processes
        and systems which have been established under the Natural Disaster Mitigation
        Project (NDMP), assuring the due an appropriate adoption of the same by the
        respective institutions of the Central Government, of Local Governments and of
        the Communities due to benefit from their actions;
    2) to carry out specific studies leading to the identification of mechanisms and
        instruments which guarantee the sustainability both technical and financial of the
        investments made under NDMPinthree basic areas; (i)        the national hydro and
        meteorologicalnetwork; (ii)   the operations of the National Weather Forecasting

        Center; and (iii) continuedand ongoing functions of the National Systemof
                         the
        RiskManagement
    3) to bringto completion the cycle of activities for municipal strengthening inthe
        area of risk management, incorporatingunder NDMP not only the management of
        subprojects dedicated to investments inthe structural mitigation measures to
        control floods and to stabilized land

Inaccordance with Executive Order No. 1492, issuedon August 29,2003, andpublished
inthe OfficialDiary on the 22 of October, 2003, one of the fundamental objectives of the
NDMP i s the design and implementationof a National System for the Risk Management
and Prevention, which would be constituted as a framework to regulate interventions by
the Central andby Local Governments inthe areaof riskpreventionand responseto
emergencies caused by natural disasters inHonduras, having been assigned to the
Secretary of Government andJustice (SGJ) intwo new departments: Citizen participation
and Land management (including supervision of decentralization as a priority goal of the
present administration.)

Inconsequence, the NDMPhasbeenassignedto the SGJ, with the Ministerassuming the
role of Coordinator of the Inter-institutional Coordinating Group (ICG), with the
Technical Coordinating Unit (TCU) similarly established within SGJ along with the
Support Group For External Assistance (GAAEX), in line with the need for a change in
Project management inorder to improve its overall administration andinternal
coordination with the purpose of institutionalizingthe development objectives, a revision
which leads to the formulation of laws, regulations, standards and instruments at national
level.

Takmg into consideration that during the Mid-Term Review (June, 2003) it became
evident that the project objectives could not be achieved by the current closing date due
to a slow implementation during the beginning of the project and the changes of the TCU.
Given the merit of the Project's objectives and activities underway, andbased on a
revisedprocurement plan, the Minister has requested an extension of the closing date
untilJanuary 2,2007 which permitsusto continue our support of the revisedproject
objectives. The Ministry has also submitted to the Association a satisfactory action plan
and schedule to complete the project within the periodrequested, including the
implementation of the mitigation measures identified through the risk analyses carried
out inthe respective municipalities.

With no other issues pending, Iampleasedto use this occasion to sendpersonal greetings
and to reconfirmmy consideration and esteem,


Arturo Alvarado Sanchez

Minister of Finance

