Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 3361-HO
Development Credit Agreement
(Natural Disaster Mitigation Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF HONDURAS
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated August 29, 2000
CREDIT NUMBER 3361-HO
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated August 29, 2000, between REPUBLIC OF HONDURAS (the 
Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association).
WHEREAS the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility 
and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, 
has requested the Association to assist in the financing of the Project; 
and
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of 
the foregoing, to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the terms and 
conditions set forth in this Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The “General Conditions Applicable to Development 
Credit Agreements” of the Association, dated January 1, 1985 (as amended 
through October 6, 1999) (the General Conditions), constitute an integral 
Page  2
part of this Agreement. 
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several 
terms defined in the General Conditions have the respective meanings 
therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings:
(a)
“AMHON” means Asociación de Municipios de Honduras, the 
Honduran Association of Municipalities, a legal entity established 
pursuant to Executive Resolution No. 16-1962;
(b)
“AMHON Agreement” means the agreement referred to in Section 
3.04 (a) (ii) of this Agreement;
(c)
“BCH” means Banco Central de Honduras, the Borrower’s 
Central Bank;
(d)
“COPECO” means Comision Permanente de Contingencias, the 
Borrower’s Permanent Commission on Contingencies, a legal entity 
established pursuant to Decree 9-90 to coordinate the efforts of the 
public and private sectors in the prevention, planning, management and 
execution of, inter alia, emergency assistance and rescue of the 
population affected by natural phenomena;
(e)
“COPECO Agreement” means the agreement referred to in 
Section 3.04 (a) (i) of this Agreement;
(f)
“Decree No. 9-90” means the Borrower’s Decreto No. 9-90 of 
December 12, 1990 which established COPECO, and such term also includes 
the regulations to such Decree, as such Decree and regulations have been 
amended to the date of this Agreement;
(g)
“Eligible Categories” means categories (1) through (4) set 
forth in the table in Part A.1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(h)
“Eligible Expenditures” means the expenditures for goods, 
works and services referred to in Section 2.02 of this Agreement; 
(i)    “Eligible Municipality” means a political subdivision of the 
Borrower located in a geographical area subject to floods and landslides 
which has been selected by the Borrower to participate in the Project in 
accordance with the criteria set forth in the Operational Manual;
(j)    “Executive Resolution No. 16-1962” means the Borrower’s 
Resolución No. 16 of April 11, 1962 which established AMHON, as such 
Executive Resolution has been amended to the date of this Agreement; 
(k)
“GAAEX” means Grupo de Apoyo a la Asistencia Externa, the 
unit referred to in Section 3.06 (a) of this Agreement; 
(l)
“Hurricane Mitch” means the natural phenomenon which caused 
heavy rains in Central America between October 25, 1998 and November 1, 
1998;
(m)
“Implementation Letter” means the letter of even date 
herewith from the Borrower to the Association which sets forth the 
Project indicators and the draft building code referred to in Part B.7 of 
the Project; 
(n)
“Operational Manual” means the manual referred to in Section 
Page  3
3.03 (a) of this Agreement;
(o)
“Project Management Report” means each report prepared in 
accordance with Section 4.02 of this Agreement;
(p)
“SEFIN” means Secretaría de Estado en el Despacho de 
Finanzas, the Borrower’s Secretariat of Finance;
(q)
“SERNA” means Secretaría de Estado en el Despacho de 
Recursos Naturales y del Ambiente, the Borrower’s Secretariat of Natural 
Resources and the Environment;
(r)
“Special Account” means the account referred to in Part B of 
Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(s)
“TCU” means the unit referred to in Section 3.07 (a) of this 
Agreement; and
(t)
“UNAH” means Universidad Nacional Autónoma de Honduras, the 
Borrower’s National Autonomous University of Honduras.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on 
the terms and conditions set forth or referred to in the Development 
Credit Agreement, an amount in various currencies equivalent to eight 
million one hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 8,100,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the 
Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement for expenditures made (or, if the Association shall so agree, 
to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods, works and 
services required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds 
of the Credit.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be April 15, 2005 or such 
later date as the Association shall establish. The Association shall 
promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a 
commitment charge on the principal amount of the Credit not withdrawn 
from time to time at a rate to be set by the Association as of June 30 of 
each year, but not to exceed the rate of one-half of one percent (1/2 of 
1%) per annum.
(b)
The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date sixty 
days after the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to the 
respective dates on which amounts shall be withdrawn by the Borrower from 
the Credit Account or canceled; and (ii) at the rate set as of the June 
30 immediately preceding the accrual date and at such other rates as may 
be set from time to time thereafter pursuant to paragraph (a) above. The 
rate set as of June 30 in each year shall be applied from the next date 
in that year specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
(c)
The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as 
the Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of 
any kind imposed by, or in the territory of, the Borrower; and (iii) in 
the currency specified in this Agreement for the purposes of Section 4.02 
of the General Conditions or in such other eligible currency or 
currencies as may from time to time be designated or selected pursuant to 
Page  4
the provisions of that Section.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service 
charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum 
on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time 
to time.
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be 
payable semiannually on April 15 and October 15 in each year.
Section 2.07. (a)  Subject to paragraphs (b), (c) and (d) below, 
the Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Credit in semiannual 
installments payable on each April 15 and October 15 commencing on 
October 15, 2010 and ending on April 15, 2040. Each installment to and 
including the installment payable on April 15, 2020 shall be one percent 
(1%) of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter shall be 
two percent (2%) of such principal amount. 
(b)
Whenever: (i) the Borrower’s per capita gross national 
product (GNP), as determined by the Association, shall have exceeded for 
three consecutive years  the level established annually by the 
Association for determining eligibility to access the Association’s 
resources; and (ii) the Bank shall consider the Borrower creditworthy for 
Bank lending, the Association may, subsequent to the review and approval 
thereof by the Executive Directors of the Association and after due 
consideration by them of the development of the Borrower’s economy, 
modify the repayment of installments under paragraph (a) above by: (A) 
requiring the Borrower to repay twice the amount of each such installment 
not yet due until the principal amount of the Credit shall have been 
repaid; and (B) requiring the Borrower to commence repayment of the 
principal amount of the Credit as of the first semiannual payment date 
referred to in paragraph (a) above falling six months or more after the 
date on which the Association notifies the Borrower that the events set 
out in this paragraph (b) have occurred, provided, however, that there 
shall be a grace period of a minimum of five years on such repayment of 
principal.
(c)
If so requested by the Borrower, the Association may revise 
the modification referred to in paragraph (b) above to include, in lieu 
of some or all of  the increase in the amounts of such installments, the 
payment of interest at an annual rate agreed with the Association on the 
principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to 
time, provided that, in the judgment of the Association, such revision 
shall not change the grant element obtained under the above-mentioned 
repayment modification.
(d)
If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant to 
paragraph (b) above, the Association determines that the Borrower’s 
economic condition has deteriorated significantly, the Association may, 
if so requested by the Borrower, further modify the terms of repayment to 
conform to the schedule of installments as provided in paragraph (a) 
above.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is 
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General 
Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. The Borrower declares its commitment to the 
Page  5
objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, 
and, to this end, shall carry out: (a) Part A of the Project through 
GAAEX and the TCU with the participation of SERNA; (b) Part B of the 
Project through GAAEX and the TCU with the participation of COPECO (in 
accordance with the provisions of the COPECO Agreement); (c) Part C of 
the Project through GAAEX and the TCU with the participation of AMHON (in 
accordance with the provisions of the AMHON Agreement); and (d) Part D of 
the Project through GAAEX, all with due diligence and efficiency and in 
conformity with appropriate administrative, technical, financial, 
engineering and environmental practices, and shall provide, promptly as 
needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources required for 
the Project.
Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, 
procurement of the goods, works and consultants’ services required for 
the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit shall be 
governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
Section 3.03. (a) The Borrower shall carry out the Project in 
accordance with an operational manual, satisfactory to the Association, 
said manual to include, inter alia: (i) the disbursement and procurement 
procedures to be followed under the Project; (ii) the terms of reference 
for consultants’ services to be carried out during the first year of 
Project implementation; (iii) the criteria for selecting Eligible 
Municipalities; (iv) the criteria for selecting the trainers and 
stakeholders under Part B.5 of the Project; and (v) the Project’s 
implementation plan. 
(b)
In case of any conflict between the terms of the Operational 
Manual and those of this Agreement, the terms of this Agreement shall 
prevail.
Section 3.04. (a) For purposes of carrying out: (i) Part B of the 
Project, the Borrower shall enter into an agreement (the COPECO 
Agreement) with COPECO under terms and conditions satisfactory to the 
Association, which shall include, inter alia, the functions and 
responsibilities of COPECO under said Part of the Project; and (ii) Part 
C of the Project, the Borrower shall enter into an agreement (the AMHON 
Agreement) with AMHON under terms and conditions satisfactory to the 
Association, which shall include, inter alia, the functions and 
responsibilities of AMHON under said Part of the Project.
(b)
The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the AMHON 
Agreement and the COPECO Agreement in such manner as to protect the 
interests of the Borrower and the Association and to accomplish the 
purposes of the Credit, and, except as the Association shall otherwise 
agree, the Borrower shall not assign, amend, terminate, abrogate, waive 
or fail to enforce the AMHON Agreement or the COPECO Agreement or any 
provision thereof.
Section 3.05. For the purposes of Section 9.06 of the General 
Conditions and without limitation thereto, the Borrower shall:
(a)
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the 
Association, and furnish to the Association not later than six (6) months 
after the Closing Date or such later date as may be agreed for this 
purpose between the Borrower and the Association, a plan designed to 
ensure the sustainability of the Project; and
(b)
afford the Association a reasonable opportunity to exchange 
views with the Borrower on said plan.
Section 3.06. (a) The Borrower shall operate and maintain within 
Page  6
SEFIN, during the implementation of the Project, a unit for external aid 
(GAAEX) with functions and responsibilities satisfactory to the 
Association. 
(b)
The Borrower shall ensure that GAAEX is at all times during 
the implementation of the Project headed by a coordinator and assisted by 
staff in adequate numbers, all with qualifications and experience 
satisfactory to the Association.  
Section 3.07. (a) The Borrower shall establish, and thereafter 
operate and maintain within SERNA during Project implementation, a 
technical coordination unit (the TCU), with functions and 
responsibilities satisfactory to the Association. 
(b)
The Borrower shall ensure that the TCU is at all times 
during the implementation of the Project, headed by a coordinator and 
assisted by staff in adequate numbers, all with qualifications and 
experience satisfactory to the Association.
Section 3.08. The Borrower shall:
(a)
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to 
monitor and evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with the 
indicators set forth in the Implementation Letter, the carrying out of 
the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof;
(b)
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the 
Association, and furnish to the Association not later than January 31, 
April 30, July 31 and October 31 of each year of Project implementation, 
starting with the report due not later than January 31, 2001, a report 
integrating the results of the monitoring and evaluation activities 
performed pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section, on the progress 
achieved in the carrying out of the Project during the calendar quarter 
preceding the date of said report and setting out the measures 
recommended to ensure the efficient carrying out of the Project and the 
achievement of the objectives thereof during the period following such 
date; and
(c)
review with the Association, by not later than sixteen 
months after the Effective Date, or such later date as the Association 
shall request, the pertinent reports referred to in paragraph (b) of this 
Section, and, thereafter, take all measures required to ensure the 
efficient completion of the Project and the achievement of the objectives 
thereof, based on the conclusions and recommendations of the said reports 
and the Association’s views on the matter. 
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall establish within GAAEX and 
thereafter maintain a financial management system, including records and 
accounts, and prepare financial statements in a format acceptable to the 
Association, adequate to reflect the operations, resources and 
expenditures related to the Project.
(b)
The Borrower shall:
(i)
have the records, accounts and financial statements 
referred to in paragraph 
(a) of this Section and the 
records and accounts for the Special Account for
each fiscal year audited, in accordance with auditing standards 
Page  7
acceptable to 
the Association, consistently applied, 
by independent auditors acceptable to 
the Association;
(ii)
furnish to the Association as soon as available, but 
in any case not later 
than six months after the 
end of each such year: (A) certified copies of the 
financial statements referred to in paragraph (a) of this Section 
for such 
year as so audited; and (B) an opinion 
on such statements, records and 
accounts and report 
of such audit, by said auditors, of such scope and in such 
detail as the Association shall have reasonably requested; 
and
(iii)
furnish to the Association such other information 
concerning such records and 
accounts, and the audit 
thereof, and concerning said auditors, as the 
Association may from time to time reasonably request.
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from 
the Credit Account were made on the basis of  Project Management Reports 
or statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall:
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance 
with paragraph (a) of this 
Section, records and 
separate accounts reflecting such expenditures;
(ii)
retain, until at least one year after the Association 
has received the audit 
report for the fiscal year in 
which the last withdrawal from the Credit 
Account was made, all records (contracts, orders, invoices, bills, 
receipts 
and other documents) evidencing such 
expenditures;
(iii)
enable the Association’s representatives to examine 
such records; and
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in 
the annual audit 
referred to in paragraph (b) of 
this Section and that the report of such audit 
contains a separate opinion by said auditors as to whether the 
Project 
Management Reports or statements of 
expenditure submitted during such fiscal 
year, 
together with the procedures and internal controls involved in their 
preparation, can be relied upon to support the 
related withdrawals.
Section 4.02. (a) Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 
4.01 of this Agreement, the Borrower shall carry out a time-bound action 
plan acceptable to the Association for the strengthening of the financial 
management system referred to in paragraph (a) of said Section 4.01 in 
order to enable the Borrower, not later than six months after the 
Effective Date, or such later date as the Association shall agree, to 
prepare quarterly Project management reports, acceptable to the 
Association, each of which:
(i) 
(A) sets forth actual sources and applications of 
funds for the Project, both 
cumulatively and for the 
period covered by said report, and projected sources 
and applications of funds for the Project for the six-month period 
following 
the period covered by said report; and (B) 
shows separately expenditures 
financed out of the 
proceeds of the Credit during the period covered by said 
report and expenditures proposed to be financed out of the 
Page  8
proceeds of the 
Credit during the six-month 
period following the period covered by said 
report;
(ii)
(A) describes physical progress in Project 
implementation, both cumulatively 
and for the period 
covered by said report; and (B) explains variances between 
the actual and previously forecast implementation targets; 
and
(iii)  sets forth the status of procurement under the 
Project and expenditures under 
contracts financed out of 
the proceeds of the Credit, as at the end of the 
period covered by said report.
(b)
Upon the completion of the action plan referred to in 
paragraph (a) of this Section, the Borrower shall prepare, in accordance 
with guidelines acceptable to the Association, and furnish to the 
Association not later than February 15, May 15, August 15 and November 15 
of each year of Project implementation, a Project Management Report for 
each calendar quarter ending on December 31, March 31, June 30 and 
September 30.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Association
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (l) of the General 
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:
(a)
AMHON shall have failed to comply with any of its 
obligations under the AMHON Agreement.
(b)
COPECO shall have failed to comply with any of its 
obligations under the COPECO  Agreement.
(c)
Decree No. 9-90 or any provision thereof shall have been 
amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed, waived or not enforced in such a 
manner so as to materially and adversely affect, in the opinion of the 
Association, the ability of COPECO to assist the Borrower in the carrying 
out of Part B of the Project.
(d)
Executive Resolution No. 16-1962 or any provision thereof 
shall have been amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed, waived or not 
enforced in such a manner so as to materially and adversely affect, in 
the opinion of the Association, the ability of AMHON to assist the 
Borrower in the carrying out of Part C of the Project.
Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (h) of the General 
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:
(a)
the events specified in paragraphs (a) or (b) of Section 
5.01 of this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a period of 
sixty days after notice thereof shall have been given by the Association 
to the Borrower; and
(b)
any of the events specified in paragraphs (c) or (d) of 
Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall occur.
ARTICLE VI
Page  9
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional 
conditions to the effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement 
within the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of the General Conditions:
(a)
the AMHON Agreement has been executed on behalf of the 
Borrower and AMHON;
(b)
the COPECO  Agreement has been executed on behalf of the 
Borrower and COPECO;
(c)
a financial management system, satisfactory to the 
Association, has been established as provided in Section 4.01 (a) of this 
Agreement; 
(d)
the TCU has been established and staffed as provided in 
Section 3.07 of this Agreement; and
(e)
the Operational Manual has been approved by the Association.
Section 6.02. The date November 27, 2000 is hereby specified for 
the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
Section 6.03. The obligations of the Borrower under Articles III 
and IV of this Agreement shall cease and determine on the date on which 
the Development Credit Agreement shall terminate or on the date twenty 
years after the date of this Agreement, whichever shall be the earlier.
ARTICLE VII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Secretary of SEFIN is designated as 
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the 
General Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the 
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Secretaría de Estado en el Despacho de Finanzas
Direccion General de Credito Publico
Avenida Cervantes
Tegucigalpa, M.D.C.
Honduras, C.A.
Cable address:
Telex:
Facsimile:
HACIENDA
1308
(504) 
237-4142
Tegucigalpa
FINANZAS HO
(504) 
238-6995
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
Page  10
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
Facsimile:
INDEVAS
248423 (MCI) or
(202) 
477-6391
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly 
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in 
their respective names in Tegucigalpa, Honduras, as of the day and year 
first above written.
REPUBLIC OF HONDURAS
By /s/ Gabriela Nuñez de Reyes
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ Joseph Owen
Resident Representative
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
A.
General
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed 
out of the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the amounts of the 
Credit to each Category and the percentage of expenditures for items so 
to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated
% of Expenditures
Category
(Expressed in SDR Equivalent)
  to be Financed
(1)
Works 
   630,000
100% of foreign
expenditures and 
86% of local 
expenditures
(2)
Goods
        1,100,000
100% of foreign
expenditures and 
86% of local 
expenditures
(3)
Consultants’
        4,940,000
100% of foreign
services
expenditures and 
86% of local 
expenditures
(4)
Training
   710,000
100%
Page  11
(5)
Unallocated                   720,000
 TOTAL
       8,100,000
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule: 
(a)
the term “foreign expenditures” means expenditures in the 
currency of any country other than that of the Borrower for goods or 
services supplied from the territory of any country other than that of 
the Borrower; 
(b)
the term “local expenditures” means expenditures in the 
currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of the Borrower;  and
(c)
the term “Training” means expenditures (other than those for 
Consultants’ services) incurred by the Borrower in connection with the 
training activities under the Project, including the travel cost and 
per-diem of trainers and trainees and rental of training facilities. 
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals 
shall be made in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the 
date of this Agreement, except that withdrawals, in an aggregate amount 
not exceeding the equivalent of SDR 270,000, may be made in respect of 
Categories (2) through (4) set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of this 
Part A on account of payments made for expenditures before that date but 
after May 1, 2000.
4.
The Association may require withdrawals from the Credit Account to 
be made on the basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures under: 
(a) contracts for goods costing $150,000 equivalent or less each with the 
exception of the first two contracts for goods to be procured under Part 
C.1 of Section I of Schedule 3 to this Agreement; (b) contracts for the 
employment of consulting firms costing less than  $100,000 equivalent 
each; (c) contracts for the employment of individual consultants costing 
less than $50,000 equivalent each; and (d) Training as set forth in 
Category (4) of the table in paragraph 1 of this Part A, all under such 
terms and conditions as the Association shall specify by notice to the 
Borrower.
B.
Special Account
1.
The Borrower shall open and maintain in Dollars a separate special 
deposit account in BCH, on terms and conditions satisfactory to the 
Association.
 2.
After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it that 
the Special Account has been opened, withdrawals from the Credit Account 
of amounts to be deposited into the Special Account shall be made as 
follows:
(a)
until the Association shall have received: (i) the first 
Project Management Report referred to in Section 4.02 (b) of this 
Agreement; and (ii) a request from the Borrower for withdrawal on the 
basis of Project Management Reports, withdrawals shall be made in 
accordance with the provisions of Annex A to this Schedule 1; and
(b)
upon receipt by the Association of a Project Management 
Report pursuant to Section 4.02 (b) of this Agreement, accompanied by a 
request from the Borrower for withdrawal on the basis of Project 
Management Reports, all further withdrawals shall be made in accordance 
Page  12
with the provisions of Annex B to this Schedule 1.
3.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for 
Eligible Expenditures.  For each payment made by the Borrower out of the 
Special Account, the Borrower shall, at such time as the Association 
shall reasonably request, furnish to the Association such documents and 
other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for 
Eligible Expenditures.
4.
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part B.2 of this Schedule, the 
Association shall not be required to make further deposits into the 
Special Account:
(a)
if the Association determines at any time that any Project 
Management Report does not adequately provide the information required 
pursuant to Section 4.02 of this Agreement;
(b)
if the Association determines at any time that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Credit 
Account; or
(c)
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the 
Association within the period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) 
of this Agreement, any of the audit reports required to be furnished to 
the Association pursuant to said Section in respect of the audit of: (A) 
the records and accounts for the Special Account; or (B) the records and 
accounts reflecting expenditures with respect to which withdrawals were 
made on the basis of Project Management Reports.
5.
The Association shall not be required to make further deposits into 
the Special Account in accordance with the provisions of Part B.2 of this 
Schedule if, at any time, the Association shall have notified the 
Borrower of its intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the 
Borrower to make withdrawals from the Credit Account pursuant to Section 
6.02 of the General Conditions. Upon such notification, the Association 
shall determine, in its sole discretion, whether further deposits into 
the Special Account may be made and what procedures should be followed 
for making such deposits, and shall notify the Borrower of its 
determination.
6.
(a) If the Association determines at any time that any payment out 
of the Special Account was made for an expenditure which is not an 
Eligible Expenditure, or was not justified by the evidence furnished to 
the Association, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the 
Association, provide such additional evidence as the Association may 
request, or deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Association 
shall so request, refund to the Association) an amount equal to the 
amount of such payment. Unless the Association shall otherwise agree, no 
further deposit by the Association into the Special Account shall be made 
until the Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit or 
refund, as the case may be.
(b)
If the Association determines at any time that any amount 
outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to cover payments 
for Eligible Expenditures during the six-month period following such 
determination, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the 
Association, refund to the Association such outstanding amount.
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund to 
the Association all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special 
Account.
Page  13
(d)
Refunds to the Association made pursuant to sub-paragraph 
(a), (b) or (c) of this paragraph 6 shall be credited to the Credit 
Account for subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation in accordance with 
the provisions of the Development Credit Agreement.
Annex A to SCHEDULE 1
Operation of Special Account When Withdrawals Are 
Not Made On the Basis of Project Management Reports
1.
For the purposes of this Annex:
(a)
the term “Authorized Allocation” means an amount equivalent 
to $800,000 to be withdrawn from the Credit Account and deposited into 
the Special Account pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Annex; provided, 
however, that, unless the Association shall otherwise agree, the 
Authorized Allocation shall be limited to an amount equivalent to 
$400,000 until the aggregate amount of withdrawals from the Credit 
Account, plus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments 
entered into by the Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General 
Conditions shall equal or exceed the equivalent of SDR 1,120,000.
2.
Withdrawals of the Special Account’s Authorized Allocation and 
subsequent withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as 
follows:
(a)
For withdrawals of the Special Account’s Authorized 
Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish to the Association a request or 
requests for deposit into the Special Account of an amount or amounts 
which in the aggregate do not exceed the Authorized Allocation. On the 
basis of each such request, the Association shall, on behalf of the 
Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit into the Special 
Account such amount as the Borrower shall have requested.
(b)
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the Association requests for deposit into the Special Account 
at such intervals as the Association shall specify. Prior to or at the 
time of each such request, the Borrower shall furnish to the Association 
the documents and other evidence required pursuant to Part B.3 of 
Schedule 1 to this Agreement for the payment or payments in respect of 
which replenishment is requested. On the basis of each such request, the 
Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit 
Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount as the Borrower 
shall have requested and as shall have been shown by said documents and 
other evidence to have been paid out of the Special Account for Eligible 
Expenditures. Each such deposit into the Special Account shall be 
withdrawn by the Association from the Credit Account under one or more of 
the Special Account’s Eligible Categories.
3.
The Association shall not be required to make further deposits into 
the Special Account, once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit 
allocated to said Special Account’s Eligible Categories minus the total 
amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into by the 
Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions in respect 
of expenditures to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit 
allocated to said Categories, shall equal the equivalent of twice the 
amount of the Special Account’s Authorized Allocation. Thereafter, 
withdrawal from the Credit Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of 
the Credit allocated to said Categories shall follow such procedures as 
the Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower.  Such further 
withdrawals shall be made only after and to the extent that the 
Association shall have been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on 
deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such notice will be 
Page  14
utilized in making payments for Eligible Expenditures.
Annex B to SCHEDULE 1
Operation of Special Account When Withdrawals Are 
Made On the Basis of Project Management Reports
1.
Except as the Association may otherwise specify by notice to the 
Borrower, all withdrawals from the Credit Account shall be deposited by 
the Association into the Special Account in accordance with the 
provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement. Each such deposit into the 
Special Account shall be withdrawn by the Association from the Credit 
Account under one or more of the Special Account’s Eligible Categories.
2.
Each application for withdrawal from the Credit Account for deposit 
into the Special Account shall be supported by a Project Management 
Report.
3.
Upon receipt of each application for withdrawal of an amount of the 
Credit, the Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from 
the Credit Account and deposit into the Special Account an amount equal 
to the lesser of: (a) the amount so requested; and (b) the amount which 
the Association has determined, based on the Project Management Report 
accompanying said application, is required to be deposited in order to 
finance Eligible Expenditures during the six-month period following the 
date of such report; provided, however, that the amount so deposited, 
when added to the amount indicated by said Project Management Report to 
be remaining in the Special Account, shall not exceed the equivalent of 
$2,120,000.  
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objective of the Project is to improve the capacity of Eligible 
Municipalities to reduce their vulnerability to natural disasters.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such 
modifications thereof as the Borrower and the Association may agree upon 
from time to time to achieve such objectives:
Part A:
Monitoring, Forecasting, Early Warning and Geographical 
Information System-based 
Information Management
1.
Design and installation of an integrated national flood forecasting 
and decision support system, including:
(a) 
design of: (i) a flood forecasting system; (ii) an 
operational computing and communication system; (iii) an operational 
response system; and (iv) a geographical information system;
(b) 
a study of financial sustainability options; 
(c) 
acquisition and installation of all necessary equipment; and 
(d) 
training of SERNA’s personnel in the operation and 
Page  15
maintenance of said system.
2.
Carrying out of a study of the changes in fluvial geomorphology 
caused by Hurricane Mitch in the basin of the Choluteca River for 
purposes of, inter alia: (a) understanding current geomorphic conditions; 
(b) assessing imminent hazards, such as flooding and associated 
landslides, channel erosion and deposition of sediment associated with 
changes in geomorphic conditions; and (c) facilitating the identification 
of effective mitigation measures.
3.
Development and installation of a database management system and a 
geographical information system for the purpose of establishing a 
national databank which will provide detailed information on 
environmental conditions and potential risks of floods and landslides, 
and the provision of training in the use of those systems.
4.
Establishment of  community-based flood early warning systems to 
complement the main hydrometeorological network in small river basins, 
through: (a) the identification of sites for the establishment of said 
systems; (b) the organization of  communities benefited by the 
establishment of said systems to ensure local ownership and 
sustainability of said systems; and (c) the acquisition and utilization 
of goods and the provision of training required therefor.
5.
Production of maps, through: (a) the development of  biophysical, 
socio-economic and perception data for each Eligible Municipality; and 
(b) the carrying out of aerial photography of about 500 square kilometers 
of areas to be designated by the Eligible Municipalities in accordance 
with criteria acceptable to the Association.
6.
Strengthening of the operational capacity of the TCU to manage and 
monitor the technical aspects of the Project.
7.
Carrying out of studies related to natural disaster mitigation and 
natural resources management, as approved by the Association.
Part B:
Strengthening of National Capacity to Support Emergency 
Response at the Municipal 
Level
1.
Identification of: (a) the equipment needed by cities, 
municipalities and volunteer groups for operations concerning immediate 
life-saving search and rescue operations and protection of disaster 
victims; and (b) the equipment necessary for the establishment of a 
national emergency communications system. 
2.
Design of a national disaster awareness campaign, through the 
carrying out of: (a)  a comparative evaluation of various alternatives 
methods for introducing disaster awareness into the national curriculum 
for primary, secondary and tertiary education; (b) an anthropological 
study of social communication in Honduras with respect  to disaster 
awareness; and (c) an assessment of the media’s capacity to inform the 
population with respect to disaster awareness.
3.
Carrying out of the disaster awareness campaign referred to in Part 
B.2 above in each Eligible Municipality. 
4.
Design and implementation of a training program for municipal 
emergency response in each Eligible Municipality, said program to 
include, inter alia: (a) the organization of emergency response units; 
and (b) the provision of training in emergency search and rescue, 
emergency first aid, emergency communications, management of emergency 
Page  16
shelters and community early warning systems.
5.
Carrying out of a training program for trainers and stakeholders 
(selected by the Borrower in accordance with criteria acceptable to the 
Association) in local risk management, said program to include, inter 
alia, the preparation of didactic materials on participatory risk 
analysis, hazard mapping and vulnerability reduction options.
6.
Design and implementation of a system to manage information on 
emergency assistance, in particular to monitor the municipalities’ 
emergency needs and the national and foreign donations in response to 
said needs.
7.
Carrying out of a review of the draft building code set forth in 
the Implementation Letter, including but not limited to: (a) the carrying 
out of an analysis of the technical requirements for construction in 
disaster prone areas; (b) the carrying out of a legal and administrative 
analysis of the topics addressed by such code; (c) the revision of 
seismic maps; and (d) the organization of seminars, workshops and other 
activities to promote understanding and support among the population for 
the approval of such code.
8.
Improvement of the national capacity to monitor and mitigate 
seismic risk through, inter alia: (a) the monitoring of seismic regions 
in Honduras for a period of about three months; (b) the evaluation of the 
Honduran seismic monitoring system; (c) the evaluation of the existing 
installations of the Seismology Center of UNAH; (d) the design of an 
adequate national seismic network, said design to be based on the results 
of the evaluations mentioned in paragraphs (b) and (c) above; and (e) the 
development of a plan for the operation and maintenance of the seismic 
network mentioned in paragraph (d) above. 
Part C:
Building Capacity in Disaster Mitigation at the Municipal 
Level 
1.
Development of a database on municipal vulnerability to natural 
disasters to provide information to the Honduran population, said 
information to be organized  by the municipalities by topics, such as: 
risks of natural hazards, disaster preparedness, mitigation measures 
which have been identified and mitigation measures which have been 
implemented.
2.
Carrying out of a disaster risk analysis in each Eligible 
Municipality, said analysis to include, inter alia: (a) a risk assessment 
and vulnerability mapping; (b) the identification of areas at risk within 
the boundaries of said Eligible Municipalities; (c) the preparation of 
disaster preventive land use plans; and (d) the identification and 
prioritization of mitigation measures.
3.
Carrying out, if appropriate, of feasibility and engineering 
studies and final designs of those mitigation measures referred to in 
Part C.2 (d) of the Project which meet the criteria set forth in the 
Operational Manual.
Part D:
Project Management
Strengthening of the operational capacity of GAAEX to manage and 
monitor the financial and procurement aspects of  the Project.
* * *
The Project is expected to be completed by October 31, 2004.
Page  17
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement and Consultants’ Services
Section I.
Procurement of Good and Works
Part A:
General
Goods and works shall be procured in accordance with: (a) the 
provisions of Section I of the “Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD 
Loans and IDA Credits” published by the Bank in January 1995 and revised 
in January and August 1996, September 1997 and January 1999 (the 
Guidelines); and (b) the provisions of the following Parts of this 
Section I.
Part B:
International Competitive Bidding
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods and 
works shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the 
provisions of Section II of the Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 
thereto.
2.
The following provisions shall apply to goods to be procured under 
contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of 
this Part B.
(a)
Preference for domestically manufactured goods
The provisions of paragraphs 2.54 and 2.55 of the Guidelines and 
Appendix 2 thereto shall apply to goods manufactured in the territory of 
the Borrower.
Part C:
Other Procurement Procedures 
1.
National Competitive Bidding
Goods estimated to cost $150,000 equivalent or less per contract, 
up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $500,000 equivalent may be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the Guidelines.
2.
Shopping
Goods estimated to cost $25,000 equivalent or less per contract, up 
to an aggregate amount not to exceed $500,000 equivalent, may be procured 
under contracts awarded on the basis of international or national 
shopping procedures, at the option of the Borrower, in accordance with 
the provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines.
Part D:
Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
1.
Procurement Planning
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to bid for contracts, the 
proposed procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to the 
Association for its review and approval, in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines. Procurement of 
all goods and works shall be undertaken in accordance with such 
procurement plan as shall have been approved by the Association, and with 
Page  18
the provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
With respect to: (a) each contract for works and goods to be 
procured under Part B of this Section; and (b) the first two contracts 
for goods to be procured under Part C.1 of this Section, the procedures 
set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall 
apply.
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this 
Part, the procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the 
Guidelines shall apply.
Section II.
Employment of Consultants
Part A:
General
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with: (a) the 
provisions of the Introduction and Section IV of the “Guidelines:  
Selection and Employment of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers” 
published by the Association in January 1997 and revised in September 
1997 and January 1999, subject to the modifications thereto set forth in 
paragraph 2 of this Part A (the Consultant Guidelines); and (b) the 
provisions of the following Parts of this Section II.
Part B:
Quality- and Cost-based Selection
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, 
consultants’ services shall be procured under contracts awarded in 
accordance with the provisions of Section II of the Consultant 
Guidelines, paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 thereto, and 
the provisions of paragraphs 3.13 through 3.18 thereof applicable to 
quality- and cost-based selection of consultants.
Part C:
Other Procedures for the Selection of Consultants 
1.
Least-cost Selection
Consultants’ services for the Project estimated to cost less than 
$200,000 equivalent per contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed 
$300,000, may be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.6 of the Consultant Guidelines.
2.
Selection Based on Consultants’ Qualifications
Consultants’ services for the Project estimated to cost less than 
$100,000 equivalent per contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed 
$1,000,000, may be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with 
the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.7 of the Consultant Guidelines.
3.
Individual Consultants
Consultants’ services for the Project which meet the requirements 
set forth in paragraph 5.1 of the Consultant Guidelines shall be procured 
under contracts awarded to individual consultants in accordance with the 
Page  19
provisions of paragraphs 5.1 through 5.3 of the Consultant Guidelines.
Part D:
Review by the Association of the Selection of Consultants
1.
Selection Planning
Prior to the issuance to consultants of any requests for proposals, 
the proposed plan for the selection of consultants under the Project 
shall be furnished to the Association for its review and approval, in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the 
Consultant Guidelines.  Selection of all consultants’ services shall be 
undertaken in accordance with such selection plan as shall have been 
approved by the Association, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
(a)
With respect to each contract for the employment of 
consulting estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more, the 
procedures set forth in paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the third 
subparagraph of paragraph 2 (a)) and 5 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant 
Guidelines shall apply.
(b)
With respect to each contract for the employment of 
consulting firms estimated to cost the equivalent of less than $100,000, 
the terms of reference and short list of the consulting firms shall be 
furnished to the Association for its prior review and approval.  The 
contract shall be awarded only after the said approval shall have been 
given.
(c)
With respect to each contract for the employment of 
individual consultants estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or 
more, the qualifications, experience, terms of reference and terms of 
employment of the consultants shall be furnished to the Association for 
its prior review and approval.  The contract shall be awarded only after 
the said approval shall have been given.
(d)
With respect to each contract for the employment of 
individual consultants estimated to cost the equivalent of less than 
$50,000, terms of reference shall be furnished to the Association for its 
prior review and approval.  The contract shall be awarded only after the 
said approval shall have been given.
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this 
Part, the procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the 
Consultant Guidelines shall apply.
Section III.
Special Provisions 
1.
In addition and without limitation to any other provisions set 
forth in this Schedule or the Guidelines, the following principles and 
rules of procurement shall expressly govern all procurement of goods 
referred to in Part C.1 of  Section I of this Schedule:
(a)
Contracts shall be awarded to the lowest evaluated bid in 
accordance with criteria set forth in the bidding documents, and without 
taking into account, in the evaluation, the financial cost of foreign 
exchange components.
(b)
Foreign bidders shall not, as a condition for submitting 
Page  20
bids, be required to: 
(i)
be registered in Honduras;
(ii)
have a representative in Honduras;
(iii)
be associated with Honduran suppliers or contractors; 
and
(iv)
certify that, in their country of origin, Honduran 
suppliers or contractors 
are allowed to participate in 
competitive bidding procedures under equal 
conditions with other bidders.
(c)
Contracts shall not be divided for the sole purpose of 
reducing contract amounts.
2.
In addition and without limitation to any other provisions set 
forth in this Schedule or the Consultants’ Guidelines, the following 
principles of procurement shall expressly govern all procurement of 
consultants' services referred to in Sections II of this Schedule:
(a)
Foreign consultants shall be permitted to participate in the 
selection process even if there is availability of Honduran consultants 
for the services being procured.
(b)
Foreign consultants shall not be required to be registered 
with Honduran associations or to be associated with Honduran consulting 
firms as a condition for participating in any selection process.
Section IV.
Internal Approvals
1.
With respect to the procurement of goods and works to be financed 
out of the proceeds of the Credit, any approval of bidding documents and 
contracts required under the laws of the Borrower shall be given only by 
GAAEX.
2.
With respect to the employment of consultants, any approval of 
contracts or of consultant selection processes required under the laws of 
the Borrower, shall be given only by GAAEX.
