                                                                                                             94051
A Pioneering Approach to Building Disaster Risk Management Capacity
                                                                                                         April 16, 2012




 Saving Lives in High-Risk Communities in Honduras


Overview
Through the Natural Disaster Mitigation Project, Honduras – one of the most vulnerable
countries in the world – has substantially built disaster risk management capacity from the local
to the central level through an innovative and participatory approach. The project supported the
implementation of disaster risk management (DRM) programs across 81 of the country's most
vulnerable municipalities (about a third of total municipalities), benefiting approximately five
million people. At the same time, the project helped to improve national capacity for early
warning, monitoring, and the forecasting of disaster events, particularly floods.


Challenge
Honduras' growth and poverty reduction efforts have been
                                                                     More Results
hindered by natural disasters. In addition to its location in the
path of hurricanes and tropical storms, the country's

                                                                     18
vulnerability has been intensified by environmental
degradation, rapid population growth, inadequate
infrastructure, and high poverty levels. In 1998, Hurricane
Mitch – considered the worst disaster experienced by the             municipalities adopted a
                                                                     monitoring system for droughts
country in recent times – highlighted to the government and
its development partners several urgent priorities. These
included the need to move from a reactive to a pro-active

                                                                     6,000
approach to disaster risk, and from an over-centralized, weak
national system to building capacity and strong partnerships
at the local level.
                                                                     people were actively engaged in
                                                                     local emergency committees

Approach
The project was part of the World Bank’s post-Mitch strategy
for Honduras, focusing on disaster risk management capacity
building from the central to the local level in order to reduce
overall vulnerability. At the national level, the project worked
                                                                     500,000
                                                                     people benefited from the
to consolidate the legal and institutional DRM framework and         completion of structural
                                                                     mitigation measures in 58
to foster a culture of prevention. It also sought to improve         municipalities
forecasting capacity, disaster risk knowledge, and the
dissemination of information and early warnings.
Simultaneously, the project supported DRM programs at the
local level by relying on an innovative, participatory              LEARN MORE
methodology that included completion of risk and vulnerability
                                                                    Project Details :
analyses, emergency response plans, municipal risk
                                                                    COPECO. June 2011. "Informe
management plans and municipal territorial development              Final de Implementación – Proyecto
plans. It also identified and prioritized small structural and      de Mitigación de Desastres
non-structural mitigation measures and provided financing of        Naturales."
selected works.                                                   The World Bank. June 2011.
                                                                  Implementation Completion and
                                                                  Results Report (ICR) for the Natural
Results                                                           Disaster Mitigation Project. Report
                                                                  no. ICR00000089.
The Honduras project helped to improve national capacity for
                                                                     General disaster risk
disaster risk management and to reduce local disaster
                                                                     management in Honduras
vulnerability in participating municipalities. Specific results
include:                                                             General information on the
                                                                     Project

       The legal and institutional framework for DRM was
       improved through the preparation and passage of the
       2009 SINAGER Law that established a formal DRM
       system for Honduras. The new law also led to the
       strengthening of key agencies such as the Disaster Preparedness and Response
       Agency (COPECO) and the Ministry of Environment (SERNA), and the implementation
       of a disaster awareness campaign. All these activities have helped to promote a culture
       of disaster prevention in the country.

       National capacity for hydro-meteorological and geophysical monitoring, and for
       flood forecasting was improved. Steps taken included the consolidation of the original
       old and small-scale flood early warning system, covering four of the main watersheds in
       the country that were destroyed during Hurricane Mitch; the adoption of early warning
       systems for landslides in eight municipalities; the adoption of a monitoring system for
       droughts in 18 municipalities; the establishment of community-based early warning
       systems in seven municipalities; and production of detailed geospatial information.

       Local vulnerability was reduced through the establishment of 95 municipal disaster
       emergency committees and 375 local emergency committees that actively engaged a
       total of 6,000 people. The project also aided in the completion of participatory DRM
       programs in 81 municipalities, and the preparation of engineering designs for priority
       structural and non-structural mitigation measures in 61 municipalities. It also helped with
       the completion of structural mitigation measures in 58 municipalities, benefiting more
       than 500,000 people. Finally, the project also helped undertake drought mitigation
       measures in eight municipalities.



Bank Contribution
The total cost of the project, including additional financing, was US$22 million, of which IDA
financed 94 percent or US$19.9 million, and the Borrower US$2.2 million.


Partners
The Honduras Natural Disaster Mitigation Project was complemented by a series of grants. A
grant of nearly US$2.0 million came from the Japan Social Development Fund, which made it
possible to add a DRM program for vulnerable neighborhoods in Tegucigalpa, the country’s
capital city.  In addition, specialized technical assistance was provided through two Bank-
executed trust funds (from the Bank-Netherlands Water Partnership Program) totaling over
US$1.1 million, and two Country-executed Japan Policy and Human Resources Development
Fund (PHRD) grants from the Government of Japan totaling US$821,000.


Moving Forward
This project helped to establish a solid basis for DRM in Honduras. Focus on disaster risk
reduction will continue through regional initiatives, such as the development of the Central
American Probabilistic Risk Assessment (CAPRA) platform, as well as specific country efforts
financed by other agencies and potentially the Bank. These include the ongoing Disaster Risk
Prevention and Mitigation Project (US$19 million), financed by the Inter- American
Development Bank.
Beneficiaries
The country’s experience in responding to recent disasters demonstrates considerable
improvement in disaster risk management. For instance, when tropical storm Agatha hit
Honduras in June 2010, the country was able to evacuate people in the affected areas thanks
to the early warning systems and emergency evacuation procedures  already in place. A World
Bank mission happened to be in the country when the national emergency was declared and
its members witnessed firsthand how the inter-ministerial council dealt with the crisis and made
coordinated decisions. The inter-ministerial group met at the National Emergency Response
Center in COPECO’s headquarters and followed the procedures that had been established
through the SINAGER law. Honduras was able to avoid a significant number of deaths
because project-supported early warning systems and the SINAGER law meant thousands of
people were evacuated from areas subsequently flooded  by the storm, especially from among
the poorer population living in vulnerable informal settlements (12 people died in Honduras,
while 160 died in Guatemala).
Source: http://www.laprensa.hn/Ediciones/2010/05/30/Noticias/12-muertos-en-Honduras
The mitigation works have also proven to be effective. One specific example is the riverbank
protection measures built in the municipality of Ajuterique.  Although the mitigation work was
damaged by the flood caused by Tropical Depression 16 in 2008, it likely helped to protect the
lives of close to 3,000 people. The mitigation works have since been rebuilt by the municipality,
with support from the central government.
A 2010 beneficiary survey revealed that overall satisfaction with the Bank-backed project is
high (83 percent), and that 94 percent of those surveyed consider that the vulnerability of the
municipality has been reduced, and that this reduction is considerable (78 percent).
