Document of
The World Bank                   FILE COPY
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-2590-AL
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
TO THE
OFFICE NATIONAL POUR LES ALIMENTS DU BETAIL
WITH THE GUARANTEE
OF THE
DEMOCRATIC AND POPULAR REPUBLIC OF ALGERIA
FOR A
MEAT INDUSTRY PROJECT
June 8, 1979
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(as of December 1978)
Currency Unit: Algerian Dinar (DA)
US$  1.00 =                DA  4.02
DA   1.00 -                US$ 0.25
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 meter  (m)               3.28 feet  (ft)
1 kilometer  (km)          0.62 miles (mi)
1 sq. kilometer  (km2)    0.386 sq. miles (mi2)
1 hectare  (ha)            2.47 acres  (ac)
1 liter  (1)               0.2642 US gallons
1 metric ton  (m ton)      2.205 pounds
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 to December 31
ACRONYMS AND ABBREVIATIONS
BNA            Banque Nationale d'Algerie (National Bank of Algeria)
BNEDER         Bureau National d'Etudes pour le Developement Rural (Bureau
for the Study of Rural Development)
CAPCS          Cooperative Agricole Polyvalente Communale de Services
(Commune Level Agricultural Service Centers)
MARA           Ministare de l'Agriculture et de la Revolution Agraire
(Ministry of Agriculture and of the Agrarian Revolution)
ONAB           Office National pour l'Alimentation du Betail ( National
Office for Livestock Feed)
SNC            Societe Nationale de Comptabilite (National Accounting
Corporation)



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
DEMOCRATIC AND POPULAR REPUBLIC OF ALGERIA
MEAT INDUSTRY PROJECT
Loan and Project Summary
Borrower:            National Office for Livestock Feed (ONAB)
Guarantor:           Democratic and Popular Republic of Algeria
Amount:              US$42.0 million equivalent
Terms:               17 years, including 4 years of grace, at 7.9 percent
interest.
Project
Description:        The Project would contribute to ensuring an adequate
If   supply of red meat in Algeria, both through long-term
efforts to increase domestic livestock production and
fattening, as well as by providing ONAB with increased
capacity to import, process and distribute meat. ONAB
would be better able to stabilize the meat prices which
presently experience erratic fluctuations, and provide
for the needs of its institutional buyers, including
factories, schools, hospitals, administrations, etc. The
main actions to be carried out under the Project include:
(i) establishment of 12 sheep buying centers oni the
fringes of the Steppe on the High Plateau, and provision
of vehicles for animal transportation; (ii) cultivation of
medic pastures on land now left fallow in rotation with
cereals on 60,000 ha in 120 selected self-managed farms
to be used for sheep fattening; (iii) construction of 3
meat complexes, the largest being in Algiers and the two
others in Oran and Annaba provinces; (iv) technlical and
financial assistance to implement the scheme would be
provided under the Project within a new ONAB division;
the meat complexes would include a multi-species abattoir
with parallel lines for cattle and sheep, a meat cutting
plant with associated chilled storage, a meat products and
a by-products plant, and storage capacity for -mported
frozen meat. Technical assistance would be included for
supervision of construction, for in-service training and
for reinforcing ONAB as an institution. Benefits of the
Project would include increased domestic animaL produc-
tion, making use of underutilized natural resources, and
benefits from an increased supply of imported meat result-
ing in relatively lower and more stable meat prices. The
main risk incurred by the Project is that increased
domestic production will depend heavily on the pace of
acceptance by self-managed farms of new farm practices.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the perf;r 71
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank aulrtion.



Estimated Cost:
Local    Foreign    Total
Item                                         ------(US$ Million)------
Meat Complexes:  Algiers                           12        12          24
Oran                             6         6          12
Annaba                           6         6          12
Total Meat Complexes                         24        24          48
Sheep Purchase, Transit and Fattening              4         2           6
Technical Assistance                                1        4            5
Incremental Working Capital                       15         -          15
Sub-total                                    20         6          26
Contingencies:  Physical                           3         2            5
Price                            16        10          26
Total Contingencies                          19        12          31
Total Project Cost                           63        42         105
Financing Plan:
Local    Foreign    Total
------(US$ Million)------
IBRD                                               -        42          42
Government - Equity                                12        -           12
- BAD loan                            28         -          28
- BNA loan                            23         -          23
Total                                             63        42         105
Estimated Disbursements:
FY     1980    1981    1982    1983    1984
-----------…(US$ Million)…----------
Annual                                   4.5    13.1    14.2        8.0      2.2
Cumulative                               4.5    17.6    31.8    39.8    42.0
Rate of Return:       Estimated at 51 percent.
Staff Appraisal
Report:             No. 2480a-AL of June 11, 1979



INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT OF THE IBRD
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED LOAN TO THE OFFICE
NATIONAL POUR LES ALIMENTS DU BETAIL (ONAB) WITH THE GUARANTEE
OF THE DEMOCRATIC AND POPULAR REPUBLIC OF ALGERIA
FOR A MEAT INDUSTRY PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed loan
to the Office National pour les Aliments du Betail, with the guarantee of the
Democratic and Popular Republic of Algeria, for the equivalent of IJS$42.0 mil-
lion to help finance a meat industry project. The loan would have a term of
17 years, including 4 years of grace, with interest at 7.9 percent per annum.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.        A report entitled "Memorandum of the Economic Situation and Pros-
pects of Algeria" (1816-AL) was distributed to the Executive Directors on
February 17, 1978. Updating economic missions visited Algeria in 14ay 1978 and
March 19791. The main conclusions of the missions are given in the following
paragraphs. Country Data Sheets are attached as Annex I.
3.         In 1966, Algeria's Revolutionary Council defined the fundamental
objectives which the country intended to pursue during the period ending 1980.
These were reaffirmed in detail in the National Charter approved by referendum
in June 1976. In brief, these objectives are (i) to expand and organize the
production base, enabling the economy to reach a stage of self-sustained
growth with full employment; (ii) to achieve economic independence, which
implies that the country would rely first on its own resources for develop-
ment, although international economic relations would be expanded and diversi-
fied; and (iii) to improve income distribution, particularly among regions.
These objectives, and the strategy which has evolved towards their implementa-
tion, take into account the country's physical and socio-economic potential;
the country's leadership is deeply committed to them. Political developments
following the illness and death of President Boumediene have not affected
Algeria's prevailing economic policies. A smooth transfer and wider sharing
of power among political institutions have characterized the transition
leading to the election of President Chadli Bendjedid and the appointment
of a new Government in March 1979. The strategy of the new development plan
is expected to be discussed and the Plan approved early in 1980.
4.         The rapid establishment of a diversified and highly integrated
industriaL base, the education and training of all Algerians for the require-
ments of modern tasks, and austerity in consumption are the main elements
of Algeria's long-term development strategy. The National Charter, introduced
in 1976, places emphasis more particularly, however, on the following aspects
of the strategy. Whereas priority goes to hydrocarbon development as a means
of accumulating financial resources, investments in other industries must
henceforth be tailored more closely to the national capacity to prepare and
implement projects, to the availability of financial resources, and to the



- 2 -
rates of development in non-industrial sectors. The National Charter specif-
ically underscores the importance of agriculture for creating jobs, for
increasing incomes and improving their distribution, and for substituting
agricultural imports. Decentralization is to be implemented in all areas of
economic and social life so as to achieve the country's development objectives
with maximum efficiency, while the principle of central planning of the econ-
omy will be maintained. Workers' participation in the new management struc-
tures, introduced in 1971, is to be progressively expanded. The control of
people's assemblies over economic planning and management, which was already
effective at local government level, has been introduced at the national level
by the new constitution approved in November 1976. The President and the
new Government have reaffirmed their commitment to the basic principles of
Algeria's long-term development objectives and strategy and implementation of
the National Charter. Emphasis has been put, in particular, on the need for
better utilization of existing capacities and increased efficiency in manage-
ment and production, on the importance of agriculture, and on satisfying the
basic material and social needs of the population.
5.        Taking into account the improved financial prospects resulting from
increased hydrocarbon prices at the end of 1973, the objectives of the 1974-77
Plan were: (i) to increase the level of investment in order to speed up the
construction of the country's productive base and economic infrastructure and
the expansion of community and social services; (ii) to restructure the in-
vestment program in favor of non-industrial sectors and less developed regions
outside the coastal plains and Northern valleys, and (iii) to increase the
number of unskilled jobs and improve individual consumption levels and the
distribution of growth benefits. The Plan also called for vigorous imple-
mentation of the measures aimed at decentralizing and improving economic
management introduced by the Government since 1971.
6.        Several strong elements emerged from Algeria's economic performance
during the 1974-77 Plan. The growth of fixed investment averaged 15 percent
per year in real terms and its ratio to GDP at current prices rose to 48
percent of GDP in 1977 from 41 percent in 1973. While hydrocarbon production
was uneven during 1974-77, depending on technical and external market circum-
stances, GDP growth accelerated in the non-hydrocarbon sectors where it aver-
aged 8.5 percent per year. A high rate of national savings, averaging 39
percent of GDY (Gross Domestic Income), was achieved, and national savings
financed 84 percent of total investment. The marginal savings rate was 34
percent, thanks in large part to the sizeable improvement in the terms of
trade in 1974, which was only partly eroded thereafter. Employment creation
was substantial with more than half a million jobs created in industry and
services. Consumption growth is estimated to have averaged 9-10 percent per
annum, reflecting the increases in income levels, especially for the least
favored groups in rural and urban areas. Finally, Algeria's performance
concerning regional development has been impressive during the Plan.
7.        Developments were not as positive in several areas.  The implementa-
tion of the Plan generated imbalances between the high level of investment and
Algeria's financial and human resources and in the distribution of investment
between industry and other sectors. This led to pressures on the external and



-3 -
domestic financial situation, and increased development lags in non-industrial
sectors and other constraints on efficiency in industry. Such constraints
included in particular skilled manpower shortages, limited management capac-
ity, and insufficient intersectoral and intrasectoral coordination. In 1976,
the Government introduced a program aimed at correcting sectoral imbalances
and overcoming efficiency constraints.   Real investment in non-hydrocarbon
industry was reduced while it was increased significantly in other sectors.
This trend was further emphasized in the 1977 budget law and annual plan.
Actual spending in industry in that year, however, exceeded budget appropria-
tions while investment targets in other sectors, except transportation and
housing, were not achieved.
8.        As a result of the high level of investment in industry arLd despite
an increase in current receipts from hydrocarbon exports of close to 16 per-
cent, the external financial situation deteriorated in 1977, following an
improvement in 1976; the current account deficit widened to $2.3 billion
from $0.9 billion in 1976. Despite large disbursements on external loans,
committed through 1977 mostly from commercial sources, net foreign reserves
decreased by $300 million to two months of 1977 imports. Following a marked
improvement in 1974, resulting from higher oil revenues, the situation of the
Treasury also deteriorated in subsequent years. Despite its large surpluses
on current operations (budgetary savings), which have been the country's main
source of savings during the Plan, the Treasury showed large and growing over-
all deficits because of the considerable appropriations for public enterprise
investments and to cover their operating deficits. For the same reasons,
credit to the economy and money supply increased sharply, especially in 1975
and 1976. The growth of Central Bank advances to the Treasury remained
limited, however, owing to the mobilization by the Treasury of institutional
savings of public agencies and its correspondent's current surpluses.
9.        Decentralization of economic management has been pursued with vigor,
especially in agriculture and industry. All agricultural units of the
Socialist and Agrarian Revolution Sectors are now responsible for t'heir pro-
duction and investment plans, under the supervision of the local authorities
and the agricultural credit bank (BNA). These decentralization measures have
begun to have a beneficial impact on the output and financial results of
these units. In industry, most of the public enterprises are now under the
"socialist management" system, which should have a beneficial effect on
efficiency since it encourages decentralization of financial and technical
management from the enterprise level to the more manageable production unit.
Decentralization of the financial system, as well as decentralization in other
sectors in general, requires, however, revision of credit policy and financial
management procedures for which initial measures were taken under the 1976
and 1977 Finance Laws. It also requires increased financial and accounting
discipline in the enterprises, and enough experienced staff to strengthen
the banks, which will be a difficult and slow process. Decentralization and
strengthening of the distribution (marketing) system, especially for agricul-
tural products, still call for important measures to be fully efficient.
10.       Social development during the Plan continued rapidly, in favor
especially of the most disadvantaged groups. Policy measures which contri-
bute to raising the living standards of those groups have included increases



- 4 -
in the guaranteed minimum wages, tax relief measures, increases in producer
prices for agricultural products and subsidization of basic commodities.
Further large salary increases (35 percent) were decided by the Government
in 1978. The disadvantaged groups have also benefited from the creation
of non-agricultural employment, implementation of the Agrarian Revolution,
multiplication of small- and medium-scale enterprises at the regional and
local levels, construction of public housing and rapid development of free
health care, education, training and other social services. Overall, Govern-
ment current and capital expenditure having a direct impact on social develop-
ment increased to 53 percent of total direct Government expenditure in 1977
from 44 percent in 1973.
11.       According to the 1977 Census, Algeria's resident population was 17.3
million at the end of 1977, and 1 million Algerians were living abroad, mainly
in Europe. Between 1966 and 1977 annual population growth was estimated at
3.2 percent, and the urban population increased from 33 percent to 41 percent
of total resident population. Some 58 percent of the population is now under
20 years old. Together with the high rates of urban growth (6 percent), this
factor is causing an extremely rapid growth in the demand for housing, social
services, urban facilities and employment. Despite the priority given to
modern and capital-intensive industries in the development strategy, employ-
ment creation has been impressive during 1974-77. The unemployment rate in
non-agricultural sectors is estimated to have dropped from 17 percent in
1973 to about 10 percent in 1977. Considerable efforts to create employment
will be needed, however, in coming years to cope with existing unemployment
and underemployment an( absorb the additional labor force. In agriculture,
despite implementation of the Agrarian Revolution, the underemployment rate
has remained very high at an estimated 60 percent of the work force. This is
due to the seasonal nature and the low productivity of Algerian agriculture.
The labor surplus in rural areas is being steadily reduced by the large
regional development programs and by rural/urban migration. The other problem
facing Algeria is the acute shortage of skilled labor in many sectors. This
shortage is likely to persist for many years despite the considerable training
efforts which are pursued, often at very high cost, and the steady returns of
skilled workers from abroad.
12.       Algeria has been pursuing an active regional development policy
which aims at providing equal opportunity in education, employment and living
standards in all regions and thus limiting internal migration. Regional
decentralization of administrative, economic and financial responsibilities
is very advanced at the wilaya (province) and commune (municipality) levels
and is a major determinant of the country's regional development. In addi-
tion to the systematic location of heavy industrial investments in the
interior of the country under the national Plan, special programs for the
least favored wilayate, urban development (PMU) and commune development (PCD)
programs have been implemented since 1974 as part of the Four Year Plan to
build the economic and social infrastructure needed by secondary cities and
rural communes. At the end of the 1974-77 Plan, a total amount of DA 11 bil-
lion had been budgeted for projects under the PMU and PCD programs, represent-
ing 40 percent of Government direct investment and 10 percent of the country's



- 5 -
total fixed investment. The establishment of local enterprises (PMI) in con-
struction materials and other small-scale industries and in services has been
successful in creating employment, using local resources, and satisfying local
demand. Implementation of the regional programs suffered initial delays due
to insufficient capacity at the local level for the identification, prepara-
tion and execution of projects but has accelerated since 1976 in most of the
wilayate. The decentralized locations of several large-scale projects bear
little relation to market and factor availabilities and may be expected to
result in high investment and operating costs. The Government is aware of
this, and considers these additional costs as the price to pay for developing
outlying regions.
13.        The Government decided that 1978 and 19.v would be transitional
years devoted to the completion of projects initiated under the 1974-77 Plan;
the introduction of a new multi-annual plan was postponed. Based on prelim-
inary estimates, GDP growth has been between 8 and 9 percent in 1978, propel-
led by further increases in non-hydrocarbon sector output and an acceleration
in hydrocarbon output growth (8.5 percent). Agricultural production bene-
fitted from better weather conditions which permitted somewhat larger cereal
harvests than in 1977. Although low capacity utilization continued to plague
many plants, relative improvements in operating levels of existing plants and
start-up of new plants allowed manufacturing growth to remain high (about 10
percent). Reflecting large increases in investment, the construction and
public work sector continued to expand rapidly. Total hydrocarbon exports
increased by 8 percent in quantity, thanks to a recovery in refined product
output and large increases in liquified gas output following the start up of
LNG1 in Arzew. They increased, however, by 6.4 percent only in current value,
as Algerian oil prices diminished in the first half of 1978 because of an
unfavorable market situation for light petroleum. The continuing cause for
concern in 1978 was the size of the investment program and the consequences it
had on the country's financial situation and the imbalances between industry
and other sectors. Total public investment increased by 28 percent in current
terms in 1978. Public investment in industry alone increased by nearly 30
percent. The latter increase was due to a large extent to the investment
requirements of the hydrocarbon development plan; investment spending in non-
hydrocarbon industry, however, still increased by 23 percent in 1978. Actual
investment in non-industrial sectors represented 90 percent of initial budget
appropriations, reflecting improvements in project implementation capacity in
those sectors, especially in social infrastructure and agriculture.
14.        The large import requirements of the 1978 investment program caused
a further widening of the current account deficit to $3.5 billion, although
there was drawdown on stocks of capital goods accumulated in 1977 and strict
restrictions in other imports. Despite growing debt amortization obligations
($1.1 billion), net reserves were nonetheless some $400 million above their
1977 level at the end of 1978. Net reserves were equivalent to 2.2 months of
1978 imports. This was made possible by large drawings made before the end of
the year on the new loans contracted by Algeria in 1978 to finance its invest-
ment program, especially for gas development. The new loan commitments (about
$5 billion) and disbursements ($4.7 billion) that Algeria made in 1978 in a
favorable international financial market, would have seemed excessive based on



- 6 -
earlier Bank projections. Recent developments in world oil supply, however,
significantly improved Algeria's export prospects and debt servicing capacity.
On the domestic side, because of the large investment appropriations from
Treasury to public enterprises ($6.3 billion), the overall Treasury financing
needs from the Central Bank more than doubled from $0.9 billion in 1977 to
$2.1 billion in 1978. Money supply increased by 28 percent in 1978, although
the growth of bank credit to the economy was limited to 15 percent as a result
of restrictions in medium term credit to enterprises. In addition, the large
salary increases effected during the year have exerted further pressures on
domestic prices. The consumer price index for the Algiers area increased by
17 percent in 1978.
15.       In view of the decision taken at the last OPEC meeting (end March
1979) and favorable market conditions for Algerian light crude, average price
of crude oil for 1979 is projected at about 25 percent above the average price
for 1978. This will bring substantial additional financial resources esti-
mated at $1.5 billion in 1979. The economic situation should also benefit,
following the smooth political transition, from the increased emphasis put by
the Government on efficiency in management and production.  The postponement
of introduction of a new multi-annual plan will allow completing projects and
programs undertaken under the Second Four-Year Plan, consolidating achieve-
ments in the productive sectors, and further progress in eliminating sectoral
lags and bottlenecks. Production in agriculture is expected to be high after
two bad years, and growth in other sectors should accelerate, especially in
manufacturing and in gas liquefaction. The 1979 Government budget and invest-
ment plan for public enterprises provides for a timely slowdown in total
capital expenditure growth. While the emphasis on social sectors, economic
infrastructure and regional development continues in the investment budget,
investment appropriations in industry are restrained and mainly concern
on-going projects. With the combination of increased revenue from the hydro-
carbon sector, larger cereal crops, and limitations on industrial investment
the resource gap in the balance of payments should be reduced to about $2
billion from $3.2 billion in 1978. The current account deficit, despite
growing interest payments on external debt, is projected at below $3 billion.
External capital requirements could thus be reduced in 1979 to an amount
compatible with future debt servicing capacity. Because of a substantial
increase in the Government current operations surplus and the stabilization
of transfers to public enterprises, the overall financing needs of the
Treasury should also be reduced in 1979. The pressures on the domestic
financial situation which developed in 1978 are likely to be eased.
16.       Algeria's economic and financial prospects beyond 1979 will be
reflected in the next Plan, which is being prepared. The Plan is expected
to start in 1980, and to cover the period 1980-84. The investment strategy,
which will be adopted by a special congress of the National Party (FLN) early
in 1980, should be consonant with the country's long-term objectives and
strategy. It is expected to increase the relative emphasis on social sectors,
especially housing, agriculture and water development, and to foster regional
development. Priority will continue to be given to hydrocarbon development as
a means of accumulating financial resources. In contrast, investment in non-
hydrocarbon industry will probably be moderated and more strictly allocated,



- 7 -
in order to complete ongoing projects, to achieve forward and backward link-
ages with existing industries, and to relieve constraints on better utiliza-
tion of existing capacities. It should, in addition, be adjusted more closely
to the rates of development in non-industrial sectors and to the availability
of financial and human resources. The next Plan will probably also give
special attention to measures and programs aimed at improving economic and
financial management, eliminating sectoral deficiencies and bottlenecks and,
generally, making the economic system more efficient. The decentralization
policy, which will be pursued, should help greatly to improve the economic
system--provided it is supported by reinforcement of planning and supervision
at the central level, revision of price and credit policies and strengthening
of the financial system. Algeria will still count on external technical
assistance in its efforts to relieve existing constraints on efficiency.
17.       Algeria's prospects depend on four main factors:  the growth of
hydrocarbon exports; the level and composition of the country's investment;
its capacity for future borrowing; and the pace of improvement in the effi-
ciency of the economic system. Based on a careful assessment of these
factors, Bank staff projections show that a relatively rapid economic growth
in all sectors (about 8.5 percent yearly) can be maintained during 1979-83.
The growth of gross domestic income, which incorporates the effect of terms
of trade changes, should be significantly higher (about 11 percent a year)
than GDP growth during that period because of the expected rise in both the
real price and the relative importance of gas. During 1984-1988, GDP growth
would remain high in non-hydrocarbon sectors, while it would decelerate in
the hydrocarbon sector because of the projected decline in crude oil output.
The decline in crude oil output after 1983 would, however be offset to a
large extent by expected increases in condensate and natural gas output. The
resource gap of the economy would remain high until the early 1980s, with
consequent large external capital requirements, especially to finance gas and
condensate development for export. Although the resource gap is projected
to turn into a surplus when the large condensate and gas projects, presently
underway or planned, begin to generate increasing export revenues, commercial
loans and credits with short maturities in relation to the gestation periods
of investments will induce rapidly increasing debt repayment obligations. The
country thus faces sizeable borrowing requirements well into the 1980s, but
in decreasing amounts.
18.       Based on the above projections it would seem that Algeria will have
to pursue an active, although prudent, external borrowing policy. During
1979-83, external borrowing requirements are projected to average about $3.7
billion annually in terms of commitments. The projected commitment:s are
considerable but would be within Algeria's debt-carrying capacity. In terms
of access to external sources of financing, these amounts appear manageable
since the gas contracts into which Algeria has entered provide for partial
financing of gas treatment and liquefaction plants. The amounts to be
mobilized for gas and condensate development are expected to constitute more
than 70 percent of the projected financing requirements from commercial
sources during 1979-83. Suppliers' credits should be available to finance
other industrial investments, most of which will probably be implemented by
foreign contractors. Borrowing from official sources would remain relatively



- 8 -
small. These include OECD and centrally planned countries, the African
Development Bank, the World Bank, and the EEC; Algeria signed a financial
and trade agreement with the EEC in April 1976. The experience Algeria has
acquired on the international financial markets should enable it to manage its
external borrowing requirements, and possibly also to improve the conditions
of future external commercial loans, as has been the case in 1978. At the end
of 1976, aware that liquidity problems could be caused by the heavy recourse
of public enterprises to external borrowing, the Government set up an External
Financing Committee. The Committee is chaired by the Governor of the Central
Bank; it examines all external-credit requests by the enterprises and the
terms of borrowing, and monitors external indebtedness. Algeria has not used
IMF resources. Its IMF quota is SDR 285 million.
19.       At the end of 1977, Algeria's total external debt outstanding and
disbursed was estimated at $8.2 billion ($13.8 billion including undisbursed),
equivalent to about 42 percent of GDP. Debt service increased from 14 percent
of goods and non-factor services exports in 1975 to 16 percent in 1976, 18
percent in 1977, and an estimated 24 percent in 1978. Based on borrowings and
disbursements up to 1978 and the projected new borrowings, debt service may
rise to a level above 25 percent of exports by 1981-82 (based on present Bank
assumptions for future increases in oil price and developed countries export
prices). It should decline subsequently in relation to exports when the large
condensate and gas projects come on stream. By 1984, the likely receipts
from gas exports alone would exceed projected total debt service payments.
Bank lending, past and projected, represents only a small fraction of the
country's external financing requirements. At the end of 1978, the portion of
Algeria's total debt outstanding and disbursed owed to the Bank was estimated
at 1.7 percent; this share would rise somewhat over the next years, to some 5
percent by 1984. Algeria's external borrowing needs will be large in the
next few years, but can be accommodated in view of the considerably enhanced
capacity to carry debt which the country has acquired as a result of the new
relationship between the prices of hydrocarbons and other commodities in world
markets, the long-term prospects for gas exports, and general economic perfor-
mance. Algeria is creditworthy for continued Bank lending.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN ALGERIA
20.       After an interval of about nine years, lending to Algeria resumed in
FY1973. Since then, sixteen loans have been approved totalling $846 million.
Annex II contains a summary statement of Bank loans as of April 30, 1979 and
notes on the execution of ongoing projects. While the physical execution of
most projects is progressing well, disbursements for some loans have been
slow. This is particularly the case for the loan to the Algerian Development
Bank (BAD), the technical assistance loan for rural development, the third
loan for education and the loan for the port of Jijel. For the project with
BAD, slow progress in improving institutional arrangements, an important
objective of the project, has hampered disbursements. The rural development
project has suffered from delays in selection of consultants. Both projects
are now advancing satisfactorily and disbursements are expected to pick up



- 9 -
shortly.  Administrative delays, now resolved, in awarding the main construc-
tion contract are also the cause for slow disbursements under the third
loan for education.  As for the Jijel Port Project, the Government has in-
formed us of its plans to increase capacity of the adjacent steel complex
from 800,000 tpy to 2 million tpy, which, although entailing a delay in
implementation of the port project, should enhance its economic justification.
21.       The provision of technical assistance and institution-building
support is a major objective of the Bank's strategy in Algeria, to which the
Government attaches special importance. The aim is to assist the Government
in improving economic and sector management, project preparation, implementa-
tion and financial control. Economic efficiency and financial management have
been prominent in our economic dialogue with the Government. At its request,
we are currently engaging in a study of enterprise financing and the role of
the banking system. Previous projects have included technical assistance to
foster the financial system's appraisal capability and improve auditing of
national companies.  A technical assistance loan for rural development was
made in FY1975.  The project to be presented next to the Executive Directors,
consisting of technical assistance for SN Metal, would address itse!lf to one
of the most serious problems affecting economic growth in Algeria: the dif-
ficulty to start up new plants and reach satisfactory capacity utilization
because of the shortage of the necessary management and work organization
skills. As in the past, most projects contemplated for the coming years are
expected to have one or more technical assistance components,
22.       Sectorwise, Bank lending since 1973 has aimed at relieving develop-
mental bottlenecks in lagging sectors, with the main emphasis on support in
education and infrastructure. Lending for education (4 projects so far) has
accounted for 26 percent of Bank commitments in Algeria, and was mainly
focused on meeting the urgent demand for technical skills. Loans for trans-
portation (highways, railways, ports), contributing to the country's economic
integration and regional development objectives, accounted for 46 lpercent of
total Bank lending, and two loans for power, for 11 percent.  In industry, two
projects (including a loan to the Algerian Development Bank, BAD) represent
about 12 percent.
23.       Bank lending activity is also extending to new sectors.  During the
last fiscal year, the Board approved an $82 million loan for a First Sewerage
Project in Algiers. Engineering studies are being financed under the loan to
prepare similar projects for Bank financing in two other major Algerian cities.
Also last fiscal year, the Government requested the Bank to prepare an agri-
cultural sector survey and several projects eligible for hank financing (para.
34), of which the present project would be the first to be presented to the
Board, The Bank is acting as executing agency for UNDP in the preparation of
several of these projeLto.Finally, project preparation is underway for a
first Urban Development Project in Annaba, one of the cities where Algeria's
acute housing shortage is most pronounced.
24.       Earlier in this fiscal year, a $126 million loan for a Third Highway
Project was approved by the Executive Directors, financing a two-year time
slice of the national maintenance and rehabilitation program. The Technical



- 10 -
Assistance Project for SN Metal (para. 21) is expected to be presented shortly
to the Board. Projects planned for subsequent years include education, water
supply/sewerage, irrigation rehabilitation, telecommunications, agriculture
and rural development, industry, highways, railways and urban development.
This lending program, by stressing objectives going beyond the simple transfer
of resources, responds to Algeria's efforts for rapid socio-economic develop-
ment.
PART III - THE AGRICULTURE SECTOR, THE LIVESTOCK
AND MEAT SUBSECTOR AND THE BORROWER
The Agricultural Sector
25.       Agriculture is constrained in Algeria by difficult climatic and geo-
logical conditions, and about 80 percent of the total land area is unproduc-
tive. Generally, the richest agricultural areas are located in a narrow band
in the north, where annual rainfall (500-1,000 mm) permits growing fruits,
vegetables, industrial crops, and high yield wheat varieties, and where the
amount of fallow land is lowest. Areas in the 300-500 mm rainfall zone
located between the Northern zone and the desert, depend on a rotation of
cereals and fallow. Further south in the Steppe on the High Plateau the
population is almost entirely dependent on sheep and goat production.  Over-
all, forest and alfa grass (Stipa tenacissima) cover about 4 percent of the
land area, pasture land used for grazing of livestock about 13 percent, and
c'jltivable land about 3 percent. Of the roughly 8 million ha of cultivable
land, 5 million ha were utilized in 1976, and the balance left fallow. The
cropping pattern included 43 percent winter cereals (wheat, barley, rye),
41 percent fallow, 5 percent fruit trees, 4 percent forage crops, 3 percent
vineyards, 2 percent vegetables, 1 percent pulses and the balance under indus-
trial and other crops. In 1977, despite its relatively narrow resource base,
agriculture employed about 42 percent of Algeria's total active population of
4.0 million and 60 percent of Algeria's 17.3 million people lived in rural
areas.
26.        Sector Strategy.  After independence major structural reforms were
undertaken in the agricultural sector and there was a shift from the export
orientation developed during the colonial period to meeting domestic food
requirements.  However in assigning paramount importance to achieving struc-
tural reforms such as establishing self-managed farms, "Offices" and the
cooperatives of the Agrarian Revolution, which are discussed in the following
paragraphs, insufficient emphasis was given to agricultural investment,
incentives and productivity.
27.       The Self-Managed Farms.  Just before independence, about 20,000
properties on 2.4 million ha were owned by Europeans. There were 630,000
Algerian properties covering about 7 million ha (including pastureland).
Average property size was 124 ha and 11 ha respectively. European-owned farms
were found on the better land with the highest rainfall. Beginning before
independence in 1962, the European landowners left the country, and management



- 11 -
of their farms was taken over by the farm workers.  Their land was national-
ized in 1963 and right to use it in perpetuity was given to the workers
grouped into large worker."self-managed" farms. The European properties were
in most cases consolidated so that about 2,000 "self-managed" farms were
created on about 2.1 million ha of cultivable land. About 180,000 permanent
workers are presently employed on these mechanized farms. A manager was
appointed by Government to each self-managed farm in order to provide tech-
nical assistance and to implement Government instructions. The self-managed
farms are only partly autonomous, implementing the investment and operating
plans provided by Government. These plans are derived from a centralized
planning process previously emanating from the Central Government, but
recently decentralized considerably to the provincial level.
28.       Marketing and Credit.  A major structural change begun in the 1960's
was the creation of Government owned marketing and input supply "Off:ices",
each specializing in a product or group of products. The "Offices" have
required several years to organize, and in many cases have not provided ade-
quate service. Another structural change involved the consolidation of the
local assets of the European dominated banking system into the Government
owned "Banque Nationale d'Algerie" (BNA) and other nationalized banks. How-
ever, credit allocated to agriculture was reduced to low levels, contributing
to the lack of replacement of equipment in agriculture during the 1960's.
Agricultural marketing and input supply centers (CAPCS) were established
during the 1970's. Managed by staff appointed by the Ministry of Agyriculture
and Agrarian Revolution (MARA), the CAPCS mostly serve as intermediaries
between the farms and the Offices, selling inputs to farms supplied by the
Offices, and marketing the farms' agricultural output to the Offices, pri-
marily grain, fruits, vegetables and fodder.  The objective is to bring the
marketing and input supply functions closer to the farms. By 1977, CAPCS had
been established in 654 of Algeria's 703 communes.
29.       Cooperatives of the Agrarian Revolution and Private Sector.  Further
structural changes took place in the 1970's. The first was the "Agrarian
Revolution" in which state and communal land, as well as land expropriated
from absentee landowners and from the largest private farmers was distributed
to landless peasants. Most beneficiaries were organized into production
cooperatives. By 1978, about 7,000 cooperatives had been created allotting
one million ha, including 120,000 ha of pastureland, to 100,000 beneficiary
families. These Agrarian Revolution Cooperatives and the 2,000 self-managed
farms of the socialist sector hold a total of about three million ha of cul-
tivable land. The remaining private sector supports about 700,000 families
on 4.8 million ha of cultivable land. Private livestock owners and farmers
also exploit approximately 31 million ha of arid pastureland, primarily in the
Steppe Region.
30.       Agricultural Planning.  During the 1960's agricultural planning was
weak, principally due to manpower shortages, but it became more organized with
the beginning of the first Four Year Plan (1970-1973). There has now been a
partial decentralization of the planning process from the Central Government
to the Wilaya (Provincial) Government level, and the creation of crop and
livestock specific "institutes" at the national level which undertake applied



- 12 -
research, demonstration and extension. For agriculture, decentralization
has meant since 1975 increased responsibility for planning by staff of the
Ministry of Agriculture and of the Agrarian Revolution (MARA) in provincial
headquarters, assisted by the institutes, and increased autonomy at the farm
level for management and production. Goals for agriculture under the Second
Plan, which are likely to apply for the Third Plan, included:
(a) continuation of the production shift out of food exports to
food self-sufficiency;
(b) diversification of crop production;
(c) improvement of rural revenue, rural infrastructure, and
development of rural employment opportunities;
(d) improvement of agricultural marketing and input supply; and
(e) relative improvement of the condition of the poorest groups
in the rural sector.
The Third Plan is likely to put greater emphasis on decentralization of
planning and project execution and on development of the private agricultural
sector which has been neglected.
31.       Sector Performance.  Performance of agriculture has remained poor:
yields of principal crops show little or no improvement over the past fifteen
years. The sector fell short of its investment targets in both the First and
the Second Plans, and the share of agriculture in GDP declined from 10 percent
during the First Plan (1970-1973) to 7 percent during the Second Plan (1974-
1977). This decline was due partly to the stagnation of agricultural output
and partly to the rising share of the hydrocarbon sector in GDP, following the
oil price increase. Permanent and seasonal employment in agriculture rose by
1.6 percent and 0.3 percent p.a. respectively during the Second Plan, when
employment in non-agricultural sectors was growing by 6.8 percent p.a. While
unemployment in these sectors fell from 17 to 10 percent, under-employment
estimates in agriculture ranged from 25 percent in the self-managed sector
to about 60 percent of the total agricultural work force. Rural migration is
very high: with national population growing at a rate of 3.2 percent, urban
population growth stands at 5.1 percent, and that of rural population at 2.0
percent p.a. Furthermore, from a surplus in the early 60's, the agricultural
balance of trade has turned into a deficit, claiming increasing shares of
total imports (17% during the Second Plan), as production failed to keep pace
with population growth and higher standards of living. Finally, despite the
creation of the semi-autonomous Offices and the commune-level CAPCS, input
distribution to farmers and marketing of farm products remain highly ineffi-
cient, which receives prominent coverage in the national press.
32.       Main Sector Issues.  The structural reforms leading to the estab-
lishment of the socialist and Agrarian Revolution sectors and government
supporting services have been largely completed. The central issue now is
how to make the sector more productive. The orientation towards agricultural



- 13 -
exports (chiefly wine) has been dropped, with few gains in import substitu-
tion. If agricultural growth is to be accelerated, two basic requirements
need to be met. First, adequate incentives should be created, and second,
more resources (investment and human) should be devoted to the sector, partic-
ularly to private farmers who own 62 percent of the cultivable land. At the
farm level the self-managed farms and Agrarian Revolution Cooperatives need
to be given greater autonomy in financial decisions as well as greater respon-
sibility for repayment of credit obligations, in order to increase their in-
centive to make efficient use of investments. Also, increased produaction
incentives should be provided to workers.
33.       Over-centralization of Government supporting services still remains
a serious problem, as is the lack of coordination between departments within
MARA. It is possible to resolve these problems through (a) investment and
program coordination in regionally integrated projects and (b) more decen-
tralization of decision making from the Government administration to the level
of the enterprise, farm and commune. The major constraint on implementing
such measures, however, is the availability of qualified personnel. Crop and
livestock research need to be integrated and an agricultural extension service
created which should assist all farmers including those in the private sector.
A Bank Technical Assistance Loan is assisting Government in the formulation
of extension methods and implementation in the Sidi Bel Abbes region. The
major marketing issues include the need to give the private sector access to
modern inputs and commodity marketing structures, and to reduce scarcities of
farm inputs and of agricultural commodities. Solutions involve expansion of
the role and the facilities of the commune level input supply and miarketing
cooperatives (CAPCS), and reorganization of the marketing Offices atlong market
oriented as opposed to administrative lines. The allocation of agricultural
credit should be decentralized to bank outlets at the commune level.
34.       Bank Role.  The Bank has recently prepared a sector report which is
presently under discussion in draft form with the Government. The report is
based on the findings of missions which visited Algeria in late 1977 and in
early 1978, and which had the full cooperation of the Government. The views
expressed in the draft report, some of which are summarized above, have
already found wide agreement among policy-makers in the sector. The Bank
sector missions also identified a number of agricultural projects iFor possible
Bank financing, of which one is the present Project. The Project will address
several of the issues raised: coordination of crop and livestock activities,
strengthening of marketing through the Offices and CAPCS, increased livestock
production and reorganization of the financial practices of the Offices. A
regional development project, which addresses directly the main issues men-
tioned in this chapter, is under preparation for the Sidi Bel Abbes Region.
The Livestock and Meat Subsector
35.       Livestock and Poultry Production.  Cattle, officially estimated at
1.2 million in 1978, can mostly be found in the wetter littoral plain and the
hills of Northeast Algeria. They are almost entirely owned by private farmers
with a few head each, although self-managed farms are importing significant
numbers of Friesian and Holstein cows. Although estimates widely diverge,



- 14 -
it seems cattle numbers and beef production have increased during the 1970s
at least as fast as national population, partly in response to active MARA-
sponsored programs directed towards Agrarian Revolution cooperatives and self-
managed farms.
36.       The sheep population, officially estimated at 11 million in 1978,
lives for the most part in the High Plateau area and on the southern slopes
of the Atlas mountains, and to the south in the arid Steppe. Sedentary sheep
graze on the land left fallow in the cereal growing zone of the High Plateau,
and on the untilled steep hillsides. Transhumant sheep live off the thin
vegetation of the Steppe till early spring, when they move north to the High
Plateau onto the fallows and the stubble left by winter cereals. A combina-
tion of factors has reduced the grazing. In the High Plateau where the main
rotation is cereals and fallow, powerful tractors encroach on traditional
pastureland and steep hillsides previously under natural vegetation, in an
attempt to expand land under cultivation. The result is often serious land
erosion as the natural cover is removed. Further south towards the Steppe
the attempt to grow cereals is frequently frustrated by insufficient rainfall.
Cereal-growing farmers are reluctant to risk damage from sheep grazing their
crops, and shepherds find themselves increasingly confined to smaller areas of
the Steppe which in consequence is becoming overgrazed. National sheep meat
production statistics bear out this conclusion, showing stagnation through-
out the 1970's, and a reduction in mutton consumption per head of population.
Another negative effect of the relegation of the sheep to the Steppe has been
the loss of organic fertilization brought by the sheep grazing on cereal
growing land.
37.       Meat Consumption.  Overall national meat production has failed to
keep pace with population growth and increasing income and consumption levels,
and Algeria has started importing beef and mutton in significant quantities
since 1976. While individual consumption levels remained stable, albeit low
by international standards, the pressure of increasing demand has resulted in
high and rising prices (currently more than twice the international level).
In 1978, national consumption per capita was some 11.2 kg, of which 4 kg of
poultry meat and 7.2 kg of mutton and beef.  Imports accounted for 10% of
national supply.
The Borrower
38.       The National Office for Livestock Feed (Office National les Aliments
du Betail, ONAB) was created in 1969 as an office under MARA's tutelage.
Originally limited to production and import of animal feed for livestock and
poultry, ONAB's role was extended to include industrial production of red meat
and poultry, and marketing of livestock from the socialist sector. ONAB's
operations have expanded very rapidly on all fronts. Animal feed production,
initially carried out in a few formerly private mills which had been nation-
alized since independence, expanded by over 20% annually over the last 4 years
reaching 218,000 tons in 1978 in 16 mills and accounting for 98% of national
production. Plans are for production of 700,000 tons in 1985, with construc-
tion of five new mills. Poultry production was given great emphasis as the
cheapest and most rapid means to overcome the serious meat deficiency which



- 15 -
started to develop in Algeria in the early seventies, and ONAB now runs the
full range of activities related to poultry production, from production of
broiler eggs and one day chicks for individual poultry farmers, to fully
integrated broiler hen production and slaughtering. Plans are for massive
expansion of this activity.
39.       ONAB's role as regards red meat (beef and mutton) has expanded
equally fast. ONAB (i) purchases sheep and cattle from the socialist sec-
tor, for slaughtering or fattening on its own transit and feed lots; (ii)
slaughters the animals with its own personnel in facilities rented from
municipal abattoirs in Algiers, Oran and Annaba; (iii) imports fresh and
frozen red meat kept in rented cold stores, and (iv) distributes meat, mainly
to collective consumers such as hospitals, schools, factories and Government
administrations, as well as to a few Government department stores and butcher
shops. By its interventions in the red meat market ONAB attempts to dampen
price fluctuations caused by the large and sometimes opposite variations in
supply and demand. Despite having increased its sales from 1,750 tons in 1974
to an estimated 13,000 tons in 1978, ONAB still however only accounts for
about 10 percent of red meat sales in Algeria. Of these 10 percent, about
three quarters are imported.
40.        Organization and Management.  ONAB operates under close supervi-
sion from MARA which designates its Director General and his deputy, although
its statutes allow for legal and financial autonomy. Headquarters are in
Algiers and regional directorates operate from Algiers, Oran and ArLnaba. As
it has developed and assumed functions unforeseen at the time of its creation,
ONAB's, organization evolved somewhat haphazardly, and a reorganization ini-
tiated in mid-78, creating three new departments for Animal Feed, Agriculture
and Marketing, is being introduced progressively. Staff has grown in the past
four years from a total of 1,046 with only 19 professionals to 2,450 and 120
professionals in 1978. Lack of trained and qualified staff, despite these
achievements, remains ONAB's most serious problem.
41.        In the Algerian context of a high degree of centralization, ONAB
operates under tight controls. Investment budgets are approved annually by
the Ministry of Finance and MARA. The operating budget must also be approved
by MARA. All financial transactions are obligatorily made through the Banque
Nationale d'Algerie (BNA). ONAB's financial statements show a very high debt
equity ratio at 89:11, as nearly all investment is financed through debt.
ONAB has been showing modest profits in recent years.
42.        In conclusion, ONAB's very rapid expansion in many directions has
not been matched with commensurate efforts in organization. Reorganization
in mid-1978 has not yet addressed basic shortcomings such as the absence of
cost controls in the production centers or comprehensive long-term financial
planning. Finally, the sometimes unnecessarily rigid procedures under which
ONAB operates interfere with efficient management. The Project would address
itself to these issues.



- 16 -
PART IV - THE PROJECT
43.        During the agricultural sector mission undertaken in late 1977
(para. 34), the Algerian Government requested the Bank to consider financing
the presently proposed Meat Industry Project. Consultants prepared the
project under UNDP financing for which the Bank was executing agency, and
appraisal took place in November/December 1978. Negotiations were held in
Washington in May 1979, with an Algerian delegation headed by Mr. Chentouf,
Director for Planning in MARA. The Staff Appraisal Report (No. 2480a-AL) is
being distributed separately to the Executive Directors. The main features of
the Loan are mentioned in the Project Summary and in Annex III. A map showing
the location of Project facilities is also attached.
Project Objectives
44.        The main objective of the Project is to ensure an adequate supply of
animal protein in Algeria. As important investments are already committed for
increasing local poultry production, the Project would focus on increasing
the supply of red meat. Priority is given to development of domestic produc-
tion, by removing young lambs and culled ewes from the arid Steppe, which
would otherwise have been slaughtered prematurely due to lack of fodder, for
fattening in the underutilized cereal zone of the High Plateau. Slow progress
can be expected at best in the short term, and increased imports of red meat
will be necessary if only to maintain national consumption of red meat at its
current low level. The Project's greatest contribution to increasing the
supply of meat to Algeria would therefore be providing the cold storage and
meat processing capacity required to allow imports at a level compatible with
the main objective. The Project would also include three small abattoirs,
capable of expansion as domestic production increases in the longer term.
45.        Secondary objectives of the Project also include (i) allowing ONAB
to play an increasing role in regulating meat prices and protecting consumers
against excessive price increases and fluctuations; (ii) providing for the
specific needs of the large institutional market including factories, schools,
hospitals, administrations, etc; (iii) giving ONAB the means to establish the
basis for development of a modern meat industry in Algeria with suitable
health standards, and (iv) reinforcing ONAB as an institution. The objectives
are complementary. Increased import capacity will give ONAB greater control
over market fluctuations. Also, as retail butchers and individual households
have little or no refrigerators, meat imported frozen, which is the cheapest
form, could only be distributed to the institutional market which is ade-
quately equipped.
Project Description
46.       To increase domestic red meat production, the Project would attempt
through a series of actions to tap the greatest unutilized national potential



- 17 -
for sheep fattening: grazing on medic 1/ pastures to be established on the
cereal zones of the High Plateau where land is now left fallow every other
year, in rotation with cereal crops. To this end, some 120 farms would be
selected to grow each 250 ha of medic pasture in any one year (500 ha in
total) with technical assistance provided under the Project. ONAB would pur-
chase sheep, mostly weaned lambs and culled ewes, from nomnadic sheep flocks
in the Steppe, through 12 sheep buying centers created by enlarging existing
CAPCS. Project vehicles would transport them to the High Plateau for fatten-
ing under contract in the selected farms. Construction of sheep handling
yards on the farms is also foreseen in the Project. Capacities under this
component would be for 150,000 head of sheep necessitating establishment of
60,000 ha of medic pasture.  A 3-man technical assistance team wou:Ld assist
ONAB in managing the program (draft Loan Agreement, Section 3.03 and Annex I
to Schedule 2).
47.        Three meat complexes would be constructed under the project, the
largest in Algiers and the other two in Oran and Annaba Provinces. The meat
complexes would include a multispecies abattoir with parallel lines for cattle
and sheep, a meat cutting plant with associated chilled storage, a meat-
products and a by-products plant, and cold storage capacity for imported
frozen meat. Technical assistance would be included for supervision of con-
struction and for in-service training. The three meat complexes would be
built according to European Economic Community standards of hygiene with
appropriate modifications (draft Loan Agreement, Section 3.08), and would
provide ONAB with a flexible capability to blend imports and domesitic produc-
tion in supplying processed meat, under rigorous hygenic standards, to its
institutional customers as well as to pilot retail outlets. Capacities and
parameters of the different elements of the complexes were derived taking into
account ONAB's maximum desirable rate of expansion, total import needs, the
different seasonality of demand for beef and lamb, and scope for substitution
between imports and domestic production as well as between chilled and frozen
imports.
48.        The three meat complexes will handle some 36,000 tons carcass
equivalent meat output annually by 1985, including cut and boned bieef, mutton
carcasses and meat products. In 1978, ONAB handled 13,000 tops through its
rented facilities, of which 9,000 were imports. When for reasons of hygiene
ONAB transfers its operations to the facilities to be constructed lander the
Project, the facilities currently being rented will return to their tradi-
tional uses. Imports will account for some 19,000 tons or over 80 percent of
ONAB's incremental throughput of 23,000 tons by 1985. Output from the fatten-
ing scheme will account for much of the balance of 4,000 tons.
1/   Of the same family as alfalfa, medics are grown for fodder.  When grown
in rotation with cereals, they regenerate spontaneously every other
year. Used in semi-arid regions, medic pastures have been extensively
developed in Australia, although indigenous to North Africa.



- 18 -
Implementation
49.       To promote a rapid increase of sheep fattening on medic pastures,
ONAB will strengthen its organization and staffing with the help of technical
assistance in order to manage sheep transportation and draw up fattening
contracts with individual farms (draft Loan Agreement, Section 3.02). Stock-
ing would be at the rate of 5 sheep/ha. Under the fattening contracts,
appropriate financial incentives would be paid to the farms for grazing ONAB
sheep on medic pastures (draft Loan Agreement, Section 3.09). Construction of
the sheep buying centers is expected to begin in 1980, and the planned 60,000
ha of medics to be planted by mid-1982.
50.       Detailed technical specifications have been prepared for the three
meat complexes, which would be managed by ONAB's Meat Department. Tendering
for the turnkey contracts would start in mid-1979. As a condition of loan
effectiveness, suitable sites acceptable to the Bank for the three complexes
would be identified, as identification of the sites is necessary prior to
tendering (draft Loan Agreement, Section 6.01). Also, consultants would have
to be appointed to assist ONAB in the preparation and evaluation of tenders
and supervision of construction (draft Loan Agreement, Sections 3.03, 6.01
and Annex 1 to Schedule 2). Completion of construction of the last meat
complex is scheduled by mid-1983.
51.       The technical assistance included in the Project would be addressed
not only to ONAB's activities covered by the Project, but would also strengthen
the financial procedures of the whole institution. A 3-man team would assist
ONAB in implementing the fattening scheme, thereby helping to bridge the
institutional gap that has arisen in Algeria between development of medic
pastures on the one hand and improved sheep husbandry on the other. In
addition to tendering and supervision of construction (para. 50), in-service
training at the meat complexes would also be carried out with the help of
specialized assistance by a 5-man team for three years during start-up
and initial operations of the three meat complexes. Finally, to contribute in
removing an important constraint to efficient operations, technical assistance
would be provided to reform ONAB's financial procedures and to establish cost
accounting (draft Loan Agreement, Section 3.03, Schedule 2, Part C, and Annex
1 to Schedule 2). In all, 636 man-months of technical assistance are fore-
seen at an estimated cost of $4.6 million in 1979 prices, or about $7,300 per
man/month on average.
Cost Estimates and Financing Plan
52.       Total project cost is estimated at DA 421 million ($105 million),
including physical and price contingencies, and the foreign exchange compo-
nent, at DA 169 million ($42 million). DA 20 million ($5 million) of the DA
252 million ($63 million) local component represent duties and taxes. For
both civil works and equipment, physical contingencies of 10 percent, and
annual price escalation of 10 percent have been used. The 10 percent rate
used for equipment takes into account the relatively high price increases
projected for livestock agro-industry equipment. The Bank loan of $42 million
for 17 years, including 4 years grace, at 7.9 percent, would cover the full
foreign exchange cost, or 40 percent of total cost. The Government will



- 19 -
provide the remaining 60 percent, or $63 million equivalent, through budgetary
appropriations ($12 million) in the form of grants; the Banque Algerienne de
Development ($28 million) and BNA ($23 million), as loans at prevailing
conditions, currently at 7.5 percent interest (draft Guarantee Agreement,
Section 2.01, and draft Loan Agreement, Annex 2 to Schedule 2).
Procurement and Disbursements
53.       Three to five contracts would be tendered for under international
competitive bidding according to the Bank's guidelines. Construction of the
three meat complexes will be provided for under one single or three indivi-
dual turn-key contracts estimated at $66 million in total including physical
and price contingencies, although it is anticipated that civil works would be
subcontracted to Algerian firms. The two other contracts totalling $4 million
would be for purchase of meat distribution and sheep transport vehicles.
Several small contracts aggregating $0.5 million would be awarded after local
competitive bidding. The proposed Bank loan of $42 million would finance:
(a) 50 percent of the cost of the three meat complexes;
(b) 100 percent of the cost of the foreign exchange cost of
imported vehicles and 65 percent of the cost of locally
procured vehicles;
(c) 35 percent of the total cost of medic pasture establish-
ment and construction of handling yards; and
(d) 100 percent of the foreign exchange cost of technical
assistance.
Disbursements would take place over five years, FY1980-1984.
The Market
54.        As the total potential for purchases in the Steppe is estimated at
least at 500,000 heads of sheep annually, ONAB should be able to secure
150,000 head annually as required. No difficulty is expected in marketing
ONAB's increased meat sales originating both from purchases and fattening of
domestic livestock and from the increased annual import capacity oi- about
19,000 tons provided under the Project. Including additional domestic pro-
duction and import capacity, the supply of meat between 1978 and 1985 is
expected to increase from 11.2 kg/capita to 13.7 kg/capita. The ef'fect of
projected disposable income increase at 4.4 percent p.a., assuming constant
real prices for meat and income elasticity of meat consumption of 1.1, would
be to bring demand for meat to a level of 15.1 kg/capita in 1985. The addi-
tional supply of meat resulting from the Project will therefore leave a large
gap to be met by a further increase in supply and/or reduced demand through
higher prices.
Financial Analysis
55.        Fattening ONAB sheep on medic pasture will be profitable to partic-
ipating farms, as they will receive adequate incentives to graze ONAB sheep.



- 20 -
Meat prices in Algeria should allow ONAB to make an adequate financial return
on its fattening contracts with the farms, after deduction of the incentives.
Operation of the three meat complexes would yield an estimated financial rate
of return of 10% after income taxes. The rate of return is very sensitive to
changes in meat purchasing costs, but (a) domestic meat purchase and sales
cost are closely related, and (b) ONAB will be able to adjust its prices for
imported meat and preserve its margin. Assurances were obtained during
negotiations that ONAB will maintain an appropriate financial structure
(draft Loan Agreement, Section 5.04). ONAB will be audited by SNC, a national
audit company receiving technical assistance under Loan 1185-AL, or by other
independent auditors acceptable to the Bank (draft Loan Agreement, Section 5.02).
Project Benefits and Risks
56.       Up to now, sheep fattening in Algeria has been mainly based on
imported grain. Calculations show, however, that in terms of foreign exchange,
it is cheaper to import red meat than to fatten livestock on imported grain,
and furthermore poultry is much more efficient in converting foodgrain into
meat. The small fattening component proposed under the Project is competitive
with these alternatives as it makes use of land presently unutilized every
other year and has low capital and operating costs. Other benefits derived
from this scheme include (i) supply of nitrogen by the medic pastures, bene-
fiting cereal production in intervening years, and reinforcement of the land's
resistance to wind erosion, and (ii) relieving the Steppe of its supernumerary
sheep population and contributing to its specialization into a breeding and
rearing zone. The economic rate of return (ERR) of this component represent-
ing 10 percent of project costs is estimated at 22 percent. It is sensitive
to changes in international meat prices, but the calculation does not take
into account some of the benefits mentioned above which are difficult to
quantify.
57.       The main risks involved in the fattening scheme reside in the self-
managed farms' traditional resistance to changes in cultivation practices,
and particularly to the introduction of livestock on the farms. Several
efforts were made in the past to introduce similar practices without signif-
icant results, although testing for medics has been fully satisfactory.
ONAB's role in the sector, however, provides an ingredient missing in previous
attempts: the provision of financial incentives to participating farms.
Furthermore, ONAB, aided by technical assistance, will be in a powerful
position to catalyze efforts in this field which previously were dispersed.
58.       The basic justification of the meat complexes is as an integrated
system which makes it possible to rapidly increase the supply of meat and meat
products in the main urban areas, following hygienic and productivity para-
meters that could set a standard for the meat industry in Algeria. Without
the meat complexes, imports could not increase, and it is estimated per capita
demand for meat at constant prices would rise to some 15.1 kg/year by 1985,
while production would only rise to 12.5 kg/year, leading therefore to ration-
ing or to market equilibrium prices even higher than at present where they are
at more than twice international levels. Economic benefits would therefore
consist of savings resulting from the lower purchase price of imported meat



- 21 -
compared to domestic meat, and consumer benefits derived from the difference
in domestic prices with and without the Project. The facilities to be built
under the Project would partly provide capacities to supplement the existing
ones which are already fully utilized (cold storage), consolidate efficiently
services which were wastefully dispersed (meat cutting), or supersede facili-
ties operating in unhygienic conditions (municipal abattoirs). Under present
conditions, and mainly due to Algeria's substantial export earnings, additional
imports of meat are not expected to unduly strain the country's ba:Lance of
payments. The ERR of the meat complexes, representing 90 percent of total
Project costs, is estimated at over 51 percent. The total ERR estimated for
the Project is 51 percent.
59.       The main risks associated with the construction and operation of the
meat complexes relate to ONAB's ability to handle a major expansion of its
activities in meat imports, processing and distribution, and to potentially
negative environmental effects. The technical assistance foreseen (para. 51),
coupled with ONAB's record and experience of considerable expansion in other
activities such as animal feed and poultry production, should ensure proper
Project implementation. On the other hand, siting of the facilities, which
would be critical for proper implementation of the Project, will be a condi-
tion of loan effectiveness. Moreover, the sites selected would be submitted
to rigorous environmental conditions regarding proximity of housing and indus-
trial developments, and of effluent disposal conditions. Finally, assurances
were obtained during negotiations that satisfactory performance specifications
for effluent disposal will be embodied in the tender documents for the com-
plexes, and will be adhered to during Project implementation (draft Loan
Agreement, Section 3.07).
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
60.       The draft Loan Agreement between ONAB and the Bank, the draft
Guarantee Agreement between the Democratic and Popular Republic of Algeria
and the Bank, and the Report of the Committee provided for in Article III,
Section 4(iii) of the Articles of Agreement are being distributed separately
to the Executive Directors. Special features of the draft Agreement are
referred to in the text and listed in Section III of Annex III.
61.       I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the Articles
of Agreement of the Bank.



- 22 -
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
62.        I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed loan.
Robert S. McNamara
President
Attachment
June 8, 1979
Washington, D.C.



- 23                                                     ANNEX I
Page I of 7
TABLE 3A
ALGERIA - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
REFERENCE GROUPS (ADJUSTED AVERAG-ES
ALGERIA
LAND AREA (THOUSAND SQ. KM.)                                                    - MOST RECENT ESTIMATE)
TOTAL            2381.7                                                     SAME         SAME     NEXT HIGHER
AGRICULTURAL      454.5                                  MOST RECENT      GEOGRAPHIC   INCOME         INCOME
1960  /b    1970 Lb ESTIMATE /b        REGION Ic   GROUP /d    GROUP La
GNP PEk CAPITA (US$)                   500.0        560.0    1110.0           1438.5       867.2       1746.4
ENERGY CONSUMPTION PER CAPITA
(KILOGRAMS OF COAL EQUIVALENT)       252.0       342.0      754.0            816.7       578.3      1525.0
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
TOTAL POPULATION, MID-YEAR
(MILLIONS)                          10.1       13.7       17.1 /n
URBAN POPULATION (PERCENT OF TOTAL) 30.7          35.6      39.9              45.8        46.2         52.2
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQ. 1M.                          4.0         Cl         7.              23.2        50.8         27.6
PER SQ. KM. AGRICULTURAL LAND       23.0        30.t       37.4            112.4        93.3        116.4
POPULATION AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0-14 YRS.                          44.0         47.2 /f  47.9               46.0        42.9         34.8
15-64 YRS.                          52.0         48.4 4f 48.1                50.6        53.5        56.0
65 YRS. AND ABOVE                     4.0         4.4 If    4.0               3.3         3.5          5.7
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                2.1         3.2        32               2.9         2.5          1.6
URBAN                                7.2          4.4       5.6              5.0         4.7          3.4
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (PER THOUSAND)       50.9         50.0      46.0             45.0        37.8         27.0
CRLDE DEATH RATE (PER THOUSAND)       22.6         18.4      14.0             13.7        10.8          9.9
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE                 ..          3.5        3.6             3.4         2.5          1.9
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS, ANNUAL (THOUSANDS)         ..          ..         ..
USERS (PERCENT OF MARRIED WOMEN)    ..            ..         ..             14.7        20.0         19.3
FOOD AND NUTRITION
INDEX OF FOOD PRODUCTION
PER CAPITA (1970-100)              143.9       100.0      101.1            107.1       107.3        103.8
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (PERCENT OF
REQUIREMENTS)                     73.0        78.0       88.0             99.2       105.3       110.4
PROTEINS (GRAMS PER DAY)            47.0        45.0       57.2             63.4        63.0         77.7
OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE         14.0 /h      9.0       13.7             16.4        21.7        22.2
CHILD (AGES 1-4) MORTALITY RATE         ..         12.0 /f     ..               ..         8.0          1.9
HEALTH
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YEARS)    45.6           50.7      53.3             53.7        57.2         63.0
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (PER
THOUSAND)                             86.0 /i        ..        ..             77.7        53.9         38.2
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (PERCENT OF
POPULATION)
TOTAL                                 ..          ..       77.0             59.1        56.8         67.7
URBAN                                 ..        84.0      100.0             85.9        79.0         83.5
RURAL                                 *-           -       61.0             38.0        31.8         41.5
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL (PERCENT
OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                                 ..          9.0      67.0             64.3        30.9         70.3
URBAN                                 ..         13.0     100.0             94.5        45.4         90.7
RURAL                                 ..         6.0       50.0             27.7        16.1         38.3
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN            7930.0 /1   7860.0    7400.0            4271.6      2706.8       1310.8
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON           ..      2730.0    1320.0            2077.4      1462.0        849.2
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                              280.0 /h    340.0      370.0            580.2       493.9        275.4
URBAN                                 ..          ..         ..            310.0       229.6        129.9
RURAL                                 ..          ..         ..               ..      2947.9        965.9
ADMISSIONS PER HOSPITAL BED             ..         14.3      18.4             22.0        22.1         18.9
HOUSING
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                                 ..          ..         ..              5.4         5.2          3.9
IJEAN                                 ...                     ...                        5.0
RURAL                                                                                    5.4
AVERAGE NUMBER OF PERSONS PER ROOM
TOTAL                                 ..          .B /f                       ..         2.0          0.9
URBAN                                 ..          2.8 /       .               1.8        1.5          0.8
RURAL                                 ...                     ...                        2.7          1.0
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY (PERCENT
OF DWELLINGS)
TOTAL                                            34.0 /f     *-             40.3        64.1         59.2
URBAN                                 ..67.8                                                         78.0
RURAL                                 ..         12.011 .f                  12.2        34.1         12.5



- 24 -                                             AINEX I
Page 2 of 7
TABLE 3A
ALGERIA- SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
REFERENCE GROUPS (ADJUSTED AVERAGES
ALGERIA                        - MOST RECENT ESTIMATE)
SAHE        SAME      NEXT HIGHER
MOST RECENT      GEOGRAPHIC    INCOME       INCOME
1960 Lb     1970 Lb ESTIMATE Lb        REGION Le   GROUP /d    GROUP Le
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIOS
PRIMARY:     TOTAL                 46.0         75.0       77.0 /k          80.8        99.8        97.6
FEMALE                37.0        58.0       72.0             61.8        93.3         87.4
SECONDARY:   TOTAL                   8.0        11.0       26.0 /k          23.6        33.8        47.8
FEKALE                 6.0          6.0      13.0             18.2        29.8         42.6
VOCATIONAL (PERCENT OF SECONDARY) 29.0          20.0        2.0 /k.,         6.7        12.8        22.7
PUPIL-TEACHER RATIO
PRIM%RY                             38.0        40.0       41.0             31.5        34.9        25.4
SECONDARY                           18.0        21.0       26.0             22.3       22.2         24.9
ADULT LITERACY RATE (PERCENT)           ..        26.0       35.0 /k          50.1        71.8         96.3
CONSUFPTION
PASSENGER CARS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                          17.0        11.0       12.0             14.5        12.4        32.3
RADIO RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                         54.0           ..      198.0            125.8      104.5        201.9
TV RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                          5.0          8.0       25.0             34.5       28.1         97.7
NEWSPAP&ER v"DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST") CIRCULATION PER
THOUSAND POP'JLATION                  28.0        15.0       17.0             17.4        45.2         70.9
CINEMA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE PER CAPITA  2.0           6.0        3.0              1.6         4.6          4.4
EMPLOYMENT
OTAL LABUR FORCE (THOUSANDS)       2700.0     3019.0  /f 3820.0
FEMALE (PERCENT)                     3.2        4.1         7.6 /I           9.3       25.7         17.4
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)               67.0       50.0        35.0             42.0        46.2        38.4
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                  12.1       14.6        18.0
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                 26.7        22.7       22.3             26.9        33.8         33.7
MALE                                  51.3        44.4       43.4             46.6        48.1         50.8
FEMALE                                 1.7         1.8        1.9              5.3        17.3         12.6
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO                1.8         2.6        2.4              1.9         1.4          1.4
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
HIGHEST 5 PERCENT OF ROUSEHOLDS       ..          ..         ..               ..       23.6         20.2
HIGHEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS    ..            ..         ..               ..        52.3        47.9
LOWEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS       ..          ..         ..               ..        4.3           3.2
LOWEST 40 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS       ..          ..         ..               ..        13.1         13.7
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
tURBAN                               ..           ..         ..               ..       191.9
RURAL                                ..           ..          .            142.0       193.1       157.9
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                ..           ..        *              236.1      319.8        448.8
RURAL                                 ..          ..        '              144.7       197.7       313.1
ESTIMATED POPULATION BELOW POVERTY
INCOME LEVEL (PERCENT)
URBAN                                 ..          ..       ..               21.5        19.8        23.2
RURAL                                 ..          ..       ..               37.4        35.1         54.5
Not available
Not applicable.
NOTES
/a    The adjusted group averages for each indicator are population-weighted geometric mean., excluding the extreme
values of the indicator and the wust populated country in each group.  Coverage of countries among the
Indicators depends on availability of data and is not uniform.
/b    Unless otherwise noted, data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; for 1970, between 1969
and 1971; and for Most Recent Estimate, between 1973 and 1977.
/c    North Africa & Hiddle East;   /d   Intermediate Middle Income (S551-1135 per capita, 1976);  /e  Uppper
Hiddle Income (S1136-2500 per capita, 1976);                  /R  1954-60;   /h  1962;   /i  1965, Algerian
population only;  XI  1963;  /k  1977;  /1  Certain fields of study previously classified under other
second level education of a vocational or technical nature are now reported under general education;
therefore data not comparable vith those of earlier years; /m  in  non  agricultural  sectors
/n based on the 1977 Population Census.
May 1979
Preliminary



- 25'-                                                                      ANNEX I
Page 3 of 7
KEY TO COUNTRIES BY RECTON ANIT INCOME CREOUPL
RuSinn/On-one Croop [              Loo IntoneAb                      Loner Middle                 Irternediate Middle                   Upper Middle            High n'o-alf                 Countries
Intoee/nC                     IncLmy /d                           Ine/e                                           Oil Exporters
Benin                   M  cci             Angola                   Chase                                   Dibiouti                   Eabon
Burundi                 Mali               Borat  n, Ivory Cocci                                            Reunton
CetIral Afritan  mp.   Moacibiq.o          Cameron-                 Maoitioe
Chad                    Niger              Cspe Verde               Nanibi.
Couroxs                 R-enda             Congo, PR.               Snyihelles
Ethiopia                Sierra Lenne      Eqostorial Uoinea
AFRICA SOL1TH         Eambie, The              S sli             Liberia
OU  SAHARA            Guie                     T-sania           Maritania
Cuine-liao              Tngo               Nigeria
K n,ya                 gUand              Rhodesia
Leaxtho                 Upp-r Volt         S.ao Tone & Prinncpe
Medega-oar               Zaire             Sengal
I                                Ineell~~~~~~~S ailnd
Zmmbi.
NORTH AFRIC             gypo                                      eaonJe Algeria                                                   Lhrabn un
>   NORTE AFRICA        ~Yemen N.ER                                                           Jerdan                                  Iras                       Oman                        Libya
ARE MIDDLE          ' Omen  P.D.R.                                                         Syrian AR                               Iraq                                                  Qatar
EaST                                                                                       Tunisi.                                 Lee.ne.                                                Saudi gra-bi
United Areb nir.
Afghaniatan             MIdives-
SOUTH ASIA            SangladeI h              Nepal
Bh.t-n                  Pekiteon
Bor -                   Sri Lanka
India
CEnbndia                                  N.e  HeRbidea             Chion, Rep. of                          Fiji                       saarican Sm-o
EAST ASIA            |dL-eo  iR.... ipp- Ne- e                                              oree, Rep. nf                                                     P Kbre-nd  Pnloneia
Solomon TsRanda                           Thaila-d                  Ma.,:
Vtei Nm                                   Tonga                     Malasiat                                                           Nev C ledInni
Western Samoa            Trn.t Territory of the Psoific                                     Vingainr
Hailti                                    Bola                      AntIign ,ua tena Gtrgent iA                     a                   aans-l.
El Salvador              Belise             Osnaixa              Herhadoe Bsrduna
LTIN AME ICA                                                     I...drena                 Chile             Henino                Hraeil                     Canal 7Ens
AIT  ANEECIEnen                                                                         Clhia             Hi-aIePeo  Coian                                 Mariniu
AND CARIBBUAR                                                       d.n..a                 Cos.ta Rice       Paraguay             rudeloipe                  Venela
St. Vinen.t              Dle,tnioa          PerR Netherlend. Antills                       Virgin Ilalods (U.S.)
Dinin-an Rep.   St. Kitte-Nevis        Pan-aa
Et-ador           St. Lein             Puerto Ricn
Trinidad & Tobhgo
Turkey                                 Cypru"                      Channel Tsiends
EUROPE MPrt.                                                                                                                                                   rLt-
portogel                  Crec
YugoslIav ia              Lpr e ni
Austro1ia         FiaRend                       TI.y                lon-y                   United States
INDUSTRlALIZED        AStetina          Fran-c                        Japn                 Sooth Afrtin
COUNTRITES             elgion           GEcnny Fd. Rep. of            Lunetbnorg           lvuder
Canada            loel-nd                       Rethetle-da         S-it e-rad
Deonark           IrelT sd                      Nee ZecRand          niSed Klegnt
Aihanla            sneran Dea  Rep.          USSR
BulgaoAa          Hungory
CENTRALLY PLtNvED    China PR. of    Kersa Dte   Rp. ef
ECONrMIES             Cuha              Mongolia
C-eehoslovekia   Pnohnd
/a  Based on 1SNi ENP par napita it  1976 rs dellars
7i $2H0 or lean per oapRie.
7c $281-550 per ..pita.
'd  $551-1135 pe ..pita.
7e  $1136-2500 per p apit.                                                                                                                                                                              EPDFS
If over S250C per tepita.



- 26-                                                                                   ANNEX 1
Page 4 of 7
0!TTCCSo  qo(ui. nIDICAT0lZ
potes: Although to. dtia or. draoe from soturces genserally judged the moat authoritative, and reliable, it should MI.. b. ..otd that they may not be Lneer-
national1o cooper 015 bea.. of  dt. lk of,:   amtr4iset definitions seed Cmonepts Usod hr different cnti.In coleoting  th. tat..  The dt.t arm.   -mthei.e..
tofu  no docrb_     odesof nagnit d. inti ci  treds  and Characterize  certain  -aJor difforesnee  berne  coutrie..
~"oaC'a ro<tootstcococ~,fir each indicator .re popuiatioe-maightod g.,metric memnu, excluding tha ..trm  vausof tha indicator and th. moo
vcpXacsd  cc'-    ~sc, ~rc.co; C   vrg.gofoontri.e  enong the indicotor  depends on  -vilibilito  of data and Ls .ot Uniform.  fluse to -ak of data-
troop aors~s   ct Capiol hurl~s Oi Expresatidia so   ces   oetrad ...creta disposal, . ooin.  inen  di.tribution  and poverty are
-cpie  _,oplatt-eifia   *cecl  asns  withoUt the  nists  of eatra     values.
CAPt AP.EA  ~    q   k.                                                              Ponulatir pe  hsita  bed    L cLto. tirban. an  rural - Population (total.
- lt.. sUrLoco  . Z..        tsno  oo  ares ant inlad  "aterm.                      urban. and rural) divided          n.teir re.p.cti-o number of hospital beta
Aocccu C- ta   --ve   ..-t.i of  ogtutio           rea used tenporarily             tviab       oi ptublit and priztei gamera.1 end sPaia.lised  hospital andre
orfraiot.(r  rop.. paa--res  mark-t  od bitches gardens at to                     habllictitao   cantara.  H-p~it".l  ac .stablianamts  prma,,,ntly Scoffed by
il  taon                                                                                  t least one Phyficiant.  Eatablikamtete providing principall1y cuantdia.l
cas tr nnincluded.  hu;a.l hbopitals. h-s.vc, include health act Nati-
~yp PEE lu.p17J.  C1(  - F.,?a   -apita astlnatsa at current earkat prices,           c  al    C racsa ot p1ramanetly vItffed iv a physician (but by a mdedial a,-
cauolato  ousinsor--i-c  matind mea bold Seauk Atlas 1197S-77 h..ia);                maitant, sUr.., aid-if., src., uhiob  ff.' tx-patient a`com.ataio  and
!96i, 1970, accC9        ra                                                               pro-sIde a limIted cos. of  atalfauilltis..'
Atmissio.. Par h.osottjad s '- Total omose of dadeloeton to or diacharg.&
DrELrti   C7ppl'pW77Sc Pri :".o1V1-  _otilsaeptio. of cose-rcial energy                       f ro  hospital..  di,id.d by the msar of bet..
Mua   n  ligpia", Lat-uua  tactial gaa and bydro-, nuclear end see-
that-mel  lsctoltir)  0.0 i..tfoteaof tzea  equivaleet per capita.          1ws ING
Aveorage miast of houeod(iren   e   oshald  -otl  arbe. and  rual -
POPULA.TION Ani vT-oA. _STATIS7:`Cp                                                          A hoiiahol  cosaaof a  rop of ic,n;dvtuelsoh  abts liigrsnr
Iot   pulto,m-sr  tilsa -ASof Jalp Xl if sot eveilabla.                                 sod their main  -.1.  A boards? or lodger may ormay ma  ha isoluet in
ausrag  of no  end-yar ssimatl 196O. 1970, end 197  dtat.                         the househoit for at.tistical pcrposss.  Statistcl    finitions of beans-
Urbacpplto  frttuf ntotal   -  atin of urban to total popula-                               hold 'ary.
Zion; diff.rent definitions uf urban areas may affect Comparability                     A.I.rass somber of persons par roo   - tota_. Urbe.ant ru ral - Aoverge  us,m
of data mn   -uantrIen.                                                                   bar of person   per room  in all1, Urban, ant rural occupied convetionsal
Population denattr                                                  ~~~~~~~~~domllings. rapectively,  Dwellings exclude non-pesuenent structures  end
?on  s. in. -  itd-7aar popc.~lutn par aquars 1LilseSt6r (100 hecteres.)                  Unoccuspied parts.
uf total area.                                                    A~~~~~~~~~~~ccess -to slectricitv (percent of dsallingel - tot.l, urban. ant rural -
Pe1ra.be   ci.l         e I-aa   - Computed as ebove for agricultural land                 Conventional dwellings with electricity in ltving quartrer  as percentage
orly.                                                              ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~of total, Urban. and rural Assailing. respectively.
X.uaiuaa   ucus   otn    Children (0-1' years) , nthinga,ge
1-4yea.rs.  -an   rot      63  year  end   osrl as parcentsge  of mid-        *   DUCATION
year puptiatits.                                                 it~~~~~~~~~~Alusted enrollment ratios
Populaloc oruni ots (p.rd.ot) - total. and urban - Compousat  -mua                   Primary schol   total, end final  -.Tot., set f anal. enrollmsent of all ages
grouri  rtaae of tota  sod Urban eit-yea   populations for 1930-40.                       atteprmr  lava  as percentage  of re.peoti-aly primary schati-age
196-70  cnd 197C-75.                                                                     populations; normlly inclutes chil1dren aget 6-1  years but adjutet for
Cr.d  birt.bt rats (,.r tihuaxoic - Annual Iv,. birth. par thousad of                       different lengths of primary etuction; for Countries with Uai-ermal ado-
mid-year  ppluo;too-year  ritltoetic  -veog.. ending in 1960 ant                          cation enrlmet may secemed 10  percent since.  m, pupil. are belo1 o
1970 andf  -e-yor avaa   ending in 1975 for Mat roent estimata.                          abov  the official sohoo  ag..
cu.do deetto ret. (pr.  ti-ous   ) -  --1a dentha per thousatd of mid-                   Secondary school - total. ant famale, - Comptet me above; secondary stuc-
year popuat.i.su; ta--pear arithmetic evrgeending im 1960 end 1970                        tion requires at 1east four years of approved prisary instructioef pro-
and fiv-yaaraocc    atn   n195 rmst recent aatlmt..                                       video general vvCationai. or teacher training inmtruti-m  far pupil.
Sm,.reprducton rto  -Averags  uabae of daughters a smmen will beer                   -suall  of 12 to 17 yaare of agal -corspomdencs courses ars generally
is her nra.opoatr   pariod if ahe supertenmac   present age-                              encoded.
specifi  fsrtiity  reEe; usully five-year averages  mding in 1960.              Vocational enroLlmant loe!ret o  scodary) - V ..catomal institutions in-
170.ad i.clods tocoial   nduetrial, or other prngrena which operate independently
Panily pancina -accootor. annual(thousands) - A-nua  number of                    or aa departments of saconeyinttti'ons.
ocapo.  it  Zi:ti-o.otr  dsvica  ,s          usieso  ntonlIsiysi-tsacbsr ratio -  rimao"S. and  ectnder,   Tatal Students enrolled in
pi.enin r prgapimary en  scondary 1".-le divided by numbers of teachers in the sorrs-
Pesti  pisnicc-±oce   loaront  f morisd   omen  v- P.cenae   of                spending lavel.
marrid uvec uftiildicaro5 ag   lSru  psas) eh  usebirth-control       Adult literacy rate  Posrtentl - Literats adults (shle to read and wtit.) am
d-...ue  to nil maried  -a   in .-m  ag. group.                                           a peocentag. of total adult population aged 15 years end over.
FOOD ANI)O HVIX:lCoN104~T0
bOon. of food prop-uvlon psr :.pit. (1970-100) - Intan numnber of per                    Passnst trs on e pr thousand  wpolation) -Passenger cars compries enter care
t-p1ta   __uc  Prout        e f aL food 'onmditie..                                     seeting less than eight persoonis;ecludes emhbalencan, hbeares end mIlitary
P. r c-citt  uol   f  nris(Percent of -seuirenentm)                 Compcd from,eices
strrqtvln   of nat f.oot .ppliea available In country per capita                     Radio receivr       or huadpoulatol..- All types of rece.ivers for radio
Per, isy.  ;,.vil.iia supplite  comprims tometic production. imports less.              broad  atsiatoogene ral1 public per thousand of population; aoecluds. onliasuene
oot.an   hna  ic atock.  Noat suppli  sa elada animal feet.  aedta                      re..aivere in cotri.a and in yeara  hen r-giatration  of redio sots was ix
_ueilia   ume co  -00   rctsing,. ant lo .a din  etibntien.  Xe-                       affect; dats for recant years may net is oeparshl. since most countri.s
-r.ent  vt  ..tinatsd cv Pal beasteo  physielogical seeds for nor-                abolished licensing.
nal aci!trl    sot .eth ....eId.rin: environm,ental tsmperature, body                  TV receivers (par thousand ppoulatienl - 'V recivrs for broadcast to generiL
wotolt. agosoc se  diso tiucOn   of population, hod allowinug 10 per-             public par thousand population; anolUd.s sn.licsneed TV receivers in conus-
cen  (or cai   :ho      -sd   sv.tries and in yssrs when reg;istration of TV sets was in effect.
Per ppAs  uopC.- 0  or-ico    ans Eo.a  day) - Pro tain cntent of per           Newspaper .clcula,tioc  (oarithousand Ocvul.tio.) - Shows th.  -vrags  icus
caIt'   tao- su1-ppl%f-pcItn  da.         Itspl  of foot is defined a                      tien   f "daily gaas.noas   ssao"   dafind  eaperiodIcal publi-
co   .,s- ,Oc-ceats for .2  oUrtri.ss establishe  by00   rv             for           cation devoted primrily nto: rscrdin  go.nra1 ne-.  It is cons.idered to
a  tzi-  all--c  of tO gram  of total protein par day and 20 gram                       bs "daily" if in appears at Il...t four tines a weae.
p. a.a..  ocapo.n  wrtcc, of woici 1I grane sheuld bs animal protein.            Cinaem  sentIe  attsntancs Per -ait. Per  -or - iaeea Ic ths nusbr of tickets
ttos  scacoc  ....  .o.sr tia  tchose nf 75 raena of itetl protein and                    s.Id during Lbs year, inldn  aesio  to tiosit cisasad mobile
C3S foam  of -01.5  pt.occcL asn ..v.cag. for the surlt, propeeednby                      Units..
FAl O  ot- ThAtrcnIcFood Survo.7
= a, cuctriprotoco aroic (eon aisal and ptil.. - Protein oupply of fond        fML0't0T9N'
uortoad.cncci.c.s  so  pSoasin graso  per day.                              Total labor ferns (thousa..ds) - Economically ac-i-spros   inciudise armed
Chil  acs1-       itont,orto  ocr 'thouad)-Annual teethe per thouS-                         forces and uneeployad but seldn   cswva   tudsnce  etc.  Dofini-
cci ccaga ft.~ 1-  years  tv c.ildr-  in this age group.                         clots in rarious oc-nrias arm notcopri.
Pseae fartcil -     IPeLe lbor.force as percentage of total labor forte..
8 E&L - S,  ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~    ~     ~     ~    ~     ~    ~ ~ ~ giclue  tere)-lbror frt  In foring, forestry, honting sad fIs.hing
Cclv coecisocya: Art,  ~core0 - vrgs. ofhr of years of his.                        S. par-stag. of Loeel labor fort..
rM    1acou  st cc,t; Usue-y fio-y-a  -vrages ending it 1960, 1970,                    Industry (Percent) - Inior forts in mining, construction. sanuf-otring and
aid 1975.                                                                                 elstri"tit.vt? n'a  as                . carsnae of total labor fra
Inf.ot sortait-, rate (P.r tho.....d) - Annua  deaths of infacts Uoter                   Potc-1o aelaret      oa.ai., .nd fseal  - Total, male, and
Ina )tesr of op. y?.  Zipue..so   d-lr  hierht.                                           ! aeal. labor force aspsr-ecages of their ..eepautivoppueioa
.ccesto tWf                                            ,.I2...      oplte)     oa. urban. and rura  -  Ihsas ar. rLOs   dfuat.d perticipation rates rsfl.ctig .g ss
thincr cc  eocC  - <iil, toop.sou ors..  viii r.....nabla accee. to              atorr    f tho pouaio,.d lo-S :i.o nrstd.
.uf .c..c..s.o           . mc   t trstd surface   aters or untreted but                too--no  d.p.nd.-ncraOt10 - t.ti. of p.p-ltiat truer 15  od i5 end  -or t
drc -naa    sn  auto aschat from Protected borehole$, epringe,                      tie lboor forte in age group of 15-6-eas
Cucntro.i, 00 pocraa    f t-ur reapectivs Populations.
caccnvotaOcuspThltc  cocotainor ncnrdpnet located not morce                INCOMEt ZIRsIBhm-rON
tva..  DC xsntrr (fr-t    h-cs  -a  b. ....ca...d 00 being within roa-                 -eonaoo   rvte  Lncom   (both in cash and ondl rece.ired by richest I
euncolo  soces  -1 thet oc-et   in rur- or... r..oaso lshi  access isld                   pscn,rtet21 psroent, pooes  20 P....n. L,   t poorsa.OL.par ...t
imply tat tre   uusswLf   rnesrof tva hi.u..hold do tot bays t.                     of ho....ihlds.
:P... . do- ...rticot Part of Ota tar in fetching tbs feally1's
Access  c coccoi cisp  551 ctrceor o  cctcl tlol   ttal, urb,n. ant         fatltod absocute oo-rty tocomo is1l.-               e  cata!-rhtnrursil
r         Ial-  uyv  :  md C.   r iC,  foken  ao   cal     .eyt.  by extre                   Absolute pocarty Incone level is that. mie    ..   su hicr. a minimal
ulsyosalus yorcctafos ccceir rspsctcvnpopulatons.  Seret.                 nunritio..eLI, adequate hotL plu ..a....tia1 ion-fond  -sqUiraenei   is non
di.osa  J5   o  .0teclvcc   c  di.pusa..  wi .th  r0  ith.u.                               aff.rdabls.
crsu ,c   <n-o eccaodst-catr by water-borne Systens                            tstio.ard relativ  povr    intone lIntl  JSI  -sr capita) - urbac and rural-
Pr on  -taoof pt prvn   .   ila   vtalin.                                             Leatv  povety  noai li  the  inL                e   vllosta   n-third
P,pc1atccc co   h-ocictn     PvnC           1,ndivdd by niab.r of practicing                 par Lapina             i...n..mon   of th. s  .ountry.
prvs;ccci tu.acfcsd   ro adsical ectuo  at university level.                     tEtimeted pou        rblwPoo-rty inceo  loalo-I             st    -burie  end rural 
--cscc  o   oing p--eo  - FPoUleti1- dlvided by number of                           Prniof P;populaion (urban and octal.)  h  are either'babolute poor" or
ptaPtcccfnab  ad toalm. gradunta nu..... practical nurosa. and                       'rlati- poor" uhithv-r ie gr..t.r.
Ec.onomic and Social lets Division
Economic Analysis .nd ProJ.ci...a Deportment



- 27 -
ALGERiA                                                                       ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT DATA SHEET                                            ANNEX 1
Page 5 of 7 pages
Actual                 Preli.      projected V/               Growth Rates                   1977
1973       1975         1977      1978       1983          1988     1974    1979    1984         Share of GDP
1977   1]983    1988
A. NATIONAL ACCOUNTS
(DA millions: 1974 constant prices)
1.  Gross domestic product                              50,435      54,305     62,255      67,466    101,567      136,056      5.5     8.5      6.0            100.0
2.  Gains fros termts of trade                         -10,766      -3,399      -2,910     -5,347       2,084       7,861       .        .       .              -4.7
3.  Gross domestic intcca  (1+2)                        39,669      50,906      59,345     62,119    103,651      143,917    10.6    .0.8       6.8             95.3
4.  Imports                                             14,500      22,870      25,800     26,880      34,637      43,521    15.5       5.2     4.7             41.4
5.  EIports - volupe                                    21,390      20,226     22,121      23,681      36,208      36,392      0.9     8.9      0.1             35.5
6.  Eoports - TT adjusted                               10,624      16,827      19,211     18,334      38,292      44,253    16.0    15.8       2.9             30.9
7. Resource gap - TT adjusted (4-6)                      3,876       6,043      6.589       8,546      -3,655        -732      .         .       .              10.6
8.  Total consumption                                   25,810      32,466      37,610     40,083      58,879      89,357      9.9     8.0      8.7             60.4
Phblic connustptios                              5,720      6,770       7,760       8,442     13,889       21,401     7.9    10.5      9.0             12.5
Private cons..tption                            20,090     25,696      29,850      31,641     44,990       67,956    10.4      7.3     8.6             47.9
9. Total investment                                     17,735      24,483      28,324     30,582      41,117      53,828    12.4      6.1      5.5             45.5
Ficed Investment                                15,770     21,153      27,564      31,888     40,300       52,000    15.0      4.8     5.2             44,3
10. Statistical adjustmnt                                  -           -           -
11. National savings                                     14,574      18,690      21,200     21,149      39,200      54,098      9.8    13.1      6.7             34.1
12.  Domestic Savings                                    13,859      18,440     21,735      22,036      41,572      54,560    11.9    13.5       5.6             34.9
13. GDP at curr. prices (US$ millions)                    8,723      14,370     19,401      23,477      55,761     105,355    22.5    18.9    13.6
14.  Pised investment at current prices (US$ M)           3,582       6,219      9,327      12,447      21,560      36,193    27.0    11.6    10.9
15. Fised investrent/GDP  (current)                        41.1        43.3       48.1        53.0        38.7        34.4
S. SECTOR OUTPUT
(Distribution in percentages; 1974 constant prices)
1. Agriculture                                             7.2         9.3         6.5        6.0         4.8         4.2      2.7     3.7       3.5
2. Nydrocarbons                                           40.5        34.3       33.3        32.3        32.2        22.6      0.3     8.5      -1.2
3. other industry                                         20.8        25.2        28.5       29.4        29.8        33.7    13.9      9.0       8.6
4.  Services                                              31.5        31.2        31.7       32.3        33.2        39.5      5.4      9.1      9.8
5.  Non-hydrocarbon output                                59.5        65.7       66.7        67.7        67.8        77.4      8.5     8.6       8.9
C. PRICES (1974 - 100 in US dollars)
1.  Esport price indes (itol. NFS)                        39.6       102.0      121.0       119.9       225.3       338.4    32.5    13.4        8.5
2.  Import price indes (incl. NFS)                        79.7       122.5      139.4       154.9       213.0       278.3    15.0      6.6       5.5
3. Terms of trade index                                   49.7        83.3       86.8        77.4       105.8       121.6    15.2      6.5       2.8
4.  GDP deflator (in dinars)                               72.4      110.7       130.4      138.1       217.9       307.3    15.8      9.5       7.1
Hydrocarbcs valus added deflator                    35.3        94.2      114.3       112.7      208.9        323.6    34.5    13.1        9.1
5. Average exchange rate                                  3.959      3.949      4.147       3.966
D. SELECTED INDICATORS
(Computed at 1974 constant prices)                      1974-77         1979-83           1984-88
1.  ICOR 2/                                                4.0            4.3               5.5
1.1  ICOR non-hydrocarbon econor,y                     5.3            5.7               5.4
2.  Total import elasticity                                2.82           0.61              0.78
2.1  Non-capital import elasticity                     1.33           0.78              0.77
3. Average national savings rate/GDY                      38.5           40.0              39.7
4.  Marginal national savings rata/GDY                     33.7          51.5              28.7
5.  Importe/GDY                                           41.2           36.6              31.0
6.  Invest=ent/GDY                                        45.9           43.4              37.9
7. Resource gap/GDY                                        6.7            1.1              -2.8
E. PuBLIC FINANCE (Central Government)                                                                         Preli.
(as % of GDP et current prices)                           1973             1975             1977             1978
1.  Current revenue                                       31.9             44.5             43.8             40.3
1.1  Nydrocarbon revenue                              11.9             23.7             22.4             18.3
2.  Current expenditure                                   18.6             22.6             18.9             17.4
3.  Governmtent savinga                                   13.3             21.9             25.0             22.9
4.  Capital expenditure                                   10.8             10.0             13.2             13.8
5.  Loans and advances (net)                              12.1             21.8             24.4             26.4
6. overall Treasury balance                                3.7             -7.1             -7.5            -11.7
F. LABOR FORCE (is thousands)
1966           1973           1977 3/
1. Agricultural, total                1,270          1,480          1,330
- permenently employed            (450)          (520)           (570)
- seasonally employed             (820)          (960)           (760)
- percentage of underemployed       65             65              57
2.  Non-agricultural, total           1,180          1,700          2,490
- active                          (860)         (1,407)         2,240
- unemployed                      (320)           (293)          (250)
- percentage of unemployed          27              17             1O
1/  Staff Estimetes
2/  Comted to Ghe    with one year lag btesee  investment and output.                                         -  not  ppli table                          Elay 1i979
3/  Base.d on the 1977 Population Caeus., preLiminary.                                                        -   il or les  titan hclf of unit shows       -  17
not projected



- 28 -
ALGERIA                                                                                                                              ANNEX 1
Page 6 of 7 pages
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS AND EXTERNAL ASSISTANCE
(Millions of US dollars: current prices)
1/
Actual                               Preli.          Projected
1969   1973        1974       1975       1976       1977        1978       1979      1981        1983         1988
A. ISUMMARY OF BALANCE OF PAYMENTS
1. Eiports (including NFS)                  1,010    2,016       4,935       4,869      5,569      6,331      6,754       9,290    14,342       19,510      29,460
2. Imports (including NFS)                  1,225    2,712       4,477       6,598      6,432      8,475      9,968    11,694    14,658         17,648      28,973
3. Resoucce Balance                          -215      -696         458    -1,729        -863     -2,144    -3,214       -2,404       -316       1,862          487
Net factor service income                  -62       112          87         38       -107       -206       -375        -600    -1,013       -1,121        -340
1. Interest poynents                       -11       -83       -218       -235        -381       -454       -570       -835    -1,269        -1,452      -1,062
2. Interest receipts                        25        20        148          72         83         86         72          84        100         155         465
3. Direct Investment income               -241        -           -           1          2          1        -14        -38         -54         -70        -106
4. Workers  remittances                    166       226         202        265        254        246        277         298        341         390         547
5. Other factor services (net)              -1       -51        -45         -65        -65        -85       -140       -109        -131        -144        -184
5. Correct transfe-s (net)                     48         89         43         32         41          28        40          50         50          50           50
6. Balance on current account                -229       -495        588    -1,659        -929    -2,322      -3,549    -2,954       -1,279          791         197
7. Private direct investment                   41         51        360         97        179        173         136        200        200         200          200
8. Official capital grants                      23       -39       -427         -          -           -          -           6           8           8           8
Public M&LT loans
9. Di'sbusements                                87    1,597         631      1,705      2,157      2,670      4,701       4,137      3,657       2,330        3,156
10. Amoctioation                                -54     -234        -467        433       -517       -713    -1,070    -1,389    -2,386          -3,014      -4,168
11. Net disbursements                            33    1,363         164      1,272      1,640      1,957       3,631      2,748      1,271        -684      -1,012
16. Short-term  capitol                          -        -           -         -          -           -          -
17. Capital transac.tics n-.e  .                11       -277       -525         72       -262       -124         134         -         -           -            -
18. Changes in ceserves (- = increases)          21      -603       -160        218       -628         316       -352         -        -200        -315          607
19. Net foreign echange reserves              476    1,096        1,315      1,066      1,608      1,413       1,800      1,800      2,200       3,010        5,967
B. GRANT AND LOAN COMMITMENTS
1. Official grants                               23         3        -           -         -           -          -
2. Total public M&LT loans                       ..    2,305       1,453      4,125      2,642      2,543       5,085
2.1  IBRD                                              25        158          48        151        170         172
2.3  Other -1,Itiloterai
2.4  Go-ernments                                      375        169         244        244        193
2.5  of which centrally planned              '         (4)        (27)      (112)        (1)       (10)
2.6  Soppliers                               ,,       290        666      2,116       1,002        925      1,913
2.7  Fnsncial institutio-s                   ..    1,544         399      1,717       1,245      1,187    ) 3,000
2.8  Bonds                                   ..        71         61           -          -         68    )
C. MEMORANDUM ITEMS
1. Grant element of otal co-sitments            ,.    6.1          16.8       10.5        6.8        8.4         6.1
2. Average interest (percent)                    . .    8.9         6.7        7.7        8.2        7.8         8.2
3. Average moronity (years)                      ..   14.1         13.1       10.4        9.8        9.3        10.9
I/ Staff Estint-es
- Nil or less than half of unit  ho-n
Not available.
EMENA CPIIB
May   1979



- 29 -
ALGERIA                                                                                                                                 ANNEX I
DEBT AND CREDITWORTHINESS                                                Page 7 of 7 pages
Actual                                       Preli.
1969       1973      1974       1975       1976       1977        1978
A. MEDIUM AND LONG-TERM DEBT
(millions of US dollars)
1.  Total debt outstanding (DOD; end of period)                               678      2,932      3,304      4,477      5,855      8,165      11,796
2.  Including undisbursed                                                   1,210      4,916      6,002      9,591    11,440    13,785         16,970
3.  Public debt service                                                        65        317        685        668        898      1,167        1,640
1.  Interest                                                               11         83        218        235        381        454         570
B. DEBT BURDEN (percentage)
1.  Debt service ratio                                                       6.4        15.7        13.9        13.7     16.1       18.4        24.3
2.  Debt service and direct investment income ratio                           ..        15.7        13.9        13.7     16.1       18.4       24.5
3.  Debt service/GDP                                                         1.6         3.6         5.5        4,6       5.4        6.0         7.0
4.  Public debt service/Government revenue                                   5.4        11.4         12.2      10.4      13.9       13.7        17.0
5.  Total DOD/GDP                                                           16.1        33.7        26.4       31.1      35.5       42.1        50.2
C. TERMS (percentage)
1.  interest on total DOD/total DOD 1/                                       2.3         5.6         7.4         7.1      8.5        7.8         7.0
2.  Total debt service/total DOD  V/                                        13.7        21.3        23.4       20.2      20.1       19.9       20.1
D. DEPENDENCY RATIOS FOR MELT DEBT (percentage)
1.  Gross disbursements/imports  (including NF8)                             7.1        58.9        14.1       25,8      33.5       31.5       47.2
2.  Net transfer/imports  (including NFS)                                    1.8        47.2        -1.2       15,7      19.6       15.0       30.7
3.  Net transfer/gross disbursements                                        25.3        80.2        -8.6       60.8      58.4       47.6       65.1
e. EXPOSURE (percentage)
1.  IBRD disbursements/Total disbursement                                     -            -         0.3         2.2      2.6        2.0         1.6
2.  IBRD DOD/Total DOD                                                       2.7         0.3         0.2        0.8       1.5         1.7        1.7
3.  IBRD debt service/Total debt service                                     5.5         1.2         0.5        1,3       0.8        0.8         1.3
P. EXTERNAL DEBT  (disbursed only)                                                                       Outstanding, Dec. 31. 1977
(millions of US dollars)                                                                               Amount          Percent
1.  IBRD                                                                                             138                  1.7
2.  Other multilateral                                                                                  3
3.  Governments                                                                                    1,279                 15.7
4.  Suppliers                                                                                      2,439                 29.9
5.  Pinancial institutions                                                                         4,102                 50.2
6.  Bonds                                                                                            204                  2.5
7.  Total public M&LT debt                                                                         8.165                100.0
8.  Total public M&LT debt (including undisbursed)                                                13,785                168,8
G. DEBT/PROFILE
1.  Tatal debt service 1978-1982/Total DOD end of 1977 (percent):  179
V/ DOD at the end of previous year.                               - Nil or less than half of unit shown                         EMENA CPIIB
Klay 1979



- 30 -
ANNEX II
Page 1 of 6
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN ALGERIA
A.  STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS (as of April 30, 1979)
Loan or                                                                     US $ million
Credit                                                                 Amount (less cancellations)
Number         Year        Borrower                      Purpose       bank   IDA   Undl6bursed
Three loans fully disbursed and repaid                                 B0.5
912 AL        1973         The Denocratic and          Highways        18.5            4.1
Popular Republic of
Algeria
913 AL        1973        The Democratic and           Education        3.5            2.2
Popular Republic of
Algeria
995 AL        1974        The Democratic and           Ports           70.0           23.5
Popular Republic of
Algeria
996 AL        1974        Railways-SNTF                Railways        49.0            7.3
997 AL        1974        Power-SONELGAZ               Power           38.5            8.1
1158 AL        1975        Banque AlgErienne            Industrial    40.0             30.5
de DEveloppement            Credit
1159 AL        1975        The Democratic and           Tech. Asst.   80.0              6.4
Popular Republic of         Rural Dev.
Algeria
1185 AL        1976        SociEtE Nationale des        SNMC            46.0           27.3
MatEriaux de                Expansion
Construction
1209 AL        1976        The Democratic and           Education       47.0           43.3
Popular Republic of
Algeria
1293 AL        1976        Power-SONELGAZ               Power           57.5           19.7
1378 AL        1977        The Democratic and           Education       48.5           48.5
Popular Republic of
Algeria
1407 AL        1977        The Democratic and           Highways        41.5           41.5
Popular Republic of
Algeria
1427 AL        1977        The Democratic and            Ports           80.0          80.0
Popular Republic of
Algeria
1545 AL        1978        The Democratic and            Sewerage        82.0          82.0
Popular Republic of
Algeria
1595 AL        1978        The Democratic and            Education       90.0          89.4
Popular Republic of
Algeria
1683 AL1/      1979        The Democratic and            Highways       126.0         126.0
Popular Republic of
Algeria
TOTAL                                                   926.5          639.8
of which has been repaid                     85.9
Total now outstanding                                   840.60
Amount sold                               34.81
of which has been repaid    34.81
Total now held by Bank                                  840.60
Total undisbursed                                                      639.8
B. STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS - None (not a member)
1/ Not yet effective.



- 31 -
ANNEX II
Page 2 of 6 pages
C.   PROJECTS IN EXECUTION 1/
Loan 912-AL First Highway Project; US$18.5 million Loan of June 19, 1973;
Effective Date: October 26, 1973; Closing Date: (Original)
December 31, 1976, (Current) June 30, 1979.
All project components are completed. A Completion Report is
currently being prepared. Loan funds are almost entirely committed; the loan
is expected to close according to schedule. Non-committed funds, which amount
to about $1.3 million, would be used to finance extensions of consultant con-
tracts for feasibility and engineering studies for the Third (1683-AL) and
proposed Fourth (FY81) Highway Projects.
Loan 913-AL First Education Project; US$3.5 million Loan of June 19, 1973;
Effective Date: October 26, 1973; Closing Date: (Original)
December 31, 1976, (Current) June 30, 1979.
The project is substantially completed. Although implementation had
fallen behind schedule, $3.2 million has now been committed and equipment pur-
chases for the Institute of Mining and Metallurgy and for two training centers
of the Algerian Petroleum Institute are progressing. The loan is expected to
close according to the current schedule.
Loan 995-AL Port Project: US$70.0 million Loan of June 10, 1974; Effective
Date: February 10, 1975; Closing Date: (Original) June 30,
1978; (Current) June 30, 1979.
The project is substantially completed. Disbursements are behind
schedule due to claims still pending but are expected to catch up soon. There
has been a delay of about 18 months in provision of LNG facilities and equip-
ment but 2 LNG berths are operational. Total project cost, based on contracts
received, is about $64 million less than the appraisal estimates of May 1974.
Complete loan disbursement is expected by December 31, 1979, six-months later
than the current closing date, which will therefore have to be extended.
1/   These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding the
progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report any prob-
lems which are being encountered, and the action being taken to remedy
them. They should be read in this sense, and with the understanding
that they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation of strengths
and weaknesses in project execution.



- 32 -
ANNEX II
Page 3 of 6 pages
Loan 996-AL Railway Project; US$49.0 million Loan of June 10, 1974; Effective
Date: November 11, 1974; Closing Date: (Original) December 31,
1978; (Current) December 31, 1980.
The physical execution of the project, which supports the railway's
rehabilitation program, is nearing satisfactory completion and procurement has
proceeded on schedule. Several important studies, however, could not be com-
pleted by December 31, 1978 and the Closing Date has been extended to permit
their completion.
Loan 997-AL First Power Project; US$38.5 milion Loan of June 10, 1974; Effec-
tive Date: December 20, 1974; Closing Date: June 30, 1979.
The project comprises high voltage substations, gas turbine plants,
dispatch facilities, and consulting services for management and engineering
services. Physical progress of the project is satisfactory. All main con-
tracts have been awarded. Delays have been encountered in the provision of
financial information indicating how the financial covenants under the loan
will be achieved (see Loan 1293-AL). There have been some delays in construc-
tion which will require an extension of the Closing Date.
Loan 1158-AL Development Finance Company Project; US$40 million Loan to
Banque Algerienne de Developpement of September 4, 1975;
Effective Date: January 5, 1976; Closing Date: December 31,
1981.
Progress in committing funds under this project has been slower
than anticipated, although the rate has been accelerating recently. As
of April 30, 1979, $36.2 million had been committed, compared to the appraisal
estimate of the full loan amount. This is due mainly to a substantial delay
in setting up the appraisal unit in BAD. Performance remains disappointing as
regards institutional arrangements for BAD to participate as a decision-maker
in the investment decision process, the improvement of which was an important
project objective. The Bank and the Government are now discussing the situa-
tion and ways to improve it.
Loan 1159-AL Technical Assistance (Rural Development) Project; US$8.0 million
Loan of September 4, 1975; Effective Date: January 5, 1976;
Closing Date: December 31, 1981.
The credit sub-pfoject is now proceeding satisfactorily. The con-
tract with the consulting firm (IRAM) for the extension subproject has been
signed and all nine expatriate technicians are in the field. Negotiations for
the mountain subproject have been concluded, resulting in contract signature
with Agrar und Hydrotechnik, and the consultants are in the field. For the
steppe subproject, Government has signed a contract with a consortium headed
by the South Australian Government.



- 33 -
ANNEX II
Page 4 of 6 pages
Loan 1185-AL SNMC Expansion Project: US$46 million Loan of January 7, 1976;
Effective pate: April 7, 1976; Closing Date: June 30, 1982.
Construction of the cement plant is approximately six months behind
schedule but is now proceeding satisfactorily and completion is scheduled for
March 1980.   Arrangements for technical assistance are being made to com-
pensate for delays in recruiting and training staff for plant operations.
Capital costs are expected to be about 20% higher than anticipated but finan-
cing appears assured. Important measures have been taken to restore SNMC's
financial viability. The SNC technical assistance program is not running
effectively and the Government has been requested to take appropriate action.
Loan 1209-AL Second Education Project: US$47 million Loan of March 9, 1976;
Effective Date: June 4, 1976; Closing Date: December 31, 1981.
Implementation of this project is progressing satisfactorily
although disbursements are behind schedule. Following initial delays in
preparation of construction documents for Phase I due to administrative
problems, construction has now started and bidding procedures for F'hase II are
underway; similar delays in preparing ICB bid documents for equipment procure-
ment are now being offset. Implementation of the technical assistance program
for the Institute of Electricity and Electronics is about one year behind
schedule; the remaining technical assistance program is well underway, though
also somewhat behind schedule.
Loan 1293-AL Second Power Project; US$57.5 million Loan of July 8, 1976;
Effective Date: December 2, 1976; Closing Date: December 30,
1980.
The Project consists of the transmission/substation component of
SONELGAZ's 1976-1980 program comprising about 3,300 km of transmission lines
and 4,000 MVA of substation capacity, and studies of SONELGAZ's organization
and management methods. Overall physical progress is satisfactory. Procure-
ment for substations to be financed from the loan has been approved by the
Bank, but some delays have occurred in construction. SONELGAZ has not yet
submitted to the Bank a financial plan indicating how the financia'L covenants
agreed upon will be achieved, partly because of the slow down in decision-
making resulting from the formation of the new Government. Appropriate deci-
sions in this respect are now expected by the middle of this year.
Loan 1378-AL Third Education Project: US$48.5 million, Loan of May 15, 1977;
Effective Date: October 5, 1977; Closing Date: March 31, 1980.
This project started well but has fallen about 2 years behind sched-
ule due mainly to changes in personnel at the Ministries of Education and
Labor at the end of 1977 and a prolonged bidding period for civil works for
the technicums. The Government is re-examining limited offers for technicums
construction and is expected to decide shortly either to award contracts for
about 55% of civil works and negotiate remainder, or repeat ICB. The Ministry
of Labor decided in March 1979 to proceed with implementation of the two voca-
tional training centers under ICB (also 2 years behind schedule) and bidding
for civil works is expected by October 1979.



- 34 -
ANNEX II
Page 5 of 6 pages
Loan 1407-AL Second Highways Project: US$41.5 million, Loan of May 15, 1977;
Effective Date:  October 5, 1977; Closing Date:  December 31,
1981.
The project comprises the construction of the Boudouaou-Lakhdaria
section of the Algiers-Constantine road, consultant services for construction
supervision and technical assistance. Implementation has been slow, due
mainly to an unsuccessful first round of bidding for the sole construction
component. Bidding on this $100 million contract was declared unsuccessful
on the basis of lack of competition (one unresponsive bid was received) and
unacceptably high unit prices. Nine new bids were received in January 1979,
of which five bids are responsive and confirm the cost estimates. The Govern-
ment is currently evaluating the bids and is expected to propose the award
to the Bank end May 1979. The Government is also negotiating with consultants
provision of technical assistance to help in construction supervision.
Training of maintenance personnel, both in Algeria and abroad, has started
early in 1979 and consultants services for assistance to the Ministry of
Public Works is being provided. With the above award the entire project
will be under implementation and is expected to be about one year behind
schedule because of the tender problems.
Loan 1427-AL Jijel Port Project: US$80.0 million, Loan of September 30, 1977;
Effective Date: January 24, 1978; Closing Date: December 31,
1982.
The project is about one year behind schedule due to delays in bid
evaluation, although this is expected to be completed soon. There have also
been delays in the construction of the steel complex which the port is to
serve. The Government has informed the Bank that the Steel Complex Project
has been expanded to increase its production capacity and is expected to be
completed at the end of 1984 or early in 1985.
Loan 1545-AL First Sewerage Project: US$82 million, Loan of September 26,
1978; Effective Date: November 17, 1978; Closing Date:
December 31, 1983.
The project consists of the construction of combined sewer inter-
ceptors, the first stage of a sewage treatment plant, and technical assistance
to the Societe des Eaux de l'Agglomeration d'Alger (SEDAL), with a view to
creating a sound institutional basis for its operations and establishing new
water tariffs to enable SEDAL to ensure its financial independence. Project
implementation has begun, and management consultants have been appointed.
Selection of engineering consultants for construction supervision is underway.
Loan 1595-AL Fourth Education Project: US$90 million, Loan of September 26,
1978; Effective Date: February 28, 1979; Closing Date:
December 31, 1984.
Project implementation is in its early stages and is proceeding
satisfactorily for the mechanical engineering institutes (NIME and NIMET) and
the teacher training school for technicums (ENSEP). Preparations for the
Institute for Vocational Instructor Training (IVIT), which had fallen several
months behind schedule due to some proposed technical modifications and change
of site, are now proceeding satisfactorily. Project progress is being closely
monitored by frequent supervision missions.



- 35 -
ANNEX II
Page 6 of 6 pages
Loan 1683-AL Third Highway Project: US$126 million, Loan of May 16, 1979;
Effective Date: Not yet effective; Closing Date: June 30,
1983.
The Loan is expected to be effective by July 31, 1979. Project
implementation is in its early stages but is proceeding satisfactorily.
Tender documents for maintenance equipment and for a first tranche! of pave-
ment strengthening have been prepared and proposed to the Bank for approval.
Bidding is expected to start in June 1979. Prequalification to select con-
tractors is being conducted for bidding for the construction of the La Chiffa-
Berrouaghia road section, and a short list of consultants for studies is under
preparation.



- 36 -
ANNEX III
Page 1 of 2
ALGERIA
MEAT INDUSTRY PROJECT
SUPPLEMENTARY PROJECT DATA SHEET
Section I: Timetable of Key Events
(a)  Project identification:                  November, 1977
(b) Time taken by the Borrower to
prepare project:                         One year (May, 1978-April, 1979)
(c)  Project preparation responsibility:   IBRD, as executing agency for UNDP
project AL 6/77/030. Office National
les Aliments du Betail (ONAB) was the
Algerian counterpart, and EASAMS,
a UK-based consulting firm, was
contracted for preparation work.
(d)  First Bank mission to review
project:                                 October, 1978
(e)  Date of departure of appraisal
mission:                                 November 27, 1978
(f)  Date of completion of negotiations:   May 22, 1979
(g)  Planned date of effectiveness:           October 30, 1979
Section II:  Special Bank Implementation Actions
Supervision of consultants preparing tender documents.
Section III: Special Conditions
1.        As a condition of effectiveness, the government will acquire and the
Bank will approve appropriate sites for the three meat complexes.  Also con-
sultants will have to be appointed to assist in the preparation of tender
documents, evaluation of bids, and supervision of construction of the meat
complexes (para. 50).
2.        Other conditions are:
(a) from December 31, 1981 onwards, ONAB to maintain an appropriate
financial structure (para. 54);
(b) performance specification acceptable to the Bank for effluent
disposal to be included in tender documents for the meat complexes
(para. 58);



- 37 -
ANNEX III
Page 2 of 2
(c) the meat complexes to be constructed and operated accord[ng to
European Economic Community standards of hygiene appropriately
modified (para. 47);
(d) a three-man consultant agricultural team, to be appointed for
three years to assist ONAB in developing sheep fattening on
medic pastures (para. 46);
(e)  appropriate financial incentives would be paid to the farms for
grazing ONAB sheep on the medic pastures (para. 49);
(f) consultants to provide in-service training during initiaL opera-
tions of the meat complexes (para. 51);
(g) consultants to establish cost accounting and to study improvements
to ONAB's financial procedures (para. 51); and
(h) Government to provide financing for local cost of Project
(para. 52).






ALGRI ADnA
4-                                                                              MAY i9`79~~ MET OMLE
41;AN OIr R      r A  NFA  N  SFA                                                L.S
INTERM/ITTGSTELAK
Tn,08 lo ,f rp(e Ill WoldooooffoS,Sr VI to,ldi(                                                                                                                                        MEA         IN     USR1P OJC
Ro.                                            A,.Rif                                                                                                                                                     INA                N D
p                                7~            ~~ ~~~~- SECNDAY RAD
,tt.S,R£s. allyJludgm,lt pml IRe lgal Iloll lI ofl lalIlwnorY 01 any  e1a000101t or                                                        4
ac0ptaneol JSOt olDlIdOrIIO



