RESTR I CTED
Report No. P-833
This report was prepared for use within the Bank and its affiliated organizations.
They do not accept responsibility for its accuracy or completeness. The report may
not be published nor may it be quoted as representing their views.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
AND A
PROPOSED DEVELOPMENT CREDIT
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF HONDURAS
FOR A FOURTH POWER PROJECT
June 2, 1970



INTETWATIONAL DANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
INTTMNATIONAL DEVELOPME14T ASSOCIATION
REPORT AMD RECOMMENDATION OF THE P'RESIDETT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A
PROPOSED LOAN AND A PROPOSED
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT TO THE REPUBLIC OF HONDURAS
FOR A FOURTH POWER PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
loan from the Bank in an amount in various currencies equivalent to
US$565 million and on a proposed development credit from the Association
in ein amount in various currencies equivalent to US$5.5 million, to the
Republic of Honduras.
PART I - HISTORICAL
2.        The proposed project was submitted to Bank/IDA in 1969 and was
appraised in February 1970. Nlegotiations took place in 1Washington on
N4ay 18 through May 20, 1970. The Borrower was represented by Mr. Roberto
Galvez, Ambassador of Honduras in '!ashington, and Enpresa Nacional de
Energia Electrica (ENEE), by Messrs. Eduardo Mendieta (member of the Board),
Ernesto Crespo (General M4anager) and Cesar Batres (Legal Adviser).
3.        The proposed lending, constituting the ninth loan and fifth
credit to Honduras, would bring the total of Bank/IDA lending to US',76.4
million (net of cancellations), US"32.7 million of which would be for the
power sector. Total loans now amount to USV46.9 million, and total IDA
credits to US'18.5 million. The following is a summary statement of
Bank loans and IDA credits to Honduras as of April 30, 1970.
Loan or                                            Amount (UST million)
Credit      Year          Borrower      Purpose  Bank  IDA  Undisbursed
Number
4 loans
and
2 credits  1955-65                               20.0  11.9
Loan 400     1965 Republic of Honduras   Roads    6.0     -       3.0
Loan 463     1966  Empresa Nacional
Portuaria            Ports    4.8    -       1.1
Loan 495     1967  Republic of Honduras  Roads    8.6     -       6.1
Loan 541     1968  Republic of Honduras   Power    7.5    -       4.1



-2-
Loan or                                                 Amount (US$ million)
Credit       Year        Borrower           Purpose    Bank  IDn  Undisbursed
Number
Credit 116   1968   Republic of Honduras     Power       -   4.0       2.1
Credit 179   1970   Republic of Honduras  Livestock          2.6       2.6
Total (less cancellations)                46.9 18.5
of which has been repaid
to Bank and others                        9.0
Total now outstanding                     37.9
Amount sold                      2.6
of which has been ropaid        1.8       0.8
Total now held by Bank and IDA    -7 -3T       18_
Total undisbursed                        14.3   4.7     19.0
4.        A total of UStl9.0 million remains to be disbursed on four loans
and two credits, of which Credit 179 has not yet become effective.
Disbursements are proceeding satisfactorily on the remainder, following
initial delays in two cases. Construction work on the North Road Project
(Credit 71-HO/Loan 400-HO made in 1965) was held back until 1968
because the Government's consultants recommended a new alignment on the
basis of information that became available after approval of the loan and
credit, and the Bank agreed to the change only in 1967. The cr_3dit
portion has now been fully disbursed. From the outset, delays were also
encountered on the Western Highway Paving Project (Loan 495-HO).     The call
for bids for construction works was held up by about one year because of
delay in engaging the supervisory consultants, but work has been proceed-
ing satisfactorily since then.
5.         In April 1964, IFC approved an investment in Empresa de
Curtidos Centro Americana S.A. (ECCASA) consisting of a loan of UStO.3
million equivalent and a share subscription of US"o.o6 million; an addi-
tional equity investment of US50.03 million equivalent was approved in
April 1966. IFC has also been engaged in a pilot project for a pulp
and paper plant near La Ceiba, which would require some US$85 million
in capital, excluding infrastructure. In August 1968, the Corporation
authorized investment of up to USto.05 million in the share capital of
Compania Pina Celulosa de Centro America S.A. (COPINO), established in
February 1969 to investigate and possibly carry out the pulp and paper
project. A second authorization of a like amount was made in January
1970. A decision as to whether or not to proceed with the full-scale
project is expected late this year, and if it is positive, IFC may con-
sider further investment in both loan and equity.



-3-
6.        A number of projects in transport, power, algriculture and
education are being prepared for consideration by the Bank Group.
Of these, a port project should be ready for presentation to the
Executive Directors in the fiscal year 1971.
PART II - DESCRIPTION OF THE PROPOSED LOAN AND DEVELOPMENT CREDIT
7.        Borrower:                   The Republic of Honduras.
Beneficiary:                Fhpresa Nacional de Energia
Electrica (ENEE).
Amount:                     Various currencies equivalent to
us i5.5 million from the Bank and
US$5.5 million from IDA.
Purpose:                    To cover the foreign exchange
cost of transmission lines and
substations; a 15 Pt'J gas turbine
plant; a training program for
ETEE's staff; and certain tech-
nical studies.
Amortization:                (a)  Bank loan in 20 years, in-
cluding a 4-year period of grace,
through semi-annual payments begin-
ning December 1, 1974 and ending
June 1, 1990.
(b)  IDA credit in 50 years, in-
cluding a 10-year period of grace,
through semi-annual installments
of 1/2 of 1 percent from December 1,
1980 through June 1, 1990 and
1-1/2 percent from December 1, 1990
through June 1, 2020.
Interest Rate (Loan):       7 percent per annum.
Service Charge (Credit):    3/4 of 1 percent per annum.
Commitment Charge (Loan):   3/4 of 1 percent per annum.
Relending Terms:            The proceeds of both the loan and
credit to be relent to ENEE for
20 years including a 4-year period
of grace, at the same rate of
interest as on the Bank loan.
ENEE would carry the exchange risk.



- 4 -
PART III - THE PROJECT
8.        An appraisal report entitled "Appraisal of the Fourth Power
Project" (PU-42a)is attached. It points out that less than 20 percent
of the population of Honduras are supplied with electricity, and that
Honduras' annual electrical generation of 104 WH per capita is the
lowest in Central America. Most of the power for the public is supplied
by ENEE, which provides about 86 percent of the total electricity gener-
ated and owns over 73 percent of the 82 M1T of total installed capacity.
ENEE's electricity production has increased six-fold during the last six
years, reflecting a rate of economic growth of about 7 percent a year,
increased urbanization, and, most of all, the substantial backlog in
demand for power. Further increases in production will be possible
when the Bank-financed 40 IM Rio Lindo hydroelectric station commences
operations at the end of this year.
9.        The project is part of ENEE's USM54 million five-year develop-
ment program for the period 1970-74. By expanding ENEE's interconnected
system, the project would extend the availability of electricity beyond
the few zones already served to areas of growing economic importance now
being inadequately supplied from isolated small generating plants. The
connection from Rio Lindo to the Sula Valley and the Atlantic coast with
a 138 kV line would supply power for the agricultural and industrial
needs of a fertile and economically active area. Other important 69 kV
connections would be from San Pedro Sula, the country's largest indus-
trial town, to the port of Puerto Cortes; from the port of La Ceiba to
the Aguan Valley, as yet relatively undeveloped, where promising agri-
cultural schemes are already or soon to be under way; and from the
capital of Tegucigalpa to the southern zone, which is slated to
receive some priority in national development. The project would also
include installation of a 15 MW gas turbine in Tegucigalpa, a training
program, feasibility studies on hydro projects and a tariff study.
10.       The total cost of the project is estimated at US$14.8 mil lion,
with a foreign exchange cost of US$1. million which would be met by the
proposed loan and credit. Procurement of goods and services would be on
the basis of international competitive bidding. Disbursements would be
made for the CIF cost of imported equipment and materials and for the
foreign currency cost of consultants' services and training. The credit
would be disbursed first.
11.        ENEE, which would be responsible for the execution of the
project, is a government-owned corporation engaged solely in generating
and distributing power. It has successfully implemented two Bank loans
for the expansion of its facilities, and is now engaged in the execution
of the Rio Lindo Project with Bank/IDA financing. To meet future require-
ments, feasibility studies for exploiting the hydro potential of the
Humuya River are also being financed under that project. At the Bank's
suggestion, ENEE hired consultants to assist it in improving its manage-
ment and organization. Their services have resulted in marked progress
in ENEE's administration. However, further improvements are required on
the technical side. Consequently, the proposed loan and credit provide



for further strengthening of the engineering staff. ENEE's management
is satisfactory, and with the assistance of the consultants, and the
additional engineers to be provided under the project, is considered
competent to carry out the project and operate the new facilities.
12.       EMEE's financial position is satisfactory.  It has undertaken
to establish tariffs that would ensure a return on net fixed assets in
operation of at least 10 percent per annum. It wzill be required to
retain for reinvestment in its power facilities all of its earnings from
its power services until the project is completed (Section 4.04(b) of the
Project Agreement). It has also agreed not to incur any debt unless max-
imum debt service requirements in any subsequent year are covered at
least 1.4 times (Section 4.06(a)).
PARlT IV - LEGAL DJSTRUMENTS AND AUTHOBRITY
13.       The draft Loan Agreement and the draft 'evelopment Credit
Agreement between the .§?epublic of Honduras and respectively the Bank
and the Association and the draft Project Agreement between the Bank,
the Association and ENEE, the Report and the Recommendation of the
Committees provided for in Article III, Section L(iii) of the Articles
of Agreement of the Bank and in Article V, Section l(d) of the Articles
of Agreement of the Association, respectively, and the text of two
Resolutions respectively approving the proposed Loan and the proposed
Development Credit, are being distributed to the Executive Directors
separately. The draft Agreements conform substantially to the pattern
of those used for projects of this kind.
PART V - THE ECCOMNY
1l.       A report on "Current Economic Position and Prospects of
Honduras" (WH-193a, dated September 26, 1969) was distributed to the
Executive Directors on October 21, 1969.  It concluded that Honduras,
which has one of the lowest per capita incomes of the W,Jestern Hemisphere
(GNP per capita is estimated at around US`-260), had been experiencing a
rapid and sustained growth in the recent past.  GNP had increased by
about 5 percent per year in real terms in a framework of sound fiscal
and monetary policies, growing foreign exchange reserves, and stable prices.
l5.       However, in the second half of 1969 the economy was adversely
affected by the interruption of trade with El Salvador after the military
conflict between the two countries,and later by a devastating hurricane
that seriously damaged the banana plantations and flooded areas under
various other crops.  In 1969 GSP grew by only about 3 percent in real
terms. Exports of goods and services declined by 3.3 percent with re-
spect to 1968, mainly because of the fall in banana production and lower
exportable surpluses of maize, beans and sugarcane. As a result, the
deficit on current account increased. Direct private investment from
abroad, which had been extraordinarily dynamic in the past, declined to
about 40 percenti of the level of 1963. This was only pazrtly offset by an



increased inflow into the public sector and the banking system.   T1e
result iwas a decline in net international reserves of US-3.3 million.
16.       Government revenues increased in 1969 by about 6 percent
against an average of 13.5 percent in 1963-68, mainly as a result of the
reduction of external trade.  On the other hand, current expenditures
rose by over 15 percent to cover increased defense expenditures and
relief programs in the border area affected by the war, and expenditures
on fixed capital increased from L25.5 million in 1968 to L44.1 million
in 1969, as previously arranged transport and power projects were exe-
cuted.  The increase in net external borrowing (from L12.9 million in
1968 to L18.0 million in 1969) in large part reflected increased disburse-
ment of project loans from official agencies.  However, in the face of
declining public savings because of the war and the hurricane, there was
also a substantial increase in net domestic borrowing with the Government
passing from a position of net lender in 1968 (-Lll.9 million) to that
of net borrower in 1969 (L18.0 million). Despite this credit expansion,
the price level increased in 1969 by only 2.0 percent, as in 1968, but
some acceleration is now being experienced. The annual rate of price
increase for 1970 is however estimated to remain below 5 percent.
17.       The financial situation is expected to remain tight through-
out 1970. However, barring further natural disasters, economic prospects
for the subsequent years are relatively good. Banana plantations are
recovering from the hurricane damage considerably faster than originally
estimated and are now expected to reach in late 1970 the production levels
prevailing before the hurricane, and expand substantially thereafter.
Relations with El Salvador have not improved, but most of the trade former-
ly carried out with F1 Salvador has been diverted to the other Central
4merican countries. At the same time the Government has engaged in a
vigorous drive to establish new markets for Honduran products in the
Caribbean and in Europe.
18.       In recent months, the Government has strengthened considerably
the planning institutions and has prepared a five-year investment program
that is broadly consistent writh the approach recommended in the last Bank
economic report. In March 1970 the Government convened an aid coordination
meeting in Tegucigalpa at which it submitted its investment program to
major lending agencies (CABEI, IDB, USAID and W.orld Bank) and asked for
financial and technical assistance. The agencies indicated their general
support for the program, and it was agreed to make arrangements to co-
ordinate foreign financial and technical aid to Honduras. The Government
would prepare semi-annual economic reviews and convene periodic meetings,
and the Bank would act as external coordinator and provide periodic
economic reports. The Government made a commitment to take whatever mea-
sures may be needed to ensure the adequate mobilization of public and
private domestic savings required by the program. These commitments were
reaffirmed by the Honduran delegation to the CIAP annual review held from
May 6 to May 8, 1970.
19.       Honduras has a considerable potential for economic development
and the Government is aware of the problems and determined to solve them.
Assuming that the prudent economic management of the past is continued,



- 7 -
the country can regain and mu.ntain a satisfactory rate of growth.  In
this process a growing investment program irll play a crucial role, and
its realization wi*ll require both a substantially stepped-up domestic
effort and greater recourse to external financing. Although the present
debt service ratio is relatively low (about 2 percent of foreign exchange
earnings), it would rise steeply if all new debt were obtained on con-
ventional terms.  This, as well as Honduras' relative poverty, justifies
the Government in seeking to cover a substantial part of its external
financial needs on concessional terms.
PA-RT VI - CCMPLIANCE :IITH ARTICLES OF AGRMENT
20.       I am satisfied that the proposed loan and development credit
would comply with the Articles of Agreement of the Bank and the
Association.
PART VII - iRECWMMENDATION
21.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
loan and credit.
Attachments                                           Robert S. McNamara
President
June 2, 1970
I-ashington, D. C.



