Report No. PIC1641
Project Name                   Brazil-Bahia Urban Environmental ...
Infrastructure Project
Region                         Latin America and The Caribbean
Sector                         Infrastructure
Project ID                     BRPA6562
Borrower                       State of Bahia
Implementing Agency            Companhia de Desenvolvimento e Acao
Regional (CAR)
Av. Luiz Viana Filho, 0 - Conjunto
SEPLANTEC
41.745-000 - Salvador-BA (BRASIL)
Telephone: (71) 371-0589
Fax: (71) 371-0015
Date PID Prepared              January 4, 1995
Appraisal Date                 May 1995
Projected Board Date           March 6, 1997
1.   Background.  The 1988 constitutional reforms enhanced the
importance of municipalities in Brazil's federal system, so that they
have both greater responsibilities -- in particular in the area of
provision of infrastructure and social services -- and increased
revenues from own and transfer sources. At the same time, against the
background of macroeconomic crisis and high urbanization rates,
municipalities confront increasing challenges in the adequate and
efficient provision of services. While Brazil's mature infrastructure
networks are among the most extensive in the region, these ageing assets
have not been adequately maintained and are insufficient to meet growing
demand for service. With population pressure and economic crisis, the
informal economy has provided services in an unregulated fashion which
has led to degradation of the urban environment, particularly in favela
areas where the urban poor live. Poverty in Brazil has increasingly
become an urban problem, as the urban share of poor has grown over the
decade. Further, with economic crisis has come institutional and
financial failure of federal infrastructure delivery programs. Finally,
despite decentralization, municipal financial health continues to depend
largely on federal and state transfers, particularly in the Northeast.
These factors point to a need to strengthen municipalities' capabilities
to efficiently manage both their financial resources and their service
provision responsibilities.
2.   The Northeast.   The Northeast of Brazil presents a range of unique
issues in the Brazilian context. Climatic and geographic conditions
have made this region one of Brazil's poorest historically. Average GDP
per capita in 1990 was just US$1,173 -- less than half of the national
level. Average rainfall is a low 1,000 millimeters. Industry does not
dominate economic activity in the same way as it does in Brazil's
southern regions, and agriculture remains an important source of
revenues. In many states in the Northeast, tourism plays the most



significant role in the economy. The major cities of the Northeast are
situated along its costal region, and include three of the country's
nine metropolitan regions: Fortaleza (Cear ); Recife (Pernambuco); and
Salvador (Bahia). Poverty prevails: the population of the region is 29%
of the nation's total, while GDP is just 13% of the total.    Migration of
the rural poor to urban areas over the last decade has caused dramatic
urbanization rates.
3.   The State of Bahia.   The State of Bahia comprises 567,000 square
kilometers. In 1985, Bahia's GDP represented 5% of Brazil's GDP, and
was the sixth largest in the country and, in per capita terms, the
second largest in the Northeast. Service-related activities (mainly
tourism) account for 55% of Bahia's GDP, while industry provides 30% and
agriculture 15%.   Industrial activities are concentrated mostly in and
around the capital, Salvador. The State's 11.8 million population is
divided into about 40% (4.8 million) rural and 60% (7.0 million) urban.
The Salvador metropolitan region has a population of about 2.0 million.
Bahia has 415 municipalities; six of which have populations over
100,000; about 35 of which have populations between 20,000 and 100,000;
and the remainder of which have populations below 20,000. Rapid
urbanization rates have led to a dramatic reduction in rural population
(from about 66% of total in 1960 to 40% in 1991) and a corresponding
increase in urban population (from about 34% in 1960 to 609 in 1991).
Poverty is pervasive, with 63.2% of the State's population below the
poverty line (household income of twice the monthly minimum wage or
less). While about 80% of the State's urban population has access to
safe water, only 11.5% is served by formal sewerage systems, in just 12
out of 415 municipalities.
4.   Project Objectives.   The overall objective of the proposed project
is to support the institutional capacity-building efforts of the
Government of Bahia in implementing its urban development program for
economically sustainable growth. Specific objectives would include: (a)
strengthening municipal financial and institutional management capacity;
(b) improving living conditions in low-income neighborhoods in selected
cities; and (c) improving environmental management and investment
decisions at the State and municipal levels. The Bank's strategy in
Brazil is to support policies and investments that will encourage
economic growth and social development in the context of macroeconomic
stability. Strategy in the urban sector has been to support the
decentralization reforms which took effect with the new constitution,
and foster among Brazil's municipalities strengthened financial
management and increased fiscal responsibility, supporting the
macroeconomic policies of the federal government.
5.   Project Description.   The project's objectives would be achieved
through two primary components: an institutional development (ID)
component (about 10% of project costs); and an urban infrastructure (UI)
component (about 90% of costs). The ID component would consist of
technical assistance, training, studies, project preparation and
management, and information technology equipment, to support the
modernization and administrative reforms of municipal governments and
selected State agencies involved in project implementation. The UI
component would consist of investments in the basic urban infrastructure
sectors, primarily drainage and erosion control, solid waste collection
- 2 -



and disposal, water and sewerage connections for low-income areas,
street paving, public lighting and traffic management.
6.   Project Implementation and Financing.   The Borrower would be the
State of Bahia, which would use the Bank loan to capitalize a municipal
development fund (FDM) to finance eligible civil works and equipment
under the UI component. The State would also contribute to the
capitalization of the FDU, and would provide counterpart funds for
poverty-targeted subsidies and matching grants. The State would provide
about half the total required counterpart funds for the project, with
the remaining counterpart provided by municipal sub-borrowers. Project
implementation would be coordinated by the State's Companhia de
Desenvolvimento e Acao Regional (CAR), the executing agency. With the
exception of the first-year program, which would be identified at
appraisal, CAR would select sub-borrowers on the basis of agreed
technical, economic, financial and environmental criteria set out in an
Operational Manual. The Manual would also include guidelines for
preparation of loan and technical assistance applications, procurement,
disbursement and other project implementation procedures. CAR would
also oversee execution of the ID component, to be implemented largely
through private consultants. Municipalities would implement the
infrastructure component, with the assistance of sectoral technical
agents and specialized consultants.
7.   Because it will support basic sanitation infrastructure, the
project is expected to yield environmental benefits related to improved
solid waste collection and disposal, improved drainage and sewerage
collection, reduced leakage and water losses, and greater coherence in
management of water and sewerage services at the municipal level.
Environmental analyses will be prepared for individual sub-projects as
needed, based on the requirements of Bank guidelines and Brazilian
legislation. The technical assistance component may include financing
of development of draft municipal environmental legislation and
strengthening of municipal environmental councils, where appropriate.
The project is rated category "B."
Contact Point:       Public Information Center
The World Bank
1818 H Street N.W.
Washington D.C. 20433
Telephone No.: (202)458-5454
Fax No.: (202)522-1500
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain components
may not necessarily be included in the final project.
- 3 -



