                                              Document of
                                           The World Bank

                                       FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY




                                                                                        Report No: 31877

                             IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
                                         (CPL-41400 TF-25256)

                                                  ON A

                                                  LOAN

                              IN THE AMOUNT OF US$ 100.00 MILLION

                                                 TO THE

                                           STATE OF BAHIA

                                                FOR THE

                      BAHIA MUNICIPAL INFRASTRUCTURE DEVELOPMENT
                                   AND MANAGEMENT PROJECT




                                             March 30, 2005




Finance, Private Sector and Infrastructure Department
Brazil Management Unit
Latin America and the Caribbean Region

This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.

                              CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                        (Exchange Rate Effective March 28, 2005)

                                Currency Unit = Brazilian Real
                                      R$ 1.00 = US$ 0.37
                                     US$ 1.00 = R$ 2.73

                                      FISCAL YEAR
                                 January 1    December 31

                         ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

CAR             Companhia de Desenvolvimento e Ação Regional - State Regional
                Development Company
CAS             Country Assistance Strategy
CONDER          Companhia de Desenvolvimento Urbano do Estado da Bahia - Bahia
                State Urban Development Company
DESENBAHIA      Agência de Fomento do Estado da Bahia - Bahia State Development
                Agency
FRL             Fiscal Responsibility Law
FUNDURBANO      Fundo de Desenvolvimento Urbano - Urban Development Fund
ICMS            Imposto sobre Circulação de Mercadorias e Serviços - Value Added Tax
IPTU            Imposto sobre Propriedade Territorial Urbana - Real Property Tax
IRR             Internal Rate of Return
ISS             Imposto sobre Serviços - Services Tax (municipal)
NGO             Non-Governmental Organization
PROURBANO       Programa de Financiamento para Desenvolvimento Urbano - Program
                for the Financing of Urban Development
SECOMP          Secretaria de Combate à Pobreza e às Desigualdades Sociais -
                Secretariat for the Reduction of Poverty and Social Inequalities
SEPLAN          Secretaria de Estado do Planejamento - State Secretariat of Planning
TA              Technical Assistance




                              Vice President:     Pamela Cox
                            Country Director      Vinod Thomas
                             Sector Manager       John H. Stein
           Task Team Leader/Task Manager:         Eleoterio Codato

                                           BRAZIL
               BAHIA MUNICIPAL INFRASTRUCTURE DEVELOPMENT
                             AND MANAGEMENT PROJECT


                                         CONTENTS




                                                                              Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                    1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                   1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry         2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                            5
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                            10
6. Sustainability                                                                11
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                 12
8. Lessons Learned                                                               14
9. Partner Comments                                                              14
10. Additional Information                                                       29
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                             30
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                             31
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                             33
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                             35
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components             37
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                38
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                            39

Project ID: P006562                                                  Project Name: Bahia Municipal Inf. Dev't. and Mgm't.
Team Leader: Eleoterio Codato                                        TL Unit: TUDUR
ICR Type: Core ICR                                                   Report Date: March 30, 2005


1. Project Data
                   Name: Bahia Municipal Inf. Dev't. and Mgm't.                   L/C/TF Number: CPL-41400; TF-25256
   Country/Department: BRAZIL                                                             Region: Latin America and the
                                                                                                     Caribbean Region

        Sector/subsector: General water, sanitation and flood protection sector (78%); General
                            transportation sector (13%); Sub-national government
                            administration (9%)
                  Theme: Access to urban services and housing (P); Municipal finance (P);
                            Municipal governance and institution building (P); Public
                            expenditure, financial management and procurement (P); State
                            enterprise/bank restructuring and privatization (S)


  KEY DATES                                                                  Original               Revised/Actual
           PCD: 07/15/1994                                     Effective:                           06/19/1997
     Appraisal: 05/06/1996                                         MTR:
      Approval: 03/04/1997                                      Closing: 03/30/2002                 09/30/2004



    Borrower/Implementing Agency:          STATE OF BAHIA/CAR
                      Other Partners:

STAFF                           Current                                        At Appraisal
Vice President:                 Pamela Cox                                     Gobind T. Nankani (Acting)
Country Director:               Vinod Thomas                                   Constance Bernard (Acting)
Sector Manager:                 John Henry Stein                               Paul Meo
Team Leader at ICR:             Eleoterio Codato                               Braz Menezes
ICR Primary Author:             Eleoterio Codato; Ivo Imparato


2. Principal Performance Ratings

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly Unlikely,
HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)

                           Outcome:        S
                      Sustainability:      L
   Institutional Development Impact:       SU
                 Bank Performance:         S
            Borrower Performance:          S


                                                      QAG (if available)             ICR
                                  Quality at Entry:                                  S
                     Project at Risk at Any Time: No

3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry

3.1 Original Objective:
The primary project objectives were to: (a) improve the living conditions of the urban poor,
through: (i) development of detailed, reliable systems for mapping of urban poverty in the state to
guide state and local investment strategies; and (ii) a poverty-targeted program of urban
upgrading in critically poor urban areas, or bolsões de pobreza (pockets of poverty); (b) increase
municipal public sector efficiency and sustainability of financing for key municipal services; (c)
support privatization and concessioning of service delivery; (d) increase cost recovery of
municipal investments; and (e) strengthen municipal financial management capacity, especially for
effective expenditure control and capital budgeting.

The project was designed within the guiding framework of the Country Assistance Strategy
(CAS) of June 6, 1995 and updated in June 1996 which supported structural reforms at the
federal and state levels with an emphasis on lending to the states, increasingly. This emphasis was
principally due to the increased importance of the states in the provision of key services and
infrastructure, and the finding that projects were successful primarily in states with viable fiscal
positions (and hence investment programs); only in such cases was the needed volume of
counterpart funding available. Within that context, the project was consistent with the CAS as
Bahia was (and continues to be) a creditworthy state.

The Bank's strategy in the urban sector in Brazil supported the decentralization reforms which
took effect with the 1988 Constitution, and fostered among Brazil's municipalities strengthened
financial management and increased fiscal responsibility. In addition, it emphasized the
importance of targeting benefits to the very poor. Thus, the project was part of a poverty
reduction strategy for Brazil that involved economic and sector work, country dialogue and
lending in the areas of rural development, health and education as well as urban development.
The project also responded directly to the State's developmental strategy centered on the need to
strengthen the administration of urban areas, particularly in the State's interior.

While the project objectives were, overall, appropriate and responding to the priorities of the
Bank, the Federal Government and the State of Bahia, the risks to achieving the objectives were
high. In spite of the good track record of the State, the project was still large and complex,
especially when considering the change in approach brought about by the infrastructure
component which was based on the use of sub-loans for financing municipal infrastructure
investments. As will be discussed later, this was in part responsible for a longer than anticipated
implementation period, and the need to reformulate the project after it was approved by the
Board. Notwithstanding the underestimation of risk, the project objectives can be considered
satisfactory.

3.2 Revised Objective:
The project established changes in the mix of components in 1998. However, these changes did
not result in a change in project objectives but rather were aimed at better achieving the original
objectives. The component changes are discussed in the section on Revised Components.

3.3 Original Components:
The original project design included four primary components, each with specific


                                                 - 2 -

sub-components. It is important to note that the components and their description was taken
from the Loan Agreement (Schedule 2) and they do not necessarily coincide fully with the
description provided in the Staff Appraisal Report (Report No. 16258-BR).

Part A. The Municipal Reform and Institutional Development component (US$18.1 million).
This component supported:

       a. The preparation of diagnoses and, when necessary, recommendations for: (i) the
           privatization of enterprises controlled by municipalities or concessioning of municipal
           services; and (ii) the strengthening of the management, institutional and financial
           capabilities of municipalities.

       b. The carrying out of projects consisting of one or more of the following activities:
           privatization of enterprises controlled by municipalities or concessioning of municipal
           services; and restructuring of municipalities' enterprises, through downsizing of staff
           and other administrative reforms, to facilitate privatization or concessioning of
           municipal services.

       c. The carrying out of projects consisting of one or more of the following activities:
           strengthening, through the provision of consultant services for technical assistance,
           staff training, and acquisition of equipment (including hardware and software), of the
           management, institutional and financial capabilities of municipalities, including, among
           others, the upgrading of property tax cadastres, improvement of procedures, policies,
           and physical infrastructure for billing and collection of property and other taxes and
           tariffs, improvement of procurement procedures, and preparation of updating of master
           plans, codes, and technical standards for construction work.


Part B. Strengthening of the State Regional Development Company (CAR) and Poverty Study
(US$1.9 million). This component supported:

      a. The strengthening of the technical and administrative capabilities of CAR, through the
          provision of technical assistance and staff training,and     acquisition of related
          equipment (including hardware and software)

      b. The carrying out of a study to evaluate the impact of the Project on the improvement of
          the living conditions of the urban poor in the Borrower's territory, such study to include
          a poverty mapping.

Part C. Urban Infrastructure (US$186.5 million). This component supported the carrying out of
projects consisting of one or more of the following activities: (a) installation and/or expansion of
water treatment and production systems, water supply networks and domestic water supply
connections, and operational and commercial improvements such as installation of water meters,
water leak detection and rehabilitation of related equipment; (b) installation and/or expansion of
sewerage treatment systems, networks and domestic connections; (c) acquisition of equipment for
solid waste collection and final disposal, and construction of landfills; (d) street paving, macro-
and micro-drainage, and flood and erosion control works, and channeling of creeks; (e) other



                                                 - 3 -

activities complementary to those under paragraphs (a) to (d) above, such as street lighting,
urbanization, construction of sidewalks and planting of trees and shrubbery; (f) construction of
municipal markets and slaughterhouses; and (g) construction or expansion of air, road and water
transport passenger shelters, and tourism bureaus.

Part D. Urban Upgrading (US$15.5 million). This component supported the carrying out of
projects consisting of one or more of the activities referred to in Part C (a) through (e) of the
Project in locations where the average monthly household income is three minimum salaries or
less.

The components were well conceived and designed, and consistent with the stated objectives of
the project. They reflected the state of the art at the time of preparation, taking into account
lessons learned and in project design more generally. The project included best practices from
over 18 loans in the urban sector in Brazil going back to 1978, an additional 19 loans in water and
sewerage projects since 1971, also largely in urban areas. More specifically, the loan incorporated
lessons learned from a generation of municipal development projects (Santa Catarina Ln.
2623-BR; Paraná Ln. 3100-BR; Rio Grande do Sul Ln. 3129-BR; Minas Gerais Ln. 3639-BR;
and Ceará Ln. 3789-BR). Among the lessons learned, included in the project were:

l The need to limit investments under the project to those in urban infrastructure.
l The need to establish a clear link between TA and infrastructure, with realistic, limited
    conditionality on sub-loans.
l The need to have acceptable bylaws and statutes for the project approved by the Borrower
    prior to negotiations.
l The need to have computerized project management and monitoring.
l Early and thorough marketing of the project is essential to its success
l The need to ascertain that implementing agency has experience in gathering municipal and
    regional data, and capacity to standardize and
    simplify procedures for the purpose of the institutional and financial diagnosis.
l A well-defined group of first-year investments is fundamental to effective project launch.
l Pilot components, if not begun right away, often do not begin at all.

While these lessons were mostly assimilated, the Municipal Reform and Institutional Development
component included a set of activities designed to support the "...privatization of enterprises
controlled by municipalities or concessioning of municipal services" that were never implemented.
The appraisal report mentions that "...the pilot Municipal Reform Program of privatization and/or
concessions would be identified early through a diagnosis of each interested municipality". In
spite of the fact that such diagnoses (Municipal Reform and Institutional Development Plan) were
carried out no interest in the privatization of municipal services emerged and, as a result, the pilot
never materialized.

3.4 Revised Components:
There were a few revisions to the project components, but none that altered the project
objectives. These were generally changes that allowed for project refinements and allowed the
project to better meet its overall project objectives. The changes are indicated below.



                                                  - 4 -

2001
Part A. A fourth item was added to the list of eligible activities to include training of staff in
participating municipalities.

Part B. CONDER, the State's Urban Development Company, was included as a beneficiary for
purposes of strengthening of the technical and administrative capabilities. Item (b) on the carrying
out of a study to evaluate the impact of the Project on the improvement of the living conditions of
the urban poor in the Borrower's territory was dropped and replaced with the strengthening of
CAR's capacity through the carrying out of: (i) different analysis, assessments and performance
evaluations of project implementation; and (ii) project dissemination campaigns.

Part C. It was agreed that until July 31, 2000 or a date 90 days after the Senate Resolution No.
78, dated July 1, 1998, were modified to exempt from its provisions the Infrastructure
Subprojects, such subprojects, up to a limit of US$26 million, could be financed through Grants,
instead of subloans. In such case, the beneficiaries were required to contribute with a minimum
amount of fifteen percent of the total cost of the subproject, excluding the "Faz Cidadão
Program" subprojects for which no contribution was required.

2003
Part B. SEPLAN, the State Secretariat of Planning, was included as a beneficiary for purposes of
strengthening of the technical and administrative capabilities.

Part C. While the description of this component remained the same, changes in arrangements for
carrying it out were introduced in order to allow DESENBAHIA, the State Development Agency,
to make loans to the beneficiaries for the financing of infrastructure subprojects in substitution for
subloans that were no longer practical as a result of the Fiscal Responsibility Law of March 2000.

3.5 Quality at Entry:
Quality at entry can be considered Satisfactory, albeit with some deficiencies. The level of
analysis during project preparation was highly satisfactory. The objectives, as has been indicated
earlier, were clear and consistent with both the CAS priorities and the development priorities of
the State of Bahia. Local buy-in of the objectives and components, an ingredient considered
essential for success, was high, with the project promoting explicit state policies, even though,
with the benefit of hindsight, the emphasis on the privatization of enterprises controlled by
municipalities or concessioning of municipal services in Part A of the project did not find much
correspondence with reality. The project also promoted Bank sector priorities in urban
development. Specifically, the project set out to operationalize the Bank's guiding urban policy
document for Brazil, namely Brazil, The Challenges of Municipal Sector Development in the
1990's and to advance the objectives of decentralization reforms set forth in the 1988
Constitution.

4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs

4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:
The achievement of the objectives and outcomes can be considered satisfactory for the project



                                                 - 5 -

overall. Because of the demand-driven and programmatic nature of the investments financed
under the project, there were no specific targets for project outputs. Annual investment programs
were put together on the basis of proposals received from participating municipalities that met
eligibility criteria defined for the project. Nonetheless, project outcomes can be considered
positive and with a high potential for sustainability. About 3.8 million people (about 43% of
Bahia's urban population in the year 2000) benefited from investments financed under the project.
This number includes the entire population of urban areas that received investments in community
facilities such as public markets, public squares and landfills.

Following the original design, project's actions were initiated in the Municipal Reform and
Institutional Development component for the purpose of promoting management changes through
instruments and processes that enabled municipalities to better manage their finances and plan
infrastructure investments, including those financed under the project. After applying the
Municipal Finance and Institutional Survey, CAR was able to identify those municipalities that
met the established requirements to access investment funds under the project and worked with
them in identifying investment priorities and complying with the project operational manual.

Towards the end of the year 2000, the Borrower and the Bank agreed to adopt a set of indicators
for the purpose of monitoring outcomes and outputs which are presented in a table below.

                        Type                                 Unit           Forecast   Actual
OUTCOME INDICATORS
Municipal Institutional Strengthening               # of municipalities           131     133
Basic Sanitation projects financed by subloans      US$ million                   164    24.6
Basic sanitation projects financed by grants        # of municipalities            71     141
Upgraded low-income areas                           # of areas                     22      88
Institutional Strengthening of State Agencies       # of agencies                   2        3

OUTPUT INDICATORS                                            Unit           Forecast   Actual
Institutional Development Projects                  # of projects                 192     451
Subloans to Municipalities                          US$ million                   164    24.6
Infrastructure projects financed by grants          # of projects                  71     200
Urban Upgrading                                     # of areas                     22      88
Institutional Strengthening of State Agencies       # of agencies                  2         3

Three of the above outcome indicators and three related output indicators call attention due to the
discrepancies between what had been forecasted and what was actually achieved. Namely, these
indicators are: basic sanitation projects financed by subloans and its related output indicator on
subloans to municipalities; basic sanitation projects financed by grants and its related output
indicator on infrastructure projects financed by grants; and, finally, upgraded low-income areas
and its related output indicator on urban upgrading. The discrepancies have their roots in a
situation which came about with the enactment of the Fiscal Responsibility Law (FRL) in March
of 2000. The FRL and its ancillary laws prohibited lending operations among different levels of
government and, as a result, made it impractical for the State Government to lend to



                                                 - 6 -

municipalities for urban infrastructure through the State Urban Development Fund
(FUNDURBANO) that had been established under the project.

The impasse created by the FRL lasted for more than two years during which the Bank and the
Borrower agreed on the reallocation of loan resources between the different components in order
to allow project implementation to continue. This resulted in an increased amount of loan funds
being allocated for infrastructure projects financed by grants as well as for urban upgrading
projects and, consequently, an increase in the number of such projects and beneficiary
municipalities. Of particular importance was the fourfold increase in the number of urban
upgrading projects which, together with the very positive outcomes of the Novos Alagados II area
in Salvador (financed with project funds), eventually led the State Government to establish a new
strategy for scaling up such interventions and resulted in the formulation of a new project
proposal which is being considered for Bank financing.

Lending for urban infrastructure resumed in 2003 after a long negotiation process with the
Federal authorities to allow DESENBAHIA, the State Development Agency, to lend to
municipalities. To this end, DESENBAHIA established a lending facility called PROURBANO.

4.2 Outputs by components:
Municipal Reform and Institutional Development (Part A): This component is rated
Satisfactory. Even though the pilot program for the privatization or concessioning of municipal
services did not materialize, the rating is warranted by the highly satisfactory results achieved by
the carrying out of activities for the upgrading of property tax cadastres, improvement of
procedures, policies, and physical infrastructure for billing and collection of property and other
taxes and tariffs through the revision or implementation of tax codes and the computerization of
services for financial management and tax administration. In addition to introducing more
efficiency in financial management and tax administration at the municipal level, these activities
resulted in increased local revenues, thus reducing municipal dependence on fiscal transfers from
the State and Federal Governments. A total of 451 outputs were produced under this component,
as follows: 96 urban development master plans; 110 information technology master plans; 43
studies for administrative organization; 78 municipal cadastres; 30 tax codes; 23 solid waste
management plans; 66 information technology projects; 1 tax collection study; and 4 other general
studies.

From the sample of 11 municipalities used for evaluating the results of this component, seven (64
percent) showed a sustained increase in the collection of property taxes (IPTU) and taxes on
services (ISS) over the period from 1996 to 2000 when compared to a control group of 8
municipalities that did not benefit from the project. The survey carried out as part of the project's
mid-term evaluation, revealed that municipal officials had a very positive assessment of the
technical assistance activities carried out under the project and wished for continuity through a
program to further help improve institutional capacity. The survey also revealed that municipal
officials valued the knowledgeable and professional advice they received from CAR as well as the
training that was provided to municipal staff under the project.

Strengthening of CAR (Part B): This component is rated Satisfactory. In addition to CAR,
CONDER and SEPLAN were also included as beneficiaries of this component. CAR was able to


                                                 - 7 -

expand its information technology capacity by acquiring new hardware. This component also
financed: (a) the restructuring of CAR's Contract Management System, which made it possible to
have detailed and up-to-date information on all phases of contracts, from procurement to
implementation progress monitoring, to reporting; (b) the acquisition of vehicles that allowed
CAR staff to travel to beneficiary municipalities throughout Bahia in order to guide and supervise
project implementation. Furthermore, this component also allowed CAR staff to improve their
technical skills by: (i) supporting their participation in several training programs as well as
exchange of experience with other staff working on similar projects in other Brazilian states; and
(ii) hiring consultants to complement the skills of CAR staff in order to assist in project
implementation and, most importantly, in delivering some of the training programs for
strengthening the capacity of municipal staff (a total of 1991 staff benefited) in the areas of urban
planning and management, procurement, subproject review and monitoring, especially for
capacity building. Consultants were also engaged across Bahia to provide direct support to
beneficiary municipalities under the leadership of CAR staff in Salvador.

This component also supported the strengthening of CONDER through the acquisition of
adequate furniture and equipment needed for the management of data and maps associated with
the subproject for the development of reference maps for urban areas across the State. Data and
maps of the geographical information system on urban areas were made available through the
Internet.

Finally, this component supported the strengthening of SEPLAN by financing: (a) the purchase of
information technology equipment which was instrumental for the modernization of its
management systems; and (b) a study to assess the economic impact of the establishment of
Ford's auto assembly plant in the Municipality of Camaçari, which is part of Salvador's
Metropolitan Area.

Urban Infrastructure (Part C): This component is rated Satisfactory. While investments in
urban infrastructure were financed mostly by grants rather than subloans as initially envisaged, this
component did contribute to improving living conditions of urban residents in 175 municipalities
across Bahia. Of these, 141 received grants and 34 received subloans. A survey conducted in 10
beneficiary municipalities (Alagoinhas, Candeias, Cruz das Almas, Ilhéus, Itabuna, Itapetinga,
Lauro de Freitas, Salvador, and Teixeira de Freitas) revealed that 90 percent of people
interviewed confirmed that their living conditions had improved in several different aspects, such
as: better access and reduction of dust and respiratory diseases as a result of street paving;
reduction in the incidence of water-born diseases and in the presence of insects and foul odors as
a result of investments in drainage, water supply and sanitation; and more pleasant living
environment in general.

In addition to the above survey that was conducted for the project mid-term evaluation, another
survey was carried out in seven beneficiary municipalities in 2001 before PRODUR investments
were made and, again, in 2004. This second survey interviewed 4,437 households in the
municipalities of Brumado, Camaçari, Canavieiras, Catú, Cruz das Almas, Ilhéus, and Lauro de
Freitas, and revealed a significant reduction in the number of infectious diseases. For example,
the number of water-born diseases decreased from 49 to zero and 197 to zero in Brumado and



                                                   - 8 -

Camaçari, respectively; in these same municipalities, the number of infectious diseases caused by
insect bites decreased from 259 to one, and 29 to one. It also revealed that there was a significant
reduction in the risk of land slides. In Ilhéus, which had the highest percentage of households
exposed to the risk of land slides amongst all seven municipalities reporting such a risk, the
exposure level was reduced from about 20 percent of households in 2001 to only about 8 percent
in 2004.

Urban Upgrading (Part D): This component is rated Highly Satisfactory. Eighty-eight
neighborhoods were upgraded under PRODUR to the benefit of 678,710 people (more than
120,000 families). In Novos Alagados alone, 11,900 people benefited from investments. This
neighborhood comprised almost entirely of stilt houses (palafitas) with no access to public
services such as energy, water and sanitation, went through a great transformation and, today,
people live in houses on firm land and enjoy access to services. This was achieved at an average
cost of about US$3,000 per family. Even though this cost is higher than those for other areas that
benefited from PRODUR, it can be considered reasonable in view of the difficult initial conditions
which required land-filling, soil stabilization and relocation of part of the population to an adjacent
area where new houses were built. It is important to note that Novos Alagados was settled on a
mangrove whose vegetation has been restored, as a result of the improvement in environmental
conditions. Not only the physical conditions improved dramatically in Novos Alagados but, more
importantly, the community became more organized with the assistance of an NGO engaged by
the Bahia State Urban Development Company CONDER. In addition to helping the community
organize itself to deal with the challenges brought about by the project, including resettlement, the
NGO assisted in the organization of economic development activities for the community,
including the creation of a cooperative that provided labor for housing construction.

4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
An ex-post evaluation of a sample consisting of 22 urban infrastructure subprojects across 15
beneficiary municipalities yielded an average internal rate of return (IRR) of 34.8 percent against
24.5 percent estimated at subproject appraisal which is well above the 12 percent minimum IRR
established for such investments in the project appraisal report (SAR). This sample included six
infrastructure subprojects financed by subloans, 11 infrastructure subprojects financed by grants,
and five urban upgrading subprojects which consist mostly of investments in drainage, street
paving and sewers. The economic evaluation was based on the same methodology used at
appraisal which employs increased property values as a result of investments as a primary benefit
determinant.

4.4 Financial rate of return:
NA

4.5 Institutional development impact:
The institutional development impacts are Substantial. The large number of institutional
development subprojects implemented in 133 municipalities has been responsible for significant
changes, especially in the areas of budget and tax administration, information technology,
planning, and human resources management. Perhaps, more importantly, the State has recognized
the importance of improving the living conditions of the poor and, in December of 2001,
established a Secretariat for the Reduction of Poverty and Social Inequalities (SECOMP) and



                                                  - 9 -

pioneered in Brazil the creation of a Poverty Reduction Fund financed by an additional 2 percent
surcharge on the value-added tax (ICMS) and other budgetary allocations and contributions. In
addition, in January of 2004, the State established a Secretariat of Urban Development that has
absorbed the mandate of CAR's Urban Department and given it a higher institutional profile.
Finally, the State is preparing a new project--Viver Melhor--that will be presented to the Bank
for financing soon. This new project proposes to scale up State interventions in low income
neighborhoods in the 13 major urban centers across Bahia, based on the successful experience of
the Ribeira Azul Program that included the Novos Alagados area.

5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome

5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:
Keeping in mind that the government in this case is the Government of the State of Bahia, the
following factors are considered to have impacted the implementation of the project, and were
outside of the government's control.

Fiscal Issues: The 1998/99 IMF agreement with Brazil, that called for a higher primary surplus,
impacted the disbursements of all international loans, including PRODUR, causing a deceleration
in project implementation pace during that period. In addition, in 1998, a new Senate Resolution
tightened the debt limits for subnational governments and, in 2000, the enactment of the Fiscal
Responsibility Law, which included provisions prohibiting lending between different levels of
government, brought to a halt the model of the Urban Development Fund (FUNDURBANO)
loans to municipalities under the urban infrastructure component. It took almost three years to
resume lending to municipal governments under the project.

Election Cycles: The project went through two elections during its implementation. In 2000,
municipal elections were responsible for a slow down in subproject implementation, including the
flow of institutional development assistance. When new local administrations take office in
Brazil, the tradition is to replace not only high level municipal officials, but often technical level
staff as well. This hindered the flow of project implementation as new teams had to be brought up
to speed, and led to buy-into the institutional development program, which may have begun under
the predecessors term in office. In addition, Brazilian election legislation prohibits contracting
during the three months leading to election day. This often led to the stalling of contracting
processes underway in the 2000 municipal elections and, again, in the 2002 gubernatorial
elections.

5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
Institutional Changes. With the change in state administration in January of 1999, URBIS
(Bahia's Housing and Urban Development Company) was folded into CONDER which had its
mandate expanded from being the Metropolitan Region Development Company to become
Bahia's Urban Development Company. This change slowed down the implementation of the
urban upgrading component with which CONDER was charged.

Financial. Difficulty in making counterpart resources available by the Secretariat of Finance to
the executing agencies, particularly during the first quarter of the year. This also affected the flow
of resources to participating municipalities and resulted in project implementation delays.



                                                     - 10 -

5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
Weak Technical Capacity. While CAR had adequate technical capacity at the project inception,
PRODUR necessitated new skills in urban development, especially in connection with the
municipal reform and institutional development component. This was addressed by training staff
directly involved in project implementation and by engaging consultants. However, the State
suggests that there was difficulty in attracting well qualified consultants in the area of institutional
development. While capacity exists in the country, the State's difficulty may have been associated
with the dispersed nature of the institutional development activities in a territory as big as France.
The logistics and the costs involved in mobilizing a team of consultants from another part of the
country may have been a critical factor in the lack of interest on the part of consulting firms.
Finally, the initial lack of knowledge on the part of CAR staff in following Bank procurement
guidelines, especially for the selection of consultants, led to significant delays in the
implementation of the institutional development component.

Weak Municipal Capacity. Except for the urban upgrading of Novos Alagados that was
executed by CONDER, all other infrastructure investments were executed and contracted at the
municipal level. There was a lack of capacity on the part of municipalities to adequately supervise
the works and to understand Bank procurement procedures. This issue was somehow mitigated
by the consultants CAR engaged at the regional level to supervise procurement processes and
ensure an adequate level of supervision of works by municipalities. In addition, CAR staff in the
central office also provided assistance to help municipalities with procurement procedures. While
it is true that municipalities started from a low level of capacity, they have improved it by
participating in the project. This allowed them to receive technical assistance in areas where lack
of capacity was an issue and learn (by doing) how to design and implement infrastructure
investment projects.

5.4 Costs and financing:
The initial estimated cost of the project was US$222.0 million, of which US$100.0 million was to
be financed by a Bank loan. At closing, total project cost was US$146.0 million and the Bank
loan in the amount of US$100.0 million was fully disbursed by January 28, 2005. Given the
financial difficulties faced by the State, the Bank agreed, in 2000 and again in 2004, to increase its
financing share of certain eligible expenditures and, as a result, ended up financing about 68 per
cent of total project costs. In spite of delays in project execution and loan disbursement lags, the
outcomes indicate that the project was implemented in accordance with the original components
and revised allocations in each disbursement category. Another major issue affecting project
costs and financing was the devaluation of the Real that allowed for significant cost savings and
the expansion of outputs.

6. Sustainability

6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:
Sustainability is rated as Likely. From a policy perspective, the State has fully internalized the
promotion of poverty reduction and of decentralization using the strengthening of municipal
management and governance to lead the effort. As mentioned before, the State established a
Secretariat for the Reduction of Poverty and Social Inequalities (SECOMP) and pioneered in
Brazil the creation of a Poverty Reduction Fund. It also established the Secretariat of Urban
Development with a mandate to promote better living conditions in urban centers and strengthen


                                                    - 11 -

the capacity of municipal governments. In addition, the State has adopted a strategic
development plan that calls for the strengthening of key urban centers across the State as a means
for better economic integration and regional development. This strategy is complemented by the
establishment of regional development councils, thus creating opportunities for stakeholder
participation in regional policy and economic development. Finally, the establishment in the Bahia
State Development Agency (DESENBAHIA) of a financing window for municipal infrastructure
(PROURBANO) after the Fiscal Responsibility Law prohibited inter-governmental lending,
ensures the sustainability of a new financing model for urban infrastructure development that the
project initially supported through FUNDURBANO.

6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
As mentioned before, the urban infrastructure financing mechanism is fully integrated in
DESENBAHIA and will be capitalized with loan re-flows from FUNDURBANO and loans
already made by DESENBAHIA itself under the project. Arrangements to ensure the
continuation of technical assistance for municipal capacity strengthening are being finalized
between the Secretariat of Planning and the Secretariat of Urban Development so that the
capacity that was created in CAR is retained and fully utilized.

7. Bank and Borrower Performance

Bank
7.1 Lending:
Bank performance during the lending period is rated Satisfactory. A total of 16 technical missions
were undertaken during the course of project preparation, in addition to the appraisal mission.
The team comprised some of the Bank's top specialists in the areas of urban development and the
level of technical analysis and planning reflects that expertise.

The project objectives were clearly and appropriately identified, when compared to the
government's and Bank's policy priorities, and represented the state-of-the-art thinking regarding
the best approaches to addressing urban challenges--approaches and strategies that remain
relevant today. In retrospective, it can be said that the whole package was well formulated, given
that over approximately seven years of implementation the basic structure of the project did not
change (even though a few adjustments were made by introducing two sub-components, but this
was due to legal restrictions affecting the implementation of the urban infrastructure component),
and the objectives did not change at all. Given the project outcomes, it is clear that the project
was well conceived and prepared.

7.2 Supervision:
Supervision is rated Satisfactory. Over the course of the project lifetime there were four separate
task managers. This would normally be excessive and a source of potential problems in
supervision, but it is not unusual in a project that was implemented over a seven and a half year
period. In addition, there was considerable overlap when transitioning from one task manager to
another and, thus, there was no institutional memory loss. Supervision missions were regular (at
least twice a year) and when supervision was decentralized to the Country Office in Brasilia they
became more frequent. Decentralization of supervision to the Country Office greatly facilitated
and improved supervision quality, allowing the borrower easier and more frequent access to the
Bank.



                                                  - 12 -

The Bank is considered to have been proactive and responsibly flexible in the supervision of the
project. The State of Bahia is arguably one of the Bank's best and most important clients in the
Brazil program. The Bank has identified Northeast Brazil as a priority region for assistance, given
its high incidence of poverty. Bahia has been a model for developing and implementing good
policies in a variety of fields from urban and rural development to social programs. It has also
been a State highly receptive to working with the Bank. For this reason, when the project
struggled through difficult periods, the Bank was responsive: the loan closing date was extended
twice; Bank cost sharing increased when cash-flow problems restricted the availability of
counterpart funding; disbursement method was changed to a financial management report system
in order to enhance efficiency in project implementation; and the Bank worked creatively with the
State to solve issues such as overcoming the limitations on intergovernmental lending presented
by the Fiscal Responsibility Law. In addition, Bank missions enhanced the quality of project
outputs through the institution of Bank policies and safeguards, especially for resettlement.

7.3 Overall Bank performance:
For the reasons stated before, overall Bank performance can be rated as Satisfactory.

Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
Borrower performance during preparation is rated Satisfactory. Project ownership was strong at
the highest level, with the project clearly responding to the State's policy priorities. Preparation
was thorough and efficient. The State took direct responsibility for much of the project
preparation details, including drafting the Operations Manual and creating the Project
Coordinating Unit within CAR.

7.5 Government implementation performance:
Government implementation performance is also rated Satisfactory. The project was a clear
priority of the Government, and was seen as the most effective vehicle for pursuing its urban
development goals. The State took many actions to ensure effective performance during the
implementation period, including: (i) making adequate budget allocations for project execution,
even though funds were not always made available in a timely manner; (ii) engaging outside
consultants to assist the State in overcoming its own technical shortcomings; (iii) upgrading and
modernizing information systems and instituting capacity building programs for State employees
associated with the project; and (iv) establishing a new financing window for urban infrastructure
in DESENBAHIA to ensure the continuation of a new model for urban infrastructure
development financing in view of the impracticality of FUNDURBANO as a result of the Fiscal
Responsibility Law.

7.6 Implementing Agency:
Implementing agency performance is rated Satisfactory. As the project implementing agency of
the State, CAR fully embraced its responsibilities under the project and took actions to ensure
effective performance during the implementation period. Specifically, CAR engaged outside
consultants to assist in overcoming its own technical shortcomings, especially in the area of
municipal reform and capacity building; and instituted capacity building programs for its own staff
associated with the project.



                                                - 13 -

7.7 Overall Borrower performance:
The Borrower's overall performance is rated Satisfactory.

8. Lessons Learned

Institutional development activities usually require considerable lead time in order to be ready for
implementation, especially because of the complexity of assessing municipal institutional
development needs and consolidating municipal management instruments to address such needs.
For this reason, more attention and time should be given to the preparation of institutional
development components in projects such as PRODUR.

Strong project ownership and commitment to its objectives on the part of the Borrower (including
the implementing agency) and decentralization of the responsibility for the contracting of works,
goods and services directly to the beneficiary municipalities were key elements in achieving a
successful implementation of the project.

The engagement of a capable NGO to work on the social aspects of the Novos Alagados urban
upgrading sub-component proved to be a major asset for its successful implementation. The
NGO complemented well the skills of CONDER, the State government agency responsible for
managing implementation of this sub-component; acted as an honest broker between the
community and CONDER; and, helped to organize the community and mobilize additional capital
for investments in social infrastructure, such as day care units. It also assisted in the organization
of economic development activities for the community, including the creation of a cooperative
that provided labor for housing construction and improvements in the Novos Alagados area.

External support for the implementation of essential services in municipalities should always be
carried out through direct financing to the municipalities concerned, on the basis of sustainable
financing. Grants should be limited to a small part of the total amounts to be invested, and solely
as a way of ensuring more efficient planning and better coordination procedures.

Training for State as well as municipal staff involved in project implementation, together with
systematic technical assistance targeted on the municipalities were key elements in ensuring that
the State and municipalities acquired the necessary skills to effect changes in policy formulation
and management practices.

Low-cost infrastructure activities in small towns were seen to be more successful than those in
medium to large cities, in view of the higher levels of commitment and greater participation by the
local communities.

9. Partner Comments

(a) Borrower/implementing agency:




                                                - 14 -

       GOVERNMENT OF THE STATE OF BAHIA
       SECRETARIAT FOR PLANNING ­ SEPLAN
      REGIONAL DEVELOPMENT COMPANY ­ CAR




BAHIA MUNICIPAL INFRASTRUCTURE DEVELOPMENT AND
          MANAGEMENT PROJECT­ PRODUR



    SUMMARY OF THE IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT



 CONTRIBUTION OF THE BORROWER TO THE PREPARATION OF THE
         IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT ­ ICR




                      February 2005




                          - 15 -

INTRODUCTION

The Bahia Municipal Infrastructure Development and Management Project (PRODUR)
was conceived by the Bahia State Government as one of the instruments for improving
the urban policy of the state. The project primarily set out to improve the living
conditions of people living in poor urban areas and to enhance the efficiency of the
services provided either directly or indirectly by the municipalities to their populations
and to render the financing arrangements for essential municipal services more
sustainable.

The Project was financed by the World Bank under Loan Agreement 4140-BR, signed
on 28 April 1997. The Project was due to get underway on 3 June 1997 and was
planned to run until 31 March 2002.

 Loan Agreement 4140-BR was amended five times to take into account modifications
relating to the amounts and percentages under the Expenditure Categories subhead or
to define new completion dates for the Project. The Project closed on September 30,
2004.

At the time Loan Agreement 4140-BR was signed, the cost of the Project was budgeted
at US$191.5 million, which included US$100 million from the World Bank and US$91.5
million from the State of Bahia and participating municipalities. The total cost of the
Project at completion amounted to a total of US$ 146 million, including US$100 million
from the IBRD .


1.      PRODUR OBJECTIVES

1.1.    Original Objectives

The original objectives of the Project, defined at the time of its preparation and
recorded in Staff Appraisal Report No.16258-BR (SAR) of 28 January 1997, were the
following:

a. To improve the living conditions of people living in poor urban areas through (i)
    efficient and reliable systems for mapping urban poverty in the State with a view to
    guiding state and municipal investment strategies and (ii) an urban improvement
    program targeted on poverty in the most critical areas, the so-called `pockets of
    poverty'.
b. To increase the efficiency and sustainability of the municipal public sector and the
    financing of essential municipal services;
c. To provide support for the privatization and contracting-out of services;
d. To increase cost recovery of municipal investment; and



                                            - 16 -

e. To strengthen municipal financial management capacity, especially for effective
    expenditure control and capital budgeting.

1.2.    Revised Objectives

The Regional Development Company (CAR) faced considerable difficulties to bring on
stream the `Sub-loan Infrastructure Component'. This was planned to be the main
beneficiary of resource allocation, but the component utilized only US$ 5.1 million of
the Loan Agreement 4140-BR funds, due to the delays experienced by the
municipalities in getting their requests for borrowing processed by the Central Bank,
responsible at the time for analyzing the financial capacity of municipalities and for
authorizing contractual arrangements in respect of financing. The situation was made
worse with the promulgation of Resolution 78/98 which reduced the indebtedness
capacity of municipalities and increased red tape. These circumstances led the Bahia
State Government to put forward, in 1998, a series of proposals for changes in the
design of the Project. The main objective of the State at that point was to get the
resources allocated to the Infrastructure Sub-program transferred to Municipalities as
grants, i.e: no longer as loans.

While this new approach did not modify the original objectives of the Project as far as
`improving the living conditions of people in poor areas' was concerned, nevertheless
failed to address the objective of enhancing the efficiency of the municipal public sector
and of making essential municipal services financially sustainable.

Given the problems encountered by the Bahia State Government to enter into
contractual arrangements regarding financing for the municipalities, the World Bank
agreed to the proposed modification and signed the First Amendment to the Loan
Contract on 17 December 1988. This included a new component ­ the `Urban
Infrastructure Grant' ­ but retained the `Sub-loan to Municipalities Component' through
FUNDURBANO, with the original amount of US$ 83.9 million reduced to US$ 40.9
million. Subsequently, with the introduction of Complementary Law 101/00 (the Fiscal
Responsibility Law) the State of Bahia was obliged to suppress FUNDURBANO.

Since the State of Bahia and the World Bank wished to retain the original objectives of
PRODUR, both continued to seek alternatives for securing financing for essential
municipal services on the basis of PRODUR. On 4 June 2003, with the signing of the
4th Amendment, a further device was created which allowed the resumption of the
Municipal Sub-loan Component, with resources of around US$12.0 million from Loan
Agreement 4140-BR, benefiting a total of 27 municipalities.

2.      PROJECT COMPONENTS OF THE PROJECT

2.1.    Original Components (in accordance with the text of Loan Agreement
4140-BR, which does not necessarily coincide with the text of SAR No.
16258-BR)



                                            - 17 -

Part A: Municipal Reforms and Institutional Development

1. Preparation of the diagnostic and if necessary the drafting of recommendations for
   (a) the privatization of firms controlled by the municipalities or for the
   contracting-out of municipal services and (b) strengthening the administrative,
   institutional and financial capacities of the municipalities;
2. Execution of projects in one or more of the following fields: privatization of
   municipally-controlled firms; contracting out municipal services; restructuring the
   municipally-run firms by cutting back staff levels and introducing other
   administrative reforms to prepare for smoother privatization or the contracting-out of
   municipal services.
3. Projects in one or more of the following fields: to improve, through technical
   assistance, personnel training and equipment procurement (including hardware and
   software), the administrative, institutional and financial capacities of the
   municipalities. The improvements envisaged would cover, inter alia, revising
   property tax records, improving the procedures, norms and physical infrastructure
   for collecting property taxes and other tariffs, improving public tendering
   arrangements and preparing or improving master plans, codes and other technical
   records required for executing works.

Part B: Strengthening the CAR and the Study on Poverty

1. To strengthen the technical and administrative capacities of the CAR, through the
   provision of technical assistance and personnel training and the procurement of
   appropriate equipment (including hardware and software).
2. To carry out a survey to assess the impact of the Project as regards improving the
   living conditions of poor people in urban areas within the territory of the Borrower in
   order to design a `poverty map'.

Part C: Urban Infrastructure

Projects covering one or more of the following activities:

a. Installation and/or extension of water production and treatment systems, improving
   the water supply network and household water connections, operational and
   commercial upgrades such as the installation of water meters, leak detection
   devices and making repairs to appropriate existing equipment;
b. Installation and/or extension of wastewater treatment systems, networks and
   household connections;
c. Acquisition of equipment for collection and solid waste disposal and the
   construction of landfills;
d. Surfacing streets, channeling of streams, macro/micro-drainage and carrying out
   works to contain flooding and erosion;
e. Other works to complement those in (a) to (d) above such as street-lighting,



                                            - 18 -

    urbanization, construction of sidewalks and planting trees and shrubs;
f. Building municipal markets and abattoirs; and
g. Constructing or expanding passenger terminals (air, bus, maritime and tourism).

Part D: Urban Improvements

Execution of projects consisting of one or more of the activities referred to in Part C (a)
to (e) of the Project in localities with a monthly household income of less than three
minimum salaries.


2.2. Revised Components


The Project underwent a further revision of components when the 3rd Amendment to
the Loan Agreement was signed on 3 April 2001. The revision covered the following: (i)
item 4 to be included in Part A, thereby releasing funding for the training of teams
working for target Municipalities; (ii) the CONDER to be included in item 1 of Part B as
a beneficiary of efforts to strengthen technical and administrative capacities; and (iii)
removal from item 2 of Part B the clause "to carry out a study to assess the impact on
the improvement of living conditions of the urban poor in the territory of the Borrower in
order to map poverty", replaced in the revised version by the phrase "Strengthening
the capacity of the CAR to implement different analyses and performance assessments
of Project implementation, and to disseminate information about the Project".


3. OBJECTIVES AND OUTCOMES ACHIEVED



3.1 Targets Achieved


At the time when PRODUR was conceived no annual physical targets were set.
Detailed consideration of the targets on a yearly basis basically depended on
proposals being put forward by the municipal Municipalities describing the project and
areas of activity which would benefit them from the interventions. Following analysis
and presentation of the proposals and taking into account the range of previously
defined criteria, the programming and work schedule was then to be inserted into the
State budget and the necessary resources subsequently allocated to the sub-programs.


In line with the initial concept, PRODUR commenced activities with the Institutional
Development Sub-program, aiming to provide incentives to introduce changes in
management standards through instruments that would make it possible to collect
revenue and plan investments in urban infrastructure, including those supported by the
Project.



                                             - 19 -

Following the Municipal Institutional and Financial Survey (PIM), and once those
municipalities which were in a favorable position to contract loans and showed keen
interest in eligible PRODUR investments had been identified, the CAR began
implementing the Institutional Development Sub-program, carrying out technical visits
to the chosen municipalities and selecting priority areas on which to start work, as well
as providing advice to Municipalities on how to comply with the various requirements
set forth in the Operational Manuals.

At the end of 2000, a list of `global indicators' of PRODUR Results and Products was
agreed, with the assistance of the World Bank. The following chart shows the key
performance indicators for 203 municipalities in the State of Bahia.

Chart 1 - PRODUR ­ KEY PERFORMANCE INDICATORS

Description                                                  Unit         Planned         Achieved

·        Results Indicators:
Institutional Strengthening of Municipalities                Municipality 131             133
Locations with Basic Sanitation Projects, on basis
of sub-loan                                                  US$ million 164              24,6
Locations with Basic Sanitation Projects, on basis
of donation funds                                            Municipality 71              141(1)
Micro-areas with improvement and/or resettlement Micro-area               22              88
Institutional Strengthening of CAR and CONDER Agency                      2               3*

·        Product Indicators
Institutional Development projects                           Project      192             451
Sub-loans for Municipalities                                 US$ million 164              24,6
Infrastruture projects through donations                     Project      71              200
Projects for needy areas                                     Micro-area   22              88
Institutional Strengthening of CAR and CONDER Agency                      2               3*
(*) ­ Includes SEPLAN/BA
(1) ­ Of the 141 municipalities, 69 participate in the FAZ CIDADÃO Program (lowest HDI in the State)
and 72 fall within the donation infrastructure component.

In addition to the above, the following should also be mentioned as providing
institutional strengthening to the municipalities: the preparation of 96 Urban Master
Plans; 110 Computerization Master Plans; 23 Solid Waste Management Plans; 78
Technical Registers, 30 Tax Codes, 43 Administrative Organization Projects, 66
Information Technology Projects and 5 special surveys commissioned by the
Municipalities.

In terms of the directly benefited population (ie: the number of people who
definitively inhabited the areas where interventions were mounted or the urban


                                                    - 20 -

population living in the municipal sede benefited from public works such as markets,
public squares and sanitary landfills), the PRODUR produced encouraging results,
benefiting 3.8 million people ­ representing 43% of the total urban population of the
State of Bahia in the year 2000.

Chart 2 - PRODUR ­ POPULATION BENEFITED, BY COMPONENT



Component                                                     Number of Inhabitants
Infrastructure, on the basis of sub-loans                   830.800
Infrastructure, on the basis of donations                  2.752.690
 Infrastructure, on the basis of the FAZ CIDADÃO           112.450
Program
 Infrastructure, on the basis of the Needy Areas           678.710
Program
 Infrastructure, on the basis of the Novos Alagados         11.900
Program

3.2. Assessment of Results Achieved

An independent `Mid-Term Appraisal' was carried out in 2002 in 37 municipalities
benefiting from the overall PRODUR activities (infrastructure and Infrastructural
Development or ID) and in 8 (non-beneficiary) municipalities serving as baselines for
comparative purposes. The Appraisal was done for 1996 to 2000. Questionnaires were
applied to groups as well as to individuals with the aim of assembling qualitative
information on Project interventions. The following participated in the exercise:
municipal managers and representatives, as interlocutors; the beneficiary population;
the general public; community and special group representatives; consulting firms; the
technical team and managers of PRODUR and other entities involved in the activities of
the program.

A selection process got underway at the end of 2004 to hire consultants to produce a
`Final Appraisal' independently of PRODUR. This process came to nought since only
one firm presented a technical proposal which in the event failed to score the minimum
70 points required by the rules of the selection process. The State is to organize a
fresh selection process in the course of 2005.

Institutional Development

The results achieved revealed that the activities associated with Institutional
Development (ID) were considered to be fairly satisfactory, particularly insofar as the
activities directly concerned with Municipal Finances, ie: Technical Registers,
Information Technology Master Plans, Tax Codes, introducing computer-based
methods in the tax and financial areas etc. These initiatives were responsible for
introducing more operational flexibility in the Municipalities, enhancing the


                                            - 21 -

effectiveness of municipal tax collection procedures and impacting positively on public
finances, principally with respect to increasing local tax collection (thus reducing the
dependence of municipalities on financial transfers from the Federal and State
governments).

Of the 37 municipalities assessed, 11 were analyzed from the point of view of tax
collection and compared with 8 municipalities that were not beneficiaries of PRODUR.
It was found that 64% of the beneficiary municipalities succeeded in collecting more
IPTU and ISS, while in the 8 `non-beneficiary' municipalities, IPTU revenue increased
between 1996/97 but this was followed by a decrease in the years up to 2000. In the
same 8 Municipalities, ISS receipts increased in 1996/98 and subsequently decreased
up to 2000.

As for the guidance provided by the CAR, the general opinion of the Municipalities
surveyed was very positive and the latter confirmed their interest in continuing and
following up the projects. The Municipalities drew special attention to the skill levels
and expertise of the CAR technical team which inspired much confidence among the
municipal employees.

A further positive point raised in the assessments was the priority awarded by the CAR
to training activities targeted on municipal teams, considered to be of key importance
by all.

Infrastructure

Regarding the Infrastructure Grant Component, an independent assessment was
conducted on the impact of the Canal Central in the Municipality of Ruy Barbosa. The
opinions of the beneficiaries and that of municipal officials served as the basic survey
material for this exercise.

The following benefits were cited by the local population (i) reduced levels of disease;
(ii) fewer mosquitoes; and (iii) improvements in the cleanliness and general physical
appearance of the locality. Other benefits mentioned included improved drainage,
street-surfacing and higher property values.

The opinion survey conducted with the Mayor and municipal team revealed that the
infrastructure works contributed to reducing the incidence of skin infections and
respiratory diseases. According to the representative of the local executive power,
PRODUR brought improvements to the quality of life of the local population.

A further survey was carried out in nine beneficiary municipalities regarding the works
done with funds allocated under the Urban Upgrading Component. The main
outcomes are listed as follows:

a) Improved quality of life



                                            - 22 -

Over 90% of the interviewees acknowledged that the works effected by PRODUR
contributed to improving the lives of local families. The following benefits were
particularly highlighted:

l Reduced amounts of mud, dust and stagnant water;
l Increased comfort for families involved;
l Improved accessibility and mobility;
l Reduced nuisance from insects and foul odors;
l Reduced cases of sickness;
l Cleaner appearance of localities;
l Property values on the rise.


b) Reduction of disease

l Sanitation and urbanization clearly helped to bring down the incidence of disease
   among the local families, particularly those affecting children.
l Verminosis, dengue, respiratory diseases and dermatitis were cited as the most
   common diseases for which indicators improved as the result of PRODUR.

c) Water and sewerage services

l 80% approval rates regarding the provision of drinking water and 63% for
   wastewater collection certainly show that the measures facilitating access to these
   services were well received by the local populations.

l Disease and foul odor reduction were highlighted as major benefits.


d) Access to Waste Collection Services

l Of the eleven areas surveyed, only three had been properly served by the waste
   collection services before the Project. Following the various interventions all began
   to receive these services.

l About 42% of the population informed that solid waste collection services had
   commenced operations and/or were improved after the conclusion of the works
   associated with the Program.

e) Drainage and street-surfacing in urban areas

l Drainage services improved substantially. The survey revealed that the
   previous situation was one of significant risk for the local populations in view of
   erosion and flooding.

l While occasional flooding remained a concern in most areas surveyed, around



                                            - 23 -

   60% of the population unconditionally approved of the investments made in
   drainage improvement.

3.3. PRODUR Costs and Financing

The cost of the PRODUR was budgeted at US$191.5 million, which included US$100
million from the World Bank and US$91.5 million from the State of Bahia (including the
share of the participating municipalities). The total final expenditure on the Project,
taking the various adjustments into account, amounted to US$ 146 million.

Chart 2 - PRODUR ­ Schedule and Financial Execution, by Component

(US$ 1,000.00)

Component/Expenditure Category Programmed                      Expenditur  % spent
                                     expenditure               e

                                                               (c)

                                     Original values           Revised

                                     Ln 4140-BR                values      (c)/(a)

                                     (a)                       to
                                                               June/04     (c)/(b)

                                                               (b)

Cat. 1 ­ Infrastructure Sub-loan     158,301                   8.841       8.8945.6100.6
­FUNDURBANO

Cat. 1 A ­ Infrastructure Donation 0                           56.350      55.643-98.7

Cat. 1 B ­ Infrastructure Donation 0                           4.832       5.251-108.7
FAZ CIDADÃO

Cat. 1 C ­ Infrastructure Sub -loan                            16.371      15.730
DESENBAHIA and Donation             0                                      -96.1

Cat. 2 ­ Infrastructure Needy        7,547                     27.902      29.822395.11
Areas                                                                      06.9

Cat 2 A ­ Infrastructure New         0                         9.352       7.205-77.0
Flooded Areas (Novos Alagados)

Cat. 3 ­ Institutional Development -23,778                     15.295      16.30368.610
Municipalities                                                             6.6

Cat 4 ­ Institutional Development 1,000                        1,800       2.028202.811
CAR - Goods                                                                2.7

Cat. 5 ­ Institutional Development                                         5.103567.010


                                            - 24 -

                                     900                     5,027
CAR ­ Consulting Services                                                1.5

Special Account                                                          14--

TOTAL                                191,526                 145.770     145.99376.21
                                                                         00.1

World Bank                           100,00                  100,000     100.000100.0
                                                                         100.0

State of Bahia/Municipalities         91,526                 45.770      45.99350.210
                                                                         0.5


4. MAIN FACTORS AFFECTING THE IMPLEMENTATION OF PRODUR


4.1. Factors outside the control of the State Government

l Municipal elections in 2000 which led to a turnover of Mayors and technical teams,
   requiring more time to be devoted to training new personnel, caused delays in the
   execution of the proposed activities.

l Electoral legislation banning the awarding of new contracts and financial transfers
   less than 3 months before the elections. This was the case in the municipal
   elections of 2000 and again in the 2002 State gubernatorial election.

l A lack of consulting firms in the market and a shortage of experienced and qualified
   professional staff to meet the substantial demand for the supply of specialized
   services related to the Institutional Development Component.

l The promulgation on 1 July 1988 of Resolution 78/98 by the Federal Senate,
   reducing the indebtedness capacity limit of the municipalities.

l Transferring the Central Bank Public Debt Office from the City of Salvador to
   Recife;

l The lack of awareness by municipal managers about the importance of financial and
   planning instruments required by a modern and more efficient administration.

l Complementary Law 101/00 ­ the Fiscal Responsibility Law ­ outlawing credit
   operations between entities of the Federation.

l The non-existence in the Loan Agreement procedures of a clause in the contracts
   signed with executing firms specifying the raising of fines in the event of failure to
   complete the contracted works on time.


4.2. Factors that in general were subject to Government control




                                           - 25 -

l Administrative restructuring in January 1999, when CONDER absorbed the
    functions and competences of URBIS ­ Housing and Urbanization of the State of
    Bahia S/A, and became known as the `State of Bahia Urban Development
    Company', caused delays to the execution of the Urban Upgrading Component.

l The lack of knowledge about World Bank procurement procedures, mainly with
    respect to the guidelines for the selection of consultants. This led to the cancellation
    of procurement processes that had already been initiated, resulting in significant
    delays in implementing the activities associated with the Municipal Reform and
    Institutional Development Component.

l The delays caused by the State of Bahia budget procedures. Resources took two
    months to be released, delaying the transfer of funds to the Municipalities and, as a
    consequence, further delays in the execution of the Project.


4.3. Factors that in general were subject to control by the Municipalities

l Lack of familiarity by the Municipalities with World Bank guidelines and of Law
    8.666, which at the beginning of the exercise led to the cancellation of a number of
    different bidding processes on account of their non-compliance with the specified
    requirements.

l The lack of qualified personnel in the Municipalities.

l Delays in processing documents ­ from the bidding stage, through follow-up and to
    the end of the Project.

l The difficulty encountered in obtaining timely disbursement of counterpart funds for
    the Institutional Development projects and the measurement of the works involved.

l The adjustments that the municipal administrations were obliged to make in order to
    comply with the demands and requirements of the Fiscal Responsibility Law.


 5. SUSTAINABILITY OF THE ACTIVITIES


The State of Bahia, even before PRODUR had been completed, undertook a series of
activities to ensure the future sustainability of the Institutional Development initiatives
carried out under PRODUR. In this respect, during the final PRODUR supervision
mission between 21 and 24 September 2004, it was agreed that the Secretariat for
Urban Development (SEDUR), as the body responsible for strengthening the
management capacity of the municipalities in the State, would continue the activities
that had been supported by PRODUR in order to ensure that these would be sustained.
For systematic follow-up of the activities, it was agreed that the possibility of signing an
inter-institutional agreement between SEPLAN/SEDUR/CAR would be considered, in
addition to the decision made to allocate resources in the 2005 State budget.




                                             - 26 -

6. ECONOMIC APPRAISAL

During the preparation phase of the Project, an Internal Rate of Return (IRR) for the
infrastructure sub-projects was estimated at about 20% and an IRR of a minimum of
12% was established to enable infrastructure sub-projects to be selected, with the
exception of the sewerage sub-projects (to be assessed on the basis of `years of
healthy life saved' -AVS).

In 1997, as a prerequisite for the Loan Agreement to enter into effect, analyses were
concluded on 11 sub-projects in 5 municipalities. All presented an IRR above 12%
(varying from 15.8% to 28.9%).

During the implementation of the Project, the CAR carried out economic feasibility
studies of sub-projects requesting financing through FUNDURBANO. 21 infrastructure
sub-projects were analyzed in 7 municipalities which presented an IRR of over 12%
(varying from 16.3% to 29.6%).

Owing PRODUR's support to municipalities, between December 1998 and 4 June
2003, solely on the basis of grants, and from 5 June 2003 until the Project closed on 30
September 2004 on the basis of loans (through DESENBAHIA) together with donations,
the CAR considered that it was no longer necessary to proceed with economic
feasibility assessments.

7. PERFORMANCE OF THE WORLD BANK, THE STATE OF BAHIA AND THE
MUNICIPALITIES



7.1. Performance of the World Bank


The performance of the World Bank was considered to be satisfactory throughout all
the phases of preparation and execution of the Project, despite the turnover of Task
Managers which tended to slow down implementation of the Project temporarily.


Bank performance was considered to be highly satisfactory when ­ having judged that
it would be impossible for the State of Bahia to proceed with the original objective to
include in the Project a sustainable financing fund for essential municipal services ­
contributed directly to the creation of alternative modalities for continuing financing
directed to the municipalities with PRODUR resources, which preserved part of the
resources originally allocated for onlending.


A further point worth highlighting in respect of World Bank performance was the use of



                                            - 27 -

computerized systems for financial resource management.


7.2. Performance of the State of Bahia


The State of Bahia, the Borrower, gave high priority to the execution of the PRODUR,
in terms of providing the requisite budget and financial allocations and determining a
single entity as coordinator of the Project.


The State of Bahia fulfilled all the commitments entered with the World Bank,
establishing the institutional apparatus needed for execution of the Project, carrying
out the planned decentralizing procedures and encouraging participation by local
communities.


The State of Bahia was anxious to maintain and fulfil the original objectives of the
Project regardless of unforeseen drawbacks. This made it possible for a process to
proceed which demonstrated the viability and feasibility of creating mechanisms to
ensure the financing ­ direct to municipalities ­ of essential services for the populations
concerned.


7.3. Performance of the Municipalities


The pace of the Project was slowed down substantially on account of the lack of
experience on the part of Municipalities in implementing projects such as PRODUR.
This, together with lack of familiarity with relevant legislation and the shortage of
qualified personnel, led to the Project advancing slower than planned.


 While there was no empowerment on the part of the Municipalities regarding the
Institutional Development component, it was nevertheless observed that at least 100
municipalities showed new awareness of the importance of the activities in improving
the lives of their inhabitiants.


In financial terms, the Municipalities contributed their share of resources, in accordance
with the percentage amounts foreseen in the Institutional Development and
Infrastructure components.




                                             - 28 -

 8. MAIN LESSONS LEARNED

Execution of Urban Development Projects such as PRODUR should always devote time
at the beginning of the exercise exclusively to Institutional Development activities as a
means of consolidating municipal management instruments.

The success of the implementation of PRODUR was due mainly to the commitment by
the Borrower to Project objectives and decentralization of the responsibiity of
implementation responsibilities for works, goods and services directly to the beneficiary
Municipalities.

External support for the implementation of essential services in municipalities should
always be carried out through direct financing to the municipalities concerned, on the
basis of sustainable financing. Grants should be limited to a small part of the total
amounts to be invested, and solely as a way of ensuring more efficient planning and
better coordination procedures.

Permanent training for the State coordinating team and the municipal teams
(governmental and non-governmental) involved, together with systematic technical
assistance targeted on the Municipalities was seen to be the key tool for endowing the
State with the required skills and for municipalities to effect changes to their planning
and management practices.

Low-cost infrastructure activities in small towns were seen to be more successful than
those in medium to large cities, in view of the higher levels of commitment and greater
participation by the local communities.

Considering the scope of PRODUR, it can be concluded that given the initial level of
expertise of the State executor and the lack of knowledge and experience on the part of
municipalities, the number of municipalities involved in the Project was excessive ­ a
fact that made it necessary to stretch the initial phase of the Project by more that 50%
over the period initially planned.


(b) Cofinanciers:


(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):


10. Additional Information




                                             - 29 -

Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix

Outcome / Impact Indicators:
                                                                       1
                Indicator/Matrix                   Projected in last PSR          Actual/Latest Estimate
Institutional Strengthening of Municipalities 131                           133
(per municipality)
Municipal capitals with basic sanitation      164                           24.6
projects, through subloans (per US$ million)

Municipal capitals with basic sanitation      71                            141
projects through grants (per municipality)
Micro-areas with improvement and/or           22                            88
resettlement (per micro-area)
Institutional Strengthening of CAR and        2                             3
CONDER (per agency)


Output Indicators:
                                                                       1
                Indicator/Matrix                   Projected in last PSR          Actual/Latest Estimate
Institutional Development Projects (per       192                           451
project)
Subloans to municipalities (US$ million)      164                           24.6
Infrastructure Projects (per municipality)    71                            200
Projects for Needy Areas (per micro-area)     22                            88
Institutional Strengthening of CAR and        2                             3
CONDER (per agency)

1End of project




                                                         - 30 -

Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing

Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                          Appraisal     Actual/Latest  Percentage of
                                                          Estimate       Estimate        Appraisal
                      Component                           US$ million   US$ million
Municipal Reform and Institutional Development              18.10           16.30               90
Strengthening of CAR, CONDER and SEPLAN                      1.90             7.13             375
Urban Infrastructure (FUNDURBANO Subloans)                 186.50             8.89               5
Urban Infrastructure (Grants)                                0.00           55.64
Urban Infrastructure (Faz Cidadão Grants)                    0.00             5.25
Urban Infrastructure (DESENBAHIA Subloans)                   0.00           15.73
Urban Upgrading                                             15.50           37.00              239

Total Baseline Cost                                        222.00          145.94
                        Total Project Costs                222.00          145.94
                  Total Financing Required                 222.00          145.94


Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
                                                                    1
                                               Procurement Method
    Expenditure Category            ICB            NCB                2        N.B.F.     Total Cost
                                                               Other
1. Works                           22.00           89.70        12.20          0.00         123.90
                                  (15.00)         (28.50)      (3.70)          (0.00)       (47.20)
2. Goods                           27.60           42.10         8.00          0.00         77.70
                                  (27.60)         (12.60)      (2.40)          (0.00)       (42.60)
3. Services                        0.00             0.00         0.00          20.40        20.40
                                   (0.00)          (0.00)      (0.00)         (10.20)       (10.20)
4. Miscellaneous                   0.00             0.00         0.00          0.00          0.00
                                   (0.00)          (0.00)      (0.00)          (0.00)       (0.00)
5. Miscellaneous                   0.00             0.00         0.00          0.00          0.00
                                   (0.00)          (0.00)      (0.00)          (0.00)       (0.00)
6. Miscellaneous                   0.00             0.00         0.00          0.00          0.00
                                   (0.00)          (0.00)      (0.00)          (0.00)       (0.00)
   Total                           49.60          131.80        20.20          20.40        222.00
                                  (42.60)         (41.10)      (6.10)         (10.20)      (100.00)


Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Actual/Latest Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
                                                                    1
                                               Procurement Method
    Expenditure Category            ICB            NCB                2      N.B.F.      Total Cost
                                                               Other
1. Works                           0.00            17.40       104.50          0.00        121.90
                                   (0.00)         (11.30)     (67.70)         (0.00)       (79.00)
2. Goods                           0.50            1.00         6.40           0.00         7.90
                                   (0.40)         (0.90)       (4.70)         (0.00)       (6.00)
3. Services                        0.20            0.00        16.00           0.00        16.20
                                   (0.20)         (0.00)      (14.80)         (0.00)       (15.00)

                                                - 31 -

   4. Miscellaneous                         0.00               0.00              0.00             0.00              0.00
                                           (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.00)            (0.00)           (0.00)
   5. Miscellaneous                         0.00               0.00              0.00             0.00              0.00
                                           (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.00)            (0.00)           (0.00)
   6. Miscellaneous                         0.00               0.00              0.00             0.00              0.00
                                           (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.00)            (0.00)           (0.00)
       Total                                0.70              18.40            126.90             0.00             146.00
                                           (0.60)            (12.20)           (87.20)            (0.00)          (100.00)

     1/Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Loan. All costs include contingencies.

     2/Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of contracted staff
       of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental operating costs related to (i)
       managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local government units.



Project Financing by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                                                                       Percentage of Appraisal
        Component                   Appraisal Estimate                  Actual/Latest Estimate
                                Bank        Govt.        CoF.         Bank         Govt.      CoF.       Bank     Govt.     CoF.
Municipal Reform and            8.15         9.95                    14.54         1.76                  178.4     17.7
Institutional Development
Strengthening of CAR,           0.87         1.03                     6.12         1.01                  703.4     98.1
CONDER and SEPLAN
Urban Infrastructure -         83.90        102.60                    5.12         3.77                   6.1      3.7
FUNDURBANO Subloans
Urban Infrastructure -          0.00         0.00                    33.53         22.11                  0.0      0.0
Grants
Urban Infrastructure - Faz      0.00         0.00                     3.82         1.43                   0.0      0.0
Cidadão Grants
Urban Infrastructure -          0.00         0.00                    11.63         4.11                   0.0      0.0
DESENBAHIA Subloans
Urban Upgrading                 7.00         8.50                    25.24         11.80                 360.6    138.8

   Obs.: Amounts under Govt. include counterpart financing from both State and Municipal governments. In
   aggregate, the State Govt. provided counterpart financing in the amount of US$18.68 million (12.8% of
   total project costs) while Municipal Govts. provided US$27.32 million (18.7% of total project costs).




                                                           - 32 -

Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits

An ex-post evaluation of a sample consisting of 22 urban infrastructure subprojects across 15
beneficiary municipalities yielded an average internal rate of return (IRR) of 34.8 per cent against
24.5 per cent estimated at subproject appraisal which is well above the 12 per cent minimum IRR
established for such investments in the project appraisal report (SAR). This sample included six
infrastructure subprojects financed by subloans, 11 infrastructure subprojects financed by grants,
and five urban upgrading subprojects which consist mostly of investments in drainage, street
paving and sewers. The economic evaluation was based on the same methodology used at
appraisal which employs increased property values as a result of investments as a primary benefit
determinant. Below is Table 1 that contains specific data on selected projects that comprised the sample.
Table 2 contains data on five projects that initially had an IRR of less than 12 percent.

                                                    PRODUR
     Table 1. EX-ANTE AND EX-POST EVALUATION OF URBAN INFRASTRUCTURE PROJECTS
                                      Projects with ex-ante IRR = or > 12%

  Municipality   Name of Project Type of Project       Cost          Cost            IRR         IRR
                                                    (planned)       (actual)      (expected)   (actual)
                                                    R$ 1.000,00   R$ 1.000,00         %           %
    Projects
    Sub-loans
FUNDURBANO
Camaçari         Acajutiva/W.     Paving and                  572          664,3          16,9         13,3
                 Ornelas          Drainage
                 Novo Horizonte Paving and                    506          509,4          17,3         17,2
                                  Drainage
Ipirá            Jaguarão/Outros Paving and                   706          701,0          29,6         29,8
                                  Drainage
João Dourado     Bairro Angico    Paving and                  780          780,0          17,3         17,3
                                  Drainage
Serrinha         Bairro           Paving and                1.269        1.269,3          28,1         28,1
                 Abóbora/Outros Drainage
Simões Filho     Bairro Pq.       Paving and                3.529        2.451,0          16,3         26,8
                 Continental      Drainage
 Infrastructure
    Projects -
     Grants
Catu             Planalto II/Bom  Paving,                   2.386        1.481,6          16,4         29,3
                 Viver            Micro-Drainage
                                  and Sewers
Dias D'Avila     Street System    Street System and         2.520        2.515,8          18,7         18,7
                                  Storm Sewers
Feira de Santana Bairro Gabriela  Paving and                1.463          964,7          42,1         65,7
                                  Drainage
Ipiau            Constância       Paving;                     818          489,8          21,9         40,2
                                  Macro-Drainage
                                  and Sewers
                 Subestação       Paving;                     449          191,9          28,7         72,7
                                  Micro-Drainage
                                  and Urban Devt.
Itabuna          Canal de Sto.    Macro-Drainage            2.980        2.960,4          51,6         52,0
                 Antonio
Madre de Deus    Orla Sul Trechos Paving; Pub.              3.925        2.882,9          12,7         20,5




                                                      - 33 -

                 1 e 2             Lighting and
                                   Urban Devt.
Ruy Barbosa      Canal Central     Macro-Drainage           1.507         984,1         15,5          27,7
                                   and Sewers
Salvador         Fonte da Bica     Paving; Drainage         1.385       1.564,7         12,6           9,8
                                   and Sewers
                 Canal de São      Micro-Drainage           2.000       2.529,7         17,1          11,5
                 Cristovam
                 Baixa do          Macro-Drainage           1.430       1.422,1         13,8          13,9
                 Calabetão
 Infrastructure
     Urban
   Upgrading
Candeias         Bairro Sto.       Paving;                  1.060         815,6         27,4          37,1
                 Antonio           Macro-Drainage
                                   & Urban Devt.
                 Bairro Malembá Paving;                       577         356,7         40,7          67,9
                                   Macro-Drainage
                                   & Urban Devt.
                 Bairro Sarandy    Paving;                    800         612,2         29,2          39,6
                                   Macro-Drainage
                                   & Urban Devt.
                 Nova Candeias     Paving;                    814         395,6         46,2          98,4
                                   Macro-Drainage
                                   & Urban Devt.
Ilhéus           Viva o Morro      Paving; Drainage         2.259       1.697,9         19,8          28,6
                                   & Soil
                                   Stabilization



                                                    PRODUR
    Table 2. EX-ANTE AND EX-POST EVALUATION OF URBAN INFRASTRUCTURE PROJECTS
                                   Projects with ex-ante IRR < 12% or negative

  Municipality   Name of Project Type of Project       Cost          Cost         IRR          IRR
                                                     (planned)     (actual)     (planned)     (actual)
                                                    R$ 1.000,00   R$ 1.000,00      %            %
 Infrastructure
    Projects -
     Grants
Feira de Santana Bairro            Paving and                 839         616,2          -7,1         -1,5
                 Queimadinha       Drainage
Salvador         Rua Lauro de      Paving and               1.120       1.263,7          8,9           5,4
                 Freitas           Micro-Drainage
                 Rua da Bélgica    Paving; Micro-           1.980       3.318,7          9,2          -0,7
                                   and
                                   Macro-Drainage
 Infrastructure
     Urban
   Upgrading
Simões Filho     Coroa da Lagoa    Paving; Drainage         3.015       2.477,0          4,3           8,2
                                   & Soil
                                   Stabilization
                 Baixa da Jaqueira Paving; Drainage        1.1.21         884,1         11,2          16,8
                                   & Soil
                                   Stabilization




                                                      - 34 -

Annex 4. Bank Inputs

(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                No. of Persons and Specialty            Performance Rating
                                     (e.g. 2 Economists, 1 FMS, etc.)    Implementation Development
                   Month/Year  Count           Specialty                   Progress       Objective

 Identification/Preparation
              1994                      3    TEAM LEADER (1);
                                             ECONOMIST (1); FINANCIAL
                                             MANAGEMENT (1)
              1995                      7    TEAM LEADER (1);
                                             CONSULTANTS (3);
                                             TRANSPORT EXPERT (1);
                                             URBAN PLANNER (1);
                                             ECONOMIST (1)

 Appraisal/Negotiation
              1966                      3    URBAN PLANNER (1)
                                             SOCIOLOGIST (1) ;
                                             ECONOMIST (1)
              1997                      3    TEAM LEADER (1); URBAN
                                             PLANNER (1); CONSULTANT
                                             (1)

 Supervision

              05/30/1997                2    URBAN PLANNER (1);               S               S
                                             ECONOMIST (1)
              02/06/1998                2    URBAN PLANNER (1);               S               S
                                             SOCIOLOLGIST (1)
              04/19/1999                2    PR.OPERATIONS OFFICER            S               S
                                             (1); SR.URBAN SPECIALIST
                                             (1)
              11/26/1999                3    TASK MANAGER (1);                S               S
                                             FIN.MGMT. SPECIALIST (1);
                                             CONSULTANT (1)
              11/26/1999                3    PRINC. OPERATIONS OFF.           S               S
                                             (1); CONSULTANT (2)
              11/26/1999                1    TASK TEAM LEADER (1)             S               S
              11/08/2000                5    TASK TEAM LEADER (1);            S               S
                                             URBAN SPECIALIST (1);
                                             CONSULTANT (3)
              05/17/2001                4    TEAM LEADER (1); URBAN           S               S
                                             SPECIALIST (1);
                                             ECONOMIST/CONSULTANT
                                             (1); ENV/RESETTLEMENT
                                             SPEC (1)
              11/07/2001                3    LEAD OPERATIONS OFFICE           S               S
                                             (1); LEAD URBAN MGT. SP.
                                             (1); CONSULTANT (1)
              05/23/2002                2    TEAM LEADER (1);                 S               S
                                             CONSULTANT (1)
              02/05/2003                2    TASK TEAM LEADER (1);            S               S



                                              - 35 -

                                            CONSULTANT (1)
               06/27/2003              3    TASK TEAM LEADER (1);             S    S
                                            CONSULTANT (1); SR.
                                            URBAN SPECIALIST (1)
               12/13/2003              3    TEAM LEADER (1);                  S    S
                                            CONSULTANT (1); URBAN
                                            DEVELOPMENT SPEC (1)
               05/24/04                3    TEAM LEADER (1);                  S    S
                                            CONSULTANT (1); URBAN
                                            DEPARTMENT SPECIALIST
                                            (1)


 ICR
               09/2004                3     TEAM LEADER (1);                  S    S
                                            CONSULTANT (1);
                                            URBAN DEVELOPMENT
                                            SPECIALIST (1)



(b) Staff:

       Stage of Project Cycle                Actual/Latest Estimate
                                 No. Staff weeks                 US$ ('000)
  Identification/Preparation               88                          67.8
  Appraisal/Negotiation                14.20                         130.7
  Supervision                          103.5                           24.9
  ICR                                       3                          20.0
  Total                                208.7                         743.4




                                            - 36 -

Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components

(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
                                          Rating
  Macro policies                        H        SU    M       N    NA
  Sector Policies                       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Physical                              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Financial                             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Institutional Development             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Environmental                         H        SU    M       N    NA

Social
           Poverty Reduction            H        SU    M       N    NA
           Gender                       H        SU    M       N    NA
           Other (Please specify)       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Private sector development            H        SU    M       N    NA
  Public sector management              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Other (Please specify)                H        SU    M       N    NA




                                                    - 37 -

Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)


6.1 Bank performance                           Rating

   Lending                                       HS     S     U       HU
   Supervision                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU


6.2 Borrower performance                       Rating

   Preparation                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Government implementation performance         HS     S     U       HU
   Implementation agency performance             HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU




                                                    - 38 -

Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents

Staff Appraisal Report, Brazil, Bahia Municipal Infrastructure Development and Management Project,
World Bank, January 28, 1997.

Loan Number 4140-BR, Loan Agreement (Bahia Municipal Infrastructure Development and Management
Project - PRODUR) between International Bank for Reconstruction and Development and State of Bahia,
April 28, 1997.

Loan Amendment Letters dated: December 17, 1998; September 11, 2000; April 3, 2001; June 4, 2003;
and July 29, 2004.

Relatório Final PRODUR, Governo do Estado da Bahia, Fevereiro/2005

PRODUR, Tabela 1. Avaliação Ex-Ante e Ex-Post de Projetos de Infra-estrutura Urbana

PRODUR, Tabela 2. Avaliação Ex-Ante e Ex-Post de Projetos de Infra-estrutura Urbana

Project Status Reports

Back-to-Office Reports

Project Aide Memoires




                                                  - 39 -

- 40 -

