Page  1
April 03, 2001
Mr. Luis Antonio Vasconcelos Carreira
Secretario de Planejamento, Ciencia a Tecnología
Governo do Estado da Bahia 
Av. Luiz Viana Filho, 250
Conjunto SEPLANTEC 
41745-000 Salvador - BA 
Brasil
Re:
Loan No. 4140 - BR Bahia Municipal Infrastructure Development
and Management Project
Third Amendment to the Loan Agreement
Dear Mr. Carreira,
Please refer to the Loan Agreement between the State of Bahia (the Borrower) and the 
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development (the Bank) dated April 28, 1997 (the Loan 
Agreement). We are pleased to inform you that, pursuant to your request dated January 18, 2001, the 
Bank hereby agrees to incorporate specified changes in order to streamline the Loan Agreement.
Consequently, the Loan Agreement is amended as follows:
1.
Section 1.01
, a new paragraph "(u)" is hereby added to read in its entirety as follows:
"(u)
"CONDER" means 
Companhia de Desenvolvimento da Regiao Metropolitana de Salvador,
the Borrower's development company of Salvador metropolitan area."
2.
Section 3.01
, paragraphs (a) and (c) are hereby amended to read in their entirety as follows:
"(a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this 
Agreement, and, to this end, shall: (i) through CAR, cause the Beneficiaries to carry out Part A of the Project 
(ii) through CAR, cause the Beneficiaries (directly or with the assistance of CONDER) to carry out Part D of 
the Project; (iii) through CAR, carry out Part B of the Project; and (iv) through CAR and the Financial Agent, 
cause the Beneficiaries (directly or with the assistance of CONDER) to carry out Part C of the Project, all 
with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate administrative, environmental, 
resettlement, technical, financial and engineering practices, and in accordance with the Operational Manual, 
and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources required for the 
Project."
"(c) The Borrower shall, for purposes of the carrying out of Parts A and D of the Project, make Grants to 
the Beneficiaries pursuant to agreements, satisfactory to the Bank, with the Beneficiaries (the Grant 
Agreements), which shall have the terms and conditions set forth or referred to in the model Grant 
Agreement contained in the Operational Manual, including: (i) in the case of Part D of the Project, the 
obligation referred to in paragraph 6 (b) of Schedule 6 to this Agreement; (ii) in the case of Institutional 
Development Subprojects and Municipal Development Subprojects under Part A of the Project, a provision 
that the Grant shall not finance more than ninety percent (90%) of the total cost of such Subprojects; and 
(iii) in the case of Urban Upgrading Subprojects 
under Part D of the Project, a provision that the Grant 
shall not finance more than eighty five percent (85%) of the total cost of each of such Subprojects, 
excluding the "Novos Alagados Etapa II Program" in which the Grant will finance one hundred percent 
(100%) of the total cost of said Subproject."
Page  2
3.
Schedule 1
, the table in paragraph 1 is hereby amended to read in its entirety as set forth in the 
Annex to this letter.
4.
Schedule 2
, Part A, B, C and D are hereby amended as follows:
"Part A
: Municipal Reforms and Institutional Development
1. Preparation of diagnoses and, when necessary, recommendations for: (a) the privatization of 
the enterprises controlled by Municipalities or for the concessioning of municipal services; and (b) the 
strengthening of the management, institutional and financial capabilities of Municipalities.
2. Carrying out of Subprojects consisting of one or more of the following activities: 
privatization of enterprises controlled by Municipalities or concessioning of municipal services; and 
restructuring of Municipalities' enterprises, through downsizing of staff and other administrative 
reforms, to facilitate privatization or concessioning of municipal services.
3. Carrying out of Subprojects consisting of one or more of the following activities: 
strengthening, through the provision of technical assistance, staff training and acquisition of equipment 
(including hardware and software), of the management, institutional and financial capabilities of 
Municipalities, including, interalia, the upgrading of property tax cadastres, improvement of procedures, 
policies and physical infrastructure for billing and collection of property and other taxes and tariffs, 
improvement of procurement procedures, and preparation or updating of master plans, codes and 
technical standards for construction work.
4. Provision of training to the Beneficiaries' staff following the criteria set forth in the 
Operational Manual.
Part B
: Strengthening of CAR and CONDER
1. Strengthening of the technical and administrative capabilities of CAR and CONDER, through the 
provision of technical assistance and staff training, and acquisition of related equipment (including 
hardware and software).
2. Strengthening of CAR's capacity through the carrying out of: (i) different analysis, assessments and 
performance evaluations of Project implementation; and (ii) Project dissemination campaigns.
Part C
: Urban Infrastructure
Carrying out of Subprojects consisting of one or more of the following activities:
(a)
installation and/or expansion of water treatment and production systems, water supply 
networks and domestic water supply connections, and operational and commercial improvements such 
as installation of water meters, water leak detection and rehabilitation of related equipment;
(b)
installation and/or expansion of sewage treatment systems, networks and domestic 
connections;
(c)
acquisition of equipment for solid waste collection and final disposal, and construction 
of landfills;
Page  3
(d)
street paving, macro- and micro-drainage, and flood and erosion control works, and 
channeling of creeks;
(e)
other activities complementary to those under paragraphs (a) to (d) above, such as street 
lighting, urbanization, construction of sidewalks and planting of trees and shrubbery; and
(f) 
construction of municipal markets.
For the execution of Subprojects to be financed out of Grant funds, except for the activity (f) 
above, areas of low income populations will be given priority.
Part D
: Urban Upgrading
Carrying out of Subprojects consisting of one or more of the activities referred to in Part C (a) 
through (e) of the Project in locations where the average monthly household income is three minimum 
salaries or less.
We also agree that:
Until July 31, 2000 or a date 90 days after the Senate Resolution No. 78, dated July 1, 1998, is 
modified to exempt from its provisions the Infrastructure Subprojects, such Subprojects, up to a limit of 
US$26,0 millions, may be financed through Grants, instead of Subloans as provided in the Loan 
Agreement. In such case, the Beneficiaries will be required to contribute with a minimum amount of 
fifteen percent (15%) of the total cost of the Subprojects, excluding the "Faz Cidadao Program" 
Subprojects where no contribution will be required.
Please confirm your agreement to the foregoing amendments by signing and dating both 
originals of this letter in the spaces provided below, and returning one to us. The provisions set forth in 
this amendment letter shall enter into effect as of the date of this letter upon receipt by the Bank of one 
original of this letter signed by you, with the exception of the amendments to Categories 1, 1(a), 2, and 
3
of
the table in Schedule 1 to the Loan Agreement, which shall become effective as of November 1, 
1999.
Very truly yours,
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
By: /s/ Gobind T. Nankani
Gobind T. Nankani
Director
Country Management Unit - Brasil
Latin America and the Caribbean Region
AGREED:
STATE OF BAHIA
Page  4
By:  /s/  Luiz Carreira
Authorized Representative
Date:
Schedule I
Amount of the
Loan Allocated
% of
(Expressed in Dollar
Expenditures
Category
Equivalent
to be Financed
(1)
Subprojects under
40,900,000
58% of the total
Part C of the Project
cost of each
financed by Subloans
Subproject
through FUNDURBANO
(a)
Subprojects under
24,760,000
62% of the total
Part C of the Project
cost of each
(other than under
Subproject
Category (b) below)
financed by Grants
(b)
Subprojects which
1,240,000
62% of the total
are part of the
cost of each
Infrastructure Subprojects
Subproject
"Faz Cidadão Program",
under Part C of the Project,
financed by Grants
(2)
Subprojects under Part D
7,900,000
70% of the total
of the Project (other than
cost of each
under Category (a) below)
Subproject
financed by Grants
(a)
Subprojects which are
8,000,000
part of the Urban
Upgrading Subprojects
"Novos Alagados Etapa II"
under Part D of the Project,
financed by Grants
(3)
Subprojects under Part A
14,700,000
90% of the total
of the Project financed by
cost of each
Grants
Subproject
(4)
Goods under Part B
500,000
50%
of the Project
Page  5
(5)
Consultants' services
2,000,000
100%
under Part B of the
Project
TOTAL
100,000,000
Distribution:
Messrs./Mmes.: J. Carvalho (LEGLA), Jan Wright, M. Van Praag (LOAEL), J. Gutman, M. Freire, J. 
Cellier, Dean Cira (LCFPS), C. Ramsay, A. Magalhães, C. Parel, E. Jimenez, A. Proite, A. Oliveira, S. 
Amaral, T. Correa, A. Dantas, M. Rego (LCC5C, IRIS, Division Files
