Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 20026
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
PAKISTAN
ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AND
RESOURCE CONSERVATION PROJECT
(CR. 2383-PAK)
March 24,2000
Environment Sector Management Unit
South Asia Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contexts may not otherwise be disclosed
without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit - Pak Rupees (Rs.)
SAR (May 14,1992)                                   Pak Rs. 24.98=US$1.00
Completion Year (June 30, 1999)                               Pak Rs. 52.00
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
I inch (in)                                           25.4 millimeters (mm)
1 foot (ft)                                            30.5 centimeters (cm)
1 yard (yd)                                                0.915 meters (m)
1 mile (mi)                                           1.609 kilometers (km)
I acre                                                   0.405 hectares (ha)
1 square mile (sq mi)                                      259 hectares (ha)
1 pound                                                0.454 kilograms (kg)
I long ton (Ig ton)                                     1.016 metric tons (t)
I cubic foot (fi3)                                 0.0283 cubic meters (m3)
I maund                                                37.32 kilograms (kg)
FISCAL YEAR OF BORROWER
July I to June 30
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AJK        Azad State of Jammu and Kashmir                   NA           Not Available
AJK-FD     AJK-Forest Department                             NECC         National Environmental Coordination
Committee
BNRMP    Balochistan Natural Resource Management Project     NEQS         National Environmental Quality Standards
Cr.        Credit                                            NCS          National Conservation Strategy
Cum        Cubic Meter                                       NGOs         Non Govemrnmental Organization
DCA        Development Credit Agreement                      NWFP         North West Frontier Province
DEPM       Department of Environmental Planning and          P&D          Planning and Development
Management, University of Peshawar
EC         European Community                                P&DD         Planning and Development Department
ED P&D    Environmental Division, Planning and Development   PA           Protected Area
EIA        Environmental Impact Assessment                   PAK          Pakistan
EPA        Environmental Protection Agency                   PEPA         Pakistan Environmental Protection Agency
EPRCP      Environmental Protection and Resources Conservation    PEPC    Pakistan Environmental Protection Council
Project
EUAD       Environment and Urban Affairs Division            PFD          Forestry, Wildlife and Fisheries Department of
the Province of Punjab
FD         Forest Department                                 Pr EPA       Provincial Environmental Protection Agency
FY         Fiscal Year                                       Rs. M        Pakistan Rupees in millions
FSMP       Forest Sector Management Plan
G. C.      Governments Contribution                          SAC          Sectoral Advisory Committee
GIS        Geographical Information System                   SAR          Staff Appraisal Report
GOP        Government of Pakistan                            Sched.       Schedule
ha         Hectare                                           SDF          Sustainable Development Fund
IDA        Intemational Development Association              SDR M        Special Drawing Rights in millions
lEE        Initial Environmental Examination                 SEPA         Sindh Environmental Protection Agency
Ln.        Loan                                              SOE          State of Expenditures
MEAE       Mass Environmental Awareness and Education        TA           Technical Assistance
MELGRD   Ministry of Environment, Local Government and Rural   URD        Upland Rehabilitation and Development
Development, Govemment of Pakistan
MSc        Master in Science                                 US$ M        US Dollars in millions
MTR        Mid Term Review                                   VO           Village Organization
Vice President:         Mieko Nishimizu
Country Director:       John Wall
Sector Director:        Richard Ackermann
Staff Member:           Aziz Bouzaher



Table of Contents FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Preface
Evaluation Summary                                                      i
PART I: PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT                               I
A.      Statement/Evaluation of Objectives                          I
B.      Achievement of Objectives                                   4
C.      Major Factors Affecting the Project                         9
D.      Project Sustainability                                      I I
E.      Bank Performance                                            11
F.      Borrower Performance                                        1 2
G.      Assessment of Outcome                                       12
H.      Future Operation                                            13
1.      Key Lessons Learned                                         14
PART II: STATISTICAL TABLES                                             16
Table 1:    Summary of Assessments                                  17
Table 2:    Related Bank Loans/Credits                              18
Table 3:    Project Timetable                                       20
Table 4:    Credit Disbursements                                    20
Table 5:    Key Indicators for Project Implementation               21
Table 6:    Key Indicators for Project Operation                    22
Table 7:    Studies Included in Project                             23
Table 8A:   Project Costs                                           25
Table 8B:   Project Financing                                       25
Table 9:    Economic Costs and Benefits                             26
Table 10:    Status of Legal Covenants                              27
Table 11:    Compliance with Operational Manual Statements          29
Table 12:    Bank Resources: Staff Inputs                           30
Table 13:    Bank Resources: Missions                               31
ANNEXES
Annex       Project Expenditures                                    32
APPENDICES
Appendix A: Mission's Aide Memoire (with Project Operational Plan)  33
Appendix B: Borrower's Evaluation                                   54
Appendix C: Borrower's Comments on ICR                              60
Appendix D: Financial and Economic Analysis                         63
Appendix E: Map of Pakistan                                         68
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in
the performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed
without World Bank authorization.






IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
PAKISTAN
ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AND
RESOURCE CONSERVATION PROJECT
(CREDIT 2383-PK)
Preface
This is the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the Environmental Protection and
Resource Conservation Project (EPRCP) in Pakistan for which Credit 2383-PAK in the amount of
SDR 21.4 million (US$29.2 million) equivalent was approved on June 11, 1992 and made effective
on March 4, 1993. The project was restructured during the mid-term review in April 1996, and an
amount of SDR 4.0 million was canceled on February 4, 1997.
The credit was closed on the original closing date of June 30, 1999. Final withdrawal
application was paid on 01/11/2000 at which time a balance of SDR 5.925 million (US$ 8.191
million) remained in the credit. Outstanding balances in the Special Accounts (to be recovered) was
US $ 136,664. Once the Special Account balances are repaid, the remaining portion of the credit
will be canceled.
The ICR was prepared by a team led by Aziz Bouzaher, project Task Team Leader from the
Environment Sector Unit of South Asia (SASEN), with help from two consultants: Edmundo De
Alba (with no previous affiliation with the project), and Abdul-Qayium Sheikh (a member of the
project team). The ICR was peer-reviewed by Rashed Ul Qayyum (South Asia Rural Development
Sector Unit - SASRD) and Sherif Arif (Middle East and North Africa Rural Development and
Environment Sector Unit - MNSRE).
Preparation of the ICR began during the Bank's completion mission, May 10 to 31, 1999. It
is based on material in project files, field investigations and discussions with project staff in
MELGRD and implementing departments/agencies in NWFP, Punjab, Sindh and AJK, and with
beneficiaries. The borrower contributed to the preparation of the ICR by (a) providing statistical
information, (b) preparing its own evaluation of project's execution and a plan for the project's
future operation, and (c) commenting on the draft ICR.






IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
PAKISTAN
ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AND
RESOURCE CONSERVATION PROJECT
(CREDIT 2383-PK)
Evaluation Summary
Introduction
1.  This project is one of the first stand-alone environmental projects supported and financed by
the World Bank Group. It includes an institutional development component and a number of
natural resource management sub-components. From the Bank's perspective, EPRCP was part of a
much larger program to support economic development, with special emphasis on the social sectors,
agriculture production, natural resource management, and environmental protection. The project
was initially designed to be national in scope, but Balochistan province was excluded after appraisal
at the province's request.  However, the province later benefited from  a separate project,
Balochistan Natural Resource Management Project (BNRMP, Cr. 2584-PAK). In addition, two of
EPRCP's watershed rehabilitation sub-projects, Dir Kohistan in NWFP and Muree, Kahuta, and
Kotli Sattian in Punjab, were re-appraised by the European Commission and financed separately
(parallel financing) through a grant. There was no arrangement for joint supervision of these sub-
projects by the EU and the Bank.
2.  A mid-term (MTR) review of the project was carried out in April 1996. The review concluded
that the project objectives, strategies and components were still relevant and achievable by the
credit's closing date of June 30, 1999. On the basis of MTR findings, the project was restructured
in February 1997 as follows: (i) to accelerate the use of consultant services, the percentage of
expenditures financed by the credit was increased from 80% to 90%; and (ii) the credit amount was
reduced to SDR 17.4 million by canceling SDR 4.0 million from the original amount. In addition,
in view of the continued poor security situation in the Neelum Valley and consequent problems of
implementing project activities, the Bank's November 1997 supervision mission agreed with the
government of Azad Jammu and Kashmir (AJK) to drop the sub-project "Alpine Sub-Alpine
Pasture Study."
Project Objectives
3.  Thle project's general objective was to improve protection of the environment and management
of natural resources. Its specific objectives were to: (a) initiate the strengthening of key federal and
provincial environmental protection institutions so they can deal with environmental protection and
resource conservation in a systematic and planned manner; (b) strengthen environmental legislation,
and initiate environmental policies and programs; (c) disseminate information concerning damage
to the environment and natural resources to policy makers, government officials, and the public; (d)
strengthen professional education in environmental and natural resource planning and management;
(e) implement subprojects to rehabilitate, protect, develop and manage agro-ecological resources
which have been damaged or which are threatened with damage; and (f) Lundertake studies and
preparation for future environmental protection and resource conservation projects/subprojects.



ii
4.  Evaluation of Project Objectives. The project objectives were overall clear, realistic, and
largely coherent with the GOP's priority multi-sectoral environmental objectives and strategies as
enunciated in the National Conservation Strategy (NCS, 1992). In addition, the project objectives
were consistenit with the approaches and practices of the time (late 80s, early 90s) for dealing with
environmental problems.   However, with  14 components distributed  over four different
geographical regions, the project was inherently complex and suffered from weak coordination and
other implementation problems which were the main cause of slow disbursements and subsequent
restructuring of the project at the MTR. Risks associated with project objectives, at appraisal, were
found to be largely realistic, except for certain macro-economic and political factors, and issues
related to the implementation of the technical assistance component. Overall, the success of the risk
mitigating measures was mixed.
Implementation Experience and Results
5.  Achievement of Objectives. The project concept emerged in the late 80s in a context of
severe environmental degradation, lack of awareness, and extremely limited institutional capacity to
deal with environimental issues. The project focused more on achievingphysical outputs rather than
outcomes and impacts. While the Bank's emphasis gradually shifted over the years from
performance monitoring in terms of inputs and outputs' to outcomes and impacts, the project design
did not include performance indicators nor a monitoring system geared towards evaluating tangible
changes in the behavior of institutions and environmental quality on the ground. However, it is fair
to say that project objectives were clearly targeted at building the basis for a capacity that would
eventually lead to achieving desirable outcomes.
6.  The project contributed to the development of new institutions (objective a), enactment of
enlvironmental legislation (objective b), building environmental awareness and education (objective
c and d), and piloting participatory approaches and sustainable management practices both at
community and watershed levels (objectives e and f).  However, the effectiveness of the
"strengthened" institutions and legal framework is yet to be realized in terms of credible policy
impact, environmental assessment, and monitoring and enforcement. Therefore, while achievement
of project objectives in terms of physical and institutional outputs has been satisfactory, the project
outcomes and impacts which are instrumental for project sustainability are difficult to gauge, and
therefore, an assessment of project achievements by today's standards, are very difficult to
ascertain.
7.  A  key factor in assessing the success of the project is institutionial development.
Environmental institutions were either non-existent, or rudimentary and largely ineffective. The
project successfully initiated their strengthening, or facilitated establishment of niew ones which -at
the time of their design-- were considered critical to getting attention to environmental issues and
including them in the development agenda of the country. Although strengtlhening of key federal
and provincial environmental protection institutions was initiated, these institutions still lack the
technical, financial and political muscle to "deal with environmental protection and resource
conservation in a systematic and planned manner" (SAR). Therefore, institutional development
achievements can only be judged in terms of an added capacity (regulatory, administrative, and
human) to be the "caretaker" of environmental issues, and not in terms of an actual proven capacity
to bring about cost effective solutions to pressing environmental problems; there were no
mechanisms built into the project design to either measure or monitor such impacts. In addition,
because of the quasi-exclusive focus on strengthening government institutions alone, the project is
I In a logical framework setting: (i) Inputs refer to the resources provided or actually used under the project,
(ii) outputs refer to goods and services provided by the project; (iii) outcomes refer to the immediate results of
the project; and (iv) impacts refer to the longer term results of the project.



iii
perceived by many non governmental organizations to have contributed to the "bureaucratic
burden" of Pakistan. This is clearly illustrated by the case of the Environmenltal Assessment (EA)
capacity supported by the project and which, over time, could prove to be either the gateway to
environmental sustainability or simply an additional costly bureaucratic requirement.
8.  EPRCP did not specifically include or address sectoral policy objectives but these were
implicit in its design, through the objectives of the pilot natural resource conservation sub-projects,
some policy studies, public awareness and cross-sectoral coordination and exchange, while the
regulatory framework was being designed. A more significant contributioni of the project is the
impact on awareness raising of government officials in key federal and provincial agencies, and to a
certain extent among the general public. However, such an impact was neither systematically
measured nor monitored.
9.  Output objectives were generally met or even exceeded. On the institutional side, provincial
Environmental Protection Agencies (EPAs) were either created or strengthened, and a
comprehensive law (Pakistan Environmental Protection Act 1997) was passed by the federal
legislature. Implementation and enforcement of key provisions of the Act were delegated to
provincial governments and provincial EPAs. Under the natural resource management sub-projects,
physical targets for plantation establishment in Sindh's mangroves, Punjab's riverine forest areas,
and AJK's watersheds, were all met or exceeded. In addition, wildlife surveys exceeded initial
plans and civil construction works were completed in full and were of good quality. There were,
however, shortfalls in the areas of range management, soil conservation and agricultural
demonstration and adaptive research plots. Overall, because of the pilot nature of the sub-projects
and the fact that measurement of impact was not considered at any stage of implementation, it is not
possible to state what -if any- environmental objectives were acllieved. However, anecdotal
evidence gathered through site visits as well as local expert opinion strongly suggest some limited
achievement of environmental outcomes in the case of Bhimber watershed (flood protection and
river bank stabilization) and mangrove rehabilitation (species diversification and fisheries
rehabilitation).
10. There were some process related weaknesses. Despite thorough and regular supervisions, the
project suffered from lack of mechanisms to ensure the "quality of outputs," particularly as it relates
to the "umbrella" technical assistance component which produced some 150 reports of extremely
variable quality. Furthermore, two other weaknesses limited the success of the natural resource
sub-projects: lack of mechanisms for replicability and scaling up, and not enouglh detailed design
and capacity were brought to bear to make the participatory approach more widespread and
effective.
11. Costs, Financing, and Implementation Timetable. At closing of accounts, the actual cost of
the project (IDA plus local counterpart funding) is expected to be US$ 23.5 million, which is 46%
lower than the appraisal estimate of US$43.7 million. In terms of the IDA Credit, with the
cancellation of SDR 4.0 million at MTR, the remaining IDA funds amounting to US$23.7 million
would finance about 72% of the revised estimated cost (US$32.7 million) compared to an appraisal
estimate of 67%. Disbursement, as of January 11, 2000, is US$16.2 million, indicating a utilization
of 68.3% of the revised IDA credit amount of US$23.7 million. The disbursement is expected to
rise to US$16.3 million by the closing of account books and the utilization rate to 70%.
Implementationi of almost all activities had a late start because of initial teetlling problems of
setting-up, or activating environmental institutions, but eventually the majority of activities were
completed by project closing. Despite a late start, consultants services, 53% of which were locally
provided, helped a great deal in accelerating the pace of some of the key activities.
12. Project Sustainability. The majority of assets and institutions created under the project are
likely to be sustained if implementing agencies follow through with their Project Operational Plan.



iv
What this entails is that federal and provincial/AJK governments: (i) regularize core project staff
positions, (ii) provide adequate financial resources in future non-development budgets to cover staff
salaries, training, maintenance and operations costs for the assets created, (iii) provide political
support and resources to the young environmental institutions to enhance their credibility and
effectiveness, and (iv) develop plans and allocate resources to transfer the lessons of the natural
resource management sub-projects to other watersheds and regions. Some implementing agencies
have been proactive enough and have already secured the support of Finanice Ministry/Departments
for regularizing staff positions.
13. The sustainability of environmental institutions will be tested in the future for their ability to
raise revenue, engage civil society and the private sector, and ultimately begin to credibly enforce
the environmental regulations in place. Already -some innovative revenue generation approaches are
being explored, including: (i) charging by PEPA/EPAs for environmental assessment reviews, (ii)
allowing strictly regulated hunting in specially designated areas by the Punjab Wildlife Department,
and (iii) charging for GIS training and services by The University of Peshawar's DEPM. In AJK,
some village organizations are mature enough and are able to take over the maintenance of
plantations and other infrastructure constructed (e.g., river training and flood protection works in
Bhimber were transferred to the city's Municipal Council). There is also an increased level of
public awareness as environmental issues are raised, analyzed, and solutions proposed at the various
forums.
14. Key Factors Affecting Achievement of Major Objectives. The main factors which affected
achievement of major objectives were:
(a) Factors Not Generally Subject to Government Control. Overall, climatic conditions
influenced the progress and quality of natural resource sub-projects. Dry years, or years
of heavy floods, caused certain sub-projects to experience implementation delays.
Furthermore, economic sanctions on the borrower in the aftermathi of the "nuclear tests"
forced the Borrower to impose a ban on foreign training (as an austerity measure) wlhich
resulted in lost training opportunities In yet another example of aforce majeure situation,
the alpine pasture study sub-project in AJK hiad to be dropped because of the security
situation along the Line of Control with India.
(b) Factors Generally Subject to Government Control.  lnter-ministerial/departmental
coordination, monitoring and oversight were weak both at thle federal and provincial
levels. Provincial Planning and Development Departments (P&DDs) and MELGRD
officials seldom visited subproject sites to oversee and monitor progress and resolve
issues. Procurement of vehicles was not allowed as per requirements, procurement of
consultant services was delayed; staff turnover in key positions was high, project approval
processes were lengthy and cumbersome, and movement of funds from special accounts
to implementing agencies was in some cases inordinately delayed. All these factors
contributed to implementation delays.
(c) Factors Generally Subject to Implementing Agency Control. The main factors which
impeded project progress but could have been avoided by the implementing agencies
were: (i) maps of plantation sites, particularly in the initial stages, were not prepared, and
later delayed; (ii) local communities were not consulted adequately at planning, designing
and execution stages, except in AJK; and (iii) preparation of bidding documents, and later
the evaluation of proposals, were delayed.
15. Performance of the Bank and Borrower. The Bank's performance, overall, has been
satisfactory. Its supervision has generally been effective in that it has been able to provide prompt
and timely support to implementing agencies. There were some weaknesses, however. The project



v
design was complex by virtue of having a large number of components. An "umbrella contract" for
the entire consulting services was difficult to manage given the widespread geographic entities
operating in diverse ecological conditions. Special accounts could have been established at the
implementing agency level to avoid persistent cash flow problems. Furthermore, the Bank could
also have taken prompter and more vigorous action to deal with the long delay in the recruitment of
consultants.  Finally, in retrospect, the Mid-term  Review could have been more proactive in
focusing better on those components which are essential for institutional strengtlhening suchi as, the
notification of implementing regulations (final draft form awaiting government approval), and the
early setup of laboratory equipment and training of staff of provincial EPAs.
16. Performance of the Borrower is generally satisfactory. There were several successes, some
failures and a few weaknesses. A good measure of success is that most of the key physical targets
were met. Some were even exceeded. A weakness on the part of MELGRD, the key environmental
agency in charge of overall policy making and coordination, was the lack of close coordination with
project implementing agencies, and close consultations with other ministries/departments and civil
society. Staff turnover was high and the project persistently failed to pass on project funds to
implementing agencies in a timely manner. The Environmental Act, passed in 1997, considered to
be a major achievement of the project by the borrower, is not being systematically enforced because
its implementing rules and regulations are being finalized and are yet to be notified. In addition,
although the Pakistan Environmental Council did meet in July 1999 as called for by the 1997 Act, a
number of technical committees are still awaiting notification.
17. Project Outcome. Despite the many weaknesses, limitations and uncertainties about
sustainability, the project performance was overall satisfactory based on the following outcomes
which would not have been achieved without the project: (i) an institutional capacity has been
created which includes a regulatory and policy framework (which has started to manifest itself
through, for example, the reactivation of the Pakistan Environment Protection Council,
development/strengthening of environmental sections within Planning and Departments, EIA
requirements, agreement by industry on a pollution charge and a process of self-monitoring, and the
establishment of two functional environmental tribunals), availability of motivated and trained staff,
monitoring and enforcement capacity (every province has initiated a program of regular effluent
monitoring in industrial zones and major water courses), and a general higher level of awareness
within government  and the public; (ii) improved biodiversity conservation (successful re-
introduction of local species in the Sindh mangroves, and development of a scientific basis for
regulating and managing precious wildlife resources in Punjab); (iii) the pilot nature of many
subprojects demonstrated the viability and benefits of a number of natural resource management
practices to such an extent that it catalyzed the government in conceiving and implementing
several similar projects; and (iv) poverty reduction in the form of increased income opportunities
for poor villages: fishing and fuelwood from mangrove rehabilitation in Sindh, introduction of high
yield varieties, plantation forest, animal husbandry practices, flood protection, and agricultural
rehabilitation in AJK.
Summary of Findings, Future Operation, and Key Lessons Learned
18.   Not withstanding its many shortcomings and limitations, the project has performed a
pioneering role in translating strategies, like the NCS and FSMP, into actions. Being the first major
public sector investnent in the field of the environment in Pakistan, EPRCP has left a noticeable
impact in terms of developing and strengthening environmental institutions, increasing awareness
about environmental issues of politicians, planners, key decision makers and the public at large, and
successfully implementing pilot-scale natural resource rehabilitation sub-projects in some of the
most threatened ecosystems. The Borrower has also prepared a Project Operational Plan, which
lists, by agency, the current status of sub-projects and their future plains, outcomes and impacts,



vi
performance inidicators, and budget for the next three years.  Yet, despite these undelliable
successes, the sustainability and effectiveness of the gains achieved is questionable without further
support and resources. The key question for the future is whether the environment and natural
resource management capacity built though EPRCP will translate into measurable welfare
improvement for the people of Pakistan, in the form of health, livelilhood opportunities, and other
benefits.
19. The main lessons learned during project implementation and which are relevant for future
operations are:
(a) Simpler projects at the provincial level could be more effective, particularly if targeted at
solving specific environmental problems. In addition, the fact that institutional
development is a process, which takes time and is dependent on socio-economic and
political factors, requires a longer term horizon, strong local ownership and a widely
consultative process to insure sustainability of outcomes;
(b) There should be continuity in project leadership. Quick turnover of key staff and sub-
project directors affected performance adversely. This is a structural constrainit related to
the way civil service functions in Pakistan;
(c) Delay in procurement of consultant services had a major impact on1 both timeliness and
quality of technical assistance. For future operations, key procurement should be
completed before project effectiveness;
(d) The quality of withdrawal applications and the use of the Special Account remained poor
tlhroughlout project implementation. These deficiencies could hiave been rectified at an
,early stage if a thorough assessment of the project's financial management needs hiad been
undertaken during tlhe appraisal process (including attention to staff turnover and timely
provision of counterpart funding).
(e) PC-1 provisions must be very closely linked to the Project Appraisal Document
(formerly, SAR). Some discrepancies between the two could not be resolved until project
closing. In addition, PC], consistent with the negotiated package, should be approved
in the country by ECENC prior to submission to the Bank's Board. Lacunae in both
these areas contribute to implementation delays.
(f) Altlhough the Bank's procurement guidelines were generally followed, delays often
occurred because of provincial governments' requirements to use local guidelines. In the
future, specific arrangements for monitoring procurement, particularly tlhe application
of the Bank's guidelines, and staff training, should be agreed and described in the
project documents, including the legal agreement.
(g) Special Accounts at the provincial level did not prove to be a suitable mechanism for
project implementation.  Special Accounts at sub-project level with a provision for
advancing funds, and full accountability of project directors, would hiave resulted in better
outcomes for this kind of complex project.
(h) Sub-projects which involved social participation, for example AJK's B URD, were more
successful and have higher potentialfor sustainability. However, because of the multi-
sectoral nature of these projects and the lags involved in resource conservation, it is
important to evaluate and document the results of such projects systematically over time.
Tlherefore, it is recommended that more systematic and detailed community socio-



vii
economic studies be undertaken at regular intervals (inception, mid-term review, project
closing, and every three years thereafter for at least 10 years).
20. EPRCP reflects the best traditional thinking on how to build environmenital institutions in
countries characterized by severe environmental degradation, extensive poverty, and non existent or
weak and heavily fragmented institutions and policy frameworks. Part of a 15-year policy dialogue
and 7-year implementation effort, the project helped Pakistan enact comprehensive environmental
legislation and promote a general awareness about environmental issues. The project provides
valuable lessons to future initiatives:
*  Thie need to focus on clear and achievable outcomes. The project's wide ranging objectives,
while internally coherent and consistent with the country's perceived needs at the time of
design, emphasized delivery of a number of outputs without a clear understanding of the
pathways and mechanisms through which these outputs would lead to results on the ground.
Institutional development objectives are a case in point. The project design assumed that
enactment of legislation, and support for development of government agencies' capacity was
the key to bringing about changes in behavior and a solution to environmental problems.
Experience shows that this approach does not work in the absence of a strong involvement of
constituencies for change and public awareness and participation in the enforcement process.
The tangible outcomes of the 1997 Environmental Act are yet to be realized in terms of (i)
actual pollution prevention and (ii) bringing about a solution to some of the most urgent
environmental degradation which threaten public health (60% of infanit mortality is thought to
be caused by water-borne diseases in Pakistan) and the integrity of the country's natural
resource base which is vital to the livelihood of the predominantly rural poor.
-  Project sustainability. In light of the uncertain government commitment to --at a minimum --
(i) staff salaries, (ii) O&M budget for monitoring and outreach, and (iii) performance
benchmarks and accountability for achieving results, the project sustainability is not assured,
and raises questions about where environment fits into the overall national agenda and the
perception by top decision makers regarding the role of environmental sustainability in
achieving development outcomes. The perception that sustainability-after 7 years of IDA and
other donor funding- hinges on donors "pushing" and providing additional financial support, is
yet another indication that the traditional model has serious limitations. New projects should
consider support for countries which have developed on their owIn a minimum  credible
institutional and policy formulation capacity, and focus clearly on achieving outcomes with
strong poverty reduction results.
*  Effectiveness of "stand-alone" environmental projects. In light of the current sharper Bank
focus on achieving outcomes that matter to the poor (health, sustainable livelihoods, and
reduced vulnerability to a variety of shocks), EPRCP, as a stand-alone project, would not have
been undertaken today; instead, a more cost effective approach would have been to mainstream
environment into social, infrastructure, natural resource management, governance, and
economic management programs.



I



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
PAKISTAN
ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AND
RESOURCE CONSERVATION PROJECT
(CREDIT 2383-PK)
PART I: PROJECT IMPLEMETATION ASSESSMENT
A.    STATEMENT/EVALUATION OF OBJECTIVES
Introduction
1.  The Environmental Protection and Resource Conservation Project (EPRCP) was conceived as
the first phase of a long-term program to improve environmental management in Pakistan through
institution building and pilot sustainable natural resource management activities. The project
constitutes one of the first stand-alone environmental projects supported and financed by the World
Bank. From the Bank's perspective, the EPRCP was part of a much larger program to support
economic development, with special emphasis on the social sector, improvement of agriculture,
natural resource management and environmental protection. Although EPRCP's implementation
coincided with that of the Pakistan's National Conservation Strategy (NCS), its identification had
begun as early as 1985. While there were initial impediments in conceiving an appropriate design
of the project because the NCS was still in its genesis phase, it took quite some time to firm up
implementing arrangements. The Borrower did not have a clear administrative structure to oversee
the natural resource related environmental issues (an Urban Affairs Division was the in-charge of
the entire environmental agenda). In addition, although the project was designed to be national in
scope, Balochistan province was excluded after appraisal at the province's request but later
benefited from a separate project, Balochistan Natural Resource Management Project (BNRMP, Cr.
2584-PAK). Furthermore, two of EPRCP's watershed rehabilitation subprojects, Dir Kohistan in
NWFP and Muree, Kahuta, and Kotli Sattian in Punjab, were re-appraised by the European Union
and financed separately (parallel financing) through a grant, and are planned to be completed in
2002. There was no arrangement for joint supervision of these sub-projects by the EU and the
Bank.
Statement of Objectives
2. The project's general objective was to improve protection of the environment and management
of natural resources. Its specific objectives were to: (i) initiate the strengthening of key federal and
provincial environmental protection institutions so they can deal with environmental protection and
resource conservation in a systematic and planned manner; (ii) strengthen environmental legislation,
and initiate environmental policies and programs; (iii) disseminate information concerning damage to
the environment and natural resources to policy makers, government officials, and the public; (iv)
strengthen professional education in environmental and natural resource planning and management;
(v) implement subprojects to rehabilitate, protect, develop and manage agro-ecological resources



2
which have been damaged or which are threatened with damage; and (vi) undertake studies and
preparation for future environmental protection and resource conservation projects/subprojects.
Project Components
3.  The project has two broad components, institutional strengtlheniing and natural resource
rehabilitationi and management.
4.  Institutional Strengthening.  This component includes: (i) support to the Ministry of
Environment,  Local Government and  Rural Development (formerly  EUAD),  Pakistan
Environmental Protection Agency (PEPA), and Sindh and NWFP's EPAs, in the form of staff
hiring and training, technical assistance, policy and feasibility studies, and equipment and operating
funds; (ii) establishment of an Environmental Section in Punjab's Planning and Development
Department, and following the MTR, strengthening of the Environmental Section of Sindh P&D
Department; (iii) strengthening environmental legislation and assisting in the development and
implementation of regulations for the 1983 Environmental Ordinance - with a particular focus on
EIA capacity - through technical assistance; (iv) establishment of a geographical information
system (GIS) at Peshawar University's Department of Environmental Plannillg anld Management
(DEPM) through provision of equipment, training, technical assistance and operating funds; and (v)
initiating a mass awareness program at the federal level and in Sindh and NWFP provinces.
5.  Natural Resource Rehabilitation2. This component includes: (i) watershed rehabilitationi and
development aimed at increasing fodder and crop/livestock productivity, soil and forest
conservation, and social participation and human resource development (Bhimber, AJK); (ii)
riverine reforestation along the Chenab and Ravi rivers (major tributaries of the Indus) aimed at
promoting social forestry and improving soil and water conservation; (iii) wildlife surveys and
managemenit planning in Punjab aimed at developing baseline data and technical and management
capacity for protecting the province's wildlife resources/habitats; and (iv) rehabilitation and
replanting of the Indus Delta Mangroves aimed at strengthening coastal forestry withiln Sindh's
Forestry Department, demonstrating the benefits of mangrove replanting/regenieratioin, collecting
research data, and conducting sociological studies related to the threats to mangroves and ways to
protect/rehabilitate them.
Mid-Term Review
6.  A mid-term (MTR) review of the project was carried out in April 1996. The review conduded
that the project objectives, strategies and components were still relevant anid achievable by the credit's
closing date of June 30, 1999. As a result of the review and discussions with the October 1996
supervision mission, and also in view of implementation experience and to ensure that the project met
its development objectives, the project was restructured in February 1997 as follows: (i) category 4 of
the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule I of the DCA was amended to increase the percentage of
expenditures on consultant services, which the credit will finanice, from 80% to 90%; (ii) SDR 4.0
million were canceled from the credit and the table set out in Schedule I was modified; (iii) relevant
paragraphs of Schedules 2 and 4 were amended to include the strengtheninig of Sindh P&D
department; and (iv) the targets for reforestation of riverine areas in Punjab were enlhanced. In view
of the continued poor security situation in the Neelum  Valley and consequent problems with
implementation of project activities, the November 1997 supervision mission agreed with the AJK
government to drop the sub-project "Alpine Sub-Alpine Pasture Study".
2 Although the project identified two additional watersheds for rehabilitation and developmnent (Muree/Kahuta in Pun,jab,
and Dir Kohistan in NWFP), and an alpine/sub-alpine pasture study (Neelum Valley in AJK). these activities were not
implemented through EPRCP.



3
Project Cost and Financing
7.  The total cost of the project (at the time of design in 1992) was US$ 57.2 million of which 29
percent (US$ 16.6 million) was foreign exchange and 71 percent local currency. The financing
was envisaged as follows: federal government (3%), Punjab government (3%), Sindh government
(3%), NWFP government (1%), AJK government (5%), households/communities (10%), the
European Union (24%), and IDA (51%). Since the European Union implemented its component
independently, the project cost for the purposes of ICR is taken as US$ 43.7 (US$ 57.2 minus US$
13.5) million. Following restructuring, the project cost came down to US$ 32.7 (46.2 minus 13.5)
million and the amount of IDA credit reduced from SDR 21.4 million (US$29.2 equivalent) to SDR
17.4 million (US$23.7 million equivalent).
Evaluation of Project Objectives
8.  Clarity and relevance. The project objectives were clearly stated at appraisal and remained
materially unchanged at MTR. The objectives were in line with GOP's priority multi-sectoral
environmental objectives and strategies as enunciated in the National Conservation Strategy (NCS
1992). As envisioned, promoting institutional strengthening and piloting site-specific solutionis was
the only way to deal with the complex and heterogeneous ecological and socio-economic conditions
prevalent in the project area. The project emphasis on institutional development was clearly on
target given the state of environmental degradation and the absence of any coherent environmental
policies and institutions at the time of project design.
9.  Realism and efficacy. It was clearly understood at appraisal that to bring about policy and
institutional changes, particularly in a new area such as "environment", was not an easy undertaking
and required a long-term perspective. The objectives of the project were purposely framed in terms
of "initiate strengthening of' or "strengthen" the existing policies and institutional framework, and
not in terms of bringing about fundamental changes. For these reasons, the project objectives were
realistic, well grounded in the counitry's realities of the late eighties and consistent with the
approaches and practices of the time. However, despite the relevance of its objectives, the project
did not include any provision for systematically monitoring outcomes beyond inputs (number of
staff, training, equipment procured etc.) and outputs (enacted legislation, area, reforested, soil
conservation works, etc.). This inherent design limitation does not necessarily imply that some
project institutional and policy-related goals were not achieved; examples include: setting up and
activation of the Pakistan Environmental Council (coordination policy body chaired by the Prime
Minister and including key senior government officials and representatives of civil society); wide
consultations and agreement with industry on a pollution charge; delegation of monitoring and
enforcement powers to Provinces; and strengthening the role of environmental sections within
Planning and Development Departments both at the federal and provincial levels.
10. Complexity. The project was complex. It consisted of 14 components and spanned a wide
range of ecosystems, ranging from "sea-level mangroves to 3,000 meter high alpine pastures, with
Indus Valley forests in between. Geographically, it included three out of the four provinces of the
country and the State of AJK. Sociologically, the areas covered were also quite diverse. The
project was designed with a large "umbrella" Technical Assistance contract and four special
accounts to service the 14 components. However, the provisions made for coordination, monitoring
and evaluation, and quality assurance mechanisms were not commensurate with the complexity of
the project. Nevertheless, the project design was flexible enough to allow changes recommended
during MTR to be easily accommodated.



4
11. Risks. Risks foreseen at appraisal were found to be generally realistic with the exception
perhaps of macro-economic and political factors (e.g. interference in procurement, border problems
with India, and fallout from the nuclear weapons tests) which led to some delays in procurement
and implementationi and the cancellation of the rangeland rehabilitation component. In addition, a
number of issues related to the implementation of the technical assistance component and the
quality of its outputs turned out to be risks which were not clearly identified at appraisal.
Furthermore, the staffing at EUAD was delayed and its organizational set up clhanged. For the
natural resource management sub-projects, the issues, as foreseen, were social rather technical
(physical targets were generally achieved). The local communities participated in the reforestation
programs but had less interest in the range management program. Contrary to expectations,
individuals beneficiaries readily shared in the financing of farm improvements. Whethier the
quantity and quality of water in the Indus delta eliminated the utility of replanting of mangroves
cannot be readily assessed. Such assessment will be possible over a longer period of time. In sum,
risks associated with project objectives were generally realistic, but the success of the risk
mitigating measures was mixed.
B. ACHIEVEMENT OF OBJECTIVES
12. Overall, and particularly if judged in terms of project "outputs," the objectives of the project
were generally achieved. However, and taking into account the fact this is the first environmenital
project in Pakistan, these achievements are uneven and some are yet to be realized. The project
contributed to the development of new institutions, enactment of environmenital legislation, building
environmental awareness, and piloting participatory approaches and sustainable management
practices both at community and watershed levels.
Physical Objectives
13. All physical outputs targets were generally met, and in some cases even exceeded. On the
institutional side, staffing in MELGRD, PEPA, NWFP and Sindh EPAs, and Punjab Environment
Section, P&DD  was generally satisfactory.  As envisaged in the SAR, PEPA  (the federal
environmental protection  agency), was activated  and  expanded. Buildilng  on  the  1983
Environmental ordinance, a new comprehensive environmental legislation was passed by the
federal legislature and enacted as law in December 1997. Pakistan Environlmental Protection
Council, the apex body in the field of the environment, was activated, expanded, and made
functional. Guidelines on preparation and review of EIAs, public consultation on environmenital
matters, on projects in sensitive and critical areas, and national environmenital quality standards
were prepared. A number of draft regulations under these guidelines were also prepared but are still
awaiting notification to become legally binding. Technical assistance was not fully utilized (total
70%, about 75% expatriate and 55% local) and training programs suffered, particularly in the later
stages of the project, because government, as an austerity measure, had imposed a ban on all foreign
training.
14. Under the natural resource management sub-projects, physical targets were almost fully met or
even exceeded: 1,766 ha (100%) were planted under the riverine reforestation sub-project in
Punjab; 5 (125%) management plans for protected areas, 41 (111%) habitat surveys, and 39 (122%)
vegetation surveys were carried out under the wildlife sub-project in Punjab; 17,100 ha (107%)
were planted in mangroves in Sindh (of which 7,100 ha were digitally mapped); and 12,066 ha
(124%) were planted/replaced under the Bhimber rehabilitation sub-project in AJK.  Civil
construction works, office and residential buildings, were generally completed in full and were of



5
good quality. Procurement of vehicles and equipment was accomplished at a satisfactory level.
Despite clear shortfalls in the areas of range management, soil conservation and setting up of
agricultural demonstration and adaptive research plots were successfully implemented. In addition,
the protection of the town of Bhimber in AJK from traditionally devastating floods, through river
training works, was a major outcome of the project; these works have been turned over to the
town's Municipal Council for management and maintenance.
Financial Objectives
15. These were not fully met, as the project closed with 31.6% of the (re-structured) credit
remaining non-disbursed. Some of the key contributing factors include: (i) late procurement of
Technical Assistance (almost two years behind schedule) which impacted the completion of a
number of studies and training activities; (ii) onerous bureaucratic requirements of financial
approvals causing delays in the execution of project activities; (iii) exclusion, following MTR, of
one sub-project (AJK's Alpine/Sub-alpine Study); (iv) the depreciation of the Pak Rupee against the
US dollar (dollar exchange rate doubled during implementation, against an anticipated 28% in the
SAR) directly impacting project costs in US dollars; (v) training funds were not fully utilized on
account of a ban imposed by government on foreign training; and (vi) lack of availability of
adequate counterpart funding, stemming from differences with sub-project PC- I s.
16. Project Costs. At closing of accounts, the actual cost of the project is expected to be US $
23.5 million, which includes the IDA (US $16.2 million) and government (US $4.3 million)
contributions. Because households (HHs) did contribute to reforestation  and community
development works but for which accounts were not kept by the implementing agencies, the
households' share has been estimated at US $3.0 million by prorating the estimate at the time of
project appraisal (12.6% in SAR). The total project cost thus becomes US $23.5 million, which is
46% lower than the appraisal estimate of US $43.7 million. Appraisal costs and actual costs
estimated by closing of accounts are compared below:
l           ~~~At   l
Source      App$aisal T   Actual
US$ in millions
IDA               29.2        16.2
HHs                5.5         3.0
Govt.              9.0         4.3
Total             43.7        23.5
l7. Project Financing. With the cancellation of SDR 4.0 million of IDA credit (19% of the
originial credit amount), the remaining IDA funds amounting to US $23.7 milnlioin would finiaiice
about 72% of tlae revised cost (US $32.7 million). The appraisal estimate was 67% (IDA credit of
US $29.2 as a ratio of the then project cost of US $43.7 million). The increased share of IDA is
attributable to the increase in the disbursement percentage of Schedule 1 category 4 expenditures
from 80% to 90%, agreed at MTR.
18. Credit Utilization.  Disbursement, as January 11, 2000, is US$16.2 million indicating a
utilization of 68% of the revised IDA credit amount of US$23.7 million. The disbursement is
expected to rise to US$16.3 million by the closing of account books and the utilization rate to 70%.



6
19. Financial and Economic Analysis. (Re-evaluation of the financial aiid economic rates of
return). Project benefits fall into two separate but inter-dependent categories. In the first case,
institutional strengthening was aimed at improving provincial and federal experience in
environmental planning and management, and was expected to have positive impacts oii local rural
development capacity and --over time -- public health. Benefits in this category can only be
qualitatively described through some key project outputs and were not the subject of financial and
economic evaluations. For this reason, an overall project rate of return has not been calculated.
20. The more direct project benefits include: (i) more comprehensive environimental legislation;
(ii) EIA capacity; (iii) a stronger institutional capacity through support (in the form of staff hiring
and training, technical assistance, policy and feasibility studies, and equipment and operating funds)
for the Ministry of Environment, Local Government and Rural Development (formerly EUAD), the
Pakistan Environmental Protection Agency (PEPA), Sindh and NWFP's EPAs, and establishment
of Environmental Sections in Punjab's and Sindh's Planning and Development Departments; (iv)
establishiment of a geographical information system (GIS) at Peshawar University's Department of
Environmental Planning and Management (DEPM) and strengthening the Master's' program in
Enviro-nmeintal Management; and (v) initiating a mass awareness program at the federal level and in
Sindh and NWFP provinces.
21. In the case of pilot NRM sub-projects, a number of activities were undertakeni, including local
capacity development, information dissemination and extension, community participation, village
infrastructure, and  implementation of watershed rehabilitation, afforestation, and wildlife
development activities. In addition. These activities have resulted in important but localized
environmental benefits which cannot be fully accounted for and accurately quantified, including,
from flood protection, soil conservation, reforestation (both mangroves and riverine), and wildlife
surveys and management plans. In addition, many of the activities have resulted in direct economic
benefits in the form of increased production and employment for the rural population. Overall, the
estimated returns from the different sub-projects represent lower bounds on the overall economic
conitributioni of the project.
22. The economic rates of return have been calculated for each of the natural resource management
sub-projects based on those incremental benefits for which data was available, starting 1993, the
first year of project implementation. In general, since itemized information was not recorded for
specific activities, costs were estimated on the basis of yearly disbursements and service charges
(capital cost), and maintenance cost (labor and other inputs) during the life of each sub-project
(included projected future maintenance costs).
23. The estimated rates of return for the three main natural resource management components of
the project are summarized below (in 1993 Rs to allow meaningful comparison with appraisal
estimates), with more detailed information given in Appendix D:
Sub-Project    ERR(SAR)   ERR(ICR)  NPV(Rs. Million)
Bhimber              13%         20%             219
Mangroves            12%          17%             29
Riverine Forests     27%          14%              9



7
24. The rate of return for the Punjab's Riverine forestry component was calculated based on
incremental returns of timber production over a 25 year period from 4,073 acres (1,650 hectares) of
plantations setup under the project. As this is the only direct quantifiable benefit from the project, it
constitutes an underestimate of the actual economic return of this component; other benefits not
incorporated in the estimation include, erosion control and river Bank stabilization, water quality,
biodiversity, and lhabitat enhancement, as well as wildlife surveys and management plans.
25. The rate of return for Sindh's Mangroves component, was estimated based on incremental
returns from fuielwood and fodder/grass, shrimp, and finfish production over a 45 year period, based
on 17,100 ha of mangrove plantations set up under the project.
26. Finally, the rate of return for Bhimber Watershed's component, estimated over a period of 20
years, is the highest among all natural resource management sub-projects.  This is partly in
indication of good performance, but also due to the fact that the sub-project included a number of
activities for which it was possible to estimate direct streams of benefits, including timber
production (27.4 ha), land reclamation (125 ha), agricultural demonstration plots (21 ha), fodder
demonstration plots (310 ha), fodder seed production (24 ha), terrace improvement (503 ha), three
pilot farmer orchards,  livestock improvement for about 13,000 households from  improved
rangeland and animal husbandry management.
27. Despite a reasonably comprehensive financial and economic analysis, detailed data on1 which
SAR estimates were based was not available, and therefore, it was not possible to replicate SAR
calculations. However, overall, compared to appraisal estimates, most of the physical targets have
been met with a lower cost base; this, coupled with the fact that some additional benefits were
identified and included in the ICR evaluation, resulted in higher economic rates of return for
Bhimber and Mangroves than at the time of appraisal. On the other hand, for Punjab's riverine
forestry component the economic rate of return was about half that predicted in the SAR; this is due
mainly to a lower achievement in plantation targets as well as timber yield (which in part is due to
operation and maintenance problems as noted during the ICR mission).
28. The sensitivity of the ERR was tested using alternative scenarios about reduction in project
life, species survival rates and decrease in net farm income. Theses scenarios were chosen in
consultation with stakeholders as they represent events which are more likely to occur; more
optimistic scenarios were purposely not considered.  Overall, the ERR remnains above the 12%
opportunity cost of capital except riverine forestry when a 15 year project life is assumed, implying
incomplete felling. A decrease in plantation survival rate by 20% and a 10% reduction in overall
benefits for all activities result in less then 10% reduction in rate of returns.
29. Financial rate of return. Financial rates of return for the natural resource management sub-
projects were calculated at appraisal stage based on hypotheses about productivity increases and
sales of various products (e.g., crops, fodder, timber, fuelwood, and livestock). At the time of credit
completion, information was not available on the total number of beneficiaries and actual financial
flows associated with specific project outputs. In addition, the actual financial impact of the project
could not be dissociated from other ongoing programs and interventions.
Institutional Development Objectives
30. A  key factor in assessing the success of the project is institutional development.
Environmental institutions were either non-existent, or rudimentary and largely ineffective. The
project successfully initiated their strengthening, or facilitated establishment of new ones which
were considered critical to creating a local capacity to . Although strengthening of key federal and



8
provincial environmental protection institutions was initiated (including planning and development
agencies), these institutions lacked the technical, financial and political muscle to "deal with
environmental protection and resource conservation in a systematic and planned manner" (SAR). ).
Therefore, institutional development achievements can only be judged in terms of an added capacity
(regulatory, administrative, and human) to be the "caretaker" of environmental issues, and not in
terms of an actual proven capacity to bring about cost effective solutions to pressing environmental
problems; there were no mechanisms built into the project design to either measure or monitor such
impacts. In addition, the project had shortcomings in terms of supervision of the "quality of
outputs," particularly as it relates to the "umbrella" technical assistance componenit which produced
some 150 reports of extremely variable quality. Two weaknesses limited the success of the natural
resource sub-projects: lack of mechanism for replicability and scaling up, and not enough detailed
design and capacity were brought to bear to make the participatory approach more widespread and
effective.
31. Institutional Strengthening. The most tangible institutional strengtheninig outputs provided
by the project include: (i) additional staff (overall, 84% of the planned requirements for all
agenc'ies); (ii) despite the fact that foreign training was not achieved, all departments/agencies
benefited from technical assistance (TA) and local/on-the-job training; (iii) overall, more than 600
training events were completed under the project; (iv) Peshawar University's DEPM trained over
150 students at MSc level and established a GIS lab; (v) eight additional environmental laboratories
were added in several government agencies (a 5-fold increase); and office space created for the new
institutions is now considered adequate. The objective of strengthening professional education in
enivironmental and natural resource planning and management, however, was not yet fully
accomplished because the GIS lab at Peshawar University still lacks trained technical staff and
integrationi with the teaching and research programs at DEPM.
32. Legislation. The new environmental act of 1997 requires the establishment of the Pakistan
Environmental Protection Council (PEPC), National Environmental Coordination Committee
(NECC), Sectoral Advisory Committees (SACs), Federal Environmental Protection Agency (PEPA)
and provincials EPAs, Provincial Sustainable Development Funds (SDFs), and Environmental
Tribunals. Of these, all are in existence except NECC, SACs and SDFs (only two Environmental
Tribunals have been established and Environmental Magistrates have been nomniniated in Sindh).
Powers have also been delegated to provincial EPAs.
33. Policy. While strengthening environmental legislation is an important accomplishment,
"initiation of environmental policies and programs" (SAR) was very weak. Furthermore, while
"dissemination of information concerning damage to the environment and natural resources to
policy makers, government officials, and the public" was a key objective, the lack of capacity to
actually produce reliable baseline data and information and monitor progress did not allow this
objective to be fully achieved, except perhaps for an overall increase in public awareness.
34. Financial management. Although not a specific objective of the project, the financial
management capacity of all implementing agencies was reviewed during the ICR mission. A
number of systematic weaknesses were found in relation to accounting and record keeping
procedures, staff training, and special accounts management. In addition, audits reports were
received, but often late (e.g., as of this writing, EUAD 1998 audit report is has not been received by
IDA).  Furthermore, during the period 1994-1999 several audits report for 1994 were "qualified"
and project implementing agencies have not fully answered the auditors observations, a matter
wlhich still needs government attention.



9
Sectoral Policy Objectives
33. Although IEPRCP did not specifically include such objectives, they were implicit in its design,
through policy studies, public awareness and cross-sectoral coordination and exchange while the
regulatory framework was being put in place. Although it is not possible to delineate the exact
contribution of the project (the National Conservation Strategy was being implemented at the same
time), there is a consensus among government officials and project staff, that the project contributed
in a major way to raising the awareness of government officials in key government agencies at both
federal and provincial levels, and the public at large.  Other project initiatives, such as the
preparation of provincial conservation strategies (NWFP's completed and Balochistan's near
completion) allowed environmental issues to be treated in the broader context of sLustainable
development.  Finally, although the 1997 Act includes a provision for instituting "pollution
charges,3" it is fair to say that the project did not address the economic policy and incentive&
structure dimensions of environmental management (natural resource pricing, financial anld
economic incentives, "polluter pays principle," trade, land use management, etc.).
Project Impact
34. The year 1992 will go down in the history of Pakistan as the year wheni environmental
concerns emerged as a national priority. It was the year when the Pakistan Cabinet approved the
National Conservation Strategy, the Forestry Sector Master Plan was completed, and EPRCP was
launched. Whereas the first two initiatives laid down broad frameworks and blueprilts, EPRCP
was the first of a series of action plans aimed at providing solution to the most pressing institutional
and natural resource management problems. Despite the many limitations already mentioned in this
completion report, the project has played a pioneering role in translating strategies into actions and
testing the boundaries of what can be achieved through "stand alone" projects. As the first major
public sector investment in the field of the environment, EPRCP has decidedly left a deep impact in
terms of creating and strengthening environmental institutions, increasing the awareness about
environmental issues of politicians, planners, key decision makers and the public at large, and
successfully implementing pilot-scale natural resource rehabilitation sub-projects in the most
threatened ecosystems. The pilots assisted in: (i) improving the condition of mangroves in the
province of Sindh with potential positive lessons for the 300,000 ha of mangroves along the
Arabian Sea coast; (ii) providing a basis for biodiversity protection through wildlife and habitat
surveys and better planning and management of wildlife in the future, and rehabilitating the highly
degraded riverine forests in Punjab; and (iii) improving watershed management in AJK through
economically productive activities.
C. MAJOR FACTORS AFFECTING THE PROJECT
26. Implementation Record. The project had a slow start. Local expertise was non-existent at
the beginning of the project. Therefore, the progress of the project very much depended on how
soon the techlnical assistance was brought on board. Unfortunately, for various administrative and
political reason, the procurement of technical assistance, was delayed for over two years. It was
3Wide consultations during 1998-1999 with industry representatives and NGOs led to an agreement for the establishment
of a system of pollution charges to implement the National Environmental Quality Standards (NEQS). However,
agreement on institutional implementation mechanisms are yet to be agreed upon. In addition, work is yet to begin on
putting in place sustainable development funds.



10
only after the technical assistance had been procured that the pace of project implementation started
in earnest.
Factors Not Generally Subject to Government Control
27. Climate influenced the progress and quality of natural resource sub-projects. In the periods of
drought, survival rates in plantations were poor (which were partially corrected by heavy
replacements) and incidence of fires increased while in the years of flood, river banks caved in
destroying the riverine plantations in Punjab and damaging flood control structures in Bhimber.
Overall, the extent of damage was small.
28. In the aftermath of the country's decision to proceed with nuclear tests, and the ensuing
international economic sanctions, the government was forced to adopt austerity measures. Onee
victim of these measures was foreign training, which was banned toward the closing stages of the
project. The result was that many studies and training were not carried out and the quality of
outputs suffered. Another example is the cancellation of the important alpine pasture study sub-
project in AJK, which resulted from security issues related to continuous border skirmishes along
the Line of Control with India.
Factors Generally Subject to Government Control
29. Inter-ministerial/departmental coordination, monitoring and oversight was weak both at the
federal and provincial levels. MELGRD did not engage in active and sustained consultations with
other ministries in carrying out its mandate.  For pollution and natural resource issues, such
consultations were necessary at least with the ministries of agriculture, water, forestry, mines and
energy, and industries. MELGRD officials did not visit subproject sites to oversee and monitor
progress and help resolve issues. At the provincial level, the P&DDs also did not carry out such
coordination and outreach activities.
30. There were several other factors, which were within the control of the government and affected
the progress of the project adversely. These include: (i) procurement of vehicles was not allowed as
planned for MELGRD/PEPA and for the mangroves sub-project; (ii) staff turnover in key positions
of Punjab P&D Environment Section, NWFP EPA and MELGRD was highi; (iii) project approval
processes were cumbersome; and (iv) lack of coherence between approving project/sub-project PC-
1 s and SAR provisions, resulting in arbitrary cuts project budget cuts. There were persistent
complaints of problems in the flow of funds from the special accounts to the implementing
agencies, particularly from the Punjab P&DD to the riverine sub-project. Payments to laborers in
the riverine sub-project were delayed for months causing them great hardship while at the same
time leading to frequent suspension of work at sub-project sites thus undermi-ninig the results
obtained and even the sustainability of the entire sub-project. Finally, the most detrimental impact
on the project as a whole was due to the delay in the recruitment of consultanlts, whichl occurred
because of interference in the selection process after evaluation of proposals had been completed.
Factors Generally Subject to Implementing Agency Control
31. Detailed designing of sub-projects either lacked or was delayed with consequent haphazard
implementation. For example, maps of plantation sites, particularly in the initial stages, were not
prepared, and, where prepared, were not strictly followed at execution. Local communities were
not consulted adequately at planning, designing and execution stages, except in AJK. Delays in the
preparation of bidding documents, and later in the evaluation of proposals were a common feature.
There was often a stalemate between the consulting firm  (to which the "umbrella technical



11
assistance contract was awarded) and government agencies, due to the fact that the consultilg firm
was unable to provide experts mentioned in its original proposal because contract signature was
delayed for two years; government agencies typically retaliated by withllolding payments to the
Firm. Finally, research was lacking and data from experiments was not collected and analyzed in a
systematic and timely manner.
D. PROJECT SUSTAINABILITY
32. The majority of assets and institutions created under the project are likely to be sustainedif
implementing agencies follow through with their Project Operational Plan. This requires that federal
and provincial/AJK governments regularize a minimum number of staff positions and provide
adequate allocations in the future non-development budgets to cover staff salaries and allowances,
training, maintenance costs of the assets created, and other operating expenses. Some implementing
agencies, for example, PEPA and Punjab Wildlife Department, have been proactive enough to have
already obtained key staff positions regularized by the Finance Ministry/Departmenits.  Others
implementing agencies either have submitted their proposals and are awaiting approvals in the
1999-2000 budget, or have prepared short-term  PC-Is to secure maintenance funds.  For
sustainability of certain institutions, possibilities of charging for services rendered, for example EIA
analyses by PEPA/EPAs, allowing hunting in specially designated areas by the Punjab Wildlife
Department, and extending GIS facility by DEPM to other agencies, are also being explored. In
AJK, some village organizations are mature enough to have taken over the maintenlanlce of
plantationis and other infrastructure constructed. In addition, important flood control works have
been turned over to the Municipal Council of the town of Bhimber for maintenance. Finally, skills
training given to village activists and farmers (both men and women) will also help in the conltilnuity
of some of the activities implemented under the project.
E. BANK PERFORMANCE
33. The Bank's performance, overall, has been satisfactory. Its supervision has generally been
effective in that it has been able to provide prompt and timely support to imiplementing agencies.
The Bank carried out 10 supervision missions, which consisted of 74 experts in various disciplines
and spent 326 days in the field, in a regular manner. The expertise represented on missions and
their individual duration, from identification through completion, has been adequate. The project
hias also had an uncharacteristic advantage of having one task manager for almost the whole
duration of the project.
34.  However, Bank performance suffered from some weaknesses. As explailed in paragraph 10
above, the project had a complex design by virtue of having a large number of components spread
over a large geographic and a diverse ecological area. Although not a consensus, a number of
people consulted during the ICR mission, felt that smaller provincial projects could have been more
successful. It was also felt that the project objectives targeted a large number of outputs but were
weak on targeting more specific development outcomes. Monitoring of fewer but substantial
outcomes could have, in the end, related a more realistic story of project achievements. Having
-only one special account in a province for more than one implementing agency caused persistent
and severe cash flow problems. A separate special account for each sub-project could have been the
answer provided the Bank's overheads in terms of their management did not become prohibitive.



12
The Bank could also have taken prompter and more definitive action to obviate the long delay that
took place in the recruitment of consultants. Although primarily the responsibility of the borrower,
the Bank did not carry out adequate supervision of consultant work. The result was that consultanit
reports were not made public and some were of limited usefulness.
F. BORROWER PERFORMANCE
35. Performance of the Borrower is also rated as satisfactory, overall. Borrower's commitment to
project objectives was evident through the approval of the National Conservation Strategy and
Forestry Sector Master Plan which took place before project launch. The commitment lasted -with
variable intensity-- throughout the project period, and there are strong indications that it will
continiue in the future. Achievement of key physical targets is certainly a good indicationi of
Borrower commitment.
36. Performance was uneven between implementing agencies and project areas. MELGRD did not
actively pursue an outreach policy towards implementing agencies and other project stakeholders.
Inter-ministerial/departmental consultation, particularly needed with industry, energy, agriculture,
forestry, fisheries, and trade, was lacking. The major provisions of the 1997 Environmental Act are
still not being enforced because implementing rules and regulations are yet to be notified. The ban
on foreign traininlg toward the end of the project constitutes a setback in certain areas of humani
resource development with potential impact for future project sustainability. Finally, The Punjab
P&DD was consistenitly indifferent to project requirements which resulted in: (i) high turnover of
Chiefs of the Environment Section (a dozen, over the seven year implementation period); (ii) failure
to pass on project funds to implementing agencies in a timely manner (delays often extending
several months); and (iii) poor laborers suffered great hardships because of non-payment of wages
for long periods of time.
G. ASSESSMENT OF OUTCOME
37. As indicated previously, the project focused more on achievingphysical outputs rather than
outcomes and impacts. While the Bank's emphasis gradually shifted over the years from
performance monitoring in terms of inputs and outputs to outcomes and impacts, the project design
did not include performance indicators nor a monitoring system geared towards evaluating tangible
changes in environmental quality on the ground. A qualitative and anecdotal assessment of
outcomes and impacts of the project, prepared by the various implementing agencies, listed by sub-
project, is given in the first annex (entitled "Project Operational Plan") of Appendix A. Overall,
four sets of outcomes have been realized:
37.1   An institutional capacity has been created which includes a regulatory and policy
framework (which has started to manifest itself througLh, for example, the
reactivation of the Pakistan Environmenit Protection Council, development and
strengthening of environmental sections within Planninlg and Departments, EIA
requirements, agreement by industry on a pollution charge and a process of self-
monitoring, and the establishment of two functional environmental tribunals),
availability of motivated and trained staff, monitoring and enforcement capacity
(every province has initiated a program of regular effluent monitoring in industrial



13
zones and major water courses), and a general higher level of awareness within
government and the public;
37.2  lImproved biodiversity conservation through successful re-introduction of local
mangroves species; wildlife surveys have provided, for the first time, a scientific
basis for regulating precious wildlife resources and will lead to better management
of protected areas in Punjab; and riverine forest plantations have increased and are
providing visible -although localized-- soil conservationi benefits;
37.3   The pilot nature of natural resource management sub-projects has demonstrated the
viability and benefits of a number of management practices and has led to a higher
level of awareness resulting in- implementation of other similar projects (defense_
planting) and a greater commitment on the part of government officials to replicate
the approach in other areas (in particular, encouraged by community feedback, AJK
and Sindh governments have shown very strong commitments to prepare follow on
projects); and
37.4  Income generation through: (i) contribution of mangrove rehabilitation in Sindh to
increasing income from  fishing; and (ii) introduction of high yield varieties,
plantation forest, and animal husbandry practices, flood protectioln, and agricultural
rehabilitation in AJK.
H. FUTURE OPERATION
38. The Borrower, with inputs from the Bank's May/June 1999 Completion Reporting Mission,
has prepared a Project Operational Plan (first annex of Appendix A) which lists, by agency, the
current status of sub-projects and their future plans, expected outcomes and impacts, performance
indicators, and budget for the next three years. Future plans and arrangements for their realization
are summarized below:
38.1   MELGRD, PEPA and DEPM. Three environmental sections in MELGRD will be
integrated and streamlined. Training of staff and maintenance and equipment
upgrading will be enhanced. Rules and regulations framed under the 1997
Environmental Act will be notified. A draft environmental policy paper will be
prepared and submitted to PEPC for approval. And implementation of the mass
awareness policy, particularly at the grass roots level, will be continued. For 1999-
2000, about Pak Rs. 9.5 million have been budgeted while external funding will
also be explored.
38.2   Punjab P&DD, Riverine Forests and Wildlife Management. There are no plans
or commitnent to strengthen  P&DD's Environment Section. A  plan for
maintenance and protection of riverine plantations has bed laid out and will be
carried out. The Wildlife Department plans to increase its staff by about 10%,
implement management plans prepared for five protected areas, broaden its training
base by starting regular and compulsory pre-service, in-service and pre-promotion
training, create a new mass education unit, procure additional vehicles to enhance
the mobility of its field staff, upgrade its existing wireless network, and have a
wildlife policy (draft ready) approved by the Cabinet. For riverine plantation



14
maintenance, Pak Rs. 7.5 have been committed and for wildlife future plans an
amount of Pak Rs. 72 million has been allocated for the next thlree years.
38.3   Sindh EPA, Mangroves and P&DD. Sindh EPA has advanced plans establislh an
Environmental Tribunal, hire and train additional EIA and lab staff, contilnue and
complete five studies and six research projects, continue extension efforts to
disseminate information, and establish two more field offices. Envirolnment Section
of P&DD plans to strengthen its capacity through hliring support staff. Sindlh Forest
Department plans to consolidate and manage the plantationis establislhed Lunder
EPRCP, establish 8,000 ha of new plantations, continue social forestrv activities,
and have 7 senior and 5 middle level officers trained overseas. EPA, P&DD and
Sindh Forest Department estimate they would spend Pak Rs. 180 million over the
next three years to implement their plans..
38.4   NWFP EPA. As mandated under the 1997 Act, EPA plans to complete the
delegation of powers to provincial government and EPA, enhance its program of
chlarging fees for IEE and EIA processes, hire and train more staff for EIA
compliance monitoring, explore donor funding for overseas training of project staff,
complete the ongoing study on protection of River Swat, ancd continue the mass
awareness activities. EPA will need about Pak Rs. 25 million to implement its
plans over the next three years, which will be secured in part from the provincial
government and supplemented by fee-based services.
38.5   Bhimber Upland Rehabilitation in AJK. The AJK Forest Department plans to
plant/replace 5,000 ha, carry out 0.1 million cu m of river training works, repair and
maintain 200 ha of agricultural terraces, establish new  and maintain  old
infrastructure through village organizations, and continue the training, mass
awareness, agricultural demonstration plots, animal disease control, and breed
improvement activities. Over the next three years, funding required would be about
Pak Rs. 300 million, which is being sought from the state government.
I. LESSONS LEARNED
39. The main lessons learned during project implementation and wlilch are relevant for future
operations are as follows:
(a) Simpler projects at the provincial level could be more effective, particularly if targeted at
solving specific environmental problems. In addition, the fact that institutional
development is a process, which takes time and is dependent on socio-economic and
political factors, requires a longer term horizon, strong local ownership and a widely
consultative process to insure sustainability of outcomes;
(b) There should be continuity in project leadership. Quick turnover of key staff and sub-
project directors affected performance adversely. This is a structural constraint related to
the way civil service functions in Pakistan;
(c) Delay in procurement of consultant services had a major impact ova botha timeliness and
quality of technical assistance. For future operations, key procurement shoould be
completed before project effectiveness;



15
(d) The quality of withdrawal applications and the use of the Special Account remained poor
throughout project implementation. These deficiencies could have been rectified at an
early stage if a thorough assessment of the project's finanicial managemenit needs had been
undertaken during the appraisal process (including attention to staff turnover and timely
provision of counterpart funding).
(e) PC-i provisions must be very closely linked to the Project Appraisal Document
(formerly, SAR). Some discrepancies between the two could not be resolved until project
closing. In addition, PC], consistent with the negotiated package, should be approved
in the country by ECENC prior to submission to the Bank's Board. Lacunae in both,
these areas contribute to implementation delays.
(f) Although the Bank's procurement guidelines were generally followed, delays often
occurred because of provincial governments' requirements to use local guidelines. In the
future, specific arrangements for monitoring procurement, particularly the application
of the Bank's guidelines, and staff training, should be agreed and described in the
project documents, including the legal agreement.
(g) Special Accounts at the provincial level did not prove to be a suitable mechanism for
project implementation.  Special Accounts at sub-project level with a provision for
advancing funds, and full accountability of project directors, would have resulted il better
outcomes for this kind of complex project.
(h) Sub-projects which involved social participation, for example AJK's BURD, were more
successful and have higher potentialfor sustainability. However, because of the multi-
sectoral nature of these projects and the lags involved in resource conservation, it is
important to evaluate and document the results of such projects systematically over time.
Tiherefore, it is recommended that more systematic and detailed community socio-
economic studies be undertaken at regular intervals (inception, mid-term review, project
closing, and every three years thereafter for at least 10 years).






16
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
PAKISTAN
ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AND
RESOURCE CONSERVATION PROJECT
(CREDIT 2383-PK)
PART II:  STATISTICAL TABLES






17
Table 1: Summary of Assessments
A.  Achievement of Objectives    Substantial      Partial      Negligible    Not applicable
Macro policies                  El              El             El             [
Sector policies                 al             [AE                            El
Financial objectives            O              E3              El             C1
Institutional development       [A             E               El             El
Physical objectives             [A             [1              El             El
Poverty Reduction               a              a               [A             El
Gender issues                   E               E              [A             E
Other social objectives         El             [A              E              El
Environmental objectives        D               [              E              Cl
Public sector management        E               [D             E              El
Private sector development      E               [A             E              El
Other (specify) Studies         El              E3             El             El
B-  Project sustainability         Likely        Unlikely       Uncertain
Highly
C. Bank Performance             Satisfactory    Satisfactory    Deficient
Identification                  El             [A              El
Preparation Assistance          E              [A              El
Appraisal                       E               [              E
Supervision                     E               A              E
Highly
D. Borrower Performance         Satisfactory    Satisfactory    Deficient
('7)           ('7)           ('7)
Preparation                     E               [A             E
Implementation                  a               [A             E
Covenanit Compliance            El             [A              E
Operation (if applicable)       E               [A             El
Highly
E. Assessment of Outcome        Satisfactory    Satisfactory    Deficient
('7)           ('7)           ('7)
El            [A              El



18
Table 2: Related Bank Loans/Credits
Loan/credit title                        Purpose                    Year of       Status
Approval
Preceding Operations
1. Reservoir Maintenance Facilities   Improve maintenance of Tarbela, Mangla   1983       Completed
Project (Ln.2247-PAK)             and Chasma reservoirs.
2.  Fourth Drainage Project (Cr. 1375-    Improve drainage and reclaim soil.  1983        Completed
PAK)
3. Integrated Hill Farming Development  Improve agriculture and livestock, conserve  1984  Completed
Project (Cr. 1461 -PAK)           soil, reforest hillsides and construct feeder
roads.
4. Command Water Management Project Improve irrigation system.               1984         Completed
(Cr. 1487-PAK)
5. Balochistan Agricultural Extension  Strengthen agricultural extension and  1985        Completed
Project (Cr. 1 533-PAK)           improve productivity
6. Second On Farm Management Project Improve watercourses providing water to   1985       Completed
(Cr. 1603-PAK)                    farmers' fields.
7. SCARP Transition Pilot Project (Cr.  Improve irrigation/drainage.         1986         Completed
1693-PAK)
8. Sixth Agricultural Development Bank  Provide credit to farmers.           1986         Completed
of Pakistan Project (Cr. 1699/Ln.
2693-PAK)
9. Fourth Agricultural Extension Project  Strengthen agricultural extension and  1987     Completed
(Cr. 1762-PAK)                    improve productivity.
10. Second Irrigation Systems         Improve Irrigation System.             1988         Completed
Rehabilitation Project (Cr. 1888-PAK)
11. Private Tubewell Development Project Test viability of integrated tubewell  1989      Completed
(Cr. 2004-PAK)                    development for increasing agricultural
productivity.
12. Agricultural Credit Project (Cr.  Transform agriculture credit system.   1990         Completed
2153/Ln. 3226-PAK)
13. Second Agricultural Research Project  Strengthen agricultural research capabilities  1990  Completed
(Cr. 2154-PAK)                    in provinces.
14. Third On Farm Management Project   Increase agricultural production through  1991     Completed
(Cr. 2245/Ln. 3327-PAK)           effective use of water.
15. Second SCARP Transition Project (Cr. Increase agricultural production through  1991   Completed
2257-PAK)                         improved and timely provision of
supplementary irrigation water.



19
Loan/credit title (Cont.)                Purpose                 Year of      Status
Approval
Following Operations
1. Fordwah Eastern Sadiqia Project  Increase agricultural productivity by    1993  Ongoing
(Cr. 2410-PAK)                 improving irrigation channels and
drainage.
2. Northern Resource Management   Improve resources management.      1993        Completed
Project (Cr. 251 2-PAK)
3. Balochistan Natural resource   Create/strengthen environmental    1994        Ongoing
Management Project (Cr. 2584-   institutions and implement pilot scale
PAK)                           field projects.
4. Punjab Forest Sector Development Establish a forestry extension wing,    1995  Ongoing
Project (Cr. 2747-PAK)         promote plantations in
private/community lands, introduce
participatory rangeland management
and carry out training/studies.
5. Balochistan Community Irrigation  Develop sustainable farmer      1996        Ongoing
and Agricultural Project (Cr. 2780- organizations to own, efficiently
PAK)                           operate and maintain irrigation systems.
6. Punjab Private Sector Ground   Increase the scope and productivity of  1997   Ongoing
water Development Project (Cr.   Punjab's irrigation and drainage sub-
2901-PAK)                      sector.
7. National Drainage Program Project Improve the efficiency of the irrigation  1998  Ongoing
(Cr. 2999-PAK)                 and drainage system in Pakistan and
ensure its sustainability.



20
Table 3: Project Timetable
Steps in project cycle             Date planned            Date actual/latest
estimate
Identification*                                                 December21, 1988
Pre-Preparation, Preparation, Post-                             May 13, 1989
preparation                                                     July 9, 1989
February 12, 1990
November20. 1990
Appraisal                                                       April 19, 1991
Negotiations                        February, 1992              April 13, 1992
Board presentation                  March 24, 1992              June 11, 1992
Signing                                                         October 1, 1992
Effectiveness                       October, 1992               March 4, 1993
Midterm Review                      September 30, 1995          April 1996
Project completion                  June 30, 1998               June 30, 1999
Credit closing                      June 30, 1999               June 30, 1999
*Project identification activities began as early as April 1985, with a Reconnaissance Mission.
Table 4: Credit Disbursements: Cumulative, Estimated and Actual
(US$ in millions)
FY93   FY94  FY95   FY96   FY97   FY98   FY99  FY00
Appraisal estimate                   2.0    3.5    5.5    9.5   15.5   21.5   28.5  29.2
Revised estimate (MTR)               0.0    2.0    4.0    6.8    1.7   17.9   23.3  23.7
Actual                               0.0    2.0    4.0    6.8   10.0   12.9   15.0  16.2
Actual as % of appraisal estimate     0      57      73     72      65      60      53    55
Actual as % of revised estimate       0    100    100    100        81      68      53    68
* MTR estimates were based on a US$/SDR ratio of 1.4442 (higher than the current ratio of 1.363).



21
Table 5: Key Indicators for Project Implementation
Indicator                Unit           Planned               Actual
Institutional
Institutions
Strengthen                       Number                       5                     5
Create                           Number                       2                     2
Laboratory                         Number                     2-9                    3
Vehicle                            Number                      70                   56
Legislation
Law                                               Prepare new act                Yes
Quality Standards                                  Prepare NEQS                  Yes
EIA Procedures                                           Prepare                 Yes
Rules & Regulations                                     Enforce               Drafted
Tribunals                                               Establish                Two
Magistrates                                             Appoint          Yes, in Sindh
Mass awareness                                     Raise awareness       Yes, substantial
Training events                    Number                                          608
Trainees                           Number  |                                      1,194
DEPM Trainees (M.Sc.)              Number                                           22
Monitor pollution                                          Initiate         Yes, limited
IEE& EIA                                                 Carry out          Yes, limited
Consultant Input                   Months                  486.40         336.74 (69%)
Financial
Project Costs                       RS. M                   1,086            785 (72%)
Project Costs                       US$ M                    43.7            25.2 (58%)
Disbursement                        US$ M                   29.26            15.9 (54%)
Natural Resource
Sindh Mangroves                      Ha                    16,000         17,100 (107%)
Punjab
Riverine reforestation              Ha                     1,766         1,766 (100%)
Punjab Wildlife
Management Plans                 Number                       4              5 (125%)
Habitat surveys                  Number                      37            41 (111%)
Vegetation surveys                Number                     32             39 (122%)
AJK Bhimber sub-project
Afforestation (rev.)                Ha                     9,705               12,066
Range improvement                   Ha                      800                   774
Soil Conservation structure      000 Cum                    343                   325
Repair terraces                     ha                      500                   503
Agr. Demo/AR plots                  ha                       102                   70
Animals vaccinated                  000                                           137
Animals treated                     000                                           369
Artificial insemination            000                                             70
Village organizations
Male                            Number                                           64
Female                          Number                                           27



22
Table 6: Key Indicators for Project Operation
Indicator                                 Actions
Federal
Organization                      Integrate and streamline MELGRD
Environmental Policy              Have the draft policy approved and announced.
Rules & Regulations               Notify rules and regulations to enforce 1997 Act.
Training                          Continue training/re-training.
Funding                           Budget Pak Rs. 9.5 million for 1999-2000
Punjab
Environment Section (ES)          Create a set up to replace the wound up ES.
Riverine plantations              Maintain plantations.
Wildlife
Wildlife Policy                  Approve and implement wildlife policy.
Management plans                Implement 5 PAs' management plans.
Mass Education Unit              Pre-service/in-serv ice/post-service training.
Communication                    Enhance and upgrade vehicles and equipment.
Funding                           Budget Pak Rs. 72 million for next 3 years.
Sindh
EPA
Tribunal(s)                      Set up environmental tribunal(s) under 1997 Act.
Staff                            Hire and train additional EIA and lab staff.
Studies and research             Continue 5 studies and 6 research projects.
Field Offices                    Establish two more field offices.
Environment Section               Hire and train support staff, now non-existent.
Mangroves
Plantations                      Maintain old and establish 8,000 ha new.
Social forestry                  Continue and expand social forestry program.
Overseas training                Train 7 senior and 5 middle level officers.
Funding                           Budget Pak Rs. 180 million for next 3 years.
NWFP EPA
Delegation of powers              Complete delegation to province and EPA.
Generate funds                    Continue and expand fee-based program.
Monitoring                        With above funds hire staff for monitoring.
Studies                           Complete River Swat study and do more.
Mass awareness                    Continue, expand and intensify program.
Funding                           Budget Pak Rs. 25 million for next 3 years.
AJK Bhimber Watershed
Plant and replace                 Plant/replace 5,000 ha plantation.
Soil conservation structures      Construction/works: 0.5 million cubic meters
Agricultural terraces             Repair 200 ha terraces.
Village organizations             Establish new and continue old VOs
Agriculture and livestock         Continue and expand developmental work.
Training/mass awareness           Continue and expand programs.
Participation                     Cany on all development work through VOs.
Funding                           Budget Pak Rs. 300 million for next 3 years.



23
Table 7: Studies Included in the
Project
Study
Purpose as defined at
Federal                             appraisal/redefined          Status        Impact of Study
1. Policy Study             Review and prioritize policy       Incomplete
development.
2. Mass awareness           Prepare mass awareness strategy     Completed  Awareness raised; new
action plans being
prepared.
3. Impact Assessment        Prepare and institute guidelines for    Completed  EIAs, in a limited-way
impact assessment, public                      (for donor projects)
consultation and environmental                 started.
reports.
4. Pollution Monitorinig     Prepare NEQS.                      Completed  Consultation process
underway for
NWFP EPA                                                                    implementation.
5. Impact Assessment        Introduce EIA procedures.           Completed  Above 100 applications
for IEE/EIA processed.
6. Polluting industries and    Review and prioritize major     Completed   Monitoring of pollution
reduction of pollution   pollutants.                                    is in progress.
7. Mass awareness           Design mass awareness plans.       Completed  lImplementation in
progress.
8. Inventory of industrial  Prepare inventory of industrial    Incomplete  Completion expected by
discharge                discharge.                                     June 30, 1999.
9. Protection of River Swat   Prepare baseline data.           Incomplete  Completion expected by
December 1999.
Punjab
10. PAs Management          Improve management of PAs.         Completed   5 management plans
Planning Manual                                                         prepared.
11. Policy for wildlife     To help introduce uniformity of     Completed  Under process for
management               planning action.                               approval by Cabinet.
12. Bird and mammal survey   To introduce better techniques to  Completed  Assisted in the
techniques manual        generate more reliable data for                preparation of
planning.                                      management plans.
13. Survey of important     For better planning and management.  Completed  Several surveys
wildlife survey areas                                                   conducted.
14. Guidelines for animal   For various purposes, e.g.          Completed  Animals better handled.
capture and haandling    vaccination, treatment etc.
15. Habitat Manual          For better planning and managing of   Completed  Helped in the
habitats.                                      preparation in
management plans.
Sindh EPA
16. Awareness and Education   Prepare strategies for environmental   Completed  Environmental clubs
awareness and education in schools.            established in schools.
17. Impact Assessment       To develop EIA sectoral guidelines    Completed   District workshops
on offshore seismic and drilling               organized with
operations, textiles industry, waste           communities/NGOs.
disposal etc.
18. MiscellaneoLus Studies (5)  To help (i) enhance community  Incomplete  Findings of studies will
participation, (ii) develop a data base        be used for future plans.
for studies on environment, (iii) carry
out a baseline survey of industrial
waste, (iv) find out causes of



24
eutriphication in lakes, and (v)
control hospital waste.
Sindh P&DD
l 9. Studies                Studies were not fully identified  Incomplete  Funds were not utilized.
Sindh FD
20. Diagnostic study of Indus   For better understanding the    Completed  The communities
delta                    development needs of local people.             cooperated in
implementing project
activities.
21. Research program on      To help improve regeneration of    Completed  Research trials
mangrove regeneration    mangrove forests.                              established.
22. Shrimp and finfish nursery  To collect data and make proposals    Completed   Findings will be shared
ground in mangrove area   for future planning.                          with other interested
of Indus delta                                                          agencies for better
management of the
mangrove ecosystem.
23. Sociological research    Sociological data collection for   Completed  Local communities were
report of Indus Delta    management and future planning                 involved in site selection
and social forestry
24. Ecological data of Indus    Indus Delta ecological, soil & water   Completed  Selection of suitable
mangrove ecosystem       salinity data collection                        sites for planning
AJIK FD
25. Five Reports             To better implement development    All reports  Plans for
activities in the fields of (i) soil  completed  implementation
conservation, ii) agriculture, (iii)           prepared/unlder
livestock and rangeland management,            preparation.
(iv) river control, and (v) monitoring
and evaluation.
26. Joint Forest Management  Introduce JFM on pilot scale in    Completed  A model JFM plan has
(JFM) Plan for           selected areas.                                 been prepared.
Demarcated Forest



25
Table 8A: Project Costs
Appraisal    Actual/latest    Actual vs
Category             estimate      estimate      appraisal
(US$ M)       (US$ M)    estimate (%)
Civil works, reforestation and
field works
Govt. & IDA                          9.600         8.03 1
Households                           4.800         2.390
Total                               14.400        10.421            72
Community development works
Govt. & IDA                          0.200         0.293
Households                           0.700         0.610
Total                                0.900         0.903           101
Equipment, vehicles,                 4.100         3.231            79
M/cycles, boats, furniture,
technical books and journals, and
inputs
Consultants' services               12.100         3.054            25
Training and mass awareness          4.000         1.868            47
programs
Incremental staff and operating      8.200         3.697            45
costs
Total all categories
Govt. & IDA                         38.200        20.174            53
Households                           5.500         3.000            55
Total                               43.700       23.174*            58
* Slight discrepancy in final cost due to non availability of final detailed borrower information
Table 8B: Project Financing
Appraisal    Actual/latest    Actual vs
Estimate     estimate      appraisal
(US$ M)      (US$ M)    estimate (%)
IDA                  29.200        16.200            55
Government            9.000         4.300            48
Contribution
Households            5.500         3.000            55
Total                43.700        23.174            58



26
Table 9: Economic Costs and Benefits
Economic costs and benefits are summarized in Appendix D. Detailed costs and benefit
streams which were used to compute Economic Rates of Return for the natural resource
management sub-projects are available in the project files.



27
Table 10: Status of Legal Covenants
Original    Revised
Agreement    Section    Coven.  Present  Fulfillment  Fulfillment        Description of covenant          Comments
type    status      Date         Date
Credit      4.01(a)      01       C                                Maintain records and accounts   Complied
MELGRD furnish to IDA audits    EUAD audit reports
Credit      4. 01(b)     01       C      03/31/1994                reports within nine months of FY    for FY98, not
received by IDA
Credit       4.02        05       C      12/31/1992                Borrower to ensue that the Council  After first delayed
will hold its initial meeting by  meeting (May 1993),
12/31/92, and meet regularly    the council has been
thereafter                      meeting regularly.
Credit      4.03(a)      06       C      01/07/1993                Borrower to screen all public   Environmental
development expenditures to     section in Federal
monitor their compliance with the   Planning
environmental quality standards  Commission is
screening all public
development
expenditures, but
basically only donor-
assisted projects do
ElAs
Credit      4.03(b)      06       CP     01/07/1993                Borrower to ensure that all public   IEE and EIA
investors comply with the EIA   regulations drafted
procedures                      and submitted for
stakelholders'
comments.
Implementation and
enforcement when
_______                                       finalized.
Credit    Schedule 4,    05       C      12/31/1992   08/31/1994   MELGRD to establish, recruit and
2(a)                                                 staff three sections             Complied
Credit    Schedule 4,    05       C       12/31/1992   12/31/1994  PEPA to recruit 1 Director, 3   Complied
2(b)                                                 Deputy Directors by 12/92; a
second Director and 3 deputy
Directors by 12/93; and a third
Director by December 1994.
Credit    Schedule 4,    05       C                   12/31/1994   DEPM to hire two additional     Complied
2(c)                                                 teaching staff to work with GIS
Schedule 4,    05       C      12/31/1992               Punjab P&D to establish and staff   Complied
2(d)                                                 its environmental section
Schedule 4,    05       C      12/31/1992               Sindh EPA to recruit at least 4  Complied
2(e)                                                 Asst. Directors by 12/31/92, 3
(i)(ii)(iii)                                           Asst. Directors by 6/30/94 and 4
Deputy Directors and other staff
by 6/30/95
Schedule 4,    05       C      06/30/1994               NWFP to recruit 2 Deputy         Complied
2(f)                                                 Directors, 5 asst. Directors, 2
administrative staff and other
necessary positions



28
Agreement     Section     Coven.   Present    Original      Revised          Description of covenant           Comments
type    Status    fulfillment   fulfillment
date        date
Credit     Schedule 4,    05        C      03/31/1993   10/01/1994  Federal and Provincial agencies to  Complied
2(g)                                                   sign contracts for engaging
consultants
Credit     Schedule 4,    05        C                                Implementing agencies to furnish   Proposals submitted to
3                                                    training proposals for IDA's review    IDA but foreign
training programs not
completed due to
government ban.
Credit     Schedule 4,    05        C                                MELGRD, Sindh and NWFP EPAs,   Complied
4                                                    and P&Ds of Punjab, Sindh. NWFP
and AJK to submit proposals for
studies to IDA for review
Credit     Schedule 4,    05        C      09/30/1995                IDA, MELGRD, and P&Ds of           Complied
7(b) (i)                                                Punjab, Sindh, NWFP and AJK to
carry out a mid-term review
Project     2.01 (b)      05        C                                The provinces shall carry out the  Complied
Project in accordance with the
implementation program set forth in
Schedule 4
P'roject    2.01 (c)      05        C                                The provinces to open Special      Complied
Accounts in accordance with he
provisions of Schedule 5
Project       2.02        05        C                                The Provinces to procure goods,    Complied
works and consultant services in
accordance with Schedule 3
Project     3.01 (b)      05        CP      03/31/1995               Punjab, Sindh, NWFP and AJK        Complied (some
furnish to IDA audit reports within    reports were qualified)
nine months from end of FY
Project       3.03        05        C  ,                             Government will inform ADBP and    Work not held up;
invite them to join project        survey required to find
implementation discussions with    out if farmers do have
local people                      access to credit.
P'roject     3.05 (a)     06        C       07/01/1993               Punjab, P&D, Sindh EPA and NWFP   Complied; basically
EPA to screen all public expenditures  only donor-assisted
projects do ElAs
Project     3.05 (b)      06        C                                Punjab, P&D, Sindh EPA and NWFP   Complied; basically
EPA to comply with the EIA         only donor-assisted
procedures                         projects do ElAs
C = Complied with
CP = Complied with partially



29
Table 11: Compliance with Operational Manual Statement
No deviations from applicable operational manual statements were noted.



30
Table 12: Bank Resources: Staff Inputs
Stage of Project cycle                         Actual/Latest Estimate
Number of Staff Weeks        US $ (thousand)
Preparation to appraisal                    161.1                     384.0
Appraisal                                   82.4                       157.9
Negotiations to Board approval               13.1                      26.4
Supervision (a)                             210.4                     396.0
Completion (b)                              21.2                       20.9
Total                                      488.23                     985.0
(a) Through FY1999 (includes ICR mission)
(b) Latest for FY2000 (after project closing)



31
Table 13: Bank Resources: Missions
.. . _                    Performance ratings
Stage of project cycle    Month/year    Number  Days   Specialized staff skills  Impleme Developm   Types of
of     in          represented        ntation.    ent     problems
persons  field                           status  objectives _
Through appraisal
Reconnaissance       April/1985          3       28        ECO (2), FR.
Identification       October/1988        5       24    ECO, AGR, CONS (3)
Pre-Preparation      May/1989            1       23             FR
Mission
Pre-Preparation      July/1989           5       23    ECO, AGR, CONS (3)
Mission
Post-preparation     February/1990       4       15      ECO, WL, GIS, FR
Follow-up            July/1990           2       12          ECO, WM
Appraisal            April/1991          6       21    ECO, FR, PROC, DISB
Supervision
I                    April/1993          3       5          ECO (2), FR           2         1          M
2                    November/1993       2       10         ECO, COM              I          I        M,F
3                    June/1994           2       15           FR, WE              S         S         M,F
4                    February/1995       5       15    ECO, COM, FR (2), El       U         U         M,T
5                    November/1995       3       14         ECO, FR (2)           S         U         M,T
6 (Mid-Term)         April/1996          7       23    ECO (2), COM, FR (2),
El (2), SOC
7                    June/1997           2       15           ECO, El             S         S         M,T
8                    November/1997       5       16    ECO,FR, El, NR, DISB       S         S         M,T
9                    April/1998          6       17    ECO, FR, El, DISB (2),     S         S       M, T, F
NR
10                   November/1998       7       28    ECO, El, FR, DISB (2),     S         S        M,T,F
NR, LEN
II (Completion)      May/1999            6       22    ECO, El, PROC, DISB        S         S         M,F
NR,ICR,FM, LEN
COM= Community Specialist, DISB= Disbursement Specialist; ECO= Economist; El= Environmental Specialist, LEN=
Legal Environmental Specialist, FM, Financial Management Specialist, FR= Forester, ICR= ICR Specialist, NR=
Natural Resource Management Specialist, PROC= Procurement Specialist, SOC= Sociologist, WE= Water Engineer.
S= Satisfactory, US= Unsatisfactory
M= Managerial, T= Technical, F= Financial



32
Annex
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
PAKISTAN
ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AND
RESOURCE CONSERVATION PROJECT
(CR. 2383-PAK)
EXPENDITURE STATEMENT
(Rupees in millions)
Disbu rsement     MELG        PEPA      S P&D     SEPA      MANG.   PB P&D    PB WL    PFD            NEPA       DEPNM    BtJRD    TOTAL
Category           & RD
1. Civil Works,      0.000     0.000      0.000     0.000    54.587       0.000     8.198   47.547      (.000      0.000   192.370   302.702
reforestation
and field works
2. Community         0.000      0.000     0.000     0.000      0.000      0.000      0.000    0.000      0.000     0.000     11.488    11.488
development
works in AJK
3. Equipment,        5.457      5.455     1.886    23.980      3.340      3.800      6.807   10.649     14.162    11.166    42.182   128.806
vehicles,
m/cycles, boats,
furnitun-e,
teclnical books
and journals,
and inputs                                                                                 L                            _
4. Consultants'     12.676     11.334     0.000    23.345      9.090      2.140      9.717    0.000    23.403      2.368    31.207   120.864
services
5. Training and     24.182      0.344     0.000     14.930     0.704      2.992      0.534    0.000    23.364      0.174      8.635    74.952
mass awareness
program
6. Incremental      29.800    10.109      0.382     13.718     7.614      8.883      8.364    1.248     16.464     2.375    47.272   146.467
staff and
operating costs
Total All           72.115    27.242      2.248   75.973      75.335      17.815     33.62   59.444    77.393     16.083   333.154    784.829
categories
MELG&RD = Ministry of Local Government & Rural Development; PEPA = Pakistan Environmental Protection Agency;
S P&D = Sindh Planning & Development Department; SEPA = Sindh Environmental Protection Agency; MANGR.=
Mangrove sub-project; PB P&D = Punjab Planning and Development Project; PB WL = Punjab Wildlife Department;
PFD = Punjab Forest Department; NEPA = NWFP Environmental Protection Agency; DEPM = Department of
Environmental Planning and Management; BURD = Bhimber Upland Rehabilitation Project - (Data in this table reliects
information provided by the borrower with comments on the ICR on 12/29/1999).



I
I



33
Appendix A
PAKISTAN
ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AND RESOURCE
CONSERVATION PROJECT
(CR. 2383-PAK)
Final Supervision/Implementation Completion Reporting Mission - May/June 1999
Aide-Memoire
(Final, 6/2/99 10:38:41 AM)
Introduction
1. During May 10-31, 1999, an Intemnational Development Association (IDA) mission visited
Pakistan to supervise the Environmental Protection and Resource Conservation Project (EPRCP).
The mission included Messrs. Aziz Bouzaher (mission leader), Mohammed Bekhechi (legal and
institutional specialist), Ahsan Ali (procurement specialist), Abdul Qaiyum  Sheikh (consultant,
natural resources and ICR), Edmundo De Alba (consultant, ICR), and Naveed Saeed (consultant,
financial management), with additional support from the Bank's disbursement team in Islamabad.
The mission specific objectives were to: (i) review project implementation and agree with the
various implementinig agencies on the remaining tasks to be completed by June 30, 1999, the credit
closing date; (ii) assist implementing entities in solving pending problems in time for a smooth
closing of the credit; (iii) review with the various implementing agencies the action plan for the
future operational phase of the project (Project Operational Plan); (iv) review the draft reports of the
different implementing agencies for the government's contribution to the project's Implementation
Completion Report (ICR); and (vi) continue   consultations regarding the preparation of an
"environmental strategy " to take stock of progress and identify priorities for possible future IDA
assistance to Pakistan in the area of environment and natural resource management. The missi6n
traveled to North West Frontier Province (NWFP), Sindh, and Punjab provinces as well as Azad
Jammu and Kashlmir (AJK), visited all project sites, and reviewed and discussed project issues with
all implementing agencies. In addition, the mission met with project beneficiaries and other
stakeholders/partners, including villages organizations, individuals, NGOs, universities, industry
representatives, donors, and consultants (a detailed itinerary and list of people with whom the
mission met is given in Annex 1).
2.  The present Aide-memoire summarizes the mission's findings, recommendations and
agreements that were discussed at the wrap-up meeting held on Tuesday June 1, 1999. The
Mission's findings are subject to confirmation by IDA management. The Aide-memoire is divided
into two main parts; the first part relates to the preparation of the ICR and focuses mainly on
achievement of project objectives, sustainability, implementation performance and lessons leamed
(ICR timetable and TORs for the government's contribution to the ICR are given in Annex 2); the
second part relates to project supervision and summarizes overall progress, major project issues
common to all sub-projects, and recommendations and agreements regarding individual sub-
projects. Detailed findings are given in the following annexes: (i) Project Operation Plan (Annex
3); (ii) status of previously agreed actions (Annex 4); (iii) status of disbursements and expenditures
(Annex 5); (iv) status of technical Assistance (Annex 6); (v) status of the legal and institutional
framework (Annex 7); (vi) status of the natural resource sub-projects (Annex 8); findings from a
review of financial management systems (Annex 9); status of natural resource sub-projects financed
by the European Union (Annex 10); and procurement record forms (Annex I1).



34
3.  The mission tlhanks, Messrs. Muhammad Zubair Kidwai, Secretary, Shafkcat Ezdi Shah,
Additional Secretary, and Mohammad Rajab, Deputy Secretary, Ministry of Environment, Local
Government and Rural Development; Mr. Asif Shuja Khan, Director General, Pakistan
Environmental Protection Agency (DG-PEPA); Dr. Zakirullah, Chairman, Environmental Planning
and Management Department, University of Peshawar; Messrs. Shakil Durani, Additional Chief
Secretary, Planning and Development Department, and Amjad Nazir, Director General
Environmental Protection Agency (DG-EPA), NWF Province; Messrs. Shams Ul Haq Memon,
Secretary Forests, Waheed Pizarda, Secretary Environment, Ghulam Mustafa Sheikh, Chief
Conservator of Forests, Hakim Din Tunio, Joint Chief Economist, Planning and Development
Department, and Brig. (Retd.) Akhtar Zamin, DG-EPA, Sindh Province; Col. (Retd.) Sultan Haider,
Secretary Forests and Mr. Iftikhar Ahmed, Member Planning and Development Board, Punjab
Province; Messrs. Sardar Muhammad Abdul Rasheed, Additional Chief Secretary Planning and
Development Department, and Chaudhary Mohammad Sadiq, Secretary Forests, State of AJK; and
all other senior officials, project staff, and members of village organizations (particularly in AJK)
for their warm welcome, hospitality, cooperation and assistance during the mission. Finally, the
mission thanks all project teams for the timely submission of written progress reports and ICR data
tables.
Part 1: Implementation Completion Report: Mission Findings
Project Objectives
4.  EPRCP was conceived as the first phase of a long-term program to improve environmental
management in Pakistan through institution building and pilot sustainable natural resource
management activities. The project constitutes one of the first stand-alone environmental projects
supported and financed by the World Bank. While EPRCP's implementation coincided with that of
the Pakistan National Conservation Strategy (NCS) project identification began in 1985. In
addition, although the project was designed to be national in scope, Balochistan province was
excluded after appraisal but later benefited from a separate project, Balochistan Natural Resource
Management Project (BNRMP). Furthermore, two of EPRCP's watershed rehabilitation sub-
projects (Dir Kohistan in NWFP and Muree, Kahuta, and Kotli Sattian in Punjab) were financed
separately (parallel financing) through a grant from the European Union (a brief summary is
provided in Annex 10) and are planned to be completed in 2002.
5. The project's more specific objectives include (WB-Staff Appraisal Report, 1992):
* Initiate the strengthening of key federal and, provincial environmental protection institutions so
they can deal with environmental protection and resource conservation in a systematic and
planned manner;
*  Strengthen environmental legislation, and initiate environmental policies and programs;
* Disseminate information concerning damage to the environment and natural resources to policy
makers, government officials, and the public;
* Strengthen professional education in environmental and natural resource planning and
management;
* Implement subprojects to rehabilitate, protect, develop and manage agro-ecological resources
which have been damaged or which are threatened with damage; and
* Undertake studies and preparation for future environmental protection and resource
conservation projects/subprojects.



35
Project Components
6.  The project has two broad components, institutional strengthening and natural resource
rehabilitation and management.
a) Institutional strengthening.  This component includes: (i) support to the Ministry of
Environment, Local Government and Rural Development (formerly EUAD), Pakistan
Environmental Protection Agency (PEPA), and Sindh and NWFP's EPAs, in the form of staff
hiring and training, technical assistance, policy and feasibility studies, and equipment and
operating funds; (ii) establishment of an Environmental Section in Punjab's Planning and
Development Department, and following the MTR, strengthening of the Environmental Section
of Sindh P&D Department; (iii) assisting in development of implementing regulations-for the
1983 Environmental Ordinance -with a particular focus on EIA capacity-- through technical
assistance; (iv) establishment of a geographical information system (GIS) at Peshawar
University's Department of Environmental Planning and Management (DEPM) thirough
provision of equipment, training, technical assistance and operating funds; and (v) initiatinig a
mass awareness program at the federal level and in Sindh and NWFP provinces.
b) Natural resource rehabilitation4  This component includes: (i) watershed rehabilitation and
development aimed at increasing fodder and crop/livestock productivity, soil and forest
conservation, and social participation (Bhimber, AJK); (ii) riverine reforestation along the
Chenab and Ravi rivers (major tributaries of the Indus) aimed at promoting social forestry and
improving soil and water conservation; (iii) Wildlife surveys and management planning in
Punjab aimed at developing baseline data and technical and management capacity for protecting
the province's wildlife resources/habitats; and (iv) rehabilitation and replanting of the Indus
Delta Mangroves aimed at strengthening coastal forestry within Sindh's Forestry Department,
demonstrating the benefits of mangrove replanting/regeneration, collecting research data, and
conducting  sociological studies related to the threats to  mangroves and  ways to
protect/rehabilitate them.
Project Cost and Financing
7.  The total cost of the project (at the time of design in 1992) was US$ 57.2 million (Rs. 1,600
million) of which 29 percent (US$ 16.6 million) was foreign exchange and 71 percent local
currency. The financing was as follows: federal government (3%), Punjab government (3%),
Sindh   government  (3%),  NWFP   government  (1%),   AJK   government  (5%),
households/communities (10%), the European Union (24%), and IDA (5 1%).
Disbursement Status
8.  Subsequent to the Mid-Term Review, the amount of IDA financing was reduced from US$
29.20 million to US$ 23.62 million (a reduction of US$ 5.58 million). As of April 30, 1999, total
disbursement reached US$ 14.97 million (63.4% of the total -revised--credit amount).  It is
expected that the project will close on June 30, 1999 with about a third of the funds non-disbursed.
Achievement of Project Objectives
4 Although the project identified two additional watersheds for rehabilitation and development (Muree/Kahuta
in Punjab, and Dir Kohistan in NWFP), and an alpine/sub-alpine pasture study (Neelum Valley in AJK), these
activities were not implemented through EPRCP.



36
9.  The ICR mission and the project representatives reviewed and discussed the project objectives.
It was concluded that, overall project objectives were not only appropriate and realistic, but were
also well targeted to the country's needs of the time (enormous environmental degradation, little or
no public awareness, and no institutional capacity). However, the complexity of the project design
(umbrella project with 14 components, one umbrella TA contract, and 5 Special Accounts) was
inherently a risky feature that was tested time and again throughout the duration of project
implementation. However, despite this complexity, project design was flexible enough to allow
changes recommended during the Mid-Term Review to be easily accommodated.
10. The institutional component -- although well targeted -had one inherent weaknesses, lack of
supervision and quality assurance mechanisms.5 Furthermore, althouglh the pilot nature of the
natural resource sub-projects was a novel and judiciously designed feature, at least two important
weaknesses limited the success of these sub-projects: lack of mechanisms for replicability and
scaling up, and not enough detailed design and capacity were brought to bear to make the
participatory approach more widespread and effective; in this regard, the success of the Bhimnber
watershed sub-project clearly demonstrates that the enormous potential of the participatory
approach was not tapped across the project as a whole.
I 1. Overall, both project representatives and the Mission concluded that achievement of project
objectives (as described in paragraph 5 above) has been satisfactory particularly if judged in terms
of project outputs. Not to distract from the important accomplishments of the project, it was agreed
that weaknesses and limitations should be clearly identified to help in the design and
implementation of future projects.
e  Physical Objectives.  Measured in terms of physical targets, these were consistently met or
even exceeded.  Specific field activities include rehabilitation of mangroves in Sindh,
reforestation of riverine areas and wildlife surveys in Punjab, and upland rehabilitationi in AJK.
Targets of civil works construction were also fully achieved, both in quality and quantity. The
majority of procurement of goods and services was accomplished, but often late thus at times
adversely affecting project progress; this is particularly true for technical assistance and training
and procurement of lab equipment.
*  Financial Objectives. These were not met, as the project is about to close with over one-third of
the credit non-disbursed. Some of the key contributing factors (which will be detailed in the
ICR) include: (i) late procurement of TA (almost two years behinid schedule); (ii) onerous
bureaucratic requirements involving PC-1 approvals/revisions and financial management; (iii)
exclusion of one sub-component (AJK's Alpine/Sub-alpine study) resulting in the cancellation
-at MTR-- of 19% of the original credit amount ; and (iv) the depreciation of the Pak Rupee
against the US Dollar, directly impacting project costs; and (v) the lack of availability of
adequate counterpart funding.
*  Institutional Objectives.  Despite important accomplishments, it is fair to say that these
objectives were only partially and unevenly achieved.  Several contributinig factors can be
identified, among them  political attention, as exemplified by the role of the Pakistan
Very litmited staff capacity (especially early on) to supervise quality of consultant output; no systematic
procedure for reviewing and discussing TA component output. In addition, the Mission observed the
weakness of outreach and involvement of NGOs in all stages of project implementation, particularly with
regards to information dissemination. It is to be noted that government representatives felt that the project
had done enough in terms of involving NGOs.



37
Environmental Protection Council, which did not remain fully active during project duration
(the Council has not been convened since the passage of the 1997 Act)
*    Although strengthening of key federal and provincial environmental protection institutions
was initiated (including planning and development agencies), these institutions still lack the
technical, financial and political muscle to "deal with environmental protection and resource
conservation in a systematic and planned manner;" (WB-SAR, 1992). In addition, while
strengthening environmental legislation is a key accomplishment, "initiation of environmental
policies and programs" (WB-SAR, 1992) is almost non existent.  Furthermore, while
"dissemination of information concerning damage to the environment and natural resources to
policy makers, government officials, and the public" was a key objective, the lack of capacity to
actually produce reliable baseline data and information and monitor progress did not allow this
objective to be achieved, except perhaps for an overall increase in public awareness. Finally,
the objective of strengthening professional education in environmental and natural resource
planning and management was not really accomplished yet (since the GIS lab at Peshawar
University still lacks trained technical staff and integration with thle teaching and research
programs of the Department of Environmental Planning and Management (DEPM)!6
* Sectoral Policy Objectives. Although EPRCP did not specifically include such objectives, they
were implicit in its design, through policy studies, public awareness and cross-sectoral
coordination and exchange while the regulatory framework was being designed.. The project
contributed in a major way to raising the awareness of government officials in key agencies
such as P&D and at the provincial government level. Other project initiatives, such as the
preparation of provincial conservation strategies (NWFP completed and Balochistan's near
completion) allowed environmental issues to be treated in the broader context of sustainable
development. Finally, although the 1997 Act includes a provision for instituting "pollution
charges,7" it is fair to say that the project did not address the economic policy and incentive
structure dimensions of environmental management (natural resource pricing, financial and
economic incentives, "polluter pays principle," trade, land use management, etc.).
Major Factors Affecting the Project
12. Not withstaniding the many accomplishments of EPRCI8, three sets of factors can be
distinguished which will be elaborated on in the ICR:
a. Factors Not Generally Subject to Government Control:
* Climate, prolonged droughts, adversely affected various works, particularly plantations,
requiring the undertaking of replacement works;
6 This should not distract from the accomplishment of DEPM, which has trained over 150 students since it
was set up. The mission reiterated both to the federal government and to the government of NWFP the
importance of hiring immediately a highly skilled GIS professional to insure that the full potential of the GIS
lab is realized.
7 Initial discussions have been initiated with industry representatives and NGOs to develop a system of
pollution charges, but is yet to be finalized. In addition, work is yet to begin on putting in place sustainable
development funds.
8 These accomplishments form the basis upon which both government representatives and the Mission have
rated the project as "satisfactory overall."



38
* Floods, which caused the caving in of river banks, resulted in destruction (small scale) of
riverine plantations raised under the project.;
* Forest fires, as a result of high temperatures and drought, also caused small scale damage; and
* Macro-economic and political factors;
b. Factors Generally Subject to Government Control:
* Effects of ban on overseas training and procurement of vehicles;
* Project staff turnover, including: Chiefs of Environment Sections in Punjab and Sindh, Director
General of NWFP EPA; and Federal Secretaries and additional secretaries;
* PC-1 requirements and long approval delays as well as differences with IDA Staff Appraisal
Report;
* Recruitment of consultants was delayed because of interference in the selection process after
evaluation of proposals was completed; and
*  Problem of flow of funds, generally but particularly from Punjab P&D to Riverine subproject.
c. Factors Generally Subject to Implementing Agencies' Control:
* Mapping of planted areas was not done at many places;
* Weak or absence of consultation of local communities, except in AJK;
* Delays in the preparation of bidding documents and evaluation of proposals;
* Delays in consultant selection and in payments to consulting firms;
* Data from experiments were not collected and analyzed in a timely manner;
* Weak outreach at the federal level to key partners (line departments, civi I society, etc.).
IDA 's Performance
13.    Overall IDA's performance has been satisfactory, particularly in terms of the supervision,
attention, and timely support provided by the project team to the various implementing agencies.
However, a few key weaknesses in IDA's performance are noteworthy (will be expanded on in the
ICR):
* Complexity of project design9;
*  Project objectives targeted project outputs rather than a few substantial outcomes;
* Set up of the Special Accounts at the provincial level and removed from Project Directors was
problematic;
* Major delays by Government in the recruitment of consultants were not acted upon vigorously;
*  Inadequate supervision and monitoring of quality of consultant outputs, studies, and TA; and
* Inadequate coordination with other technical departments (e.g., industry, energy, agriculture,
fisheries, trade, etc.)
Borrower's Performance
14.    Overall, borrower's performance was satisfactory, except for Punjab P& D as indicated by:
(i) the long delays in procurement and payment transfers, resulting in negative impact on poor
9 The complexity of project design is an key substantive issue which will need further discussion, since some
government representatives, particularly at the federal level, felt that the benefits of a national "umbrella-
type" project outweigh the problems of implementation and achievement of objectives. Further discussions
will be held during the course of preparation of the Pakistan Environmental Strategy.



39
laborers and other risks to project investments; (ii) lack of commitment to sustain whatever capacity
was built in the Environmental Section; and (iii) lack of effective coordination with and
involvement of the Department of Environmental Protection. In addition, as in the case of IDA's
performance, some important weaknesses are wortlh pointing out:
*  Weak federal coordination and outreach;
*  Lack of strong commitment (backed by resources) to credible enforcement of the 1997 Act
(since December 1997, implementing regulations are still awaiting passage and
implementation);
* Ban on procurement and overseas training.
Assessment of Outcome
15. Despite the various limitations described in the preceding paragraphs, EPRCP has resulted in a
number of outcomes of variable importance and which are summarized in Annex 3 (Project
Operational Plan) for each sub-project. Overall however, three important outcomes have been
realized:
*  An institutional capacity has been created, including a regulatory and policy framework, trained
staff, some monitoring and enforcement capacity, and a general higher level of awareness (e.g.,
ref. Supreme Court Cases described in Annex 7);
*  Improved biodiversity conservation through successful re-introduction of local mangroves
species; wildlife surveys have provided, for the first time, a scientific basis for regulating
precious wildlife resources and will lead to better management of protected areas in Punjab;
riverine forest plantations have increased and are providing visible -although localized-- soil
conservation benefits;
*  The pilot nature of natural resource management sub-projects has demonistrated the viability
and benefits of a number of management practices and has led to a higlher level of awareness
resulting in  implementation of other similar projects (defense planting) and a greater
commitment on the part of government officials to replicate the approach in other areas (in
particular, encouraged by community feedback, AJK and Sindh governments have shown very
strong commitments to prepare follow on projects);
Poverty reduction through: (i) contribution of mangrove rehabilitationi in Sindh to increasing
income from fishing; and (ii) introduction of high yield varieties, plantation forest, and animal
husbandry practices, flood protection, and agricultural rehabilitation in AJK.  Punjab has
indicated interest in moving towards more participatory forest management practices in future
projects..
Key Lessons Learned
16. Government representatives and the Mission discussed in details all aspects of the project,
from inception to implementation. The following is a summary of key lessons which will be
expanded on in the ICR:
*  Project complexity and weak integration/coordination at the federal level. Simpler projects at
the provincial level could be more effective. In addition, the fact that institutionial development
is a process which takes time and is dependent on socio-economic and political factors, requires
a more integrated and programmatic approach to insure sustainability of outcomes;
*  Quick staff and project directors turnover affected performance; this is a structural constraint
related to the way civil service functions in Pakistan;



40
*  Umbrella consultant services and their procurement had major impacts oin bothi timeliness and
quality of technical assistance. For future operations, procurement should be completed before
project effectiveness;
*  PC- I provisions must be very closely linked to Project Appraisal Document (formerly, SAR);
*  Although Bank's procurement guidelines are supposed to be followed, delays often occurred
because of governmental/provincial requirements to use local guidelines;
*  Subprojects involving social participation were more successful and have higher potential for
sustainability (e.g., AJK's BURD);
*  Special Accounts at the provincial level hampered project implementation. Special Accounts at
sub-project level with a provision for advancing funds, and full accountability of project
directors would have improved both disbursement and resulted in better outcomes. This
approach needs to be examined in conjunction with project complexity (e.g., 14 Special
Accounts would be more difficult to manage);
Next Steps and ICR Timetable
17. The mission was very pleased with the response and close cooperation of all government officials and
project representatives regarding the preparation of information and the detailed discussions relating the
preparation of the ICR. Mindful of the importance of a rigorous and timely evaluation for future IDA
assistance, both parties agreed to completing the ICR work according to the following timetable:
*  IDA provides written confirmation of the findings of the mission to the Government of Pakistan
and Governments of Provinces/AJK (the "borrower") by June 15, 1999;
*  After project closure, the borrower transmits to IDA an updated version of all project information
(set of tables and sub-project completion reports discussed during the ICR mission) by August 1,
1999;
* IDA transmits draft ICR to the Government of Pakistan and Governments of Provinces/AJK for
comments by July 31, 1999;
*  The Borrower completes the evaluation of project implementation by August 31, 1999;
*  IDA prepares the final version of the ICR, obtains Regional clearances, and revises the text to
reflect comments by September 30, 1999;
*  IDA transmits the final version of the ICR to the Government of Pakistan and Governments of
Provinces/AJK by October 15, 1999 (tlhis version will also be made publicly available);
*  IDA submits ICR to IDA Board by November 15, 1999; and
*  IDA distributes ICR to the Govemnment of Pakistan and Governments of Provinces/AJK and
implementing agencies by December 31, 1999.
NOTE: Only three out of the 11 annexes of the ICR Aide-memoire mission are
enclosed (Annexes 3, 6, and 10 - Other annexes are available in the project files)



41
ICR Mission Aide-memoire -- Annex 3
Final Supervision/lmplementation Completion Reporting Mission - May/June 1999
PROJECT OPERATIONAL PLAN
AGENCIES                 PRESENT STATE & FUTURE PLANS                              OUTCOMES & IMPACTS FOR THE                  PERFORMANCE INDICATORS                        BUDGET FOR THE
ACTIVITIES AND                                                                     NEXT 3 YEARS.                                                                             NEXT THREE
SUB-COMPONENTS                                                                                                                                                               YEARS.
FEDERAL: MELGRD,
PEPA and DEPM
1. Institutional         Staff recruited and post regularized                      Functioning of MELG&RD and PEPA             Staff members regularized: 69                 4.49 m Rs allocated for
Strengthening            Foreign and Local trained Staff. EPA foreign training not  streamlined and coordination with Federal and                                            1999-June 2000 for
Staff                    materialized                                              Provincial institutions enhanced.                                                         newly created wings
Training                 Consultants for policies, legislation, mass awareness and EIA                                                                                       under EPRCP,
Equipment                were hired. EPA NEQS intemational consultant not                                                                                                    expecting same
Consultant Services      mobilized.                                                                                                                                          budgetary provision at
Future plans:                                                                                                                                      least for future years.
Integration and streamlining of 3 environmental wings within
the Ministry.
Personnel would be trained in specific areas, on the job
training will be encouraged.
Equipment maintained and upgraded as required.
2. Legislation and Policy   Pakistan Environmental Protection Act 1997 promulgated on   Provide adequate environmental legal   Number of major EIA reviews: 5                Also available regular
Dec. 1997.                                               framework to the country.                   Enforcemilent - Number of court cases: 4       budget of Ministry
Rules, Regulations and Procedures drafted:               Stop further degradation of environment and                                                2.85 ni Rs and PEPA
PEPA regulations, 1998 (Review of IEE and EIA).          promote sustainable development.                                                          2.1 m Rs.
Pollution charge to industry rules, 1998 (Calculation and  Establisimient of Enviroimnenital Tribunals Avill                                        Operating cost for
collection).                                             help effective enforcement of 1997 Act.                                                    enforcement will be
NEQS. Certification of Eavirotiniental Labs. regulationi. 1998.                                                                                     partially cover by
NEQS. Methods for clelisical analysis of municipal and                                                                                             regular budget.
industrial Effluents. 1998.                                                                                                                         External sources will be
NEQS, Sampling procedures for muniicipal and industrial                                                                                             explored
Effluents, 1998.
NEQS, Rules for Self-monitoring and Reporting by Industry.
Provincial Sustainable Developnliet Fund (utilizationi) Rules.
1998.
Provincial Sustainable Development Fund (procedure) Rules,
1998.                                                                                                                        .



42
AGENCIES                PRESENT STATE & FUTURE PLANS                            OUTCOMES & IMPACTS FOR THE                 PERFORMANCE INDICATORS                      BUDGET FOR THE
ACTIVITIES AND                                                                  NEXT 3 YEARS.                                                                          NEXT THREE
SUB-COMlPONENTS                                                                                                                                                        YEARS.
Hazardous Substances Rules. 1998.
EIA Guidelines Drafted:
Guidelines on Preparation and Review of EIAs in various
sectors.
Guidelines on public consultation on environmenital matters.
Guidelines on projects in sensitive and critical areas.
Guidelines on NEQS.
Policy:                                                The priorities identified in the environmental    Participation oftrade and industry in policy
Environmental Policy drafted, priorities, short and long term    policy would help provide guidance to  formulation.
actions. Implementation after approval by Council      implementing agencies programs and projects    Tripartite: 15
Future Plans                                           and to enforce 1997 Act. It will also          Meetings held
After consultative process, rules and regulations would be  strengthen coordination among stakeholders  Consultative workshops held: 8
notified.                                              and initiate environmental improvement
Draft policy would be paced for PEPC approval.         programs in industry.
3. Mass Awareness       Mass awareness plan/strategy developed                  Attitude of public and policy-makers changed   Docu drama, TV spots, posters and handouts  Closing of EPRCP
in favor of environment.                  printed                                      implies sharp decline.
Future Plans:                                                                                                                                  Efforts will be made to
Based on the mass awareness strategy other programs would           .                                                                         explore extemal
be developed and implemented.                                                                                                                  sources.
Creation of mass awareness activities for different target
groups, particularly at grass root levels
PUNJAB ENV
SECTION P&DD
1. Training             Foreign training 16.5 (55%) months for officials out of  Larger capacity of Punjab P&DD to carry out                                           None planned
planned 30.                                            IEE analysis of development projects.
Local training 37 (83%) montlis
A total of 143 officers from Government departments and a
few NGO's were trained.
Responsibilities of ES P&D will be oii charge of some other
Punjab P&D Section.
2. Studies              Consultant firm not able to provide adequate services.                                                                                         None planned
However. 2.16 months of internationial consultants
(Guidelines for IEE. done) and 2 montlhs of local (ToRs for 3
studies. 2 not approved in PCI, I approved but not done)
Equipment acquired and 90%. of incremental staff approved..
1500 IEE were done.



43
AGENCIES                  PRESENT STATE & FUTURE PLANS                              OUTCOMES & IMPACTS FOR THE                    PERFORMANCE INDICATORS                        BUDGET FOR TIIE
ACTIVITIES AND                                                                      NEXT 3 YEARS.                                                                               NEX'F THREE
SUB-COMPONENTS                                                                                                                                                                  YEARS.
RIVERINE
REFORESTATION
Re-forestation of riverine   4361 acs. Planted vith eucalyptus (maiily) anid Shishialml  Erosion abatement                       Increase in timber and firewood production     7.46 mn Rs.
land along Ravi and       80% success                                               Soil stabilization                           Increase of forested area
Chenab rivers (pilot      Maintenance and protection will be carried out            Air pollution reduction
project).                                                                           Local population employmenit
Increase crop                                                                       Production of grass for rearing animals
productivity by artificial                                                          Improving wildlife habitats
irrigation.                                                                         Additional income to Government (after
Greater biomass                                                                     maturation) out of timber and firewood
production by the                                                                   production
introduction of short
rotation fast growing
species.
WILDLIFE SURVEYS
1. Protection of wildlife  More than 1000 Professional, Technical anid Enforcement  Better control of illegal hlintinig of wildlife  Number of lIunters checked, offenders      Total allocated for next
and control of hunting   Staff. With the creation of two niew Directorates in the north    species.                              prosecuted, cases lodged with courts, fines    year over
and soutil, the department plans to increase the field staffby  Hunting of wildlife does not exceed the  realized, persons imprisoned, etc.           72.0 m Rs.
10%.                                                      sustainable I imits.
Number of hunting and othier permits issued by    I'bis activity:
the department is increased.                   4.2 m Rs.
2. Habitat and species   Management plans for 5 Protected areas and 2 species       Start implementation of the maniagemiienit plans   Degradation of habitat in P As is lIalted.  50.6 in Rs.
maniagemlienit           prepared.                                                  Managemenit plans are prepared for 12-15     Habitat for key species improved.
Tile process is to be continuied through maniagemiienit planninig   protected areas.                   Threatenied species conservedl.
unlit. Ptisijab Wildlife Research InstitUte. Faisalabad.                                               Where reqluired the reinitroductioni of species is
carried out.
3. Research and          Wildlife populationi estimates anid habitat evaluationi at present  An increase il the quaiitity of available data on  Nunibcr of wilderiless areas tlider regular  1.0 in Rs.
moinitoring              is the responsibility of PWRI. Department platis to iicorporate  the state of vildlife and their lIabitat.  monitoring.
(Coat. Wildlife)         all the field formiationis in the process of collecting research  Broadeninig of the scope of habitat aind  Number of species being ilio0itored regularly.
data and populationi aid babitat monitorinig process.     population monitorinig anid research.        Number of databases being maiitainied.
Feedback from research anid monitoring activity
being used in the management planning.
Annual hunting managemdnt, quota restriction.



44
AGENCIES                 PRESENT STATE & FUTURE PLANS                            OUTCOMES & IMPACTS FOR TIIE                 PERFORMANCE INDICATORS                       BUDGET FOR THE
ACTIVITIES AND                                                                   NEXT 3 YEARS.                                                                            NEXT THREE
SUB-COMPONENTS                                                                                                                                                            YEARS.
4. Training and capacity    Thc Departmenit is running 3 training schools viz.   Adequate number of quality humani resource    Number of persons trained.                 1.0 m Rs.
building                 Jallo: Field training of Wildlife Watchers (W .W.)      becomes available for wildlife management in   Number of training days.
Pirosval: training of W Ws. Inspectors & Supervisor-s   the province.                               Up-gradation of wildlife managemilenlt in the
Gatwala: training of officers                                                                       province/performance of the department is
In near future the department plans to broaden the training                                        improved.
base and start regular and compulsory pre-service, in-service.
and pre-promotion training for all tiers of service to upgrade
resource capacity of the department for wildlife management.
5. Publicity and mass    The department is running a Publicity Cell headed by a  Start developing a quest for clean and litter-  Number of education campaigns.           1.5 m Rs.
education                Deputy Game Warden at the headquarters in Lahore. It is  free environment and promote consensus on  Number of individuals approached.
quite insufficient to cater for future needs in this age of media  the conservation issues among the general  Number of schools, colleges, other institutions
domination. The department plans to create a new mass   public.                                     visited.
education unit under the supervision of Director PWRI.                                              Number of posters developed. published and
distributed.
Number of documentaries created etc.
Effectiveness of publicity is monfitored.
6. Communications and    The department maintains over 60 vehicles, some of which  Better control over illegal hunting.      Number of poachcrs apprehended.              13.2 m Rs.
mobility                require immediate replacement. Additional vehicles and POL    Required mobility for monitoring and surveys   Number of surveys performed.
fuinds have been planned to increase the mobility of field staff  becomes available.                Number of field checking days.
and up-grade its existing wireless network for effective                                            Number of cases registered, compensation/fines
communication and control over illegal hunting.                                                    realized.
7. Policy and legislation    Wildlife policy document has been prepared and is under  Conservation Legislation is improved.  Conservation activity ii the province is     0.5 mn Rs.
consideratioii with the provincial cabinet to incorporate in the   A continued policy is adopted for long-tcrin    sustained.
overall Forest Policy for the province. The legislationi is being   coniservation                   Effectiveiiess of coniservationi legislation anid as
improved to add new rules for involving the private sector in                                       a result improvement of the status of wildlife in
wildlife anid resoLurce coniservation activities.                                                  the province.
SINDH EPA (SEPA)
I. Legal Frame work      1997 Environmental Act powers delegated to SEPA         Improved capability to cnforce 97 Act       Number of cases prosecuted in complianice to  1.46 m Rs.
Enforcement of 1997 Act  Enviromnental Magistrates appointed at district level   Availability of tools for enforcement       Act
Legal Wiig created in    Enviroilmental Tribunal to be in place withii fortniglt  Strengthen capacity to enforce regulations  Results toward prevention of further
SEPA                     No leg al capacity at present, proposal forwarded                                                   degradation
Increase capacity of SEPA tc:comibat
environmental pollution and to sustain natural
resources



45
AGENCIES                 PRESENT STATE & FUTURE PLANS                            OUTCOMES & IMPACTS FOR THE                  PERFORMANCE INDICATORS                       BUDGET FOR THE
ACTIVITIES AND                                                                   NEXT 3 YEARS.                                                                            NEXT THREE
SUB-COMPONENTS                                                                                                                                                            YEARS.
2. Monitorinig           Laboratory established at Karachii Procurement of Ambient    Improvement of capacity for monitoring  Development of effective system of moniitoring   Strengthening of Lab:
Laboratory              Air Quality Monitoring and Heavy metals analyzers.       iiduistrv and municipal waste               activities                                   14.0 m Rs.
Equipment under procurement for 12-14 mi Rs. For central and  Efficient use of equipment and reliability of  Pollution charge based legal actions
field labs.                                             analysis                                    Number of industries monitored               Lab staff:
Portable air quality equipimienit required for 2 Lab sections in 2  Identification of non compliance sources.  Number of random check-ups        5.5 ms Rs.
field offices
At present staff limited to 2 analysts. requires 5 more and 20                                                                                   Training Lab staff
monitoring persons.                                                                                                                              m Rs.
Staff                   Availed training for Lab staff for portable and waste water                                          Increase effectiveness of SEPA for monitoring
Training                 analysis, training required for more sophisticated available                                       Improve quality of analysis cycle.            Air quality monitoring
equipment                                                                                                                                        25.0 m RS.
Air quality monitoring   Study of Air Quality in Sindh 3 major cities, to base                                               Extent of action plan implementation
monitoring systems (2000), financial sources are explored to    Action plan to combat air pollution in place  Extent of public and private sector awareness
conduct the action.                                     Database built, type, sources and concentration
of pollutants under way
On going monitoring operations
3. EIA                  Based on PEP Act, EtA procedure guidelines in place, guide    Improve SEPA's capacity to develop EtA's  Effective procedures for EIA's handling and  EIA Section
Strengthening of EIA    lines for some sectors also in place                     cycle                                       compliance of conditions                     0.75 m Rs.
Section                 IEE and EIA notification in short time                   Reviewed projects following conditions for
Checklist for EIA review ready                          approval
At present only 2 staff members involved in EIA review,
required 3 more and visits to project sites.
Deputy director availed foreign training for EIA's planning
and management
Availed a few local training on EIA                     Familiarization of staffwith EIA's cycle    Established systematic EIA's cycle           Training
Training                Assistant Director with M.Sc. including EIA course       Increased potential for EIA's review        Compliance under adequate moniitoring        2.0 m Rs.
Short term courses on EIA management required for high
level staff
4. Natural Resoirce     Evaluation of causes for degradation of lakes in Sindlh in  Identification of pollution sources      Action plan for lake's conservation aiid     50.0 ni Rs.
Managemenit             progress, lakes Keen.jar and Haleji are sources of drinking  Lake rehabilitationi and management system  sustainable use.
water for Karachi. other five lakes inclided.                                                       Iimprovemenit of water quality at lake
Improvement of welfare of dependinig
coimilluluity
5. Sustailiable         5 studies under way througIl consultants                 Action Plan in Iiie with studies           Base data for industrial pollutioni monitoring  10.0 in Rs.
development             6 university resear-ch projects in process               reconin1endations                          aiid mitigation prioritization .
Recommendationis on enjvironinisenital managemenit for                                              Pollution inventory for various industrial sectors
sustainable development                                                                            in place



46
AGENCIES                 PRESENT STATE & FUTURE PLANS                            OUTCONIES & IMPACTS FOR THE                 PERFORMANCE INDICATORS                       BUDGET FOR THE
ACTIV'ITIES AND                                                                  NEXT 3 YEARS.                                                                            NEXT THREE
SUB-COMPONENTS                                                                                                                                                            YEARS.
6. Public /Mass          Extensive efforts to disseminate information on various issues  Improve understanding and share     Behavior al change in general public          15 in Rs.
awareisess               of environment                                          responsibility for prevention and control of
Print and electronic media workshops. seminars organized to   environment
reach target groups.
Plans to contitiue activity for 3-5 years
7. Establishmenit of 2   2 of the Sindh Province divisions have SEPA offices, covering  Increase effectiveness in all the Province.  Length achieved in the enhancement of services.  10.0 m Rs.
additional fie!d offices  2 divisions. By June 2000 two more are planned.        Additional addressing of rural environmental    Enforcement of 97 Act in SEPA's jurisdiction.
Appointments of officials and infrastructure are required.  issues
Funding under exploration                               Compliance of NEQS by monitoring local
industry
SINDH ENV.
SECTION P&DD
1. Equipment, Vehicle.   Audio-Visual equipment are available, computerization has    Equipment will increase working efficiency of  The availability of audio-visual equipment will   Rs.3.oo m
been done as per program and networking being planned.  the section and vehicles will be helpful in  help in case presentation and increase in the
Vehicles (car, jeep & ut/cycle oiie each) planied as per PC-I    monitoring & coordination. Internet facility  office working efficiency.
could not be procured due to ban by the govt.           will increase knowledge & skill.            Computerization in addition to increase in office
In future efforts will be made to purchlase vehicles subject to                                     working environment & efficiency, have also
the availability of funds.                                                                          through Intermet. provided Global access to all
of the latest developments & literature on
environmental issues available on the website.
Through networking we will have easiness in
coordination & access to the environmental
issues/data of other sectors
2. Consultants' Service  Anl study on collections of environimenital pollution data in  Improvemenit in environimilenit or at least  Conductioll of studies wvill give picture of  Rs. 10.00 i
Rural Sindh was planned. TOR were also approved by the  control on its further degradation through  prescint state of pollution & will also provide
Banik but it cotld not be initiated duc to lack oftime.  future planninig.                          basic data and beneil marks for future planninig.
StLidies would be coniducted subject to the availability of
funlds.
3. Training.             Overseas Training Program of 4 Man-Months was planned but Overall improvement in the environimenit with   Training will provide know how about the latest  Rs.5.00 ni
it could not be availed due to banl by the govt.        the use of alternate solutionis to the problem.    & scientific way of dealing with environmental
We would intend to seek training subject to availability of                                         pollutioms by the usc of nsoderim technical skills.
ftinds.
4. Incremental Staff     Environment Section was created in 1995 with onily three  There will be quick disposal of work with full   The project has activated the working of  Rs.3.00 m
____________________    posts (Chief of Section, Assistant Chief& a Planning Officer)  attention,   environment Section through the alreadyough_the_already



47
AGENCIES                 PRESENT STAI'E & FUTURE PLANS                           OUTCOMES & IMPACTS FOR THE                  PERFORMANCE INDICATORS                       BUDGET FOR THE
ACTIVITIES AND                                                                   NEXT 3 YEARS.                                                                            NEXT THREE
SUB-COMPONENTS                                                                                                                                                            YEARS.
without ainy supporting staff.                                                                      available staffviz: a Chief& a Plannilng Officer.
It was therefore planned to strengthen this section by                                              Activities of the section that was almost idle
appointinig two additional Planning Officers & supporting                                           before that, have no doutbt increased and now
staff.                                                                                              will continue increasing.
Trhere is need to appoint more staff in future.
MANGROVES
I. Planting in          At present Planted /Regenerated 17100 ha.                Blank/Partially blank area covered by      New plantations established                   I million Rs.allocated
Blank/Assisted Natural   Future Plan                                             vegetation                                  Reduction in camel population, local change of   for 1999-2000
Regeneration Area       To consolidate and manage newly established younger      Increase in biodiversity                    activities to fishing                        32 million Rs. During
plantations                                             Increase in shrimp and fish production                                                   1999-2000 for new
To plant/regenerate blank areas                         Increase in fuelwood and fodder                                                          scheme for replanting
Two new projects send to for inclusion in the ADP 1999-2000  Reduction in erosion of creak banks and                                             and regeneration of
siltation of channels                                                                   8000 ha of mangroves.
2. Social                At present: 535 ha. have been raised                    Alternate sources of fuewood and fodder for    Reduction of grazing and browsing in planted  Through new
forestry/Mesquite        Future plani                                            communities at Indus Delta. less pressure on  areas                                      development schemes.
plantation               Social forestry Mesquite plantation major componcist of the    mangrove forests.                    Increase in suirvival aisd growth rate of
iiew development projects                                                                           plantations
3. Training              At present: 2 officers in Mangrove Nursery techniiques and  Improve quality of mangrove containiers.  Increase in survival rate of plantations   Thirougls new
Community forest                                        Understanding achieved between communities   Successful establishment of 17000 ha. Of    development schiemes.
Future plain                                            and Sindh FD staff.                         mangrove plantations
7 officers senior atid middle w3ill be sent for overseas training                                   Additional cooperationi vithi communities
NWFP EPA
I. EIA                                                                           30% of the public projects and 70% of private  'I'he nlunber of applicatiort for EIAJIEE  Rs. 0.3 Millioni from
a. Completioni of       Procedurles & Guidelines are complete. liitpleilesitatioln  projects are in compliance with EIA/IEE  increases by 10% anniually                  regular budget and 3.0
Regulatioit           already in progress. EPA has processed moroe thani 100  reqLireitesits and 30% imiproveniieit in                                               millionis frotm EIA/IEE
applications.                                           civhoneliniiit.                                                                          Review fee.
b. Staff                After power delegationi by provincial Govt. & notificationi of                                      Number of staff inicreased.
Regulations by Federal Govt. the number of application will    Rcgular staff iicreased by 20% and 50% of the
increase.                                               major projects agreed to EPA proposal of
Presenitlv EPA is verv short of tecinical staff.        providing stafffor monitoring thcir projects
SnLIu1smarl has beeni imoved to the Provincial Governnment for
additional staff                                        10% oftthe techniical staff in Governmnent
In future the proponent of the major projects will be asked to    Departments. and 20% of the consultancy
provide a number of qualified staff on their expense for  finns are provided training in EIA preparation
monitoring of such projects and some money of the EIA/IEE



48
AGENCIES                 PRESENT STATE & FUTURE PLANS                            OUTCOMES & IMPACTS FOR THE                  PERFORMANCE INDICATORS                       BUDGET FOR THE
ACTIVITIES AND                                                                   NFXT 3 YEARS.                                                                            NEXT THREE
SUB-COMPONENTS                                                                                                                                                            YEARS.
c. Capacity Building or    review fee will be spent oni recruiting staff on as when need                                     Number of people trained and number of
EIA preparation       basis.                                                                                              training course arranged
Presently there is a lack of expertise in the province for
preparation EIA/IEE. There is a need for strengthening this
capacity in the private conisultants and Gov. line departments.
2. Laboratory            EPA has got a capacity to analyze 28 parameters of NEQS  Capacity for analysis of all parameters is  Capacity for analyses for the number of     5 Million from regtilar
and has purchased Van for portable equipment. EPA is in  achieved & 40% of industry & 10% of        parameters & no. of samples analyzed         Budget and 5 million
process of purchasing equipment to be able to analyze all S0    municipality are in compliance                                                   from fee charged for
parameters of NEQS                                                                                                                               analysis.
3. Delegation of Powers    Summary has been submitted to provincial Govt. for power    30% ofviolators are in compliance     Powers are delegated.
delegation to EPA.
4. Training              Some ofthe staffgot training under the EPRCP, while it could  Better understanding of Environmental issues   No. oftraining conducted for the staff or  Some training will be
not be materialized for all staff duc to ban on the foreign  and knowledge oftheir solution and successful  number of stafftrained.              received under the GTZ
training. The rest of the staff will be trained through on job  activities undertaken.                                                           project (1999-2002)
training by working with the trained staff in EPA, training
inside the country and foreign training through some
intemational donors.
5. Studies               Inventory of Industrial Discharges study will be completed by  Better understandinig of all environmental  The number of studies completed and steps  17.4 millions are
June 1999 and 60% progress will be achieved in Protection of  problems. Base line data is available for future  taken in line with the recommendation  allocated in ADP 1999-
River swat study. In future studies will be submitted for  projects.                                                                             2000 for environment
Ainual development Plan of Provincial Govemment and                                                                                              sector
intemational donors.
6. Implemetiatiosi NEQS   Due to delay in powers delegation and making /notification of  A better and cleaner environment for the  No. of industry. municipalities & vehicles in  As shown for EIA. staff
rules & regulation and lack of resorirces (human &      citizens of the province.                   compliaisce with NEQS.                       and Laboratory
equipment) NEQS could not be implemented. However. EPA
will soon be able to starting the implementation of NEQS.
7.Mass asvareniess       EPA is engaged in implementation of mass awareness      Etivironmienital Problems of the provinces are    People of NWFP are aware of the Environimicint.  Some activities under
program under the EPRCP. Ihe equipment and training has    solved through public help and participation.    Problems and the numnber of complaints  GTZ project (1999-
been received under this project. It is a regular activity and                                      received.                                    2002)
will be continued witli the help of provincial Govt. and other
international donors.






49
AGENCIES                 PRESENT STATE & FUTURE PLANS                            OUTCOMIES & IMPACTS FOR THE                 PERFORMANCE INDICATORS                       BUDGET FOR THE
ACTIVITIES AND                                                                   NEXT 3 YEARS.                                                                            NEXT THREE
SUB-COMPONENTS                                                                                                                                                            YEARS.
BIHIMBER URD AJK
Forest Department
1. Plantation and Nursery   28.99 million plants raised in nUrsery               Plantations established                    Reductioni in down stream siltation           Allocation in Rs.
Raising                  Afforestation of 120066 lIa. Area                       Soil conservationi and stabilization in areas                                            Jul. 99-JuIn. 02
Future Plan (3years):                                   protected                                  Number of species                             Works (Civil.
Seedling 10.3 in Nos.                                   Improved environimental conditions          Inicrease in production yield                agricilture, livestock,
Plantation/Replaceinent: 5000 lia.                      Increase in forest productivity                                                          forestry):91.0
Range improvement: 400 lIa.
Plus agricultural dem plots, adaptivc research
2. Soil conservation     245,146 cum. works completed                            Area protected and reclaimed                Size                                         Vehicles. Eq. and
Future Plan (3years):                                   Decreased soil erosion                      Reduction in down stream siltation           machinery: 18.6
100000 Cum.                                             Increased water infiltration               Water table raise                             Consultants and
Repair/maintenance terraces: 200 ha.                    Cleaner water in rivers and streams                                                      training: 15.0
3. Village development    Civil works                                            Improved life conditions                    Number of community organizations and        O&M, salaries.
Sanitation                                              Social mobilization                         participants                                 allowances: 25.1
Rooms for school                                        Village organization                        Amount of clean water supply
Irrigation                                              Women participation                         Reduction of water related diseases          Total: 150.0
Hand pumps                                              Development of sensc of ownership
Community participation ongoing
Future Plan (3years):
Detail activity plan developed
4. Huniman Resources     Training, education and awareness                       Improved environmental educationi througis  Number of topics and participants
Development                                                                      extension methods
(Cont. Bhimber)          Future Plani (3years):                                  Additional productive skills
Activity plan developed                                 Improvemenit in Social Services            Number of people covered
5. Improvemenit of       Establishment of crop fruit and fodder demonstration plot  Improvement in income anid nutrition     lincrease it productivity
agricultural productivity                                                        Improvemilenits in quality and quantity of crops   NLmnber of introdLiced varieties
Futuic Plani (3years):                                  CommunLit)y participation
Detail activity plan developed                                                                     Nuimber of cooisniunity members traiiied
6. Improvemenit of       Control of anlinal/poultry diseases and imiprovement of breed   Control of livestock access to forests and  Increase in numhir of stall animals
livestock/poultrv                                                                steeper slops
productivity             FutuLe Plan (3years):                                   Quality of breeds                           Increase in artificial iisseiiiilatioti
Detail activity plani developed                         Coiimmunity participation                  Number of commun1ity members trained
Poverty impact                             Income generated



50
ICR Mission Aide-memoire - Annex 6
Final Supervision/Implementation Completion Reporting Mission - May/June 1999
Technical Assistance
Expertise               Total       Person      Balance           Recommendation
Person      Months                     Cancellation/rescheduling
Months    Completed
FEDERAL COMPONENT
DEPM
GIS Specialist (E)                   10.00         2.18         7.82  Not likely to be completed.
GIS Specialist (L)                    2.00         1.32         0.68  Completed.
GIS Trg. Specialist (E)               2.00            -         2.00  Not likely to be completed.
Total DEPM                           14.00         3.50        10.50  Utilization - 25%
MELGRD/PEPA
Environmental Policy (E)             12.00        11.20         0.80  Likely to be completed.
Environmental Legislation (E)          1.00           -         1.00  Not required by the client.
Environmental Legislation (L)        12.00        11.00         1.00  Likely to be completed.
EIA Specialist (E)                    6.00         6.00            -  Completed.
EIA Specialist (L)                    6.00         6.00            -  Completed.
Env. Quality Standards (E)            6.00         6.00            -  Disputed.
Env. Quality Standards (L)            6.00         1.00         5.00  Not likely to be completed.
Mass Awareness Specialist (E)         3.00         3.00            -  Completed.
Mass Awareness Specialist (L)         3.00         3.00            -  Completed.
Total MELGRD/PEPA                    55.00        47.20         7.80  Utilization - 86%
TOTAL FEDERAL                        69.00        50.70        18.30  Utilization - 73%
PUNJAB COMPONENT
Punjab Wildlife
SANCTUARY/PARK MGT. (E)               7.00         5.33         1.67  Not likely to be completed.
WILDLIFE SURVEY (E)
Birds                                 3.00         2.89         0.11  Completed.
Mammals                               2.00         2.00            -  Completed.
Animal Handling                       2.00            -         2.00  Completed
HABITAT/ECOLOGY (E)
Plant Ecology                         4.00         3.87         0.13  Completed.
Waterfowls                            2.00         1.00         1.00  Likely to be completed.
Total Wildlife                       20.00        15.09         4.91  Utilization - 75%
P&D Department
Environmental Policy (B)              6.00         2.10         3.90  Not likely to be completed.
Environmental Policy (L)              8.00         2.00         6.00  Not likely to be completed.
Environmental Policy (L)              8.00            -         8.00  Not required by the client.
Environmental Policy (L)              5.00            -         5.00  Not required by the client.
Total P&D Department                 27.00         4.10        22.90  Utilization - 15%
TOTAL PUNJAB                         47.00        19.19        27.81  Utilization - 41%
SINDH COMPONENT
Mangroves
SLVICULTURIST (L)                     2.00         0.10         1.90  Not required by the client.
RURAL SOCIOLOGIST (L)                24.00        24.00               Completed.
MARINE BIOLOGIST (E)                  6.00         6.00               Completed.
SILVICULTURIST (E)                    2.00         2.00               Completed.
ENV. ECONOMIST (E)                    4.00         4.00               Completed.



51
Total Mangroves                     38.00       36.10         1.90  Utilization - 95%
Sindh EPA
EIA Specialist (E)                   3.00        3.00            -  Completed.
ElA Specialist (E)                   6.00        5.00         1.00  Likely to be completed.
ETA Specialist (L)                   4.00        2.00         2.00  Completed.
Waste Disposal Specialist (E)       10.00        6.00         4.00  Completed. Rest not required.
Waste Disposal Specialist (L)        4.00           -         4.00  Not required by the client.
Mass Awareness (E)                   4.00        4.00            -  Completed.
Mass Awareness (L)                   1.00           -         1.00  Not required by the client.
Total Sindh EPA                     32.00       20.00        12.00  Utilization - 63%
TOTAL SINDH                         70.00      56.100        13.90  Utilization - 83%
NWFP COMPONENT
EPA
EIA Specialist (E)                  18.00       18.00            -  Completed.
ElA Specialist (L)                   6/00           -         6.00  Not required by the client.
Waste Disposal Specialist (E)       14.00       14.00               Completed.
Waste Disposal Specialist (L)        6.00           -         6.00  Not required by the client.
Laboratory Expert (E)                4.00                     4.00  Not required by the client.
Laboratory Expert (L)                2.00           -         2.00  Not required by the client.
Mass Awareness (E)                   3.00        3.00            -  Completed.
Mass Awareness (L)                   6.00        4.70         1.30  Completed.
TOTAL NWFP                          59.00       39.70        19.30  Utilization - 67%
AJK COMPONENT
Bhimber
Watershed Mgt. (B)                  18.00       17.63         0.37  Likely to be completed.
Soil Conservation (E)                2.00        2.00            -  Completed.
-Agri. Economist (E)                  4.00 1      2.95         1.05  Completed.
Livestock/Rangeland (E)              2.00        2.00            -  Completed.
River Control (E)                     5.00        5.00            -  Completed.
M & E (E)                            4.00        4.00            -  Completed.
Forest Management (L)                5.00        4.00         1.00  Likely to be completed.
Sociologist (L)                     24.00       15.50         8.50  Completed. Rest not required.
Community Development               24.00       24.00            -  Completed.
-Supervisor (L)                            l
Community Development               98.40       98.40         0.00  Continuing.
Organizers (L)
Total Bhimber                      186.40      175.48        15.35  Utilization - 92%
Alpine/Sub-Alpine Pasture
Range/Pasture Specialist (E)         4.00            -        4.00  Not required by the client.
Livestock Specialist (E)             3.00                     3.00  Not required by the client.
Livestock Specialist (L)             6.00                     6.00  Not required by the client.
Forage Production Specialist (E)     4.00                     4.00  Not required by the client.
Forage Production Specialist (L)    10.00            -       10.00  Not required by the client.
Socio-Economist (E)                  4.00           -         4.00  Not required by the client.
Sociologist (L)                     24.00           -        24.00  Not required by the client.
Total Alpine/Sub-Alpine             55.00           -        55.00  Utilization - 0%
TOTAL AJK                          241.40      175.48        70.35  Utilization - 71%
TOTAL PAKISTAN                     486.40      341.17       145.23  Utilization - 70%
E= Expatriate, L= Local



52
ICR Mission Aide-memoire - Annex 10
Final Supervision/Implementation Completion Reporting Mission - May/June 1999
European Union-Assisted Environmental Rehabilitation in NWFP
and Punjab (ERNP) Project
1.  In the early 1990s, the World Bank Group appraised the 'Environmental Protection and
Resource Conservation Project (EPRCP)', which was to be co-financed by IDA and the European
Commission (EC). The latter was interested in two subprojects: the Dir - Kohistan Upland
Rehabilitation and Development located in NWFP and Murree-Kahuta Upland Rehabilitation and
Development in Punjab. However, subsequently, the EC decided to implement these two sub-
projects inidependently, following the concepts and approaches recommended in the National
Conservation Strategy (NCS). Furthermore, at the request of the provincial government of NWFP,
the EC agreed to also include in their project a third area located in NWFP, called the Galiat.
Subsequently, both IDA and the EC have supervised the implementation of their respective projects
independently, with little consultation between the two during implementation. However, more
recently, a closer information exchange was initiated by IDA.
2. tn addition to differences in scopel and approach, the two projects did not start
simultaneously. The Development Credit Agreement for the IDA-assisted EPRCP and Financing
Agreement for the EC-assisted ERNP project were signed on October 1, 1992 and March 11, 1996
respectively. The time lag of about 3.5 years between the two projects meant that implementation
of the EC-assisted project started at about the time the mid-term review (March 1996) of the IDA-
assisted project was taking place. The closing dates of the EPRCP credit and EC grant are June 30,
1999 and December 31, 2002, respectively. Compared to the original EPRCP appraisal, the
financial contribution of the EC to ERNP was increased three-fold (on a grant basis), as indicated in
the following table:
Million US$   MillionECU   Million Rupees
Under EPRCP    13.5                        622.62
Under ERNP                   31.8          1,749.00
One ECU=Rs. 55.00, January 1999 (as given in Annual Monitoring Mission Report)
One US$=Rs. 46.12, January 1999
3.  Although the main objective of both the projects was the same (to rehabilitate, protect, develop
and manage agro-ecological resources which have been damaged or are being threatened
(EPRCP) or to interrupt the process of current degradation of the watershed lands and repair
damage to natural resources (ERNP) through participatory approach), the emphasis and the
resources allocated to developing a participatory approach much larger in ERNP than in EPRCP.
The EC hired the services of IUCN - Pakistan to assist in, among other things, social organization
in ERNP's three project areas at a cost of ECU 6.937 million (Rs. 381.5 million). The services to
be provided by IUCN - Pakistan included:
'0 IDA supported the development of national and provincial environmental institutions, as well as pilot
natural resource management sub-projects; the EC focused mainly on the latter.



53
* Establishment of a Resource Unit in Islamabad responsible for providing coordination and
technical support services to the project, in particular social organization, environimental
strategy, monitoring, and training;
*  Setting up of three Field Teams in which the main role of IUCN - Pakistan was to be social
organization;
* Local training;
* Administration of annual monitoring missions; and
* Technical and administrative backstopping from IUCN - Pakistan Head Office.
4. ERNP has had a delayed start. Although the Financing Agreement was signed in March 1996,
project implementation officially began during January 1997 with the arrival of the first meinber of
the Technical Assistance team; however, the Project Director of the IUCN - Pakistan component
was not in place until about 20 months after the start of the project, implying that effectively,
project implementation started in earnest during FY 1997-98.
5.  ERNP is experimenting with a novel approach for project implementation. At the field level,
each subproject has a Project Management Unit (PMU), which has representation from GoProvince,
and EC through its TA team, and IUCN - Pakistan. All basic decisions in the PMU are taken by its
three members by consensus. There is also a Field Team in each subproject, consisting of technical
staff and social organizers from both the Provincial government and IUCN - Pakistan, whichi carries
out field activities under the direction of the PMU. The word 'consensus' is the key word in the
approach being adopted. The approach may yield excellent results if the consensus works and may
turn out be problematic if it doesn't.
6.  The EC fielded a monitoring mission in 11-12/98 to evaluate the performance of the project.
In its report of January 1999, the mission concluded that the "progress made in establishing the
project is considerable and significant, particularly given the complex milieu that the ERNP works
in."  The project faced also a number of problems, which were interrelated, and mutually
aggravating. These included: (i) significant delays in funding flows; (ii) conflict and weak
coordination within the project's institutional structure; (iii) poor clarity of project objective; and
(iv) a tendency for some activities to be top-down prescriptions for community development, as
opposed to the recommended participatory approach.
7.  Field activities include, development of community organizations and field activities in
agriculture, forestry, livestock, skills training, awareness programs, savings, and implementation of
village infrastructure schemes. Although activities in all fields are in progress, the emphasis so far
has been on social organization. A total of 115 Village Organizations have been formed so far, with
corresponding community savings totaling about Rs. 690,000.






54
Appendix B
Borrower's Evaluation
D.O. No. 1(15)/92-FPRC-1
GOVERNMENT OF PAKISTAN
Ministry ot l-invironment, Local Government
and Rural Development
Islamabad, the 20 December, 1999
From:        Saeed Athar,
Section Officer,
TIele  9205871                                         $%A 
-Fax   9202211                  
To .        Mr. Aziz Bouzaher,                                *    2 1 UL9 *1
Natural Resource Fconomist
& Team Leader, EPRCP,                               R    Eijf_
C/o The World Ranik,
Subject:     BORROWER'S EVALUATION - ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AND
R~$DURCE {P)NFVAQ^)   ltL.(J.'lC.r! ~i238 -PAK)
Dcar Sir,
In the conitext of Implementation Conpliction Report, Borrowers's Evalualion
lRcport. on Environtnental Protection ald Resource Conservation ProJect is forwarded as desired.
Yours faithfully,
Seti Athar)
Section Officrer



55
BORROWER'S EVALUATION
ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION
AND
RESOURCE CONSERVATION PROJECT
(CREDIT NO. 2383-PAK)
1. BACKGROUND
In October, 1992, Development Credit Agreement on Environmental Protection and
Resource Conservation (EPRC) Project was signed between the Government of Pakistan
and International Development Association (IDA). ECNEC approved an umbrella project
comprising 13 Sub-components - three Federal and 10 Provincial/AJK Components. The
closing date of the EPRC Project was June 30, 1999.
In terms of the Schedule-IV of the Development Credit Agreement, Ministry of
Environment, Local Government and Rural Development was responsible for overall
implementation and coordination of the sub-projects while specific responsibility for
project
implementation rested with the organizations concerned.
2 .   BORROWER'S ASSESSMENT:
2.1    PROJECT OBJECTIVES:
The Government of Pakistan assigns high priority to abatement of pollution,
strengthening environmental institutions and promotion of sustainable use of natural
resources and their development as specified in the Pakistan Conservation Strategy.
The objectives of the EPRC Project were in line with these priorities. The
following activities were accordingly envisaged in the project design.
2.1.1 Strengthening of Legislative and Policy Framework:
Priority to conceiving the EPRC Project, the Pakistan Environmental Protection
Ordinance, 1983 was the basic environmental law. This Ordinance did not address
many significant environmental issues and left gray areas in its implementation
mechanism. The Legal Expert engaged under this project assisted the Ministry in
formulating a comprehensive Environmental Protection Act which was
unanimously passed by the Parliament on 6th December, 1997 with the consent of
the President of Pakistan. The wide consultative process carried out to obtain views
and suggestions of stakeholders set a land mark in the legal history of the country.



56
The 1983 Ordinance could not be operationalized due to absence of necessary rules
and regulations. Soon after the enactment of the new law, the Legal Expert of
EPRC Project drafted eight rules and two regulations, which will be notified upon
completion of consultative process and vetting by the Law Division.
2.1.2  Strengthening the Policy Framework:
One of the important objectives under the project was to formulate environmental
policy. Accordingly, a draft policy document was completed during the term of the project
which is now under consultation process.
Due to continuous advocacy for promotion of environment, the Ministry succeeded
to incorporate environmental concerns in other government policies viz energy policy,
mining policy, investment policy and import policy. A separate section on environment
was included in the 8th Five Year Plan and will also be there in the 9th Five Year Plan.
2.1.3 Awareness
The project supported mass awareness activities at an appropriate time when
environmental activities gained momentum in the country. Mass awareness strategy was
developed by EPRC Media Experts and later the Ministry launched campaigns on clean
drinking water, vehicular and industrial pollution. The sustainability in creating awareness,
however, could not be maintained due to inadequate allocation and time constraint.
2.1.4 Training
The project envisaged foreign and local training to enhance skill of professionals in the
field of environment. This objective was partially achieved but greatly affected due to
imposition of ban on foreign training by the Government. The Ministry, however,
organized a local training programme in the National University of Science and
Technology (NUST) in which foreign resource persons were also invited. This training
programme was attended by the federal and provincial agencies.
2.1.5 Environmental Improvement through Afforestation/Soil Conservation:
The project successfully met its objectives of conserving natural resource
degradation through reverine reforestation in Punjab, afforestation and replantation of Indus
Delta Mangroves in Sindh, and soil conservation through construction of check dams in
AJ&K. Local community was involved in project execution.
2.2   IMPLEMENTATION:
When the EPRC Project was conceived, the Ministry of environment did not exist.
Environment and Urban Affairs Division (EUAD) under the Ministry of Housing and
Works with very meager staff, was responsible for environmental matters. The National
Conservation Strategy Unit (NCS), which was created in 1992 under a different project,



57
was made responsible for overall implementation and coordination of the project. The NCS
Unit with its limited staff and lack of technical expertise could not adequately perform its
additional functions. The EPRC Project was wide in scope having its components in the
provinces/AJK, consequently the project initially lack effective control.
There was considerable delay in mobilization of consultants as the contract for
services was finalized in December, 1995 due to procedural requirements. Besides M/s
DHV the approved consultants. failed to provide the experts/specialists as per Contract
Agreement in time and most of the experts/specialists were replaced. This delay in
mobilization and massive replacement of consultants affected the quality of work and
implementation of the project. Nevertheless, the project's overall implementation and
progress towards meeting its development objectives remained satisfactory.
2.3 FINANCIAL TARGETS
The project could not achieve its financial targets envisaged in the Development
Credit
Agreement. An overall utilization in terms of Pak Rupee for the federal component
remained about 93 % while in terms of dollar (IDA share) utilization was 52%. The low
utilization was due to delay in the start of project (almost 2 years behind schedule); training
and procurement of equipment etc.
3.    LESSONS LEARNT
(i)  EPRC Project was complex in nature; in future simple projects may be
designed identifying specific priority areas;
(ii) Liaison and coordination among implementing agencies was inadequate
during the implementation of the projects. An independent project cell
manned with qualified staff could have been helpful in supervising the
project implementation from the beginning;
(iii) The Consultant Services/technical input should have been provided
according to the time schedule proposed in the project document/PC-1. Late
appointment and replacement of expatriate Consultants delayed the project
output and achievement of project objectives within the project period.
Local Consultants should be given preference in this regard;
(iv) The procedures lay down by the World Bank as well as by the implementing
agencies/departments need to be simplified for gearing up the project
activities and quick achievement of the defined goals;
(v)  The disbursements should have been made directly to the project
administration



58
instead of some other agencies to shorten the procedural/local formalities
and to speed up the activities under the Project.  The disbursement
mechanism at different level for various sub-components also complicated
the implementation process; and
(iv) Sub-project implemented at the provincial/AJK level had public
participation, which was useful for sustainability of the Project. In project
designing maximum community participation may be taken into account in
future.
4.   EVALUATION OF BANK'S PERFORMANCE:
The success of the project is mainly due to supervision extended by the Bank Staff in
general and the Task Manager in particular. Valuable suggestions/support were available
during the implementation through regular Supervision Mission of the Bank which enabled
the implementation agencies to complete the project in time and in better interest of
beneficiaries. The Supervision Mission carried out by the Bank helped to resolve many
implementation problems effectively.
5.    EVALUATION OF BORROWERS OWN PERFORMANCE
The Ministry of Environment, Local Government and Rural Development was a
relatively new Ministry at the time of commencement of Environmental Protection and
Resource Conservation (EPRC) Project. It had also little prior experience of handling a
major Project assisted by a donor. The project team in the Ministry also kept changing and
as a result effective monitoring of the Project and its deliverable could not be
institutionalized immediately. There was a delay even in notifying National Project
Director of EPRC Project. The role and responsibility of National Project Director were
also not fully spelt out in detail with respect to role and responsibilities of the provincial
subprojects. A full time dedicated team for this project was also not available but
fragmented in the several sections and wings of the Ministry. Later on, a dedicated wing
was set up in the Ministry to deal with EPRCP matters.
The Ministry should have also seriously considered to restructuring the Project at the
time of mid-term evaluation so as to bring it in line with the emerging priorities and taking
into account other environmental concerns. It could have provided an opportunity to
allocate more resources to the fast moving sub-component of the Project and to review
and/or stop the non-performing activities/sub-component. The inconsistency between the
Development Credit Agreement and PC-I also remained a limiting factor in the optimum
utilization of resources.
Even though technical capacity was created in the Ministry of Environment and Pak-
EPA through the Project, the expertise as such was not fully utilized in the assessment of
the technical outputs produced by the Project.
The Ministry is now in the process of main-streaming achievements of EPRC
Project into regular government structures, civil society and public at large to give them the



59
continuing effect for the protection and preservation of environment for the people of
Pakistan.
6. CONCLUSIONS
The overall project performance remained satisfactory. Environmental institutions
were strengthened technically and logistically both at the federal and provincial levels.
There has been a demonstrated change in attitude of public and policy makers towards
environmental issues. Adequate environmental legal framework has been developed. The
priorities identified environmental policy would help provide guidance and resources.to
Implementing agencies in
formulating their plans, performance and projects. it would strength coordination among
stakeholders and initiate environmental improvement programmes in industry.
The EPRC Project succeeded in strengthening the environmental institutions,
raising awareness on enviromnental issues, establishing local infrastructure and providing
policy Guidelines. Now there is need to enforce the Environmental Protection Act in an
effective manner and implement mental policies through projects and programmes.



60
Appendix C
Borrower's Comments on ICR
Govemment of Pakistan
Ministry of Environment, Local Government
and Rural Development
NCS
No.F.1(15)/92-EPRC-ICR               Islamabad, the 29th December, 1999
Mr. Aziz Bouzaher
Team Leader,
South Asian Region,
World Bank.
Subject: EPRCP PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT (ICR) FOR
BORROWERS REVIEW
I am directed to refer to your letter dated 24th November, 1999, on the subject
noted above and enclosed herewith the overall comments of borrowers of draft ICR.
Some specific comments from Sub-components have been annexed as such.
(SYED ASAD SIBTAIN)
Deputy Secretary (NCS)
Ph.9202725 Fax. 9205285
C.C.
Mr. Bilal M. Syed, Environment Officer, World Bank, Islamabad,
F4^( 16L1s



61
GOVERNMENT OF PAKISTAN
MINISTRY OF ENVIRONMENT, LOCAL GOVERNMENT
AND RURAL DEVELOPMENT
Subject:    EPRC PROJECT: IMPLEMENTATION COMPLEMENTATION
REPORT (ICR) FOR BORROWERS REVIEW
The draft ICR report was examined in the Ministry and circulated to all project components
for their review and comments. Some of the Provincial components have sent specific
comments that have been annexed as such. The overall comments of borrowers on draft
ICR is submitted as follows:
1.    Achievement of objectives
Considering lack of environmental institutions both at the Federal and Provincial level at
the time of commencement of EPRC project, general and substantial achievements of
project objectives is encouraging. Especially Project contribution to the development and
enactment of environmental legislation and setting up of two environmnental tribunals to
exclusively deal with the environmental cases are significant achievements that may be
highlighted in the Report. Shortfalls in areas of range management, soil conservation and
agriculture demonstration etc. as referred in the report has been noted for compliance. The
mechanism of replication and scaling of project objectives is related to institutional
capacity and its gradual development. Hopefully technical capacity created at federal and
provincial institutions under the EPRC project would be Utilized in future for streamlining
the system and new initiative in environmental protection.
2.    Weak coordination mechanism in the project
Inter-ministerial / departmental coordination both at the federal and provincial level was
generally not so good in the initial years of the project. This was perhaps due to frequent
changes in project teams at the federal and provincial levels. However, the project
coordination got improved gradually and in the final years it improved considerably.
Coordination in some areas however proved very effective e.g. efforts made at the federal
level to involve provincial departments, NGOs and industries particularly on the,
formulation of act, rules and regulations and enforcement of NEQs was very impressive
This may be a reflected in the Report. The coordination and project monitoring was also
weak by the local World Bank office especially in the initial years that may also be
reflected in the Report.
3.    Project design and implementation mechanism
The project also suffered a lot due to inherit weaknesses in project design. The Project
design was very complex. At the federal level no project team with clear term of references



62
had been proposed in the project. The Environmental Policy study being very crucial
would have been very effective if scheduled / completed in first year of the project. The
report may therefore also discuss the Consequences of delayed mobilization schedule of
consultant services and delayed hiring of technical staff on the achievement of project
objectives.
4.    Lesson Learned
The seven recommendations in the heading " lesson learned has been well taken and would
help both the World Bank and the Borrowers for improvements in the project design and its
implementation in future. Some of the specific comments for few sub components have
been annexed as such.






63
Appendix D
Financial and Economic Analysis'
I.  Project benefits fall into two separate but inter-dependent categories.  In the first case,
institutional strengthening was aimed at improving provincial and federal experience in
environmental planning and management, and was expected to have positive impacts on local rural
development capacity and --over time -- public health. Benefits in this category can only be
qualitatively described through some key project outputs and were not the subject of financial and
economic evaluations. For this reason, an overall project rate of return has not been calculated. In
addition, given that many direct and indirect environmental benefits of the project were not
amenable to valuation, it is fair to state that the estimated returns from the different sub-projects
represent lower bounds on the overall economic contribution of the project.
Institutional Development Benefits
2.  The more direct project benefits include: (i) comprehensive environmental legislation; (ii) EIA
capacity; (iii) a stronger institutional capacity through support (in the form of staff hiring and
training, technical assistance, policy and feasibility studies, and equipment and operating funds) for
the Ministry of Environment, Local Government and Rural Development (formerly EUAD), the
Pakistan Environmental Protection Agency (PEPA), Sindh and NWFP's EPAs, and establishment
of Environmental Sections in Punjab's and Sindh's Planning and Development Departments; (iv)
establishment of a geographical information system (GIS) at Peshawar University's Department of
Environmental Planning and Management (DEPM) and strengthening the Master's' program in
Environmental Management; and (v) initiating a mass awareness program at the federal level and in
Sindh and NWFP provinces.
Production Impact benefits of Natural Resource Management Pilot projects
3.  In the case of pilot NRM sub-projects, a number of activities were undertaken, including local
capacity development, information dissemination and extension, community participation, village
infrastructure, and implementation of watershed rehabilitation, afforestation, and wildlife
development activities. In addition. These activities have resulted in important but localized
environmental benefits which cannot be fully accounted for and accurately quantified, including,
from flood protection, soil conservation, reforestation (both mangroves and riverine), and wildlife
surveys and management plans. In addition, many of the activities have resulted in direct economic
benefits in the form of increased production and employment for the rural population.
4.  Forestry. The project enabled the establishment of about 30,000 hectares of various types of
plantation forests (mangrove, riverine and short-rotation fuelwood). Original plantation targets
were substantially achieved but at a much lower cost, as indicated in the Table 1.
Key data sources used for this analysis include: (i) project documents prepared by implementing agencies,
and (ii) various consultant reports and studies of "Bhimber Upland Rehabilitation and Development Sub-
project" and "Indus Delta Mangroves Rehabilitation Project." Maintenance costs were based on information
included in the implementing agencies' Project Operational Plan (Annex 3, Appendix A).



64
Table 1. Project Re-forestation Impact
Sub-Project                      Project Impact                     Cost Reduction
SAR (hectares)       Actual         Survival (%)    From SAR (%)
(hectares)
Riverine          1,766             1,650              80               44
Bhimber           12,000           12,066              56               35
Mangroves          17,100            17,100             80                56
5.  Production impact of mangrove plantations.  The estimation of benefits from  mangrove
plantations was based on a detailed completion study conducted by the Department of Forestry,_
combining field survey, research information, and discussion with beneficiary communities
(summarized in Table 2).
Table 2. Production Impact of Mangrove Re-forestation
Production           Mangrove Area Harvested                 Yield (Tons/year)
(hectares/year)
Fuelwood                       150                                4100
Grass (fodder)                   6800                               2000
Shrimp                       17,100                              350
Finfish                      17,000                              5,000
6.  Production impact of Bhimber watershed management. This sub-project --the most pilot
oriented of all EPRCP sub-projects-- supported a variety of activities, including community
organization (34 male and 16 female village organizations were set up), mass awareness programs
(e.g., over 80,000 brochures, stickers and posters distributed); staff training (135 beneficiaries),
farmer training (over 1,200 beneficiaries), soil conservation (check dams, gully plugs, flood control/
river training works, and dyke construction/stabilization), range improvement, livestock husbandry
management (vaccination, animal breeding), and village development activities. The production
impacts of the sub-project are summarized in Table 3.
Economic Rates of Return
7.  The economic rates of return have been calculated for each of the natural resource management
sub-projects based on those incremental benefits for which data was available, starting 1993, the
first year of project implementation. In general, since itemized information was not recorded for
specific activities, costs were estimated on the basis of yearly disbursements and service charges
(capital cost), and maintenance cost (labor and other inputs) during the life of each sub-project
(included projected future maintenance costs).



65
Table 3. Production Impact of Bhimber Upland Rehabilitation
Production Type             Area/units                   Yield Increase (%)
Demonstration plots         1. Crops (21 hectares)       1.1 Wheat yield (43)
1.2 Maize yield (3)
1.3 Millet yield (17)
2. Fodder (3 1 0 hectares)   2.1 Oats (44)
2.2 Millet (50)
2.3 Berseem (75)
3. Fodder seed (24 hectares)    3.1 Seed yield (300)
4. Orchards (35 farms)       4.1 Fruit yield (20-100)
Terrace improvemenit        503 hectares
Land reclamation            51 hectares
Range improvement           700 hectares
Seedling production         29.6 million plants
Livestock husbandry         13,000 households
8.  The estimated rates of return for the three main natural resource management components of
the project are summarized in Table 4 below (in 1993 Rs. to allow meaningful comparison with
appraisal estimates).
Table 4. Economic Rates of Return
Sub-Project                 ERR(SAR)           ERR(ICR)
Bhimber Upland Rehabilitation (AJK)         13%                20%
Mangroves Reforestation (Sindh)             12%                17%
Indus Riverine Re-forestation (Punjab)      27%                14%
9.  The rate of return for the Punjab's Riverine forestry component was calculated based on
incremental returns of timber production over a 25 year period from 4,073 acres (I1650 hectares) of
plantations setup under the project. As this is the only direct quantifiable benefit from the project, it
constitutes an underestimate of the actual economic return of this component; other benefits not
incorporated in the estimation include, erosion control and river Bank stabilization, water quality,
biodiversity, and habitat enhancement, as well as wildlife surveys and management plans.
10. The rate of return for Sindh's Mangroves component, was estimated based on incremental
returns from fuelwood and fodder/grass, shrimp, and finfish production over a 45 year period, based
on 17,100 ha of mangrove plantations set up under the project.



66
11  Finally, the rate of return for Bhimber Watershed's component, estimated over a period of 20
years, is the highest among all natural resource management sub-projects. This is partly in
indication of good performance, but also due to the fact that the sub-project included a number of
activities for which it was possible to estimate direct streams of benefits, including timber
production (27.4 ha), land reclamation (125 ha), agricultural demonstration plots (21 ha), fodder
demonstration plots (310 ha), fodder seed production (24 ha), terrace improvement (503 ha), three
pilot farmer orchards, livestock improvement for about 13,000 households from improved
rangeland and animal husbandry management.
12. Despite a reasonably comprehensive financial and economic analysis, detailed data oni which
SAR estimates were based was not available, and therefore, it was possible to replicate SAR
calculations. However, overall, compared to appraisal estimates, most of the physical targets have
been met at a lower cost; this, coupled with the fact that some additional benefits were idlentified
and included in the ICR evaluation, resulted in higher economic rates of return for Bhimber and
Mangroves than at the time of appraisal.  On the other hand, for Punjab's riverine forestry
component the economic rate of return was about half that predicted in the SAR; this is due mainly
to a lower achievement in plantation targets as well as timber yield (which in part is due to
operation and maintenance problems as noted during the ICR mission).
Other Assumptions
13. The following are relevant assumptions used in the economic analysis of sub-projects:
*  All costs and benefits were expressed in constant 1993 prices (the first year of project
implementation).
* Project costs were based on investment service charges from the Credit and actual or projected
operating expenses (properly deflated).
e A standard conversion factor of 0.9 was used to convert financial prices of non-traded
commodities into economic prices.
-  All project benefits are assumed to start in 1997 (year 5 of project implementation), except for
riverine plantation (related to maturity of species) and shrimp and finfish production from
mangroves, which are assumed to start in 2003 (year 10 of project implementation).
-  Shrimp and finfish retums from mangrove plantations were based on the estimated yield of the
entire Indus delta; full yields are assumed to start 15 years after plantation establishmenit.
Sensitivity Analysis
14. The sensitivity of the ERR was tested using alternative scenarios about reduction in project
life, species survival rates and decrease in net farm income. Theses scenarios were chosen in
consultation with stakeholders as they represent events which are more likely to occur; more
optimistic scenarios were purposely not considered. Overall, the ERR remains above the 12%
opportunity cost of capital except riverine forestry when a 15 year project life is assumed, implying
incomplete felling. A decrease in plantation survival rate by 20% and a 10% reduction in overall
benefits for all activities result in less then 10% reduction in rate of returns. Overall, as seen in
Table 5, the performance of the sub-project is not overly sensitive to variations in costs and
benefits.
Financial and Economic Prices
15. Table 6 summarizes the financial and economic prices used in the analysis.



67
Table 5. Sensitivity Analysis
Sub-Project                        ERR Under Different Assumptions
Project life of  Project life of  A 10%    A 20%          A 10%
15 years      25 years      reduction in   reduction in   reduction in
plantation    plantation     incremental
survival rate   survival rate   income
Riverine       9%            14%            13%           12%            13%
Bhimber        19%           20%            20%           19%            19%
Mangroves      13%            16%           17%           17%            16%
Table 6. Financial and Economic Prices
Product/Commodity              Financial Price              Economic Price
Fuelwood                               Rs. 2/kg                    Rs. 1.8/kg
Grass (fodder)                         Rs. I/kg                    Rs. 0.9/kg
Shrimp                               Rs. 98.4/kg                  Rs. 88.56/kg
Finfish                               Rs. 6.8/kg                  Rs. 6.12/kg
Wheat                                 Rs. 4.4/kg                  Rs. 3.96/kg
Maize                                 Rs. 4. /kg                  Rs. 3.69/kg
Millet                                Rs. 5.5/kg                  Rs. 4.95/kg
Timber                               Rs. 115/cft                  Rs. 103.5/cft






MAP SECTION






T A J I K I S T A N 
PAKISTAN                                                                                              T    .                    "nr3
ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AND
RESOURCE CONSERVATION PROJECT                                                                                                                   l 2
SUBPROJECTS1                                                                                       -odj\>\                                               d*
I  M,-ne Kahuia and Katli Satti-a  Upl-nd                                                 C l -                                                       nARABA
Re.,bilitaion and Development                                                                7o                                        \
2 Dir Kalnialan Upland Ralnabilitalion and Dnnelopnment                                 'n      s..  \N    .         X                                       JAJM A    20
3 RlnienbanUplandRelnabilitatian and Denelopenen                                                                            R '     ,iS   i A  aI-           JAtd
f . Kohat Kanak Rangeland Rahabilitation and Onanlopaennl                              v-  .     PI^r              > 2        t 9^            t       ;         ANVD
2. Alpine/Sub-Alpine Pantane Stady in LUpper Neelunn Valley                                 00vs                           7k nnajv-n       5AMA            KAS'/-fIM/R
ra. Wildlife Snrney and Managenneal Planning                                              tG       g                      rg    Raanlpn&qO     Rn-nt o  .       W 
7 Rinenine Rofaneatatian alang Chanab and Rani>v_    
a. Rehalnilinanaon and Replanting af eInau Delha AMangnaaa                              --0oX .   r3hja
ISOISYRTS IN MM. ~ ~ ~    ~           ~           ~            ~           ~          ~           ~         ~          JAMt
NATIONAL CAPITAL
PROVINCE CAPITALS
OTHER CITIES AND TOWNS                                                                                                          i _  f:a, -   ,n.   G      I><     >@5Gzz
RIVERS
---  ._   -  -   -PROVINCE BOUNDARIES                                                     -h
INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES                                                        - n n                            n Y/              n ;                   [adO
j ~ ~ ~ ~ ~     ~    ~     ~    ~ ~ ~ ~~.                       \1      _,f                                                   nade3nanrr4 /   t ,hgrn  FoananbnnnAORi
K~                 ~~~~~~~~~ .A LUist (I    HL /ob 5>2   AP Nl. n(                                                                                     INDIA-       0
N.-                     ,7'-t                             NskCdo,!-                                                           4     E    X       62                      
\u   < r:'  /     ---                                                  ,-    JxlH                                  6    ~~~~~~~I N  D I A
j: e_  ,  A      I   U's  C    H  .             ' -,T AnX     N                              -      
ISLAMlC                                    n> itaa                                  f I K                                                         2                                                   21'
REP. OF  IRAN                         I                                                           n J      ' 
f                                  CZk)OQ              \       Va,1.                i       C~20                                        KILOETERS
.j-                                                                                    s       N                                 c t        10 2C 5CO                       300    350e400
jcr                              ;                                    -           .             ,  ; .   I; .               so   1                                        2
(  /                               2O~~~   n,   ~~        ~2n~~~Snt2Ni~~  H                                 0     50a,KILORERS25                      nn       n     nn
-J  0~~~~~~~~~k,a,d  ~~~~~~~~~~~~/                           antis    ~      ~          T.W.d ~
9~~~~~~G bTh. ..
~~s.                         SnnnnoSnI San tE   t-nana
-IhI  Wn aS T- W -
nnThadeannnanan ,    ov



