Doaumt of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
MICROFICHE COPY
Report No.  9946-PAK Type: (SAR)
SADDINGTON/ X32262 / H5075/ EMlAG
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
PAKISTAN
ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AND RESOURCE CONSERVATION PROJECT
MAY 14, 1992
South Asia Region
Country Department III
Agriculture Operations Division
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(March, 19r.)
Rupee 1.00 = USS0.04
US$1.00 = Re 24.98
FISCAL YEAR
July 1 to June 30
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric Unit System
Metric Unit                                British/US Equivalent
1 centimeter (cm)                =         0.39 Inch
1 meter (m)                      =         39.37 Inch
1 kilometer (km)                 -         0.62 mile
1 hectare (ha)                   =         2.47 acres
I square kilometer (km2)         =         0.386 square mile
1 cubic meter (mi)               =         33.33 cubic feet
1 liter (I)                      =         0.264 gallon (USA)
I kilogram (kg)                  =         2.205 pounds
1 metric ton (m ton)             =         2,205 pounds



FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
PRINCIPAL ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS USED
ADB   -    Asian Development Bank
AJK   -    Azad Jammu and Kashmir
ASPS  -    Alpin-e Sub-Alpine Pasture Study
BPS   -    Basic Pay Scale
BURD  -    Bhlmber Upland Rehabilllation and Development
CDWP -    Central Development Working Party
CIDA  -    Canadian Intemational Develpment Agerny
C&W   -    Provincial Communications and Works Deparnt
DEPM  -    Department of Envionmenbtl Pianning and Managemen, Peehawar Univty
DKRD  -    Dir Kohiatn Upland Rehbiltation and Development
DOA   -    Provincial Agriculture Department
DOL   -    Provincial Uvestock Department
ECNEC -    Executive Committe of the National Economic Council
EIA   -     Environmental Impact Assessment
EPA   -    Environmental Protection Agency
EUAD  -    Environment and Urban Affairs Division
FY    -    Fiscal Year
GIS    -    Geographic Information System
GOP   -    Government of Pakistan
IDA    -    International Development Asociation
IEE    -    Initial Environmental Examination
IGPRA -    Income Generating Project for Refugee Areas
IUCN  -    International Union for the Conservation of Nature and Natural Resource
MINFAC -   Mlnistry of Food, Agriculture and Coopeatives
MKDA -    Murree Kahuta Development Authority
MKKS -    Murree, Kahuta KoUi Sattian Upiand Rehabilitation & Develop.
MWNP  -    Ministry of Water and Power
NCS   -    National Conservation Strategy
NGO   -    Non-Governmental Organization
NIES  -    National Instituto of Environmental Studies
NWFP -    North-West Frontier Province
PC    -    Federal Planning Commisson
PCSIR -     Pakistan Council of Scientific and Industrial Resarch
PDWP -    Provincial Development Working Party
P&D   -    Provincial Pianning and Development Department
PEPA  -    Pakistan Environmental Protection Agency
PFD   -    Punjab Forestry Department
PWRC -    Punjab Wildlife Resarch Center
SFD   -    Sind Forest Department
smlR   -    Staff Months Internationally Recrulted
smLR  -    Staff Months Locally Recruited
The Council - Pakistan Environmental Proection Council
The Ordinance - Pakisan Environmental Protection Ordinance 1983
UNDP  -    United Nations Devewlopment Program
USAID -     United States Agency for IntenUonal Deveopkmnt
WAPDA -    Water and Power Development Authority
WSMP -      Wildlife Surveys and Management Planning
WWF  -      World WAde Fund for Nature
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



PAKISTAN
ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AND RESOURCE CONSERVATION PROJECT
T&ble of Contnts
Page No.
Credit and Project Summary ........   ...........................
I.   PROJECT AND SECTOR BACKGROUND    ..                             1
A. Introduction.                                               1
B. The Environment and Natural Resources   .     .
C. Issues, Objectives and Strategies    ..                     3
D. Bank Group and Other Support for the Environment
and Lessons Learned .      .                             7
E. The Rationale for Bank Group Involvement                    10
II.  PAKISTAN'S LAND AND NATURAL RESOURCES ..................        10
A.    Introduction  ......................0.................   t
B. Climate, Land and Agriculture .....   .................     10
C.  Natural Habitats, Plants, Wildlife and Biodiversity        12
D. Population, Poverty and Equity ........... ..........       13
E. Lays and Institutions ............... ...............       14
F. Planning and Environmental Impact Assessment   .......      16
G.   Towards  a  Solution  ................. .. ..............  17
-II.   THE  PROJECT  ............................................    18
A.   Project  Objectives  ....... .......... ..8..............  i
B. Summary Description ................................        19
C. Project Details   . .20
D.  Cost Estimates and Financing ............ ...........      32
E.   Procurement   ...................... ..................   34
F.    Disbursements   ......................................   36
G.   Accounts  and  Audit  ....... .......... .. ..............  37
IV.  ORGANIZATION AND NANAGEMENT ............................        38
A. Institutional Strengthening      ........................   38
B. Natural Resource Rehabilitation Subprojects ........        39
C. Community Development and Contribution     .............    40
D. Monitoring, Evaluation and Supervision ....  .........      41
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission which visited
Pakistan in April/May 1991. Mission members included Messrs. Michael G.
Saddington (Task Nanager), Akhtar Hamid (part-time) (IDA), Kanok Pranich,
Barry Deren and A.S. Bokhari (Consultants). Ns. Haeyoung Lee assisted with
the processing of project cost estimates, and Ns. Geraldlne Burnett typed and
produced the report. Peer revievers and lead advisors were Nessrs. Stephen F.
Lintner, Peter W. Whitford (EMTEN), Jeffrey G. Lewis (EMTAG), and Horst Wagner
(ASTAG). Kr. Paul Isenman is the Country Director and Nr. Ridwan Ali the
Agricultural Operations Division Chief of Country Department 3, South Asia
Region.



(ii)
Table of Contenta (contintued)
Page No.
V.    BENEFITS, JUSTTFICATION AND RISKS .                                 42
A. Benefits and Justificeation .                                    42
B. Environmental Effects .46
C. Risks .46
VI. AGREEMENTS AND RECOINENDATION    ..48
ANNEES
1. Financial Data
Table 1: Detailed Project Cost Estimates
Table 2: Estimated Annual Project Expenditures
Table 3: Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
Table 4: Proposed Allocation of Credit Funds
2. Murree, Kahuta and Kotli Sattian Upland Rehabilitation
and Development
3. Dir Kohistan Upland Rehabilitation and Development
4. Bhimber Upland Rehabilitation and Development
5. Alpine Subalpine Pasture Study
6. Riverine Reforestation Alo. the Chenab and Ravi Rivers
7.  Punjab's Provincial Wildl'.e Survey
8. Rehabilitation and Replanting of the Indus Delta Nangroves
9. Foreign and Local Training, Foreign and Local Technical Assistance
10. Program of Early Events
11. Supervision Plan
12. Economic Internal Rates of Return
13. Related Documents and Data Available in Project File
CHARTS
1. Proposed EUAD Organizational Structure
2. Existing EUAD Organizational Structure
3. Proposed PEPA Organizational Structure
4. Proposed Sindh EPA Organizational Structure
5. Proposed NWFP EPA Organizational Structure
6. Proposed EIA Process
IAP
1. IPRD 23161R - Location of Subproj.cts|



(iii)
PAKISTAN
ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AND RESOURCE CONSERVATION PROJECT
CrdIt and Project Summay
Borrower:         Islamic Republic of Pakistan
Beneficiaries:    Invironment and Urban Affairs Division of the Ministry of
Housing and Works, University of Peshawar, and the
Governments of Punjab, Sindh, and North-West Frontier
Provinces and Azad Jammu and Kashmir
Amount:           Credit: SDR 21.4 million (US$29.2 million equivalent)
Terms:            Credit: Standard, with 35 years maturity
Project           The project would be the first phase in what could be a
Description:      long-term program of international donor support to improve
Pakistan's natural resource management. It has two broad
components: institutional strengthening and environment and
natural resource rehabilitation. Under the first component
the project would commence the strengthening of federal and
provincial environmental protection agencies and initiate
environmental impact assessments of new investments to
develop a framework for introducing environmental policy
considerations into public and private investment decisions;
raise policy makers and the public's awareness of damage to
Pakistan's environment and natural resources; and develop
professional training in environmental planning and
management. Under the second, the project would undertake a
series of subprojects, including studies, pilot and
operational work, to repair damage done to natural resources
such as watersheds, rangelands and wildlife populations.
Non-governmental organizations have contributed to the
design of several subprojects. Subproject implementation
would emphasize community involvement and monitoring and
evaluation of subprojects inputs, outputs and effects. The
subprojects are linked to the institutional development in
that they are designed according to the Government of
Pakistan's environmental and natural resource management
policies, and will allow the policy formulators to see and
monitor the effects of their policies and, if necessary,
adjust the policies over time. The project would also
provide funds for staff training, technical assistance and
preparation of future natural resource management projects.



(iv)
Benefits          The project wo.ild initiate the upgrading and strengthening
and Risks:        of PakLstan's envlronmental protection lnstitutions so that
they can deal with environmental Lssues in a systematic and
planned manner. The objective is development which is not
only economically viable but also environmentally
sustainable. The project would also rehabilitate several
watershed and rangeland areas, increasing agricultural
production and farmer incomes, and providing community
infrastructure. It would develop site-specLfic plans for
rehabilitating and developing fragile a-eas, such as alpine
and subalpine pastures, and would protect and conserve
wlldlife. The main risks to the project include:
(L) possibility of insufficient sustained governmental
support and funding of environmental institutions and
policies; (ii) local communities may reject government
inLitiatives to introduce a regulated use of range and forest
lands; and (iii) individual farmers may not be able to
finance some of the proposed farm improvements such as
orchard production. To ensure adequate government support
for maintaining and implementing environmental institutions
and policies, the project design adheres closely to proposed
national conservatio.1n strategies, incremen%al staff
recruited under -ne project would become permanent
government employees at the project's conclusion, and
environmental issues would be introduced into the
government's formal economic planning and review process of
Investment decisions. The program for preparing the final
designs of natural resource suoprojects should help in
obtaining local community agreement to regulated land use in
watersheds and rangelands. It allows local communities and
non-governmental organizations to be involved in project
design through diagnostic studies of farming systems and
community resources to discover and prioritize production
constraints and community problems, and then in roundtable
discussions between the implementing agencies and local
communities to agree on a development plan. Locally
recruited sociologists vould assist these tvo groups in
interacting with each other. Finally, to ensure credit is
uivailable for farmers to undertake farm development,
assurances will be obtained from the government that the
local branches of the Agricultural Development Bank of
Pakistan, or the commercial bank in the area, will be
informed of any proposed development and be invited to join
project implementation discussions when appropriate.



()
Local       wore4p         Total
--------- (US$  Ilion)---------
Institutional Developmnt        6.9            9.1         16.0
VatersteAd RshabliLtation      21.3            3.0         24.3
3.ugilnd Rehabilitatiou         0.7            0.4          1..
Forestation/vIldli.f            5.0            1.4          6.4
Total Baseline Costs    33.9           13.9          47.8
Physical Contl.ng.ci.s          2.9            1.4          4.3
Price Contingencies             3.3            1.3          5.1
Total Proect Costs       40.6          16.6          57.2V
FnancIg Pln:
Local       PoreLga        Total
---------(US$  illon)---------
GOP                             1.9            -            1.9
GOP=jab                         2.0            -            2.0
GOSiudh                         1.7            -            1.7
CowF                            o.'            -            0.8
GOAJK                           2.6            -            2.6
ouseholds                       5.5            -            5.5
BBC                            11.7            1.8         13.5
IDA                            14.4          14.8          29.2
Total                    40.6          16.6          57.2
ID Fiscal year
93     94     95     96      97     98     99      00
--------------^-----(U8$ million)---------      _
Annual          Z.0    1.5    2.0    4.0    6.0    6.0    7.0    0.7
cumulative      2.0    3.5    5.5    9.5   15.5   21.5   25.5   29.2
I/ Includes U$5.0 million taxes and duties.



PAKISTAN
ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AND RESOURCE CONSERVATION PROJECT
1. PROJECT AND SECTOR BACKGROUND
A. Introduction
1.01        The Government of Pakistan (GOP) has requested International
Development Association (IDA) assistance to strengthen its environmental
protection institutions, and to rehabilitate, protect and develop its agro-
ecological resources. While urbanization and industrial pollution are
important, they are being addressed through other measures (paras 1.22-1.23'-
This project focuses more on the mis-management of natural resources and
pollution in the agricultural sector. The project would be the World Bank
Group's first direct assistance to help establish the responsibilities of
federal and provincial environmental agencies and strengthen their
capabilities to deal with environmental protection and conservation of natural
resources in a systematic and planned manner. The project would initiate
environmental impact assessments of new investments to develop a framework for
introducing environmental policy considerations into private and public
investment decisions. It would also, through a series of provincially
implemented operations, studies and pilot activities, rectify or develop site-
specific responses to a number of degraded watershdvs, rangelands, natural
habitats and wildlife refuges.
1.02        GOP, in collaboration with the Bank Group and with financial
support from the Royal Norwegian Government, identified and prepared the
project. The Bank, while acting as executing agency of a Project Preparation
Trust Fund which the Bank and Norwegian Government established, engaged and
managed a consultant team which produced the project preparation report
(Pakistan Environmental Protection and Resource Conservation Project
Preparation Report, January 28, 1991). This report is based on the
preparation report and the findings of an appraisal mission which visited
Pakistan during April/May 1991.
B. The Environment and Natural Resources
1.03        Physical Setting. Pakistan, situated between 24 and 37 degrees north
latitiuda and between 61 and 78 degrees east longitude, is the second largest
nation on the South Asian peninsula. It occupies an area of some 88 million
ha of which approximately 60X is mountainous or high plateau, including the
towering, majestic Himalayan, Karakoram and Hindu Kush ranges in the north;
the Baluchistan Plateau in the west; and, adjoining the plateau in the east,
the Sulaiman range and its southern extensions. The remaining 40X is lowlands
encompassing a narrow stretch along the Arabian Sea coastl,ne in the south,
consisting primarily of sand dunes and a sparse population of date palms; the
Cholistan and Thar deserts in the east; and the great plain of the Indus
Basin, stretching from the Himalayas in the north to the coastline in the
south, and from the mountain ranges in the west to the deserts in the east.
The Indus river and its many large tributaries drain through this plain which



-2-
has been characterized as the heart of Pakistan (see Chapter 2 for further
description of natural resources).
1.04        Environmentand NaturI Resources. Pakistan's economy relies heavily on
the productivity of its natural resources. The agricultural sector, for
example, the largest user of natural resources, provides 22X of GDP, employs
5SX of the laaor force and contributes SSX of export 6arnings. Seventy
percent ot the population lives in rural areas. The environment, however,
reaches far b-wond the bounds of agricultural production and land and natural
resource use. 'he environment provides essential life-support systems for
people and their animls, and supplies a range of services, such as absorbing
and filtering waste and sewage, physical protection against wind and waves,
amenity and recrestional benefits and a unique genetic and biological
heritage. Many of these services are poorly understood and undervalued, and
consequently used in an unsustainable manner.
1.05        Over the last 40 years Pakistan's environment has deteriorated
greatly due to rapid population growth, increasing urbanization and, more
recently, industrialization. Increasing human end livestock population
pressure and improper land use are causing widespread and continuing
degradation of natural resources from the watersheds and rangelan's of the
north to the plains and coastline of the center and south. Excessive grazing
and timber cutting in the hills is denuding them of their protective
vegetative cover, increasing the intensity of water run-off and downstream
flooding, accelerating sheet and gully erosion, and intensifying the silting-
up of reservoirs and damage to human settlements and agricultural production.
Substantial forest areas have been converted to agricultural uses and are
being cultivated without regard to effective resource conservatton. On the
plains, intensive irrigation and inadequate drainage are increasing water
logging and soil salinity, and contributing, along with fertilizers and
pesticides, to the pollution of water supplies and contamination of food
production. Overgrazing of arid and semi-arid rangelands has severely damaged
fragile plant/soil relationships, leading to increasing desertification.
Lower average river discharges and increased sedimentation are severely
reducing the extent and productivity of most riverine forests, while in river
deltas, reduced sweet-water inundations and excessive exploitat:on are
destroying mangrove forests.  Indiscriminate development, natural habitat
destruction and unchecked hunting are endangering, or pushing into extinction,
large numbers of species of mammals, birds, reptiles and plants.
1.06        The rapid growth of Pakistan's cities and industrial areas is
insufficiently planned and is outstripping local institutions' capabilities to
supply necessary services, particularly potable water supplies, and sewerage
and other waste disposal services. Raw sewerage and urban solid waste is
dumped in drainage channels, local streams and rivers, harbors and beach
areas, while inadequate or poorly enforced controls allow motor vehicles
exhausts to excessively pollute the atmosphere and factories to dispose of
their emissions and waste products without regard to its effect on Pakistan's
air, water supplies and soil.



- 3-
1.0;        The two main areas of agro-enological resource degradation are the
deforestation and eztensive soil erosion of watersheds and rangelands, and the
waterlogging and salinization of soils on the plains. Most of Bank Group and
other donors lending for natural resource rehabilitation has been directed
towards correcting waterlogging and salinity. Along with these two problems
there is also increasing concern about overall water quality with the leaching
of agricultural fertilizers and pesticides into ground and surface water
sources, and the loss of bio-diversity and natural habitats.
C. Issues, Objectiv  and Strateglie
1.08        Issues. Policy-makers and farmers have focused almost exclusively
cn questions related to agricultural production, and have given insufficient
consideration to de eloping sustainable resonrce use systems. This has led to
the indiscriminate deforestation of mountains and hillsides, over-grazing of
rangelands and over-watering of crops on the plains with the resulting
problems of severe scil erosion, silting of reservoirs, degradation of natural
pastures and waterlogging and soil salinity. Weak environmental protection
institutions, inadequate legislation, a low level of public awareness, policy
distortions and insufficient short-term incentives to encourage resource poor
farmers and stock owners to adopt activitis with long-term benefits all
cont:;ibute to natural resource mismanagement.
1.09        Weak Environmental Protection InstIutions. Pakistan's environmental
protection agencies are weak, under-staffed and inadequately funded. The
Environment and Urban Affairs Divislon (EUAD) of the Ministry of Housing and
Works, the main federal agency dealing with the environment, has only some
four staff directly working on environmental matters, while the Pakistan
Environmental Protection Council (the Council) and the Pakistan Environmental
Protection Agency (PEPA), both established under the 1983 Pakistan
Environmental Protection Ordlnance (the Ordinance), have yet to become
operational. The Council has yet to meet, and PEPA is not permanently
staffed. Punjab, Sindh and North West Frontier (NWFP) provinces have
established provincial Environmental Protection Agencies (EPAs), but they also
have yet to become effective (see paras 2.23-2.28).
1.10        Inadequate Legisblaton. Pakistan has a multiplicity of laws and
regulations relating to all aspects of natural resource and envlronmental
management. Except for a few, most of these date back a century of more, and
were introduced for purposes other than environmental management as it is now
understood. In 1983 GOP passed major environmental protection legislation,
the Environmental Protection Ordinance. GOP, however, hus been slow to
implement the Ordinance because GOP has not been committed to enforcing it,
policy-makers and the public have little awareness of environmental problems
and the necessary trained staff are not available. Additionally, the 1983
Ordinance is incomplete, and cannot be enforced until its deftnitions and
operating regulations are written and gazetted. GOP also has not promulgated
environmental quality standards, and PEPA has not delegated to EPAs authority
to act under the Ordinance (see para 2.21-2.22).



4
1 11        LUte Publc A'weneee and Participatkn  Policy makers, business leaders
and the general public have had little awareness of the dangers to economic
development resulting from natural resource degradation. Until quite recently
Pakistan development economists believed there was no alternative to allowing
some environmental degradation to occur as part of the procese of raising
living standards at the margin. This position has now begun to change
somewhat, as the natural resource degradation taking place in some instances
threatens growth itself, and its cost in terms of human health and the
irretrievable loss of economic opportunity is extremely high. While some
environmental consciousness is beginning to emerge in Pakistan, the low level
of literacy (20X in rural areas), and extreme poverty, mitigate against
farmers adopting rational resource use and careful husbandry. Much needs to
be done to raise environmental consciousness in Pakistan.
1.12        Policy Distortions. Due to the substantial divergence between private
and social costs, traditional land and resource use rights frequently conflict
with government policies for sound management and preservation of forests and
rangelands. Local community access rights to protected forests for firewood
collection, timber and grazing, because of rising human and livestock
populations, have severely degraded large areas of forest, and in some areas
are non-sustainable. Although Pakistan has meager forest resources
(approximately 4.3 million ha of forest for a population of some 107 million),
provincial forest departments have relied mainly on natural regeneration for
replanting depleted forest areas. Forest Departments need more vigorous
reforestation programs, and must encourage more strongly the large potential
for private farm forestry. Watershed protection for large dams has often been
left to provincial authorlties, while the irrigation supplies have gone to
several provinces and benefitted the nation. Consequently watershed
protection has been inadequate. There is a strong case for the beneficiaries
of regular irrigation supplies (and thus of watershed protection) in other
provinces to pay their share of watershed protection costs. Again, much
watershed protection work has been one or two faceted, involving engineering
work and afforestation and perhaps treating only public lands, where as
effective watershed management demands a multi-disciplinary approach,
combining engineering works, afforestation, forest management, improved hill
farming, range management and so on. On top of this the local communities
must participate In planning and implementation. Despite having large areas
of private, communal and public rangeland, Pakistan does not have effective
policies for rangeland development, management and preservation. Although
several range management and improvement projects have been initiated, most
have ended in virtual failure because development policies do not deal
adequately with socio-economic constraints, particularly as they affect
sustainable stocking rates. Policies for the use of Indus river waters are
one of the main causes for the degradation of the mangro-e forest areas at the
mouth of the Indus river. The large percent of Indus water diverted for
irrigation nov leaves insufficient, sweet freshwater supplies in the river for
the survival and natural regeneration of mangroves. These forests provide
large economic and ecological benefits as breeding areas for fish and
crustaceans, sanctuaries for migratory birds, livestock grazing and timber for
villagers, and protection against siltation of Karachi and Bin Qasim ports.



1.13        Distortions in vater pricing are a major contributing factor to
environmental and natural resource degradation in Pakistan. Although the
conservation of surface water resources and their efficient use is necessary
to sustain future increases in agricultural output, irrigation water remains
under-priced. The prevailing water charges, which are linked to the area
cultivated and the crop sown, are too low even in relation to the operation
and maintenance costs of the irrigation system. Hence they have no impact on
the pattern of water use, and encourage over- watering by farmers vith first
access to water supplies vhich in turn reduces water available to other
farmers, and their crop productivity. Under-pricing of water also remains a
principal constraint to mobilizing the financial resources required for
investments that are critical to containing the problems of water Logglng and
salinity, such as those in watercourse improvement and drainage. Similarly,
until the recent accord on the allocation of Indus basin waters between the
provinces, the provinces tended to assign a higher priority to demanding more
water than needed to reaffirm their rights to historical quotas than to
improving their management of existing supplies. The resulting mismanagement
of water allocations within provinces has contributed considerably to
waterlogging and salinity. The Bank is currently studying how to best solve
water-logging and soil salinity problems (see para 1.24).
1.14        The prevailing sewerage and solid waste disposal charges are too
low to either provide the incentives needed to promote waste reduction ard
management, or to mobilize the resources necessary to maintain and expand the
infrastructure needs of the grovirg urban population. Additionally, natural
gas and petroleum product prices have declined in real terms, while
electricity prices have only marginally increased. This, together with the
distortions in the structure of energy prices, have failed to provide
consumers the signals needed to promote the more efficient use of energy. The
problem is further exacerbated by the absence of emission standards. Without
these, producers have little incentive to reduce their energy consumption
either through conservation or through introducing new technology.
1.15        Extenalltles Asociated wth Natual Resource Use. The majority of farmers
in hill areas have small land areas and are resource poor. Consequently they
adopt practices with short-term benefits but which may have large
externalities or costs in the longer-term. For example, because of
insufficient suitable land, farmers may cut steep, forested areas to grow
crops. While this may increase income in the short-term, it can lead to
increased water run-off, erosion and eventually falling productivity of the
land being cropped. Suitable policies and farming systems must be devised and
implemented to reduce these externalities and natural resource mismanagement.
1.16        OblecIves. GOP's priority multi-sectoral environmental objectives
are to: (i) maintain essential ecological processes and life support systems;
(ii) ensure the sustainable utilization of species and ecosystems; (iiM) adopt
approaches that support sustainable economic development; (iv) enhdnce the
yields of critical renewable resources; (v) preserve biodiversity; (vi) reduce
the rate of population growth; and (vii) encourage management systems that
ensure efficient use of energy and raw materials in cities.



- 6 -
1.17        Strateis. GOP has finalized a National Conservation Strategy
(NCS). EUAD prepared it, assiated by the International Union for the
Conservation of Nature and Natural Resources (IUCN), and with financial
support from the Canadian International Development Agency (CIDA) and the
United Nations Development Program (UNDP). Federal Cabinet approved NCS March
1, 1992, and GOP's development of NCS is the first step in preparing a
national environmental action plan.
1.18        NCS proposes three broad strategies to promote effective natural
resource and environmental management, that is, achieving greater public
partnership in development and environmental management, merging environment
and economics in decision making, and focusing on durable improvements in the
quality of life. These strategies are further detailed in the following
measures: (i) create greater public awareness of the need for natural resource
conservation; (ii) promote greater participation by local communities and non-
governmental organizations (NGOs) in matters relating to nature and natural
resource conservation; (iii) improve the flow of information between federal,
provincial and local government bodies, community organizations and NGOs;
(iv) enable grassroots organizations to identify, design and implement
projects; (v) ensure that economic decision-makers and planners are held
responsible for the environmental impact of development programs;
(vi) establish environmental monitoring systems; (vii) target sustainable
development programs at lower income groups; (viii) identify non-legislative
incentives to encourage good land husbandry; (ix) improve the quality of human
resources thrcugh better education, improved nutrition and personal hygiene;
(x) improve the quality of soil, water and air; and (xi) reduce soil erosion
and sediment yield. NCS proposes to implement these strategies through mass
awareness programs, training, structuring environmental concerns into the
primary, secondary and tertiary education systems, reorienting and improving
research and technology development, improving environmental legislation and
enforcing it, using economic incentives and disincentives, initiating
environmental impact assessment (EIA) procedures for public and private
investment planning, design, and implementation, and introducing environmental
considerations into reviews of public development expenditures by federal and
provincial financial agencies. NCS acknowledges that substantial
institutional development is required to implement these strategies. It
proposes that federal and provincial agencies must build a capacity to review
major policies and large projects for environmental impacts, and be able to
anticipate and mitigate them through policy revision or project redesign.
Agencies must also be able to establish the prices or value of resources
taking account of environment protection and sustainable resource management.
To do this, NCS proposes establishing an environmental section in the federal
Planning Commission (PC) with linked sections or cells in the provincial
Planning and Development Departments (P&Ds), creating a section in EUAD to
deal with NCS impLementation, and eventually adding environmental analysts
into line ministries and agencies dealing with natural resource development or
large infrastructure projects. As the private sector will be asked to make
large investments in pollution prevention and abatement, NCS proposes it be



involved, through a series of Government-industry roundtable discussions, in
emission standards setting and in the formulation of goal oriented regulations
for their enforcement.
Bank and Other Donors Strategies
1.19        The Bank and other donors support Pakistan's environmental
objectives and strategies as annunciated in NCS. These strategies are in line
with Bank. environmental policy, and were evolved following extensive
consultation with individuals, communities, NGOs, and governmental and private
institutions. Along with GOP, the Bank considers the strengthening of
Pakistan's environmental protection institutions absolutely essential if GOP
is to successfully implement NCS. These strategies seek to link production
with resource conservation, and support the active involvement of local
communities at an early stage of project identification. Control over
resource management should be devolved to local levels whenever and wherever
possible. They seek to establish a national framework of policies, economic
incentives and institutional arrangements that will encourage and support the
evolution of technical and socio-economic responses that are appropriate to
specific site characteristics. This requires a level of decentralization and
flexibility that currently does not exist in Pakistan.
D. Bank Group and Other Support for the Environment and Lessons Leamed
1.20        International Support. Many other bilateral and multilateral
international agencies and donors are supporting environmental protection and
resource conservation work in Pakistan. The more active and visible groups
include: (i) CIDA and UNDP which, in association with IUCN, are assisting to
prepare NCS (para 1.09); (ii) Asian Development Bank (ADB) which is financing
ongoing studies to suggest methods of strengthening (including proposed work
programs, staffing and other resources) primary environmental institutions,
that is, EUAD, PEPA and EPAs, and investigate the need to establish a National
Institute of Environmental Studies (NIES); (iii) the Government of Switzerland
which is assisting to finance the Kalam Development Project in the Swat
Valley, NWFP, a multi-disciplinary watershed rehabilitation project with
considerable community involvement; (iv) the Royal Netherlands Government
which is assisting to finance the Malakand Social Forestry Project, a similar
type project in the lower Swat Valley, NWFP; (v) USAID, which is planning to
review and develop environmental legislation and regulations; and (vi) the
Royal Norwegian Government, which among other things, has given technical
assistance to GOP and Pakistan universities on professional training in
environmental management.
1.21        NGOs.  NGOs are gradually increasing their role in the management
of natural resources in Pakistan. Althouge the full potential is still far
from realized, there are important NGO operations where NGOs are involving
local communities in project design and implementation such as the Orangi
Urban Project in Karachi (Orangi Pilot Project) and the Aga Khan Rural Support
Program in Gilgit (Aga Khan Group). IUCN has been involved in several small,
pilot natural resource conservation projects, and has assisted in preparing
NCS. The World Wide Fund for Nature (WWF) has reviewed government wildlife



conservation efforts, and has proposed wildlife management strategies.
1.22        The Bank Group has already supported projects in several sectors
wlth components to improve the environment or to rehabilitate and develop
natural resources. In the urban sector these projects have provided for
strengthening local service institutions, and upgrading and expanding the
collecting, treating and disposal of sewerage and solid waste, supply of
potable water, and preserving of historic buildings. The projects include the
Second Lahore Water Supply, Sewerage and Drainage (Cr. 630-PAK), Lahore Urban
Development Program (Cr. 1348-PAK), Karachi Special Development Program
(Cr. 1652-PAZ), Punjab Urban Development (Cr. 1895-PAK), Karachi Water Supply
and Sanitation II (Cr. 1987-PAK), and Rural Water Supply and Sanitation
(Cr. 2228-PAR). While implementation has been slow, the projects have been
successful, particularly the restoration and rehabilitation work in Lahore's
old walled city. The main implementation problems faced include weak
LuDlementing agency management, the enormity of work entailed in overall
sewerage disposal, and in the Karachi area, the outgrowing of agencies'
ability to supply water for sewerage purposes.
1.23        In the energy sector Bank Group projects have focused on
strengthening energy production and distribution institutions; rationalizing
local energy prices, and the price structure for different consumers, with
regard to international energy prices; introducing energy conservation
technology; introducing emission standards for the release of pollutants into
Pakistan's air and water; and requiring EIA procedures to be undertaken before
investing in energy producing activities. The Second Energy Sector Loan
(Ln. 3107-PAK) is the main project with environmental protection components.
While the project has had some success strengthening institutions, more must
be done to raise energy prices and rationalize the price structure for the
various consumer groups. As already stated, emission standards and EIA
procedures have yet to be introduced.
1.24        In agriculture Bank Group projects have mainly been directed at
correcting the two main areas of natural or agro-ecological resource
degradation, that is, the large and increasing area of waterlogging and soil
salinity resulting from irrigating on the plains with inadequate drainage, and
the deforestation and depasturing of watersheds and rangelands with its
resulting increased water run-off and soil erosion. Projects to drain
waterlogged and saline areas include Khairpur Tile Drainage and Irrigated
Farming Development (Cr. 648-PAK), SCARP VI (Cr. 754-PAK), SCARP Mardan
(Cr. 877-PAR), Drainage IV (Cr. 1375-PAK), Left Bank Outfall Drain (Cr. 1532-
PAK), SCARP Transition I (Cr. 1693-PAR), Private Tubewells Development
(Cr. 2004-PAR) and the Second SCARP Transition (Cr. 2257-PAK), while those to
rehabilitate and develop watersheds and rangelands include Hill Farming
Technical Development (Cr. 751-PAK) and Integrated Hill Farming Development
(Cr. 1461-PAK). The Bank has also been the executing agency for a series of
projects to repair environmental and natural resource damage done by Afghan
refugees, that is, the Income Generating Project for Refugee Areas I, II and
III (IGPRA I, II and III). With regard to waterlogging and salinity, a more
comprehensive approach is required, and following the accord on the allocation
of Indus basin waters, this should now be possible. Future solutions to
waterlogging and salinity must be planned on a basin-wide basis, and besides



using surface and subsurface drainage to remove saline effluent and dispose of
it in an ecologically sound manner, the deposition of salt in the topsoil and
the intrusion of saline groundvater into sweet groundwater reservoirs must be
reduced and controlled by the concurrent, appropriate management of ground and
surface water supplies. To meet these planning objectives, Bank staff are
currently assisting GOP to undertake a sectoral environmental assessment, plus
associated studies, of Pakistan's irrigation drainage programs.
1.25        Lessons Leaned. The projects to rehabilitate watersheds have mainly
been successful, basically because the main technical and socio-economic
problems were studied and site-specific approaches to solving them developed
under a pilot project (Hill Farming Technical Development), and the local
communities were involved in project preparation and design, and their
agreement was obtained before interventions were implemented. The proposed
project incorporates these features plus other lessons learned from natural
resource rehabilitation and environmental protection projects elsewhere in the
world. These lessons learned include the need for adequate data bases
concerning environmental pollution; the resulting inefficient use of resources
because of a divergence between the private and public values placed on them;
government agencies often do not act responsibly when managing natural
resources; and insufficient dissemination of improved technology for handling
natural resources in marginal arees. Thus besides incorporating the earlier
lessons learned in Pakistan, the proposed project will: (i) commence programs
to improve the data base and knowledge concerning environmental pollution and
natural resource degradation. These programs will measure existing pollution
and natural resource degradation, and monitor future changes in them; (ii) try
to develop policies and programs that will promote the efficient use of
resources and ensure that the prices of natural resources reflect their true
scarcity value in environmental terms. This will require removing subsidies
and clarifying property rights; (iii) through the use of EIA procedures, push
government line agencies towards becoming more responsible for effectively
managing natural resources; and (iv) provide for considerable adaptive/on-farm
research to improve hill and dryland farming practices, and for the means to
disseminate this new knowledge and practices to the local community.
1.26        Future Dlrecon. The Bank, CIDA, and the Swedish International
Development Agency will assist GOP develop its environmental action plan. In
doing this, GOP will determine and prioritize by sector the actions and
investments necessary to implement NCS. Nevertheless, as already emphasized,
before GOP commences any large-scale investment program to improve
environmental protection, it is essential GOP strengthens its environmental
protectior institutions, develops the necessary policies, programs and
legislation, undertakes mass educational programs to heighten public awareness
of environmental problems, and commences staff training programs. By
initiating actions in these areas, this project will be a key component in GOP
and the Banks' program to strengthen Pakistan's environmental protection and
natural resource management. Additionally, through its studies, pilot
activities and operations to restore natural resources, it further tackles
Pakistan's watershed and rangeland degradatiox. problems, and will provide
valuable site-specific information and learning exercises to the formulators
and implementors of NCS.



10 -
E. The Rationale for Bank Group Involvement
1.27        The project forms an integral part of GOP's environmental
protection and natural resource conservation strategies which IDA supports,
and which aim to develop and strengthen the necessary institutions, policies,
legislation, education and training programs, and undertake appropriate site
specific investments to rehabilitate and develop degraded natural resources.
It focuses mainly on initiating the strengthening of federal and provincial
environmental protection institutions, developing appropriate legislation,
policies and mass avareness programs, and rehabilitating degraded watersheds
and rangelands.
1.28        Through both the macro-economic dialogue at the central level and
the more technically oriented investments at the project level, the Bank is
vell placed to assist GOP tackle the range of policy, institutional and
technical issues that relate to environment and natural resource management
projects. The development of an effective and coherent national approach,
supported by site-specific implementation capacity, will be a long-term
undertaking, which is suitable for Bank support. Finally, there will be an
important role of encouraging coordination and cooperation among donors,
particularly on key policy and institutional issues where the Bank could make
a major contribution.
31. PAKISTAN'S LAND AND NATURAL RESOURCES
A. Introduction
2.01        This section outlines the main characteristics of Pakistan's land
and natural resources, and discusses the key factors that affect their use and
management. Due to the focus of the project (para 1.01), only limited mention
will be made of water sector issues, or of the serious environmental problems
of urbanization and industrial pollution. EUAD prepared an extensive review
of Pakistan's environment in 1984, and is currently updating this. Other
important reviews include Samdani (1984), Perry (1985) and the Ministry of
Food, Agriculture and Cooperatives (Report of the National Commission on
Agriculture, 1988).
B. Climate, Land and Agriculture
2.02        Pakistan is fundamentally a dry country with a fragile environment
that is sensitive to misuse. Average annual rainfall is less than 250 mm over
75X of the country and less than 125 mm in 20%. Rainfall is generally
variable and only 7X of the country, mainly in the mountains, reliably
receives more than 500 mm. Rainfall is concentrated in two seasons; the
summer monsoon during July and August, and the winter rains in January and
February.
2.03        As described earlier, Pakistan essentially consists of a vast flat
naturally arid valley centering on the Indus River. The valley is bounded to
the west by the winter cold plains and desert mountains of Baluchistan, and to
the east by the sand dunes and hot dt. rt plains of Cholistan and Thar. At



- II A
the northern end of the valley are the high snow clad mountains and heavily
populated foothills of the western Himalayas; at the southern *nd is the Indus
Delta and arid coastal zone.
2.04        Of the 88 million ha of land available in Pakistan, 31 million
(35%) is suitable for agriculture and forestry use. Currently about 20
sillion ha are cultlvated (16.2 million ha being irrigated), 4.3 million ha
are forest and 6.7 million ha are rangeland. Irrigated land produces 90% of
total farm output, thus agricultural productivity is highly dependent on the
irrigated areas.
2.05        Forests cover only some 5X of the country and of this about 3.1
million ha is commercially exploited. Fuelvood accounts for nearly 50% of the
doeastic sector's energy requirements, and 79% of rural and 486 of urban
households use wood for cooking. Timber is in extremely short supply and per
capita consumption, 0.024 m2 per year, is one of the lowest in the world.
2.06        The degradation of natural resources is occurring in all parts of
Pakistan. In the hills, large areas have been denuded of their protective
vegetative cover by humans in search of fuel and timber, and by animals in
search of grazing and browse. Farmers have cleared substantial tracts of
private and communal forest land for agriculture and are nov cultivating them
without any concern for proper land husbandry. These conditions decrease
rainfall infiltration rates, diminish aquifer recharge, increase run-off
rates, giving rise to gully and sheet erosion, and to flooded waterways which
erode and crumble and contribute to downstream sedimentation.
2.07        The agro-ecosystems in many of the hill farming areas are more
resistant to abuse than other areas. They have a reasonable capacity for
recovery, particularly the zones that receive good monsoon rainfall. However,
the population pressure here is intense and there is serious degradation on
both the cropped land and rangelands. At the top of the mountains the
delicate alpine pastures, that have developed highly specialized plant
communities in response to extreme climatic conditions, are threatened by
excessive grazing pressure.
2.08        In the plains, irrigation has transformed the landscape, giving
rise to tremendous agricultural production, but also to serious environmental
problems due mainly to poor soil and water management. Waterlogging affects
some 2 million ha of irrigated land, while more than 4 million ha suffer from
salinity problems. The water table is less than 2 m from the surface in about
one-fifth of the total irrigated area. In the non-irrigated semi-arid and
arid plains, overgraxing and inappropriate dryland farming techniques have
destroyed the previous delicate ecological balance and caused dramatic
declines in production, and irreversible degradation. Shifting sand dunes
threaten cropped areas, settlements, roads and other basic infrastructure.
2.09        The rich, natural riverine forests are rapidly declining, partly
due to over exploitation and partly due to changes ln river flow from upstream
damming. Over 70% of the Indus' flow has been diverted. More than 100,000 ha
of forest is seriously threatened in the Indus Valley and significant areas of
riverine grassland, essential dry season grazing for nomads' livestock, have



- 12 -
disappeared. The river deltas, too, have undergone significant change caused
by reduced fresh-water flooding, saline intrusion and over exploitation of the
vegetation. Mangrove forests no longer provide either the physical protection
to coastal zones from erosion or the breeding and nursery habitat for hundreds
of fish and crustacean species.
2.10        Livestock are an important part of the agricultural economy.
Total numbers have grown from 68 to 84 milliox head in the past twenty years.
It is estimated that 60X of the country's natural rangelands now have
production levels that are less than one-third of their biologlcal potential,
and some areas, such as the Cholistan Desert, are irreversibly lost.
C. Natural Habitats, Plants, Wildife and Blodivesty
2.11        Human and livestock pressure have reduced the extent of the
natural vegetation in all areas of Pakistan. Not only has this reduced the
quantity and quality of natural resources available to man, but it has also
modified and reduced the natural habitats available for the indigenous plants
and animals of Pakistan. Due to this, and disturbance and competition from
domestic livestock, and in some cases the pressure of uncontrolled hunting,
many animal species are now extinct, endangered or threatened. Hunting has
always been popular in Pakistan, for sport by the wealthy and for meat by the
rural poor. There has also recently been an increased interest in sport
hunting by overseas visitors from the Gulf, Europe and the United States.
Although hunting regulations exist, they are poorly applied. Currently 31
species of mammals, 20 species of birds and 4 reptile species are in danger of
becoming extinct. The number of threatened iivertebrate species, a group
about which little is known, would certainly be much greater.
2.12        Of the 6,000 plant species recorded for Pakistan, only one (Ulmus
wallLchalana) is listed as being threatened. This certainly does not reflect
the real situation, and preliminary results of recent surveys lndicate that as
many as 500 plant species need some form of protection. While some species
are being over-exploited, or threatened by habitat destruction, there are
others that appear to be under-exploited. Some 2,000 medicinal plants are
found in Pakistan, most of which people are not using to their full potential.
While more than an estimated half of the country's population depends on
herbal medicine, up to 90X of the country's herbal requirements are imported.
2.13        During the last 23 years of nature conservation work in Pakistan,
GOP has established seven national parks, 72 wildlife sanctuaries, seven game
reserves and three RAMSARA/ sites. Unfortunately, many of these areas are
protected more in theory than in practice. Human interference remains a
serious problem and effective management of the habitats and the wildlife
populations is frequently extremely difficult.
v/ Sites protected under the International Convention for Protection and
Conservation of Wetlands of National Importance.



- 13 -
D. Population, Poverty and Equity
2.14        Pakistan's population is approximately 107 million and is growing
at 3.1X per year. Sir_e Independence (1947) the population has more than
tripled, and by the year 2000 Pakistan will have some 150 million people.
More than 45X of the population is under 14 years of age. Increasing
population pressure is the fundamental cause for most of the environmental
problems in Pakistan. Nearly 77X of the population lives in the Indus River
Valley System and almost 70Q of the country's population is found in rural
areas.
2.15        Pakistan has tried, with little success, to reduce population
growth through family planning programs. The Seventh Five-Year Develo, It
Plan (1Y89 - FY93) has proposed a multidimensional approach that encompsses
the training of women, the enhancement of their position in society and their
participation in the labor force, as well as the more direct family planning
options. Even if this new approach is successful, the country's population
will continue to increase for many years, with serious environmental
consequences. The problems of demographic pressure have been exacerbated by
the influx of more than three million Afghan refugees and, more recently, by
the return of migrant workers from the Persian Gulf.
2.16        Although difficult to quantify, it is increasingly clear that
long-term environmental degradation is linked to economic hardship and social
problems. For example, unsustainable forest management, leading to forest
destruction, increases fuel wood prices which cause particular problems for
the poorer sections of the community. Between FY70 and FY80 fuelwood prices
increased by almost five times, much more than increases in income. Such
rises inevitably trigger increased use of animal manure for fuel, which
subsequently negatively affects soil structure and fertility, and reduces crop
yields and family incomes. Land degradation in the mountainous, watershed
areas increases sediment.tion in dams, threatening essential domestic and
irrigation water supplies. Ti'his, however, is not the only impact. As
agriculture becomes uxieconimic and ecologically unsustainable people migrate
to the towns, increasing the number of urban unemployed, and the pressure on
already over-taxed urban services. The same is true for the pastoralists who
have used the dry plains for hundreds of years. Resource degradation has put
their way of life at risk and is destroying the only effective way of using
the extensive and potentially valuable resources of the range areas.
2.17        A critical feature of the problem in Pakistan is that resource
degradation is not caused by a few, large scale enterprises, but by the
unchecked activities of numerous small cultivators or graziers who, because of
their numbers, small land holdings, social independence and isolation, are
difficult to influence or introduce to more ecologically sound farming
systems.
2.18        In the marginal areas of Pakistan, the mountains and the dry areas
where the fragile environment is most at risk, many families depend heavily on
remittances. Local production is insufficient for survival and relatives,
working either in one of the big towns or overseas, are a vital source of
family income. The recent return of migrant workers from the Persian Gulf



- 14 -
could have a serious impact on certain marginal areas unless alternative
employment can be found for them.
2.19        While there are many wealthy and successful families in Pakistan,
more than 40X of the population earn less than Rs 600 (US$24) per month and
are thus below the threshold of absolute poverty. Much of this disparity
arises from the semi-feudal system of land holding that has changed little
during the past 100 years. This problem is most acute in the Indus Valley,
though it occurs throughout the country. Land reform legislation, enacted in
1959, 1972 and 1977, has done little to redistribute productive assets and
today 75 of the farming population own only 35X of the area.
E. Laws and Institutilons
2.20        Despite a number of efforts to improve the situation, there is
still little coherence and no systematic approach to tackling the legal and
institutional aspects of land and natural resource management in Pakistan.
There is a patchwork of laws and responsible institutions that tackle portions
of the problem, but there is no coordinated response and very little
cooperation between the different groups involved. This is a serious
constraint as the complex multi-sectoral nature of the problem demands a
flexible, cooperative response.
2.21        Legislation. A multiplicity of laws and regulations at both the
federal and provincial levels govern environmental and natural resource
management in Pakistan. Many of these date back a century or more and were
introduceed for purposes other than environmental management. The Forest Act
of 1927, for instance, reflects the philosophy of the colonial era and
actually facilitates forest exploitation. It should eventually be repealed
and new legislation developed that is more compatible to modern, sound
environmental management. For the most part legislation is sectoral, relating
specifically to forestry, water, wildlife, land tenure end so on. The first
1av that covered a wider scope was the F-vironmental Protection Ordinance of
1983, which applies to all Pakistan, and "... provides for the control of
pollution and preservation of the living environment ...".  The Ordinance's
major features are the establishment of the Council and PEPA, as well as
requiring the preparation of EIAs during project planning.
2.22        The Ordinance, because of its emphasis on urban and industrial
pollution control, is less than adequate for protecting the country's natural
resources. It nevertheless provides a legal framework for rational
environmental management, and could be an important first step in
incorporating environmental considerations into economic planning and
management. Despite this, GOP has barely started implementing it. The
Ordinance's definitions and operating regulations and procedures have yet to
be written; the Council, now seven years old, has yet to meet and to
promulgate environmeutal quality standards regarding the discharge of
pollutants into the air, water and soil; PEPA is not operational, and has not
fulfilled its important responsibility of establishing guidelines for the
preparation of EIAs for new development expenditures.



- 15 -
2.23        InstfIlonal. Under Pakistan's Constitution the environment and
ecology are under the concurrent jurisdiction of the federal and provincial
governments, that is, both levels of government have executive and legislative
powers in these areas. Additionally, two types of government agencies have
environmental responsibilities: those with a primary function of environmental
protection and resource conservation; and those such as line agencies, with a
primary sectoral interest in zssoulrce use and a secondary interest in resource
conservation. At the federal level, EUAD has primary responsibility for
environmental protection and resource conservation and for preparing and
developing environmental protection and resource conservation policy.  GOP
established EUAD in 1975, and EUAD was mainly responsible for GOP promurlgating
the Ordinance, and establishing the Council and PEPA. EUAD is severely
understaffed for its responsibilities, and has only some four staff working
directly on the environment, two of whom have additional duties under PEPA
staff positions. EUAD also acts as a secretariat for the Council.
2.24        Ihe Council, established in February 1984, and chaired by
Pakistan's President, is to: (i) ensure enforcement of the Ordinance;
(ii) establish comprehensive national environmental policy; (iii) ensure
incorporation of environmental considerations into national development plans
and policies; (iv) ensure enforcement of the national environmental quality
standards; and (v) promote environmentally related research. The Council's
members include federal and provincial Ministers responsible for thie
environment, the federal Secretary dealing with the environment, and other
federally selected appointees.
2.25        PEPA, originally established to be the secretariat and executive
arm of the Council, is nov an attached Department of EUAD. As such it will
operate as EUAD's technical, legal and enforcement arm, undertaking fieldwork
and research as necessary. PEPA is also responsible for establishing
guidelines on how implementing agencies should undertake EIA procedures during
project planning, and for reviewing and sanctioning EIAs. PEPA, to be headed
by a Director-General, presently has no staff except for two EUAD staff who
have been given the addi-ional duties of PEPA staff positions.
2.26        Althorigh the Ordinance did not provide for it, Punjab, Sindh and
NVFP have each established a provincial EPA. Punjab's EPA, established in
July 1987, and with some 270 staZf, is the only EPA with some capacity to act,
although its foculs and staff experience is strongly on questions relating to
urbanization and industrial pollution rather than land and natural resource
mana5ement. NWFP and Sindh EPAs only have administrative staff and are
presently recruiting technical staff, with NWFP's EPA so far the more
developed. None of the EPAs can enforce the Ordinance until PEPA, under a
meeting of the Council, delegates its authority to act under the Ordinance to
the EPAs. An alternative way to give EPAs enforcement powers would be for the
provinces to pass their own environmental protection legislation. Baluchistan
and Azad Jammu and Kashmir (AJK) are still considering establishing EPAs.
2.27        In addition to the above agencies, many federal and provincial
line agencies are involved in the development of the country's natural
resources, and have a secondary interest in resource conservation. For



- 16 -
example, the Ministry of Water and Pover (HWP) and the Water and Power
Pavelopment Authority (VAPDA) are responsible for the development of the
country's vater resources, vhile the provincial Irrigation and Agricultural
Departments are responsible for operation and management of a large portion of
these water resources. The Ministry of Communication is responsible for
enforcing the Territorial Waters and Maritime Act of 1976. Likewise, the
Ministry of Food, Agriculture and Cooperatives (MINFAC) is responsible for the
protection of forests and research on the effects of pesticides, as are also
the provincial Departments of Forestry, Livestock and Wildlife.
2.28        This complex division of responsibility underscores the multi-
sectoral nature of environmental concerns as well as the critical role that a
variety of federal and provincial agencies are expected to play in the
protection of the country's environmental resource base. However, at present
there is minimal coordination among federal and provincial ministries and line
agencies. Each has pursued its task basically in isolation from other
agencies with policies and programs often in conflict. Past efforts to
coordinate activities have generally been viewed by the vertical line agencies
as a threat to their own power structure and thus have rarely endured. The
absence of a clear assignment of primary responsibility with the allocation of
the necessary staff and operating resources to sustain this responsibility,
and the fragmentation of authority between federal and provincial government,
has been a major constraint to planning and managing for long-term sustainable
development.
F. Planning and Environmental Impact Assessment
2.29        Pakistan's development planning system is coordinated by the
Federal Planning Commission through a series of Five-Year National Development
Plans and Annual Development Programs. The Commission is headed by the
Minister for Finance and Provincial Coordination, and has representation from
both federal and provincial finance agencies. National planning is based on a
long established, bureaucratic planning and approval system. At the
provincial level, sponsoring agencies submit project proposals to the Planning
and Development Department (P&D) for technical and economic appraisal. The
proposal next goes to the Provincial Development Working Party (PDWP), which
has the authority to approve projects of up to Rs 60 million. Projects
costing more than Rs 60 million are reviewed at the federal level by the
Central Development Working Party (CDWP), and then sent to the Executive
Committee of the National Economic Council (ECNEC) for final sarctioning.
CDWP can approve federal development projects of between Rs 20 and Rs 60
million in value. Individual sponsoring agencies can approve federal schemes
of less than Rs 20 million in value, providing the particular ministry has a
properly established planning and monitoring unit. Private sector development
initiatives are reviewed by appropriate agencies such as District and Urban
Councils, Local Development Authorities, Housing and Physical Planning
Departments, Departments of Industry and Mining, and the Ministry of
Industries.
2.30        The development planning system is highly centralized and
bureaucratic, with virtually no local involvement in project design and
preparation. While this top-down system may be appropriate in some sectors,



- 17 -
it is not suitable for programs that entail the sustainable management of
local natural resources. The current system needs modifying to ensure much
greater participation by the local communities in the development process
Rowever this highly centralized planting system does provide for a good deal
of interagency consultation in project planning and decision making. This
should facilitate undertaking Elk procedures.
2.31        Sinc 1983. Section Eight of the Ordinance has obliged proposers
of projects likely to have adverse effects on the environment to undertake an
ElZ and present a statement to PEPA. The statement must show how project
design encompasses onvironmental considerations and technical factors,
describe the impact of the proposed project on the envitronment and indicate
the steps that will be taken to mitigate any negative impact. This procedure
has not yet been systematically followed and most economic development
currently takes place without any substantial environmental evaluation. This
is no longer acceptable and the Ordinance's ETk requirements must be
adequately met. This procedure should eventually include private sector
investments as well. To ensure EIA Is undertaken effectively in Pakistan, EIk
procedures should be developed and integrated with the existing development
planning system. GOP should encourage public participation in the EIA
process.
G. Towards a Solution
2.32        The problems of environmental conservation and natural resource
degradation are difficult and complex and there are no simple or instant
solutions.  There is, however, a great deal that can be done to improve the
present situation. An effective response requires a flexible approach to the
interrelated questions of land and natural resource use, production and
environmental protection. It will be important to offer alternative
Ltrategies that are practical, cheap, effective and profitable. It must be
possible for the population to change from their present practices to new ones
without too much difficulty. The complex, heterogeneous nature of the agro-
ecological and socio-economic conditionu means that there will be no one
single model that can be universally applied. Within a coherent national
strategy, there will therefore need to be a series of site-specific solutions,
designed to respond to particular local circumstances.
2.33        Viable technical solutions exist to many of the problems.  The
challenge is to fit them into both the political, policy and macro-economic
situation of the country and specific institutional, ecological, micro-
economic and social framework that exists on the ground. It is also important
to be realistic about the relative merits of control and incentive. Although
controlling resource use might appear to be an obvious path to follow,
effective enforcement in Pakistan has proven frequently difficult or
impossible.  Many durable solutions will therefore have to be achieved by
creating the knowledge, opportunity and incentive that enable and encourage
the local population to adopt and maintain the desired behavior.
2.34        With regard to agency coordination concerning environmental
protection and resource conservation, the Ordinance charges EUAD, through
PEPA, of coordinating national environmental programs. At the provincial



- 18 -
level, PIPA could do this through EPAs. This is a formidable task, and
impossible for KUAD and PEPA to accomplish in their present under-staffed and
under-funded state. However, with appropriate strengthening, development of
the 1983 legislation, and actlvation of the Council, EUAD and PEPA could
comence the work. The most likely way the agencies could introduce
Pakistan's environmental and natural resource management policies into private
and public development expenditures is by initiating an authoritatlve,
impartial EIl process. This process, of course, would take considerable time
and effort. GOP would have to review its accomplishments on a continuous
basis, and if necessary, make changes in implementation. Additionally,
agencies urgently need to train staff in environmental and natural resource
management, and to document and monitor natural resource degradation.
2.35        This project can start the process of adequately staffing and
funding the environmental protection institutions and initiating high priority
work programs. Within its six year implementation period, however, it cannot
possibly complete the task of strengthening these institutions, nor address
all the problems which they will face, some of which will only become apparent
as environmental protection and sustainable resource management gathers
momentum. Thus a series of future projects will be needed to ensure that
institutions are fully strengthened, and to remedy the considerable problem of
agro-ecological resource degradation.
111. THE PROJECT
A. Project Objectives
3.01        The project's general objective is to improve protection of the
environment and management of natural resources.  Its specific objectives are
to:
(i)   initiate the strengthening of key federal and provincial
envlronmental protection institutions so they can deal with
environmental protection and resource conservation in a systematic
and planned manner;
(ii) strengthen environmental legislation, and initiate environmental
policles and programs;
(iii)   disseminate information concerning damage to the environment and
natural resources to policy makers, government officials, and the
public;
(iv)   strengthen professional education in environmental and natural
resource planning and management;
(v)   lmplement subprojects to rehabilitate, protect, develop and manage
agro-ecological resources which have been damaged or which are
threatened with damage; and



- 19 -
(vi)   undertake studies and preparation for future environmental
protection and resource conservation projects/subprojects.
B. Summary DscripUon
3.02        The project would be the first phase in an expected long-term
program of World Bank Group support to improve Pakistan's natural resource
management. It has two main broad components, institutional strengthening and
environment and natural resource rehabilitation. Under the first component
the project would coimence the strengthening of federal and provincial
environmental protection agencies and initiate an ETA system for public
investment decisions; ralse policy makers and the public's awareness of damage
to Pakistan's environment and natural resources; and develop professional
training in environmental planning and management. Under the second the
project would undertake a series of subprojects, including studies, pilot and
operatimnal work to repair damage done to natural resources such as
watersheds, rangelands and wildlife populations. Subproject implementation
would emphasise community involvement and monitoring and evaluation of
subprojects inputs, outputs and effects. The subprojects and institutional
development are linked through NCS, that is, they are designed according to
NCS strategies. They will allow policy formulators to see and monitor the
effects of their policles and, if necessary, adjust policies over time. They
would also serve as valuable learning exercises in watershed and rangeland
rehabllitation, wLth the project providing several feedback mechanlsms from
subproject implementation to the environmental protection institutions. The
project would also provide funds for staff training, technical assistance and
preparation of future natural resource management projects. It would include
the following individual activities:
InsUtuional Strengtheniln
(i) strengthening EUAD and PEPA by providing staff, training,
technical assistance. equipment and operating funds;
(ii)   strengthening Sindh and NWFP's EPAs by providing staff, training,
technical assistance, vehicles, equipment and operating funds;
(iii)   establishing an Environmental Section in Punjab's P&D, (which,
among other things, would assist in implementing Elk procedures),
by providing staff, equipment, technical a3sistance, training and
operating funds;
(iv)   assistitg development of operating regulations for the 1983
Environmental Protection Ordinance by providing technical
assistance;
(v)   establishing a geographical information system (GIS) based on
remote sensing and other data sources at the Department of
Environmental Planning and Management, Peshawar University (DEPN),
to strengthen professional training and research in natural



- 20 -
resource management by providing equipment, training, technical
assistance and operating funds;
(vi)   initiating mass awareness programs at the federal level and in
Sindh and NWFP to educate decision makers and the public
concerning environmental issues through seminars, short programs
on radio and television, articles in nevapapers and magazines, the
use of billboards and posters, and other means; and
Policy and Feasibility Studis
(vii)   Policy Studies concerning Natural Resource Management, and
Feasibility Studies for Future Projects.
Natural Resource RehabilitatIon Subprojects
Waterhed Rehabilltatlon/Development
(i)   Murree/Kahuta Upland Rehabilitation and Development, Dir Kohistan
Upland Rehabilitation and Development, and Bhimber Upland
Rehabilitation and Development;
Rangeland Rehablitatlon/Development
(ii)   Alpine Pasture Studies in the Upper Neelum Valley;
Reforeatlon/WilldlIfe Refuge Area Management
(iii)   Riverine Reforestation Along the Chenab and Ravi rivers, Wildlife
Surveys and Management Planning in Punjab, and Rehabilitation and
Replanting of Indus Delta Mangroves.
C. Project Details
InstItutIonal Strengthening and Initiating ElAs
3.03        Federl Environmental Protection InstItutions: EUAD/PEPA. Under the project
EUAD would establish three new sections to handle environmental matters (see
Chart 1). One section would be responsible for international cooperation with
multilateral agencies, bilateral donors and international or regional
environmental organizations; the second for local environmental matters
including developing and recommending environmental policies and programs,
liaising and coordinating with other federal and provincial agencies, and
handling environmental mass awareness and train_ng programs; and the third for
legal policy matters, including reviewing existing legislation, drafting new
legislation as necessary, drafting rules under enactments and for delegating
of administrative and financial powers, imparting legal advice to associated
agencies and so on. The three sections' objectives and work programs would be
based on NCS objectives and strategies, and EUAD would integrate the sections'
operations with a special NCS unit it is currently establishing.  A Deputy



- 21 -
Secretary would head each section, and other professional staff (civil service
grade (BPS) 16 and above) would include one technical officer and two section
officers. As the two existing section officers whom EUAD has presently
working on environmental matters (see Chart 2) would be transferred to the new
sections, EUAD would require an additional ten professa.onal positions, that is
three Deputy-Secretaries, three technical officers, and four section officers.
The project would provide EUAD 21 staff months (sm) of internationally and 9
am of locally recruited technical assistance to assist plan, develop, and
implement on a day-to-day basis, the new sections' work programs. It would
provide support staff, short-term foreign and local staff training, technical
books and journals, and office equipment, furniture and incremental operating
costs. To ensure EUAD establishes the new sections without delay, an assuawnce
wasobtained from GOP that EUAD would establish and staff the three sections by
December 31, 1992.
3.04        The project would activate and expand PEPA.  PEPA would be
principally responsible for: (i) implementing and legally enforcing the
Ordinance; (ii) establishing, and revising when necessary, national
environmental quality standards for the discharge of pollutants into the
country's air, water and soil, and measuring and monitoring environmental
pollution including the mis-management and degradation of natural resources;
and (iii) preparing and instituting guidelines for EIA procedures and
reviewing EIAs undertaken for development expenditures (see para 3.08-3.09).
PEPA would be EUAD's technical and legal implementing arm.  It would liaise
with the provinces and coordinate environmental protection and resource
conservation programs through EPAs. To enable PEPA to fulfill these
responsibilities the project would provide additional professional and support
staff, vehicles, office furniture and equipment, technical books and journals,
training, technical assistance and incremental operating costs. In addition
to the three staff positions GOP has already sanctioned (a Director General
and two Deputy Directors) but which are not yet permanently filled, the
project would provide three Directors and four additional Deputy-Directors
(see Chart 3). A Director and two Deputy Directors would then handle each of
PEPA's three major responsibilities mentioned above. To ensure PEPA quickly
becomes operational, assurances were obtained from GOP that PEPA would recruit
and place one Director and three Deputy Directors by December 31, 1992, a
second Director and three Deputy Directors by December 31, 1993, and the third
Director by December 31, 1994.
3.05        Provincial EPAs: Slndh and NWFP. The project would strengthen Sindh
and NWFP EPAs to enable them more capably undertake their major
responsibilities of: (i) monitoring industrial, urban and agricultural
pollutant discharges into the provinces' air, water and soil, and legally
enforcing the national/provincial environmental quality standards;
(ii) reviewing EIAs of development expenditures and monitoring any subsequent
expenditures undertaken to alleviate environmentally damaging impacts; and
(iii) monitoring natural resource management and when necessary, liaising and
coordinating with provincial line agencies in introducing economically viable
and ecologically sound natural resource management practices. Sindh EPA has a
Director General and one Director in place, while the government has



- 22 -
sanctioned seven new Assistant Director positions which Sindh EPA expects to
fill during FY92. Under the project Sindh EPA would create four Deputy
Director positions (plus support staff positlons), one to handle each of the
following areas: ZIA reviews; natural resource management; monitoring of
pollutant discharges and administration (see Chart 4). To allow time to find
suitable personnel, Slndh EPA vould recruit these staff later in the project
period, during 1994 and 1995. To assist Sindh EPA staff undertake their
dutles, the project would provide vehicles, portable pollutlon measuring
equipment, computers (plus software and air conditioners), technical books and
journals, short-term local and foreign training, long-term foreign training
(one PhD, three NScs), internationally and locally recruited technical
assistance, and vehicle operating costs. The internationally recruited
technical assistance would include 10 sm each for an environmental engineer
with experience in solid waste disposal, and an environmentalist with
experience in EIA procedures. The project would also provide ftnds (US$2.5
million equivalent) for lnternationally and locally recruited consultants to
undertake studies on industrlal emissions, solid and liquid waste disposal,
pesticide residuals and other natural resource management problems. An
assurance was obtained that Sindh EPA would recruit and fill at least four of its
seven sanctioned Assistant Director positions by December 31, 1992; the
remaining three Assistant Director positions by June 30. 1994; and the four
Deputy Director positions, together with the necessary support staff positions
by June 30, 1995.
3.06        To strengthen NWFP EPA the project would provide it additional
professional (two Deputy Directors, five Assistant Directors, and two
administrative officers) (see Chart 5) and support staff, four double-cab 4X4
pick-ups, a mobile laboratory, portable pollution measuring equipment,
computers (4 to 5 work stations) and software, technical books and journals,
technical assistance, funds (US$0.6 million) for studies, foreign and local
training including four MScs, and office and vehicles operating costs.
Internationally recruited technical assistance would include an environmental
engineer expert in industrial waste-management and an environmentalist expert
in Elk procedures who would assist NWFP EPA plan and implement its day-to-day
work program over a one and a half-year period. An assurance was obtained that
NWFP EPA would recruit and fill two Deputy Director, five Assistant Director,
and two administrative staff positions, together with the necessary support
staff positions, by June 30, 1994.
3.07        Legisltlon DevelopmenL  The project would provide EUAD
internationally and locally recruited technical assistance to help write
operating definitions and regulations for the 1983 Ordinance to allow
enforcement of it, particularly regarding environmental quality standards and
EIA procedures.



- 23 -
3.08       Initing EIA Procedures. The Punjab P&D would establlsh a new
environmental section to review proposed provincial public development
expenditures with regard to environmental issues. The section would have
similar responsibilities to those of an environmental section which the
federal Planning Commission (PC) is currently establishing, with assistance
from CIDA, within its Planning Division. These responsibilities lnclude
reviewing public development expenditures to decide whether:
(i)   the expenditures conform to GOP's environmental policies;
(ii) an initial environmental examination (IEE) is requlred to
determine whether the implementing agency should undertake EIA
procedures;
(iii)   the development proposal is correctly sited regarding any
economic/environmental regional development plan or
environmentally sensitive areas which could be seriously degraded;
and
(iv)   along with PEPA or Punjab's EPA, that EIA procedures have been
correctly undertaken for expenditures likely to adversely affect
the environment.
Besides revlewing development expendLtures for its economic and social
content, PC and Punjab's P&D will now also review these expenditures to ensure
they are ecologically sound and meet Pakistans' and Punjabs' environmental
objectives. PC's aection would review all federal development expenditures of
Rs 20 million or greater, and provincial expenditures of Rs 60 million or
greater. Provincial expenditures less than Rs 60 million would be reviewed in
Punjab by its section, and in Slndh and NWFP by the provlncial EPA. The
envlronmental sections also would integrate envlronmental considerations into
PCs and Punjab P&Ds' economlc planning, partlcularly in the preparation of the
Eighth Five-Year Plan, and would work with EUAD and Punjab's EPA to help
ensure that their proposed environmental protection programs are economically
as well as environmentally sound. PC's section would act as a secretariat for
Government-industry roundtable discussions on setting emission standards,
formulating regulations to enforce the standards, and initiating EIA
procedures for private investment planning. When introducing regulation of
existing industry's emissions, GOP will develop incentive packages to
encourage and assist industry to accept and meet the emlssion standards. GOP
will glve lndustry time to fully conform with standards to ensure employment
and growth do not fall.
3.09        The IEE, which the federal or provincial environmental section
would initiate, would recommend whether an EIA is requlred for a development
proposal. If it is, the project implementing agency would be responsible for
undertaking and financing the EIA. PEPA, or the appropriate provincial EPA,
would be responsible for revlewlng and approvlng all EIAs, while PC or the
provincial environmental section's concurrence, as appropriate, would also be
necessary for final approval. Chart 6 gives a broad description of the EIA



-24 -
process for public expenditures. PEPA, and the provincial EPAs, would be
responsible for initiating, reviewing, and approving ElAs for any private
sector expenditures likely to adversely affect the environment. PEPA, and the
hPAs, with technical assistance, would formulate procedures for private
Investment EIAs during the project's life. EIAs would be an essential part of
the planning and design stage for any expenditures likely to adversely affect
the environment, and will be required for all such expenditures.
3.10        To enable Punjab's P&D to establish its environmental section, the
project would provide additional professional and support staff, vehicles,
office equipment and furniture, internationally recruited technical
assistance, foreign and local training, and incremental operating costs. At
this stage Sindh and NWFP have decided not to have a separate environmental
section within their P&Ds, and their EPAs would be responsible for initiating
IDEs, and reviewing and approving EIks. These provinces may decide otherwise
in the future. To ensure the environmental section become operational as soon
as possible, an assurance was obtained from GOPunJab that Punjab's P&D would
establish and staff its section by December 31, 1992.
Mass Awareness and Strengthening Professional Training and Research
3.11        Mass Awareness Programs. The project would provide EUAD and Sindh
and NMFP EPAs funds throughout the project's life to run mass awareness
programs to educate decision makers and the public concerning environmental
issues. The programs would consist of seminars, short programs on radio and
television, articles in newspapers and magazines, the use of billboards and
posters, and other means. EUAD and the EPAs would contract local
organizations or experts to produce the required materials (films, articles,
video tapes) and would then publicize them through appropriate local media.
EUAD and the two EPAs would carefully select the programs and media used
depending on the literacy level of the group they wish to target. The
agencies would also evaluate the effectiveness of the programs. The project
would provide EUAD and the two EPAs internationally recruited technical
assistance to help design the programs and evaluate their effectiveness.
3.12        Professional Trlning and Research. Under the project DEPN would
establish a digitized GIS based on remote sensing and other data sources to
strengthen professional training and research in natural resource management.
DEPN, with technical assistance, would integrate the use of the GIS into its
two year NBSc program in environmental planning and management, and into
several new short courses it would develop on environmental planning,
management, technology and economics for government officials and others.
Besides teaching uses, DEPN and other government agencies such as the Pakistan
Council of Scientific and Industrial Research (PCSIR), would also use GIS for
environmental studies and research in NWFP. The GIS would consist of eight to
nine linked work stations, digitizer, plotter and other associated hardware,
and software such as ARC/INFO, ERDAS and SPANS systems. Internationally
recruited technical experts would assist DEPM design, procure, install and
operate the system. DEPM would establish the GIS in three stages during which
it would firstly design the system, secondly undertake in-house pilot projects



- 25 -
with technical assistance to train "the trainers", and thirdly design the GIS
training courses for university students, government officials and others. To
establish GIS the project would provide computer hardware and software,
satellite imagery, technical books and journals, technical assistance, staff
training and computer maintenance costs.
3.13        Since DEPH has only one full-time teaching staff, NWFP EPA's two
internationally recruited technical experts hired under the project (para
3.06) would teach part-time at DEPH. An assurance was obtained that DEPM would
hire at least two additional full-time teaching staff to work with GIS by
December 31, 1992.
Natural Resource Rehabilitalton Subprojecet
3.14        The project would support seven subprojects consisting of studies,
pilot activities and operational work to rehabilitate and develop degraded
watersheds and rangelands, reforest degraded forest lands, and survey and
develop management plans for wildlife refuge areas. GOP and the provinces
have identified these subprojects as priority work in rehabilitating and
protecting agro-ecological resources and have chosen them because they:
(i) address pressing problems of environmental and natural resource
degradation; (ii) are acceptable to the local population; (iii) involve
sustainable use of natural resources and are ecologically sound; (iv) will
have an internal rate of return (IRR) of 10X or greater (subprojects for which
benefits can be calculated); (v) conform to GOP and Bank strategies and
priorities in environmental protection and natural resource conservation; and
(vi) have a reasonable chance of succeeding, and are within the provinces'
capabilities to implement with reasonable technical assistance support. The
following paragraphs briefly describe the subprojects, while Annexes 2 through
8 give subproject details and costs.
Watershed Rehabilitation and Development
3.15        three subprojects fall into the watershed rehabilitation category,
that is: (i) Murree, Kahuta and Kotli Sattian Upland Rehabilitation and
Development (MMKS) in Punjab's mountainous north with elevations from 600 m to
2,300 m and annual average rainfalls from 760 mm to 1,500 mm; (Li) Dir
Kohistan Upland Rehabilitation and Development (DERD) in the Malakand Division
of northern NWPP, with elevations from 1,000 m to 3,000 m and annual average
rainfalls of 900 mm to 1,100 mm; and (iii) Bhimber Upland Rehabilitation and
Development (BURD) in the Mirpur district of AJK, just to the west of the
Mangla dam and Jhelum river, with elevations from 600 m to 1,700 m and an
annual average rainfall of around 940 mm. While each of the subproject areas
has its own distinct characteristics, for example, MEKS has extensive land
slides and encompasses a major tourist area, the hill town of Murree; DXRD is
extremely remote and has cedar forests in its higher regions; and BURD is the
lowest of the three areas with the most developed annual food and fodder
crops; each subproject would attempt to stabilize the hillsides, increase and
intensify forest production, control livestock access to forests and the
steeper slopes, increase fodder production, and diversify into higher value



- 26 -
crops. The subprojects would take a multi-disciplinary, integrated approach
to increasing the three major watershed income sources of forestry (including
social forestry), livestock and crops. Subproject design would take into
account the percentage of farm-family members vorking as migrant workers off-
farm (for example, in NKKS mainly the old, young children and women are left
on the farm), and the size of land holdings and other farm-family resources.
Subproject components would generally include soil conservation works such as
gully plugging, check dams, interceptor drains (mainly MXKS), vegetative
hedges (votiver grass) planted along contours, and regrassing of hillsides;
reforesting private, community and forest lands with broad-leaved (for
firevood, fodder and timber) and pine species; repairing dilapidated terraces
or constructing new terraces on existing cleared land for high value vegetable
crop production; planting fruit trees, increasing fodder and crop production
through introducing better varieties, reseeding rangelands, constructing
access roads and paths, improving animal health, undertaking adaptive research
and extension, and developing village facilities (water supplies, roads,
bridges and so on) under which villagers would contribute at least 40% of the
costs (see paras 4.09-12). At MKKS the subproject would undertake these works
on areas in danger of sliding, but not on existing slides. Further studies
are required before attempting to control actively sliding areas. To support
these works the project would provide mapping, crop inputs, seedlings,
livestock vaccines and medicines, civil works, vehicles, equipment, machinery,
technical assistance, training, incremental staff and operating costs.
Annexes 2,3 and 4 detail project works and costs for MKKS, DKRD and BURD
respectively.
Rangeland Rehabilitation and Development
3.16        Alpine Sub-alpine Pasture Study. The alpine sub-alpine pasture study
(ASPS) would be located in the upper Neelum Valley of AJK. Here pasture
altitudes range from 600 m in sub-alpine valley floors up to 4,000 m in the
higher areas, and this area is representative of much of Pakistan's alpine
pastures. Overgrazing is degrading large areas of this fragile environment
but limited information and basic data are available which planners could use
to design rehabilitation and conservation measures. Taking an integrated
multi-disciplinary approach, the subproject would: (i) survey and study the
dynamics of the upper Neelum Valley alpine and sub-alpine pasture ecosystem;
(ii) develop an approach to reduce the degradation of alpine and sub-alpine
pastures; (iii) undertake adaptive trials to test the proposals for
rehabilitating and conserving the pastures; (iv) recommend methods for
rehabilitating and conserving alpine and sub-alpine pastures, and prepare
detailed terms of reference for a feasibility study of an investment project
based on the foregoing studies and trials; and (v) train a cadre of local
officials who could undertake similar studies elsewhere. To support ASPS the
project vould provide range nurseries, trial plot inputs, fencing, soil
conservation works, civil works, vehicles, equipment, technical assistance,
training incremental staff and operating costs. Annex 5 describes subproject
works and costs for ASPS.



- 27 -
Reforeftton and WlIdlife Refuge Area Management
3.17        Rlwrne Reforeatlon Along the Chenab and Ravi. The Chenab and Ravi
rivers flow through northern and central Punjab before joining the Indus in
the province's south. The subproject would, as a pilot activity, reforest
1,200 ha of riverine land along the Chenab and 800 ha along the Ravi rivers at
locations approximately 75 km south and 120 km north-west of Lahors
respectively. The Punjab Forestry Department (PFD) would plant a mixture of
eucalyptus and shisham seedlings raised in social forestry (private) and PFD
nurseries. As the aubproject areas are arid, PFD would have to irrigate the
seedlings for three years uslng portable pumps and engines. To support the
program the project would provide nurseries, labor, vehicles, tractors, boats,
portable pumps and engines, equipment, incremental staff and operating costs.
Annex 6 details subproject works and costs for replanting riverine areas.
3.18        WIldlife Surveys and Management Planning. Under the Wildlife Surveys
and Management Planning Subproject (WSMP), PFD would strengthen its wildlife
arm, the Punjab Wildlife Research Center (PWRC) at Gatwala, Faisalabad. This
would enable it, with technical assistance, to survey Punjab's wildlife refuge
areas, and from the resulting data, develop plans for managing Punjab's
wildlife habitats. The subproject would focus on: (i) training wildlife staff
in appropriate animal surveys and animal handling methods; (ii) designing and
undertaking population surveys of ecologically and/or commercially valuable
species in selected refuge and non-refuge areas within Punjab; (iii) training
staff in data management and interpretation, (iv) developing guidelines for
wildlife habitat management; and (v) strengthening PWRC through recruiting new
staff and providing field transportation, scientific and field equipment, and
offices and staff houses. The project would provide the subproject civil
works, vehicles, motor cycles, equipment, technical assistance (twinning
arrangement with a suitable foreign wildlife institute), training, incremental
staff and operating costs. Annex 7 details the subproject's works and costs.
3.19        Rehablfaton and Replanting of Indus Delta Mangroves. The Indus delta
mangroves occupy some 410,000 ha along the Sindh and Baluchistan coastlines.
They provide: fuelwood, construction timber and stock fodder to some 28,600
households (200,000 people) living in the area; a rich and complex ecosystem
in which fish and crustaceans, particularly shrimps, breed and develop;
protection to the coastline and coastal villages against tidal action and
storms; and they reduce siltation of navigatable channels near and around
ports. The subproject, a pilot activity, would initiate attempts to repair
the damage done to the mangroves by over-exploitation for fuelvood, timber and
animal fodder, reduction in freshwater flows in the Indus river, and to some
extent industrial effluent from Karachi city. The subproject would: (i) re-
establish a coastal Forestry Division in the Sindh Forestry Department (SFD)
which will enforce protection measures, coordinate research and accumulate
knowledge and experience on management problems; (ii) replant or regenerate
16,000 ha of mangroves; (iii) start social forestry in the coastal area to
encourage alternative sources of fuelwood and fodder to reduce the pressure on
mangroves; and (iv) initiate a research program on the mangrove ecosystem
which would: (a) continue sociological studies to identify more clearly the



- 28 -
threats to mangroves and devise means to protect and rehabilitate them;
(b) promote silvicultural research on different species, methods of natural
and artificial regeneration and so on; (c) initiate marine research on the
mangrove's fish and shrimp populations; and (d) continue research on land-
based vertebrates and recommend a plan for managing them. To enable the
Coastal Forestry Division to undertake this work, the project would provide
surveys and mapping, nurseries, civil works, vehicles, boats, materials,
equipment, technical assistance; training, labor, incremental staff and
operating expenses. Annex 8 describes the subproject's works and costs.
Final Design and Community Agreement
3.20        Some of the subprojects still need to undertake final designs and
obtain full community agreement to the proposed vorks. This would be done
during the first nine to 12 months of implementation. It is being done at
this stage because a wide range of technical assistance is required for the
work, and there is an advantage to having the same technical assistance
undertake the final designs and assist with implementation. It would not
delay project implementation as project staff would be establishing tree
nurseries and hiring staff during the initial year. It would include a
diagnostic study, undertaken by a multi-disciplinary team containing local
staff and the internationally recruited experts who, using rapid rural
appraisal techniques, would identify farming systems, socio-economic groupings
and production and community problems. The team, with the local community and
any local NGOs, would prioritize these problems, and community goals and
aspirations. If necessary problems would be studied further to enable project
staff to understand them fully and develop possible solutions. The team and
local community would develop and agree to an action plan, taking account of
priority problems, community and national goals, and the local resource base
and skills.
3.21        For the success of the subprojects it is vital that the
implementing agencies involve the local communities in project design and
implementation. Once the agencies and community negotiate and agree to a
particular course of action, they would sign an agreement which identifies
each group's responsibilities and duties under the subproject.
Training, Technical Assistance and Project Preparation
3.22        Training. As few people in Pakistan have experience in
environmental protection and resource conservation, and it is a new subject
for governmental agencies, training is extremely important to introduce agency
staff to the basic concepts involved. To enable staff to quickly obtain on-
the-job expertise, project training is mainly structured around short-term
foreign and local courses, which the project would strongly support. Short-
term foreign courses would consist of study tours, international seminars,
conferences and workshops, short courses on particular subjects, and foreign
lecturers conducting short courses in Pakistan. Short-term local training
would consist of introductory courses to sensitize senior government officials
to environmental protection and resource conservation, and regular in-service



- 29 -
training for professional staff. Consultants hired under the project would
assist in planning and implementing the foreign training, and would also
develop and implement, including lecturing, the short-term local training.
The project would also provide some long-term foreign training, mainly MSc
studies, for Sindh and NVFP EPA staff. Long-term training has been mi.aimized
as the environmental protection agencies do not have sufficient staff to allow
them to be away f'rom their duties for long periods. Annex 9, Table 1, lists
the aggregate training program by implementing agency. An assurance was obtalned
from GOP that the implementing agencies would furnish proposals for any
training under the project to IDA for its prior review and approval.
3.23        TechnicalAsslstnce. To assist in implementing the project and
individual work programs, federal and provincial authorities would
internationally recruit 254 staff months (smIR) and locally recruit 315 staff
months (smLR) of technical assistance as follows:
(i)   EUAD would recruit: (a) environmental policy expert (12 smIR),
(b) legal expert to write 1983 Ordinance's regulations (6 smIR and
6 smLR), (c) environmentalists to assist PEPA prepare and
implement EIA guidelines (6 smIR and 6 smLR), (d) environmental
engineers to assist PEPA develop its work program on environmental
quality standards and countrywide measurement and monitoring of
environmental pollution and resource degradation (6 smIR and 6
smLR), and (e) mass awareness experts to assist design mass
awareness programs and evaluate their effectiveness (3 smIR and 3
smLR);
(ii)   Punjab's P&D would recruit environmentalists with EIA and policy
experience to assist initiate and develop its environmental
section (9 smIR and 18 smLR);
(iii)   Sindh EPA would recruit: (a) environmentalists with experience in
EIA procedures (10 smIR and 4 smLR), (b) environmental engineers
with experience in industrial and urban solid waste disposal (10
smIR and 4 smLR), and (c) mass awareness experts to assist design,
and evaluate the effectiveness of, mass awareness programs (3 smIR
and 1 smLR);
(iv)   NWFP EPA would recruit: (a) environmentalists with experience in
EIA preparation (18 smIR and 6 smLR), (b) environmental engineers
with experience in industrial and urban solid waste disposal (18
smIR and 6 smLR), and (c) mass awareness experts to assist design,
and evaluate the effectiveness of, mass awareness programs (3 smIR
and 6 smLR);
(v)   DEPM would recruit: (a) geographical/remote sensing/digitized
mapping experts to assist design, procure, install and operate a
digitized GIS (10 smIR and 8 smLR), and (b) environmental planning
and management experts to assist develop training courses using
GIS (2 smIR);



- 30 -
(vi) PFD would recruit: (a) for MWKS a watershed management expert
(7 smIR), horticulturalist (5 smLR, soil conservationists (2 smIR
and 6 smLR), landslide control specialist (5 smIR), monltoring and
evaluatlon specLalist (4 samIR), sociologist (50 smLR), and (b) for
Wildllfe Surveys and Management Planning subproject a wildlife
survey specialist (6 smIR), vildlife habitat ecologist (6 smIR),
and sanctuary management specialist (8 smIR);
(vii)   Sindh Forestry Department for rehabilitation and replanting of the
Indus Delta mangroves would recruit a sllviculturalist (4 smIR),
marine biologist (6 smIR), economist (4 smIR), and sociologist
(42 smLK);
(viii)   NQFP Forestry Department would recruit for DKRD a watershed
management specialist (8 smIR), soil conservationist (6 smIR),
horticulturalist (6 smIR), livestock specialist (5 smIR),
agricultural economist (6 smIR), monitoring evaluation specialist
(4 smIR), and sociologist (50 smLR); and
(ix)   AJK Forestry Department would recruit: (a) for BURD a watershed
management specialist (8 smIR), soil conservationist (6 smIR),
agricultural extensionist (4 smIR), agricultural economist
(4 smIR), livestock/range specialist (4 smIR), river control
engineer (6 smIR), monitoring/evaluation specialist (4 smIR),
sociologist (54 smLR), and (b) for ASPS a range/pasture ecologist
(4 smIR), livestock specialists (3 smIR and 6 smLR), forage
production specialists (4 smIR and 10 smLR), socLo-economist (4
smIR), and sociologist (24 smLR).
3.24        By March 31, 1993, EUAD would have internationally recruited a
single firm or consortium of firms, to supply all the above listed services.
The firm or consortium, should have local expertise, or associate itself with
a suitable local firm, to supply the required locally recruited consultants.
If necessary to supply expertise in a particular area the consultant firm may
subcontract a component to an individual or firm or entity, or associate
itself with another firm or entity. In hiring the consultant firm, EUAD would
constitute a single selection committee which would have representatives from
the three provinces and AJK. EAD, the provinces and AJK could each sign the
agreed contract with the selected firm, or EUAD, the provinces and AJK could
each sign an individual contract with the selected firm. Annex 9, Table 2
lists all technical assistance by implementing agency and expertise.
Assurance were obtained from GOP that federal and provincial agencies would
finalize arrangements and sigv contracts for engaging consultants with
qualifications and under conditlons acceptable to IDA by March 31, 1993.
3.25        Project Preparation, Studies and Possible Global Environmental Facility Financing.
The project would provide funds for project preparation studies and for policy
studies on natural resource management as follovs:



- 31 -
(i)   EUAD (about US$1.0 million) for policy studies on natural resource
management. If necessary, EUAD would undertake the studies in
collaboration with the appropriate federal or provincial agency.
Such studies could include, amongst other things, developing new,
more onvironmentally oriented forest legislation; and reviewing
communal land rights;
(ii)   Sindh EPA (US$2.5 million) and NWFP EPA (US$0.6 million) for
studies on environmental pollution and natural resource
mismanagement (paras 3.05-3.06); and
(iii)   P&Ds of Punjab (US$1.2 million), Sindh (US$0.6 million), NWFP
(US$1.0 million) and AJK (US$0.6 million) to undertake feasibility
studies on future environmental and natural resource management
projects.
EUAD, provincial EPAs and P&Ds and AJK P&D would internationally and locally
recruit consultants to undertake these studies. Assurances were obtained from
GOP, the provincial governments and AJK that EUAD, Sindh and NWFP EPAs, and
P&Ds of Punjab, Sindh, NWFP and AJK would: (i) submit proposals for studies to
IDA for review and approval before commencing the studies; and (ii) engage
consultants with qualifications and under conditions acceptable to IDA for
undertaking the studies.
3.26        Bank staff have undertaken initial identification work on three
small subprojects which the Global Environmental Facility (GEF) may finance.
These subprojects include (i) the conservation of medicinal plants in
Pakistan; (ii) monitoring of global warming and sea-level rise effects on
mangroves; and (iiI) protection of the snow leopard. Should GEF finance all
or any of these subprojects, GOP/GOProvinces would attach them to an
appropriate implementing group under this project.
Project Phaslng
3.27        GOP and GOProvinces would implement project works during the six
years from July 1992 to June 1998. Annex 10 shows the start of major project
components. As the natural resource rehabilitation subprojects are small
(some US$1.3 to US$10.9 million total costs) six years provides sufficient
time to finalize subproject designs and community agreements, and implement
them. During the first two years, activities most crucial to project
implementation include engaging consultants, recruiting agency staff, writing
regulations for the 1983 Ordinance, initiating EIA procedures, initiating
programs to measure and monitor pollution and natural resource mismanagement,
undertaking final *esign of the subprojects and establishing tree nurseries.



- 32 -
D. Cost Estimates and Financing
3.28        Cost Estimates.  The total estimated project coast is US$57.2
million, of which US$16.6 million (29X) is the foreign exchange component.
Project costs are expressed in March, 1992 prices, and include duties and
taxes estimated at US$5.0 million. Base cost estimates were derived from
detailed cost analyses of recent federal and provincial government agency
operations, including reforestation, soil erosion control, aglicultural
extension, livestock health improvement, staff training programs, construction
contracts and vehicle and equipment purchases. Contract quantities for
building ccastruction are based on standard government designs.  Consultant
services costs are based on recent contracts for similar services in Pakistan.
The cost estimates include allowances for physical contingencies of 15% for
civil works and 10 for machinery, equipment, materials, training and
technical assistance. Additionally, the cost estlmates include allowances for
price escalations during implementation based on IDA's estimated domestic and
foreign inflation rates as shown in Table 3.1.
Table 3.1: Annual Inflation Rates (%)
FY92     FY93    FY94      FY95      FY96     FY97      FY98
Domestic Costs        10.0     8.0       6.0       6.0      6.0       6.0      6.0
International Costs   3.4      1.8       2.9      4.4       4.5       3.9      4.1
3.29.       Table 3.2 summarizes project costs while Annex 1, Tables 1 and 2
give details of these costs.
Table 3.2: Project Cost Summary
X Foreign
Local   Foreign   Total   Local   Foreign   Total    Exchange
(PRs million)              (US$ million)
Institutional Dev.           173.0   226.3   399.3        6.9    9.1       16.0       57
Watershed Rehab.             530.8    76.2   607.0    21.3        3.0      24.3       12
Rangeland Rehab.              17.7    10.6    28.3        0.7    0.4        1.1       36
Forestation/Wildlife         126.2    34.4   160.6        5.0    1.4        6.4       22
Total Baseline Costs       847.7   347.5 1,195.2    33.9   13.9          47.8       29
Physical Contingencies      71.7    34.7   106.4        2.9    1.4        4.3       33
Price Contingencies        220.5    76.4   296.9        3.8    1.3        5.1       25
Total Project Costs        1,139.9   458.6 1,598.5    40.6   16.6          57.2       29
3.30        Financing. Table 3.3 shows the proposed project financing plan.
IDA, the European Economic Community (EEC), local community farmers and
households, GOP, GOProvinces and GOAJK wouild jointly finance the project. IDA
would provide a credit of SDR 21.4 million (US$29.2 million), EEC a grant of
US$13.5 million, community and households Rs 153.7 million (US$5.5 million),



- 33 -
of which Rs 61.5 million would be in cash and Rs 92.2 million in labor, and
GOP, GOProvinces and GOAJK the remaining Rs 251.5 million (US$9.0 million).
The total donor assistance would finance 75X of project costs, including 100X
of foreign exchange costs and 64X of local costs. Excluding duties and tazes
and community farmers and household contributions, IDA and EEC together would
finance 90X of project costs. EEC would provide financing parallel to IDA
funds, and except for farmers and household contributions, would fund 100X of
MS and DRRD subproject costs.  Community farmers and households would
finance a portion of the costs for fruit tree development, erosion control
structures, and community development works. GOP, GOProvinces and GOAJK would
provide their share of project finances to the implementing agencles out of
annual budget appropriations. Funds for provincial expenditures will flow
from the Ministry of Finance (MOF) directly to the provinces as development
funds. Funds for DEPH would flow from MOF through EUAD to DEPM. Full approval
by the Executive Committee of the National Economic Council (ECNEC) or CDVP or
a PDVP, as the case may be, of the project's Planning Commission Forms No. 1
(PC-1) and sanctioning of project expenditures is a condition of credi effecUvenes.
Table 3.3: Project Financing Plan
(US$ milions)fv
House             Total
Category         GOP  GOPunjab  GOSindh  GONWFP  COAJK  holds  EEC  IDA  Funds
Civil Works       -       -       0.1      -      0.1    -   0.7   1.9    2.8
Comm. Dev.        -       -        -       -       -   0.7   0.7   0.2    1.6
Reforest.         -      0.2      0.1      -      0.3   4.6   3.4   5.1  13.7
Fieldwork         -       -        -       -      0.2   0.2   4.3   1.6    6.3
Vehicles          -      0.1      0.1      -      0.2    -   0.4  0.8    1.6
Mach. Equip.
& Mater.       0.1     0.1      0.1     0.1     0.2    -   0.6   2.3    3.5
Tech. Assist.    0.2     0.1      0.2     0.2     0.2    -   1.2   3.6    5.7
Studies          0.2     0.3      0.6     0.3     0.1    -      -    6.1    7.6
Training          -       -        -       -        -     -   0.4   2.0    2.4
Mass Awareness    -       -        -        -       -     -     -    2.0    2.0
Salaries         0.3     0.4      0.3     0.1     0.6    -   1.4   2.5    5.6
Increm. Op.
Costs          1.1     0.8      0.2     0.1     0.7    -   0.4   1.1    4.4
Total            1.9     2.0      1.7     0.8     2.6   5.5  13.5  29.2   57.2
Ia.  Includes taxes and duties estimated at US55.U million, and amounts are
rounded to the nearest US100000.



- 34 -
E. Procurement
3.31        Table 3.4 summarizes the project's procurement arrangements.
Procurement procedures for items financed by EEC would be according to EEC
guidelines, while items financed by IDA would be procured according to IDA
guidelines as elaborated in the folloving paragraphs.
Tabl 3.4: Procurement Anangement.
(US$ million)/4
Procurement Method
Project Element         ICB        LCB        Other         NBF/k       Total
Civil Works              -         2.1         -           0.7          2.8
(1.9)                                (1.9)
Community Develop.       -         0.4         -           1.2          1.6
(0.2)                                (0.2)
Reforestation            -         -           5.7         8.0         13.7
(5.1)                   (5.1)
Fieldwork                -         -           1.8         4.5          6.3
(1.6)                   (1.6)
Vehicles                1.1        -           O.1         0.4          1.6
(0.7)                 (0.1)                    (0.8)
Machinery, Equipment
and Materials         0.7        -           2.2         0.6          3.5
(0.6)                 (1.7)                    (2.3)
Technical Assistance    -          -           4.5         1.2          5.7
(3.6)                   (3.6)
Studies                 -          -           7.6         -            7.6
(6.1)                   (6.1)
Training                 -         -           2.0         0.4          2.4
(2.0)                   (2.0)
Mass Awareness           -         -           2.0         -            2.0
(2.0)                   (2.0)
Incremental Salaries    -          -           4.2         1.4          5.6
(2.5)                   (2.5)
Increm. Oper. Costs     -          -           4.02/       0.4          4.4
(1.1)                   (1.1)
Total                   1.8        2.5        34.1        18.8         57.2
(1.3)     (2.1)      (25.8)                   (29.2)
/a  Includes taxes, duties, and contingencies.  Figures in parentheses are
the respective amounts financed by the IDA Credit.
/k  Not Bank-Group financed.
/q  Bank financing would be limited to operation and maintenance expenditures
on vehicles, equipment and civil works.



- 35 -
3.32        CMI Wors (US$2.1 million) and Community Development (US$0.4 million).
Civil works would include construction of buildings, roads, tubewells, cattle
crushes and so on   Community development vorks would include small irrigation
canals, bridges, water pipelines and so on which the project would construct
for individual communities, and for which the communities vould contribute 40X
of the cost. All the works would be scattered, small, and simple in nature,
and would not be of interest to foreign contractors. These works would be
undertaken following local competitive bidding procedures (LCB) acceptable to
IDA. Federal and provincial government's LCB procedures are generally
consistent with the need for economy and efficiency in the execution of the
project. There are, however, a few procedures which are inconsistent with IDA
procurement guidelines and others which require clarification. During
negotiations agreement was reached regarding the adoption of procedures
acceptable to IDA.
3.33        Reforestalon (US$5.7 million). The provincial forestry departments
would reforest areas which are remote, and the nature of the work requires
close supervision by forestry department staff. Consequently the forest
departments would execute forest establishment and maintenance by force
account.
3.34        FleldWorks(US$1.8milliion). Field works would include terracing, soil
conservation works (gully plugging, check dams, interceptor drains, planting
of vegetative hedges), pasture establishment, adaptive research trials,
demonstration plots and establishment of fruit trees. These works would also
be small and scattered, undertaken at many sites, and in several instances
requiring close supervision by departmental staff, for example, agricultural
adaptive trials. For these reasons the respective provincial agencies would
execute field works by force account.
3.35        Vehicles, Motorcycles, Equipment, Fumiture and Technical Books (US$4.1 million).
Vehicles, motorcycles, computer hardware and software, and equipment costing
US$1.8 million would be bulked into contracts of at least US$50,000 equivalent
or more and procured following IDA international competitive bidding (ICB)
procedures. A preference limited to 15X of the cif bid price or the actual
customs duty applicable to non-exempt importers, whichever is lower, would be
extended to qualified local manufacturers in the evaluation of ICB bids.
Agreement would be reached at negotiations that the implementing agencies
would use ICB bidding documents based on the World Bank's Sample Bidding
Documents for Goods. Equipment, goods and materials needed at different
places and in small quantities costing less than US$50,000 equivalent for each
contract, could be locally or internationally procured through shopping
involving at least three quotations. The total value of such items procured
through shopping would be limited to an aggregate US$2.3 million. In
addition, technical books and journals (US$50,000) may be purchased directly
from suppliers.



- 36 -
3.36        ConSutant sVlce (US$4.5 million) and studlc (US$7.6 million) would
be procured according to IDA Guidelines for the Use of Consultants, and
oVWrsesnd kloal training anungemnts (US$2. 0 million) would be subject to IDA
approval. Mmancaren  sxpWndiuree (US$2.0 million), comprising art work,
videos, films, and other publicity materials, would be procured following
normal government practices subject to IDA approval. Project expenditures on
hncemet al operatng cota (US$8 .2 million, including salaries and allowances,
operating and maintenance costs of vehicles, equipment and civil works, and
administrative overheads) would be procured following normal government
practices. IDA, however, would not disburse against administrative overheads.
3.37        Contracts exceeding US$70,000 equivalent or more for civil works
or US$50,000 or more for machinery and equipment and mass awareness works
would require IDA review of documentation before tendering and award. This
would cover about 551 of the value of works, and 45 of equipment. Bank staff
would undertake selective post review of awarded contracts which are below the
thresbhold levels on about one in ten works contracts and one in five goods
and mass awareness contracts.
F. DIsbusements
3.38        The credit would be disbursed over approximately seven and a half
years (including the four months disbursement allowed after credit closing),
with the credit closing June 30, 1999. As this is the initial project
directly dealitg with environmental protection and natural resource
conservation there are no actual disbursement profiles with which to compare
the proposed disbursement schedule (Annex 1, Table 3). Seven and a half
years, however, is the length of the standard disbursement profile for all
Pakistani agricultural projects, and is considered an appropriate period for
disbursements under this project.
3.39        IDA would disburse credit funds at the following rates for these
items:
ctegory                             Percent to be Financed
(i)   Civil Works, reforestation and      901 of expenditures less
field works                         farmer expenditures
(ii)  Comunity Development                60% of expenditures
(Mi)  Vehicles, motorcycles, equipment,   100% of foreign expenditures,
furniture and books                 100% of ex-factory prices of
locally manufactured items,
701 of local costs for
imported items purchased
locally.
(lv)  Technical assistance and studies    801 of expenditures



- 37 -
(v)   Training and mass awareness         100% of expenditures
(vi)  Incremental staff salarles          80X till US$1.6 million
and allowances, and operating       disbursed; then 60X till
costs                               US$2.8 million dlsbursed;
then 40X thereafter
3.40        IDA would disburse against certified statement of expendltures
(SO1) for civil works contracts below US$70,000 equivalent, mass awareness
works below US$40,000 equivalent, goods procured through direct purchases or
prudent shopping, training, reforestation and field works. Implementing
agencies would retain supporting documentation for these items for review by
ID& and external auditors. Disbursement applications for all other items
would be fully documented. Annex 1, Table 4 shows the allocation of credit
funds to the different disbursement categorles.
3.41        To facilitate implementation, implementation agencies would
establish five special accounts, that is, EUAD, and P6Ds of Punjab, Sindh,
NWFP and AJK These accounts would be opened according to arrangements for
existing IDA-assisted projects, and would be used for most disbursements
except those in excess of US$0.5 million for AJK, US$0.4 million for Sindh,
and US$0.2 million for the others. IDA would LiLtially deposit US$0.25
million In EUAD's account, US$0.3 million in Punjab's, US$0.5 million in
Sindh's, US$0.25 million in NWUP's, and US$0.7 million in AJE's. Since each
province and AJK will have several implementing agencies but only one special
account, the provincial or AJK P&D will reimburse each implementing agency as
appropriate from its special account after the Implementing agency has made
project expenditures.
G3. Accounft and Audit
3.42        Implementing agencies would maintain separate project accounts
which independent auditors, acceptable to IDA and using procedures
satisfactory to IDA, would audit annually. The auditors would issue separate
opinions on the project accounts, disbursements from the specLal accounts, and
80s and supporting documents used as a basis for disbursements from the
credit. Implementing agencies would provide their auditors unaudited project
accounts within three months of the fiscal year's end (by September 30), and
would submit an audit report of project accounts to IDA wittin nine months of
the fiscal year's end (by March 31). Assurances wore obtained from GOP,
GOProvins and GOAJK that implementing agencies would follow these auditing
practices.



- 38 -
IV. ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT
A. Insttultnal Strengthning
4.01        KUAD would be the main implementing and coordinating agency for the
first project component, that is, the strengthening of environmental protection
agencies.  KUAD's Additional Secretary would be the overall manager for this
component, while ZUAD's three proposed environmental sections and attached
Department, PEPA. would plan and implement project vork programs. The provincial
EPAs would work in conjunction with ZUAD/PEPA, and EUAD would supply project
funds for strengthening DEPH. KUAD would also be the focal point for IDA in
dealing with the project.
4.02        EUAD's international section would liaise vith IDA and the other
project implementing agencies, and would monitor and reviev project progress.
It would prepare half-yearly project reports (including collating those of the
provinces) for IDA, and would ensure credit disbursement applications are sent
to IDA. Within six months of credit completion, the section would contribute to
a project completion report, reporting on all aspects of project implementation.
4.03        KUAD would act as the Council's secretariat, and would prepare its
agenda and see that its decisions are implemented. KUAD would prepare rules of
procedure for the Council so that it can undertake its day-to-day business.
Assurances wee obtained fom GOP that the Council would hold its initial meeting by
December 31, 1992, and thereafter meet regularly at least twice a year.
4.04        PEPA, acting for SUAD and with technical assistance, would prepare
the operating definitions and regulations for the Ordinance so that PEPA and EPAs
can enforce this legislation, particularly the environmental quality standards
and EIA procedures. In association with EPAs, PEPA would finalize environmental
quality standards for the discharge of pollutants into Pakistan's air, water and
soil, and prepare and finalize an implementation program for these quality
standards which encourages industry and developers to adopt them. PEPA, with
EPAs, would design a system for measuring and monitoring environmental pollution
including the mismanagement and degradation of natural resources.   PEPA, in
association with PC and Punjabs' P&D environmental sections and the provincial
EPAs, would develop, finalize and implement guidelines for ZIA procedures for
private and public development expenditures. Because of the importance of EIA
procedures in translating Pakistan's environmental policies into practice, IDA
obtained assuances frm GOP tW: the environmental sections in PC and Punjabs' P&D,
and the provincial EPAs, by July 1, 1993, would (i) commence screening all public
development expenditures; and (ii) require government agencies to undertake EU
procedures for all public investments considered likely to adversely affect the
environment.
4.05        The provincial EPAs, under powers delegated to them from PEPA, would
implement the Ordinance and its regulations in their respective provinces. PEPA
would delegate this authority to act under the Ordinance to EPAs at the Council's
initial meeting. The provincial EPAs thus would be the main bodies involved in
the field Implementation of environmental quality standards, EIA procedures, and



- 39 -
monitoring and measuring of *nvironmental pollution and natural resource
management. All agencies, with help from the technical assistance which the
project would provide, would develop their work programs as they get underway,
and throughout the life of the project.
4.06        LUAD would disburse funds to DEPI to enable lt to undertake its
project activities.  The Dean of DEPN would be responsible for preparing an
annual -ork plan and budget for DEPW's annual project activities, and would meet
and dLscuss these with KUAD each year to ensure KUAD includes the necessary funds
in lt annuel budget.  The University of Peshawar has established a steering
coelttee consisting of mtembers from federal and provincial agencies such as
PCSIR, Xinistry of Industries, NWFP EPA, government training institutes and
others to assist DEPW plan and develop lts professional training activities.
With possible assLstance from CIDA and/or the Norwegian Government, DEPW is
attempting to twin its activities wLth a suitable foreign institute of
environmental studies and management training.
B. Natumi Resouce Rehabiliation Subprojects
4.07        The provincial Forestry Departments (MDs), with assistance from
provincial Agrlculture (DOA), Livestock (DOL) and Communications and Works (C&W)
Departments where necessary, would mainly be responsible for implementing the
natural resource rehabilitation subprojects. The provincial P&Ds would generally
coordinate the varLous implementing agencies. EUAD would monitor the province's
Implementation of the subprojects, and would report half-yearly on implementation
progress to IDA.
4.08        The following provincial agencies would implement the indivldual
subprojects:
Punjab
(i)   the  Nurree  Kahuta  Development  Authority  (MEDA),  a  special
development agency within GOPunjab, would implement MKKS.  MDA
staff are mainly foresters, and it has close links to PPD. Punjab's
DOA would provlde agricultural eztension servicesV for the growing
of fruit trees and vegetable crops, while Punjab's DOL would provide
livestock health services. NDA's Director-General would be the
subproject manager;
(ii)   PFD would implement the riverine reforestation along the Chenab and
Ravi rivers with the Chief Conservator (Central Division) as the
subproject manager, while PFD's wildlife arm, PURC, would implement
WSMP, with the Director General, Wildlife, as the subproject
manager;
IV          Presently being strengthened under the Punjab and Sindh Agrlcultural
Extension and Adaptlve Research Project Phase-II (Cr. 1762-PAK).



- 40 -
Slndh
(iii)   SFD's Coastal Forestry Division would implement the rehabilitation
and replanting of the Indus delta mangroves, while SFD's Chief
Conservator of Forests would be the subproject manager;
NWFP
(iv)   NWFP's FD would implement DKRD.  At DKRD NWFP's DOA and DOL staff
would be attached to the NWFP FD staff implementing the project to
provide agricultural extension and livestock health services. NWFP
C&M would be responsible for ensuring the access road into the
project area is adequately maintained. NWFPFs Chief Conservator of
Forests would be the overall manager for the subproject;
AJK
(v)   AJK's FD would implement SJRD and ASPS. At BURD, AJK's DOA and DOL
would individually undertake their project activities, but would be
coordinated at the departmental secretary level as both DOA and DOL
are under the Secretary, AJK FD. CMI would construct and maintain
project roads. AJK's Chief Conservator of Forests would be the
overall project manager.
C. Community Development and Contribution
4.09        The involvement of local communities in subproject design and
implementation is essential to ensure their commitment to project activities
(paras 3.20-21). The three watershed rehabilitation subprojects, to further the
communities' interest in them, would include community development works such as
village water supplirsa, small irrigation works, roads and bridges and so on
besides the watershed rehabilitation activities. The communities would select
and decide which community development works the project would undertake, and
would contrlbute 40X of the cost of the works in cash. Community funds would
come from the development of communal lands, for example, from the sale of
grasses and firewood from communal fuelwood plantations. Experience under the
Kalakand Social Forestry and Kalam Integrated Development Projects shows that
communal lands from which livestock have been excluded will generate considerable
funds from grass sales as early as the second year of enclosement. Tho project
would provide up to Rs 100,000 per village to match the villager's 40X of
expenditures, and would not comence community works until the communities' 40X
share of expenditures was deposited in a community established bank accownt. The
project would provide locally recruited sociologists to assist subproject staff
organize community involvement and participation in the subprojects.
4.10        For all subprojects, the project would assist farmers only minimally
to initiate investments under the project. In establishing private and communal
fuelwood lots and private orchards, project nurseries would provlde farmers
fuelwood seedlings free of charge, but charge for fruit or nut trees to fully
recover the costs of producing those seedlings.   Individuals accepting or
purchasing seedlings would be responsible for their planting and for the



- 41 -
protection and maintenance of established areas.   In areas where fuelvood
subsidies are provided, provincial authorities would have to phase out fuelwood
subsidies during the project period for most of the consumers in the subproject
area.   Some rationing of subsidized fuelwood may continue for some hardship
cases, for example, the indigent elderly or landless, but for others, access to
subsidized fuelwood would be contingent upon their establishing woodlots.
Ideally, for those planting fuelvood trees, the amount of subsidy, either in
terms of the quantity of wood purchased at preferential prices or of the price
of a fuelvood ration relative to its market value, would be gradually decreased
following the establishment of a woodlot and eliminated all together by the time
of the woodlot's first harvest.
4.11        The project would fully fund soil conservation works on public land
such as plugging gullies, installing check dams, planting vetiver grass hedges
and constructing diversion channels to control water runoff. It would also fully
fund similar conservation works on private and communal land, except for the
planting of vetiver grass hedges. The project would supply farmers vetiver slips
to plant, but farmers would be responsible for planting and caring for the
vetiver hedges.
4.12        The project would not fund the building of new terraces that would
involve additional land clearing; however, some funds would be available to
assist farmers who wish either to rehabilitate dilapidated terraces or cut
terraces into land cleared as of May 1991 for the cultivation of high value
crops, such as vegetables. Furthermore, terracing would be undertaken neither
for the establishment of orchards nor in areas with slopes steeper than 30X. For
sanctioned rehabilitation or construction, the project would finance one half of
total costs (labor and materials). Farmers must then accept full responsibility
for the maintenance of these terraces. To assist the introduction and trial of
new vegetable crops, the project would distribute free vegetable seeds for the
initial crop.   Farmers would obtain any formal credit required for the
establishment of orchards or terraces from the Pakistan Agricultural Development
Bank (ADBP) or one of the five commercial banks. To ensure commercial credit is
available to farmers if needed, IDA obtained assurances Irom GOP that government
staff would inform ADBP and/or the branch of the commercial bank in the area of
any proposed subproject development, and would invite them to join project
implementation discussions with local communities when appropriate.
D. Monioring, Evaluation and Supervision
4.13.       Monioring. Monitoring of subprojects would be "management oriented",
that is, designed to provide information to assist internal project management.
Subproject activities would be monitored and analyzed at three levels, that is,
subproject inputs (number of staff, vehicles, materials procured and so on),
outputs (area reforested, soil erosion works) and effects or success in meeting
subproject objectives. To monitor subproject effects, staff would select a few
easily identified and measurable indicators. Besides management, agency staff
would provide monitoring results to EUAD, EPAs and PEPA. The project would
provide internationally recruited technical assistance to assist most subprojects
establish a suitable monitoring system, vhile IGF would ensure these systems are
put in place.



- 42 -
4.14        Evaluation. EUAD, provincial and AJK P&Ds, IDA and appropriate NGOs
would undertake a mid-term reviev of the overall project and the individual
subprojects, and a final year evaluation of the subprojects. Staff from PEPA and
the respective provincial EPAs would be included in the subproject reviev teams
to ensure they see the results of environmental protection/natural resource
management policies. IDA obtained assurances from GOP that. in accordance with terms
of reference acceptable to IDA, EUAD and P&Ds of Punjab, Sindh, NWFP and AJK,
plus appropriate NGOs, jointly with IDA, and with observers from PEPA and
provincial EPAs as appropriate, would undertake: (i) a mid-term review of the
overall project and individual subprojects by no later than September 30, 1995,
and would produce a report identifying any required changes in project
implementation with vhich the project agencies would c-omply; and (ii) a final-
year evaluation of the individual subprojects during the projects' last year of
implementation.
4.15        IDASupevison. The project would require considerable supervision,
particularly during the first two years when the implementing agencies are
obtaining their technical assistance, finalizing project designs and initiating
project works. A high annual supervision input, however, is justified for this
project because of its importance in initiating institutional, policy and program
development, and because of its complexity. IDA staff have tried to reduce IDA's
supervision input by simplifying, to the extent possible, project design, and
obtaining cofinancier assistance. EEC vill provide the resources, either staff
or funds, to supervise WIKS and DKRD subprojects. IDA staff have also requested
EEC to fund short-term internationally recruited experts who would join IDA's
biannual supervision missions. Annex 11 contsins a proposed supervision plan for
IDA, which details the required annual staff inputs, and expected skill
requirements needed on supervision missions. During the project's first year IDA
would use approximately 16 staff weeks (sw) for supervision, 20 sw in the second
year, and 14 to 16 sw per year for the remaining years. During supervision IDA
staff should pay particular attention to the recruitment of additional staff,
procurement of technical assistance, establishment of the responsibilities and
vork programs of environmental protection institutions, interaction of subproject
staff with local communities, and a multi-disciplinary approach to implementing
the subprojects. To facilitate project start-up, EUAD and IDA (with technical
assistance) would organize a project launch vorkshop.
V. BENEFITS, JUSTIFICATION AND RISKS
A. Benefts and Justification
5.01        Benefits from the institutional strengthening under the project would
broadly fall into two categories: (i) those arising from an enhanced capability
vithin Pakistan to plan and implement environmentally sound rural development;
and (ii) improved public health through the implementation of environmental
policies regulating standards of air, water and soil pollution. For the first
category, the operational subprojects may be vieved as exercises developing
provincial and federal experience in the management of land resources, apart from
their worth in their own contexts. The outcomes of the subprojects may then
represent the type of specific, local benefits expected in the future as a result



- 43 -
of the institutional strengthening. As for the second category, a healthier
population may have its fullest expression on the macro-economic level with a
more productive labor force and a smaller burden of health-care costs. These
benefits cannot presently be quantified, but they should be measurable over time
5.02        Benefits from the operational subprojects include the folloving:
(i)   Watershed Rehabilitation       -  improved hydrology, reduction of
and Development                   surface run-off;
- reduction of soil loss and land
slides;
- reduction of downstream sedi-
mentation and flooding;
- preservation of rural
infrastructure;
- protection of agriculturally
productive land;
- restoration of agricultural
productivity;
- improvements in livestock
nutrition, health and
productivity;
- increased fuelvood, timber, wood
pulp production;
- Improvement of rural incomes,
nutrition, health.
(ii)   Rangeland Rehabilitation       - reduction of soil loss and
and Development                   compaction, protection of
existing foraging potential;
- development of fodder production;
- improvements in animal nutrition,
health and productivity;
- forest regeneration, increased
production of fuelvood;
- opportunities to investigate
future benefits from alpine
habitats.
(iii)   Afforestation/Vildlife         -  increased production of fuelvood
and forage;
- protection of shrimp and other
commercial fisheries;
- protection of coastal areas from
tidal action;
- opportunities to investigate
future benefits of habitat
preservation and the conservation
of bio-diversity.



- 44 -
5.03        The opportunities to investigate future benefits pimarily concern
the study of the alpine and sub-alpine pastures of the Upper Neelum Valley, AJK
and the wildlife survey in Punjab. The benefits attached to these opportunities
are conditional values placed on the availability of future information. They
are known as option values. Ordinarily, option values are meant to capture the
conditional consequences of not disturbing an area and its biology. Here, the
Punjabi wildlife survey itself would not have an option value, but should provide
background information with which option values for Punjabi wildlife preserves
might be later estimated.   The study would facilitate future planning.
Similarly, the study of the Upper Neelum Valley may provide information that
would support decisions to preserve habitats in the region in lieu of embarking
upon courses for developing them.  The study may also suggest that development
would probably outweigh the value of future information, but it would not be
predisposed toward development.
5.04        Many of the activities of the other operational subprojects would,
by their nature, directly result in production benefits. Afforestation will lead
to eventual produlction and other forest products, range improvements will benefit
livestock production, and so on. These activities, however, are also likely to
affect the productivity or environmental quality of adjacent areas.
Afforestation in the Murree Kahuta area, for example, should help prevent the
loss to erosion and hill slides of some neighboring existing agricultural
production as well as some infrastructure. It is not confidently known, however,
which areas presently or potentially under threat would benefit from proposed
actions and to what extent. Similar observations would also extend to actions
proposed for Dir Kohistan and Bhimber. As another example, the replanting of
mangroves in the Indus Delta may provide some protection to coastal villages
against erosion and lead to a reduction of siltation in navigation channels
around ports, but there is lirtle baseline data to assess the progress of any
current trends.
5.05        Because information does not yet exist to quantify many environmental
effects, the analysis necessary devolves to considering production benefits most
directly generated by project activities. Total benefits for the subprojects are
therefore likely to be underestimated. In the initial stages of implementation,
indicators will be selected for regular monitoring of environmental impacts.
This information should aid assessment of the subprojects as pilot works and
facilitate future project planning.
5.06        The project's implementation would lead to an increase in net
employment in some areas. For other areas proposed activities may release labor.
Ideally, the release of labor from one area of employment would allow other areas
to expand, provided that labor is mobile and other technical couditions are
right. For Pakistan, one can expect that the economic consequences of increased
or decreased labor demand induced by the project would vary regionally. There
may also be environmental consequences to shifts in the demand and supply of
labor. Moreover, these consequences may counter economic outcomes. For example,
terraces once installed need to be properly maintained.  Ironically in some
areas, emigration, although reducing local pressures on land use, appears to have
precipitated hillside degradation because labor to repair field works became less
available. The presumption here in the analysis of subproject benefits is that



- 45 -
labor cost savings would neither increase net rural underemployment nor hurt
overall welfare nor appreciably affect environmental conditions.
5.07        The border prices for maJ^r tradable commodities in the economic
analyses were derived frou World Bank projections of cif or fob values adjusted
for local handling and transportation costs to the farm gate. The economic price
for fuelwood was derived on the basis of its equivalent kerosene content. The
domestic price for fuelwood was found largely to correspond with its border prlce
equlvalent. A Standard Conversion Factor (SCF) of 0.9 was used for converting
the domestic prices of non-tradable or minor tradable commodities into their
border prlce equLvalents. Annex 12 contains other comments concerning the prlces
used In the analyses. All values are in constant March-1992 terms.
5.08        The incremental physical production benefits of the operational
subprojects at full development, excluding the Neelum Valley and Punjab wildlife
studies, are as in Table 5.1.
Tbl i.l Subprojct Physical Producilon Benefits
Riverine
Shimber     Dir      Murree      Nangroves   Forests
Crops (ton/yr)             10,140      1,600
Fruit (ton/yr)                720      2.880      12,000
Farm Fodder (ton/yr)        6,850      1,080      42,000'a
Forest Fodder (ton/yr)     n.a. lb    n. a b                     4,800
Neat (ton/yr)/C              365        200
Fuelwood (tons)         120,000    160,000       180,000      586,000   676,600
Timber (ft3/yr)        3,200,000  4,000,000
Fish (ton/yr)                                                      400
/a Total production from intercropping alfalfa during orchard establisbment.
/b The mix of fodder/fuelwood species is undetermined, but a yield of 10-15
kg per tree producing fodder might be expected by year 10 of planting.
/c Liveveight ton per year.
Some of the forestry benefits occur as late eS 45 years after the start of the
project. For most of the annual benefits full development is reached within ten
years. Particular cases, for example, incremental shrimp production under the
Indus Delta mangroves subprojects, are discussed in Annex 12.
5.09        The base financial and economic internal rates of return for these
subprojects are the following:



- 46 -
Internal Rate of Return
Financial       Economic
- (X)-
Bhimber                    13             12
Dir                        12             12
Murree                     14             14
Mangrov s                  12              12
Riverins Forests           27             30
Annex 12 describes the basis of these estimates.  An overall project rate of
return has not been calculated because of the difficulty of quantifying benefits
from the institutional strengthening and other preparatory vork included among
project costs. The performance of the subprojects is not overly sensitive to
variations in costs and benefits,
B. Environmental E#fct
5.10        Under the provisions of the Bank-Group Operational Directive 4.00,
Annex A, the project falls within the environmental screening category C. As
already stated, environmentally the project would have the beneficial effects of
Initiating the upgrading ard strengthening of Pakistan's environmental protection
institutions so that they can deal with environmental protection and natural
resource conservation in a systematic and planned manner. It would increase the
agencies' capabilities to formulate environmental policy, and to have that policy
introduced  into  public  and  private  development  expenditures.    Besides
rehabilitating, maintaining and/or improving the natural resource base, the
natural resource rehabilitation subprojects vould add to the general
understanding of how to solve site specific environmental degradation of
watersheds, rangelands and natural habitats, and would allow environmental
policy-makers to monitor the effects of current environmental policy.   Tne
project's possible adverse environmental effects should be minimal. The project
will not introduce any new exotic tree or pasture species, and will desil=
operations to minimize any potential negative effects of exotic species vhich the
project will plant. For example, eucalyptus trees, which compete fiercely with
crop and pasture for moisture, will not be planted in prime crop or pasture land.
C. Risks
Instuonal Stngtening
5.11        UnertInty within govwment ovr tw  atus and reponlbWlills. of EUAD/PEPA nz -
delythetaffmngandaenda. Fewer problems are foreseen at the provincial level as
the governments of 8indh, Punjab, and NWFP appear keen to enhance and expand the
capabilities of their EPAs. At the federal level, however, there is a risk thit
GOP will not provide adequate, sustained support and finance to EUAD/PEPA and to
priority work programs. Moreover, delays at the federal level in deleogating tc
ZPAs authority to act under the Ordinance may also constrain the operation of th;
EPA*. To reduce these risks, the proposed institutional strengthening closel:



- 47 -
follows NCS recommendations which GOP has endorsed; incremental staff recruited
under the project would become permanent government employees at the project's
conclusion, and environmental issues would be introduced into GOP's formal
economic planning and review process of investment decisions, particularly
through the use of EIA procedures.
Operational Subprojects
5.12        In general, the significant risks associated with the operational
subprojects are essentially not so much technical as they are social and
institutional: the achievement of specific physical objectives will depend more
upon the effective transmission of information, the availability of support
services and adequacy of incentives than upon the availability of technical
choices.  Experience in Pakistan has already demonstrated the suitability of
afforestation techniques, crop responses to alternative cultural practices, live-
weight gains of animals feeding on improved pastures, and so on. The lack of
proven technologies is not a binding constraint to improving the productivity of
many  of  the  lands  under  the  project.    Advertising  this  fact  through
demonstrations in the field, however, is not enough to ensure adoption. What has
also been demonstrated in Pakistan -- particularly when considering the
implementation of the Income-Generating Projects for Refugee Areas -- is that
applications of technology without reference to a social context, although
perhaps momentarily very successful, have no impact upon the human factors at
work in the dynamics of environmental degradation, and are not sustainable.
Although there are instances when not having the mechanics to transfer
information is a serious constraint, where the facilities are in place it is the
process of the extensi3n effort, not just its performance, that plays a critical
role.
5.13        Local communities may reject government Initiatives to Introduce a regulated use of
range and fores larnds. The process of the extension effort would be particularly
Important in the cases of the Dir Kohistan and Bhimber subprojects, for which the
control of livestock would be a crucial objective. Attempts to introduce novel
ideas for organizing the use of pastures have a notorious record of failure
around the world. Time and again, Bank project performance audits point to the
need for more local involvement in the design and implementation of projects.
Potentially DKRD and BURD subprojects, among others, also run the risk of "top-
down" implementation. However, a "top-down" implementation would be particularly
unlikely to succeed in DKRD as communities in this area have in the past differed
with the government over titles to lands and users' rights. Fortunately there
are at least two xamples of successful integrated projects in Pakistan that
should provide useful paradigms for land management and rural development. These
are the Malakand Social Forestry Project and the Kalam Development Project, both
located in Northwest Frontier Province. Both well incorporate much community
participation. As the project gets under way, Malakand and Kalam will become
venues for the training of staff assigned to the subprojects. The training would
cover in detail the methodology used to establish and maintain a community
dialogue and examine where the projects have and have not been successful in
their activities.    To the fullest,  practical extent, work plans of the
subprojects are expected to conform to the approaches adopted at Malakand and



- 48 -
Kalam. The alpine study in AJK and the Punjab wildlife survey may also be in a
position to solicit community participation in the - nduct of the research.
5.14        Individuals may not be able to finance proposed farm Improvements. Apart from
community participation, an institutional risk of some importance to the MMKS,
DKRD and BURD subprojects is the provision of rural credit. In varying degrees
these subprojects vould involve the adoption of improved farm practices and the
establishment of orchards. Changes in cropping patterns and the intensification
of cultivation will increase the working capital requirement of farms. While the
project is providing for fruit tree nurseries, individuals would bear the cost
of orchard establishment and maintenance. Farmers will have to finance these
costs from savings and/or borroving.   The total net credit requirement will of
course vary according to the amounts individuals are able to self-finalice. If
farmers contribute 30X of the orchard development costs, for example, borrow the
balance and repay the loan over four years at 14X interest following a grace
period of two years, the net credit requirement of the orchard development at
MMKS, DKRD and BURD would be about Rs 29 million, considering reflows.
5.15        Since ADBP and the other commercial banks do not have a strong
presence in some of the more remote project areas, the obtaining of credit in
these areas could retard subproject implementation.   Although proposed farm
improvements in general could be affected, the availability of credit would
particularly influence the take up of apple or other fruit production.   To
overcome this risk, assurances worn obtained at negotiations that project staff
would inform the local bank offices in the subproject areas of any proposed
developments, and would include them in project discussions with communities when
appropriate.
5.16        The quantty and quality of water In the Indus delta may eliminate the utility of
replanting mangroves. While mangrove stands have suffered as a result of over-
exploitation, there are other factors at work which may seriously affect the
health of the habitat despite reforestation. For example, the development of
irrigation upstream has reduced the flow of fresh water, raising the average
level of salinity in the Indus Delta.   Increased quantities of agricultural
pollution are also entering the river. There may also be an impact from the
pollutants of coastal Indian industries when currents reverse during the year.
Studies under the project should help clarify whether regulatory measures should
be applied outside the confines of the mangroves.
VI. AGREEMENTS AND RECOMMENDATION
6.01        During negotiations agreements were reached with GOP, GOProvinces
and GOAJK on tHe following points:
(i)  EDo%  fould establish, recruit and staff the three sections by
December 31, 1992, (para 3.03);
(ii)  PEPA would recruit and place one Director and three Deputy Directors
by December 31, 1992, a second Director and three Deputy Directors



- 49 -
by December 31, 1993, and the third Dlrector by December 31, 1994
(para 3.04);
(iLL)  Sindh EPA would recruit and flll at least four of its seven
sanctLoned Assistant Director positions by December 31, 1992; the
remaining three Assistant Director positions by June 30, 1994; and
the four Deputy Director positions, together vith the necessary
support staff positions by June 30 1995 (para 3.05);
(iv)  NWFP EPA would recruit and fill two Deputy Dlrector, flve Assistant
Director and two administrative staff positions, together with the
necessary support staff poaLtions, by June 30, 1994 (para 3.06);
(v) Punjab's P&D vould establish and staff lts environmental section by
December 31, 1992 (para 3.10);
(vi)   DEPH would hire at least two additional full-time teaching staff to
work with GIS by December 31, 1992 (para 3.13);
(vii)   implementing agencies would furnish proposals for any training under
the project to IDA for its prior review and approval (para 3.22);
(vLii)   federal and provincial agencles would finalize arrangements and sign
contracts for engaging consultants,.as outlined in paras 3.23-24,
with qualifications and under condiltons acceptable to IDA by March
31, 1993 (para 3.24);
(is)   EUAD, Sindh and NWFP EPAs, and P&Ds of Punjab, Sindh, NWFP and AJK
would: (a) submit proposals for studies to IDA for review and
approval before commencing the studies, and (b) engage consultants
wLth qualifications and under conditlons acceptable to IDA for
undertaking the studies (part 3.25);
(z) implementing agenciss would: (a) maintain separate project accounts
which independent auditors, acceptable to IDA and using procedures
satisfactory to IDA, would audit annually, (b) have thelr audLtors
issue separate opinions on project accounts, disbursements from the
special accounts, and SOEs and supportlng documents used as a basis
for disbursements from the credit, (c) provide their auditors
unaudited project accounts within three months of the fiscal year's
end (by September 30), and (d) submit an audit report of project
accounts to IDA within nine months of the fiscal year's end (by
March 31) (para 3.42);
(si)   the Council would hold its initial meeting by December 31, 1992, and
thereafter meet regularly at least twice a year (para 4.03);
(zil)   environmental sections in PC and Punjab's P&D, and the provincial
EPAs, by July 1, 1993, would: (a) commence screening all public
development expenditures, and (b) require government agencies to
undertake EIA procedures for all public investments considered
likely to adversely affect the environment (para 4.04);



- 50 -
(ziii) government staff would inform ADBP and/or the branch of the
commerclal bank ln the area of any proposed subproject development,
and would invlte them to join project implementation discussLons
with local communities when appropriate (par. 4.12);
(ziv)   in accordance with terms of reference acceptable to IDA. WUAD and
P&Ds of Punjab, 8indh, NVFP and AJK, plus appropriate NGOs, jointly
with IDA, and with observers from VIVA and provincial IPAs as
appropriate would undertake: (a) a mid-term review of the overall
project and individual subprojects by no later than September 30,
1995, and would produce a report ldentifylng any required changes
in project implementation wLth vhich the project agencLes would
comply, and (b) a final-year evaluation of the individual
subprojects durLng the project's last year of implementation (part.
4.14).
6.02        The IDA credlt would not become effectlve until ECNEC or CDVP or
PDWP, as the case may be, has approved the project's PC-la and sanctioned project
ezpenditures (par, 3.30).
6.03        With the above assurances and conditions, the project would be
suitable for an IDA credit of SDR 21.4 million (US$29.2 million equivalent) on
standard terms with a 35-year maturity.  The Borrower would be the Islamic
Republic of Pakistan.



'AN
ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AND RESOURCE CONSERVATION PROJECT
Detailed Cost Estimate by Category
PR*                            U                             Totel
*--------------------------------   ...........................   X foreign  gm
Local   Foreign     Total      Leol Foreign   Total       Exf_W       Cste
1. IEUWITENIT COS
.................... . . .. . .. . ..                    .. . .. . .. . . .. . .. . .. . .. . .. . .. . .
A. Clvii Notice                58627.6     214.0   59041.6      23S5.5     8.5  2364.0          0.4      4*.9
B. Afforestation               2788.2    1535.1  260183.3    11157.3    61.3 11216.6             0.5      23.4
C. Field Wafrt                  126725.3      0.0  126725.3      5074.1     0.0  5074.1          0.0      10.6
0. Vilage belnt                35776.0       0.0   35776.0      1432.5     0.0  1432.5          0.0       3.0
E. Vehicle                       10810.8   23927.9   34736.?      432.9  9ff.1  1390.9          68.9       2.9
F. Equipnt
1. Offce Equint               3212.5    3946.7    7159.2       128.8   157.8   266.7         55.1       0.6
2. Office Furniture           3092.9       0.0    3092.9       123.8     0.0   123.6          0.0       0.3
3. Laoatory Equipmt           2942.2    9669.4   12611.6       117.9   387.1   505.0         76.7       1.1
4. Computers/pr/Softwre    216.S   10388.2   13304.6           117.2   415.5 S32.?           78.1       1.1
S. Tools/SuptiesNJiterials    23636.6   14863.5   36700.1      954.6   55O  1549.6           38.4       3.2
6. Boks 9 Jowrne                145.1     525.6     670.7        5.6    21.0    26.9         76.4       0.1
i;;~; ................................. ................................. .......................
Su-Total                        3614.8   39393.3   75539.1       1448.2  1576.4  3024.6         52.1       6.3
6. Conmultmncies
1. International             22118.4   88473.6  110592.0       885.6  3542.5  421.1          60.0       9.3
2. Local                      11063.6      0.0   11063.6       443.0     0.0   443.0          0.0       0.9
3. studies                    31246.5  124985.9  156232.4     1251.1  5004.4  6255.5         8o.0      13.1
Sih-Totol                       6428.s  21359.5  2778.0          2579.7  854.9 11126.6          76.8      23.3
N. TraInina
1. ov_raa                        0.0   46030.2   44030.2         0.0   84.0  1843.0         100.0       3.9
2. Local                      2857.3        0.0    2857.3      114.4     0.0   114.4          0.0       0.2
Sub-Total                        2857.3   4030.2   48.5           14.4 8         1937.5         94.2       4.1
1.  lic Ediatien               40509.2       0.0   4009.2       1622.0     0.0  1622.0          0.0       3.4
Total  WSTHENT COSTS           654728.6  324540.0  979288.7   26216.4 129.93 39210.8            33.1      81.9
.....................                 . ...               .. . .. . .. . .. .. . .. . .. . .. . .. . .. .
II. * KAUUUT COSTS
A. Vehicle 0111                 12220.7   12257.S   2478.2        490.1   490.1   960.1         50.1       2.0
S. aborksEquiwnmt 0N             8061.9   1060.1   18742.1        323.2   427.2   750.4         57.0       1.6
C. Incremental Staff            124761.5      0.0  124761.5      4995.5     0.0  4995.5          0.0      10.4
D. dministrative Overad         47935.6       0.0   4735.6       1919.3     0.0  1919.3          0.0       4.0                Pr
.................................   ..........................   ......,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,.v...
Total tEMAEUT tOSTS             192979.8   22937.6  215917.4     77T8.1   917.3  865.3          10.6      18.1                I!
Total BASELINE COSTS           847708.6  347497.6 1195206.1    33944.5  13911.6 47856.1         29.1     100.0
Physical Contiemncies         716S8.5   34760.S  106418.9     2869.2  1391.8  4261.0         32.7       6.9
Price Contingenies           220542.0   76378.1  29692.0      3831.4  1238.5  5069.9         24.4      10.6
,.,..... ,...........................  ...........................  ............................ o@v**^co*
loW. PoRcCIs Costs            1139909.0  458636.1  1598545.1    40645.1  16541.9 57187.0        26.9     119.5
vait1  Saled tpv 1000.0 -  4/22/192  15:14



PAKISTAN
ENWJIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AND RESOURCE CONSERVATION PROJECT
Detailed Cost Table by Implementing Govermsent
(Rs  '000)
Ppcsl              Price
Fdacral                                                             CngIssU             Cmvtinguwis
at         j       Sinj        oP    KuI            Total         S                  S
1. IIUWSTET CTS
A. Civil .l ....                       0.0    5289.0   1460.5   13637.1   254.9   59041.6            15.0    8856.2    14.4    32.3
O. Affortatien                         0.0  122322.3   24563.5   62365.4   70932.1  280183.3         10.0   201.S3    27.3   74527.4
C. Field Vorks                         0.0   63302.4        0.0   27939.2   3548.6  126725.3         10.0   127.S    30.7   313.7
0. VII lags eveqmnt                    0.0   13760.0        0.0   13760.0    8256.0   35776.0         0.0        0.0    29.6   10560.7
E. Vuicles                          1477.2   11190.1    674.2    6357.6    9239.5   34736.7          10.0    3473.9    12.0    4161.3
F. Eqiipmt
1. Office Equint                   2674.0    U28.7       291.4    1309.9    1455.2    7159.2        10.0     T15.9    11.1       M..0
2. Office Furniture                 967.4      79.9      137.2      6S.7     562.7    3092.9       10.0      309.3    10.6      335.1
3. Laboraty Ep nt                   S61.0    232.7    1548.0    7612.6        497.4   12611.6       10.0    1261.2    11.9    1S06.5
4. Caaut/iplSft                   11512.0       0.0      760.3    1024.3        0.0   13304.6       10.0    1330.5    1S.2    20.6
5. Toot iSsleliesteriala             76.7   16999.9    5115.0    2893.4   1361S.1   3700.1          10.0    3670.0    17.5    67m.2
6. ocs  Jomls                      179.2      107.5     192.0      192.0       0.0      670.7      10.0       67.1    17.5      117.3
...... ............. .........;:i............................................................................
Sub-total                         1590.3   216.6    60516    13747.6   16130.4   75539.1            10.0    7553.9    1S.3   1154.7
6. Consultanmies
1. InternationaL                  19593.1   20463.9   16109.9   32219.7   22205.5  110592.0         10.0   11059.2    17.5   19W7.2
2. Local                           1496.4    246.7    1702.0    2490.2    2526.2   11063.6          10.0    1106.4    21.5    2304.2
3. Studies                        2049.5   25611.9   64029.7   3329.4   1280.9  156232.4            10.0   15423.2    26.0   40631.4
................................................................................................................
S.htotal                          41579.0   4924.5   8141.5   6600.4   3737.7  277 .0               10.0   271.6    22.5   612.
N. Training
1. OveNre                          6349.2    5319.6   12M  ..L   13702.3    7m.3   4030.2           10.0   4"0.0    21.0   11954.
2. Locl                             311.7      192.4      34.4    122.1    1026.6    257.3         10.0    2M.7    30.0          5.9
................................................................................................................
USbtotal                            60.9    5512.0   12956.1   14904.5    671.9   4M7.S             10.0    48.6    21.2   12610.7
1. halAi EU atimn                  135.1         0.0   1350.1   1350.1           0.0   40509.2       10.0    405.9    29.7   123.2
................................................................................................................
Total UIIN EU  CTS                 79190.5  291M99.1  142060.7  2310.2  21174S.2  9998.7              9.9   97m.4    21.3   275717.6
II.  RECU     COIST
A. Vlehile OIlS                     1107.1    8215.3    4160.3    407.9    6W.6   24478.2            10.0    2447.6    30.6    751.5
S. arlugmt Om1                      4609.5    S6S9.1    2336.2    1004.4    5012.6   16742.1         10.0    167.2    30.6   S .2
C. inclammtol Staff                1660.3   36195.2   1496.8   19250.6   33688.4  124761.5            0.0        0.0    25.9   32330.0
0. dministratiw Overhed            20173.1    19.7        646.7    3476.9    9039.2   47n.6          10.0    4M.6    20.S   13M.5             '
Total Wt         COSTS             430.1   66707.2   22112.0   2S220.1   545ZS.0  215917.4            4.2    9115.6    27.5   59402.2         *
Total LMELINE COSTS               123540.6  35864.3  184172.7  262530.3  266316.3  1195206.1          8.9  10616.9    24.6  2693M.6                IF
Physical Contingemnce            10506.0   3093.6   1764.0   23633.8   23669.5  106416.9
Price Contingencies              28962.6   6657.    45756.1   69106.9   683.6 2S90.0                7.9   2347.9
................................................................................................................
To:al PROJECT COSTS               163011.3  474237.7  2475U.S   3ss2n3.0  358"0.4  lS9854.1           S.1  1290".9    U3.4   2MM2.O



ANNEX 1
- 53 -
PAKISTAN
ENVIRONIIAL PROTECTION AND RESOURCE CONSERVATION PROJECT
Estimte Annual Project Expenditures
total, ntsludg1e  Cnvt1.go-es
..                                  ......SC.....................
92)93     93/%       9/9                               9srn       Tot
A. Fedrl Delor  160.7    596.2   34106.4    252.2   170.9   16M.9  16301.3
U. Punjab                             34.0    M65.    106766.4  113453.3    "055.0   31813.2   4 3.7
C. Sinid                             28161.?   61422.1   4524.0   66 .4   42211.6   237.0  24756.6
D. mWP                               26.5    M9M.    715S6.7   74 .6   6109.0   42740.2  35527.0
E. Axe Kasbu1I                       50382.8   72103.8   5606.8   666V.0    5#.2   5596.7  35840.4
Total PECTS COT                      115.8    5.6   316290.3  32966.6  23 .6   11027.  19654.1
j............................ o............................................................... .0 ..... ON..........
VYlues Staled by 1000.0 4/221992 1S:14
Totals gcltusf1  Cmntlreees
.....................................................O.......0......0..........
9/90      f93/94      945        95/6       ffm        9/9        rtotal
A. foderat l  vl g                     612.7    1847.0 -  122.6         100.3      5.2        54.6      546.9
A. Peuljlb                            2573.6    3431.3    3M90.4    39.7    205.9    1061.4    121.3
C. Sf nh                              t17.1    2246.5       1619.4    1644.8    142.4          60.9       60.1
0. NfP                                1043.0    2671.1    2559.4    2611.6    2116.5    145.6   1256.4
E. Azad  auler                        192.7    26.2    2021.1          24.3        1970.7    191.4   1264.4
................. ...O .......S.s. O.s.........SS...........
Total PewtECTS COtt                    732.1    130.1    11313.1    11605.6    6166.6    5613.5   s7187.0
..                        ..eSSSSw*.*S we....*.......SSSS....... .   .. . . . . . . . . . . 
Valtus Scaed by 1000.0 4/21m     15:14



- 54 -                         ANEX I
Table 3
PAKISTAN
ENVIROENNTAL PROTECTION AND RESOURCE CONSERVATION PROJECT
Estimted Schedule of Disbursements
IDA Fiscal Year             IDA                Cumulative            Percent of
and Quarter          Disbursements         Disbursements        Credit Disbursed
--------------------(US$ million)--------------------
FY93-1                      2.0/1                  2.0                     7
-2                      -                     2.0                     7
-3                                            2.0                     7
-4                      -                     2.0                     7
FY94-1                      0.2                    2.2                     8
-2                      0.3                   2.5                     9
-3                      0.5                   3.0                    10
-4                      0.5                   3.5                    12
FY95-1                      0.5                    4.0                    14
-2                      0.5                   4.5                    15
-3                      0.5                   5.0                    17
-4                      0.5                   5.5                    19
FY96-1                      1.0                    6.5                   22
-2                      1.0                   7.5                    26
-3                      1.0                   8.5                    29
-4                      1.0                   9.5                    33
PY97-1                      1.5                   11.0                    38
-2                      1.5                  12.5                    43
-3                      1.5                  14.0                    48
-4                      1.5                  15.5                    53
FY98-1                      1.5                   17.0                   58
-2                      1.5                  18.5                    63
-3                      1.5                  20.0                    68
-4                      1.5                  21.5                    74
FY99-1                      2.0                   23.5                   80
-2                      2.0                  25.5                    87
-3                      1.5                  27.0                    92
-4                      1.5                  28.5                    98
FYOO-1                      0.7                   29.2                  100
/1 Initial deposits into Special Accounts



- 55 -                          NuuI
Table 4
PAKISTAN
ENVIRONMENTAL POECTION AND RESORCE CONSERVATION PROJECT
ropo d- ANocaotn of Credi Funds
NU nUon)
IDA Credit        EECI1
Category                               Total1'          Anount            Grant
1     Civil Works, Reforestation
and Field Works
(i)   Punjab                          8.3              1.42'          4.1
(ii)   Sindh                           1.7               1.5           -
(iii)   NWFP                            4.6               -             3.3
(iv)   AJK                             5.8              4.8            -
Subtotal                       20.4              7.7            7.4
2.    Community Dve lopuent
(i)   Punjab                          0.6               -             0.3
(ii)   NWFP                            0.6               -             0.3
(iii)   AJK                             0.3               0.24L         -
Subtotal                        1.5              0.2            0.6
3.    Vehicles, Motorcycles, Equipment.
Furniture and Books
(i)   GOP                             0.7              0.5./          -
(ii)   Punjab                          1.3              0.6            0.5
(iii)   Sindh                           0.6               0.5           -
(iv)  3WFP                             0.8              0.4            0.4
(v)   AJK                             1.1              0.8            -
Subtotal                        4.5              2.8            0.9
4.   Technical Assistance and
Studies
(i)   GOP                             1.8               1.49          -
(ii)   Punjab                          2.1               1.3           0.4
(iii)   8indh                           3.5               2.8           -
(iv)   311P                            2.9               1.7           0.7
(v)   AJK                             1.6               1.3           -
Subtotal                       11.9              8.5            1.1



- 56-                                A_X  1
Table 4
Page 2
IDA Credit        REC
Category                                Total           Amount             Grant
S.    Training and Mass Awareness
(i)   GOP                             0.9               0.9z,
(Li)   Punjab                          0.2               0.2
(III)   8indh                           1.2               1.2
(iv)   31FP                            1.3               1.0            0.3
(v)   AJK                             0.4               0.4            -
Subtotal                        4.0               3.7            0.3
6.    Incremental Staff Salaries
and Operating Costs
(i)   GOP                             1.0               0.6/           -
(ii)   Punjab                          2.1               0.8            0.9
(iLi)   Sindh                           0.9               0.5            -
(iV)  NWP                              1.0               0.2            0.8
(v)   AK                              1.9               1.1            -
Subtotal                        6.9               3.2            1.7
7.    Unallocatedl
(M)   GOP                             0.6               0.5            -
(ii)   Punjab                          1.7               0.5            0.8
(iii)   Sindh                           1.0               0.7            -
(iv)   MWP                             1.3               0.4            0.7
(v)   AJK                             1.3               1.0            -
Other                                 2.1               -              -
Subtotal                        8.0               3.1            1.5
Total                          57.2              29.2           13.5
1/    Categories 1 to 6 conslst of base costs plus approximately 67% of the
price contingencies.
2/    EEC would disburse 100% of  spenditures less any farmer expenditures.
3/    Credit disbursements would be 90% of expenditures less any farmer
ezpenditures.
4/    Credit disbursements would be 60% of expenditures.
5/    Credit disbursements would be 100% of foreign exchange expenditures;
100% of ez-factory prices of locally manufactured items; 70% of local
costs for imported items purchased locally.
6/    Credit disbursements would be 80% of expenditures.
7/    Credit disbursements would be 100% of expenditures.
8/    Credit disbursements would be 80% until US$1.6 million disbursed, then
60% until US$2.8 million disbursed, then 40% thereafter.
9/    This includes physical contingencies plus 33% of price contingencies.



- 57 -
ANNEX 2
PAKISTAN
ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AND RESOURCE CONSERVATION PROJECT
MUuw, Kahuta and Kotil Sattlan Upland RehabilItation and Development
INTRODUCTION
1.          In Pakistan, the economy of the Himalayan mountain region is
dominated by a rural sector which is based almost exclusively on agriculture.
Crop production, livestock husbandry and forestry constitute the three main
components of mountain agriculture which is characterized by extreme diversity
and complexity. In the past, integration developed by the hill communities
between crops, livestock and forests allowed the needed levels of agricultural
productivity, but now rapid population growth has resulted in the
fragmentation of land holdings, increased competition for scarce resources,
degradation of land due to overuse and soil erosion and gradual breakdown of
the fragile upland farming systen. Whether the mountain regions can still
contribute to the economic and social good of the people needs serious
consideration. The wide-spread ecological deterioration has become a topic of
major concern in recent years.
2.          The degradation of the hill environment is essentially caused by
heavy pressure on the vegetative cover from ever-increasing livestock numbers
and the growing human population. The pressure has manifested itself in the
form of deforestation; over grazing; crop cultivation on steep slopes;
excessive run off; loss of productive top soil; widening of river beds in
downstream areas; and disruption of conventional linkages between the local
communities and the high-land agricultural system.
3.          In response to the pressure of population growth, a number of
options have been tried to ameliorate the situation. They included:
colonization of new and marginal lands; migration; off-farm employment; food
for work programs and so on, but the process of transforming the economic
structure of hilly areas has turned out to be disappointingly slow. A proper
understanding of the socio-economic and bio-physical dimensions is essential
for planning and making public interventions more accurately targeted and
economically efficient.
RATIONALE
4.          The project area is a part of the Jhelum catchment that falls
within the MKDA (Murree Kahuta Development Authority) jurisdiction. It is
densely populated comprising both public (forest) and private lands with a
high potential for preventive as well as curative erosion control measures.
Although most of the'catchment is heavily eroded and there are many active
landslides, there are areas where the erosion processes have not yet
destablized the hill slope. Here soil conservation activities could be
successful.



-58 -
ANNEX 2
Page 2
5.          The level of poverty caused by soil erosion and poor agricultural
yields is not known with precision. However, as proven elsewhere, farm yields
can increase significantly if upland agriculture (including livestock
production) is organized in conjunction with forestry on sound management
lines. In this manner, pressure can be reduced on forest and pasture lands
thereby minimizing the chances of accelerated erosion.
THE PROJECT AREA
6.          The project area comprises Murree tehasil, hilly parts of Kahuta
tehail, and Kotli Sattian tehsil (recently created out of Murree and Kahuta
tehails) in Rawalpindi district, with 385 villages scattered over a total area
of 1,834 sq km. The altitude ranges from 600 m in the south to more than
2,000 m in the northern part of the project area. The landscape is
characterized by four parallel ridges running from north-east towards south-
west. The bedrock predominantly consists of tertiary sandstone and shale.
The soil is shallow at steep slopes and deep where the slopes are gentle.
7.    The project area lies in the warm, temperate zone.  Winters are cold and
aummers are warm. In winter, 1 to 2 m of snow falls above 910 m altitude. In
Murree-Kahuta hill region, the mean annual precipitation ranges from 760 mm to
1,500 mm. Approximately 50X of the total area is forest land. Most of the
forests within the reach of roads and settlements are denuded and over-
utilized. Twenty-five percent is guzara land (community land) with sparse
vegetation and 25X is cultivable land. The main crops are maize, wheat,
vegetables, and fruits. The land holdings are very small ranging from 1 to 3
kanals1 per family. Government forest is either reserved (without any right
of the people) or protected forest (right of people to get timber for house
construction, collection of fuelvood and grazing of animals). Seventy-five
percent of the income from the forests on community land goes to the people.
The rest goes to the government and is spent on the management of these
forests.
8.          The population of Murree has been increasing at the rate of 3.1X
over the past 20 years. It currently stands at 246,000 having doubled over
this period. This has led to an outward expansion of the villages, to the
fragmentation of family farm holdings and to out-migration of the economically
active population. Cropping as an activity is becoming increasingly less
viable, forcing farmers to plant orchards on their land. In Murree 95X and in
Kahuta 65X of the food grain has to be imported from the plains. On an
average, a family holds 3-4 animals (mostly goats and sheep, some
buffaloes/cattle).
1X     8 kanals - 1 acre.



- 59 -
ANNEX= 2
Page 3
OBJECTIVES
9.          The proposed project would endeavor to: (i) stabilize the hillside
landscape in Murree and Kahuta areas of Rawalpindi district which are under
serious threat from soil erosion and landslides; (ii) diversify and increase
agricultural production and farmer income; (iii) improve productivity of
community land; and (iv) improv, village infrastructure.
PROJECT COMPONENTS
10.         The project will comprise thie following components:
(i)   Collection and analysis of data followed by land use planning to
identify priority work areas for reforestation and upland pasture
improvement;
(ii)   production of planting material - 16 million container and bare
rooted plants of forest species and 100,000 plants of fruit tree;
(iii)   reforestation of 12,000 ha of private or community land with pines
and broad leaved species;
(iv)   soil conservation works followed by planting of forest species
over 12,000 ha;
(v)   Terracing followed by planting of vegetables and fruit trees over
1,200 ha;
(vi)   distribution of 60,000 kits of vegetable seed and giving extension
services;
(vii)   improvement of pasture and browse by reseeding with selected
grasses and fodder trees;
(viii)   training of farmers in bio-cultural soil conservation and upland
agriculture through extension services and demonstration plots;
(ix)   support to implementing agency through the provision of additlonal
staff, vehicles, equipment and technical assistance.
IMPLEMENTATION
11.         The project will be implemented by 21RDA with the assistance of
Forestry, Agrlculture, Animal Husbandry and Highway Departments. The project
wvll be carried out over a period of six years. The first year vill be
devoted to preparatory phase which includes identlfication of priority work
areas on the basis of diagnostic surveys using multLdisciplinary teams;
appointment of staff and consultants; procurement of equipment and vehicles,
establishment of nurseries and the startiLng of all the aspects of the
subproject works. Works will be stopped up during planting of blank/under



- 60 -
ANNEX 2
Page 4
stocked forests; regeneration of degraded pastures; bLo-engineering soil
conservation vorks (check dams, gully plugging, interceptor drains, and so on)
and diversification of upland agriculture.
(I) Forety Component:
The project is designed to reduce peak run-off after heavy monsoon
rains vhich causes flash floods vith serlous erosion and accelerated siltation
of river beds. For this purpose, reforestation vill be carried out over
12,000 ha of private and community land at an estimated 40% vith chir pine;
25% vith Ailanthus; 25% vith Robinia and 10% vith Eucalyptus. Existing land
use pattern within the project area would limit the establishment of perennial
vegetative cover as a measure against erosion. Hence some engineering
measures would also be required at critical locations to check erosion and
gully formation. These 12,000 ha would thus be protected by check damming,
gully plugging, constructing interceptor drains and groving vetiver grass
hedges along the contours.
(I5) Seedling production:
The proposed plantation and distribution program would require
production of about 16 million seedlings over a period of 4-5 years. To
achieve this target, the Forest Department would establish 15 ha of nev
nurseries in addition to the existing ones. Chir pine (Plnus roxburghll)
would be raised to restock community forests vhile Ailanthus, Robinia and
Eucalyptus would be produced for establishing fuelwood and soil conservation
plantations on private lands.
(II1) Agriculture component:
Program for food, fodder, fuel and fruit production would extend
the on-going activity of the Agriculture Department. The project vould
introduce improved production technology over 2,000 ha of maize and vheat
area. Varieties that have been developed by agricultural research for hilly
areas would be propagated with appropriate fertilizer and pesticide inputs.
Areas with slopes steeper than 30% vill not be terraced. Hovever
dilapidated terraces vould be repaired over 1,200 ha of ezisting farmland
mainly for vegetable growing. To assist the introduction of high value crops
in Murree/Kahuta, the project would distribute an initial 60,000 kits of
improved vegetable seeds to farmers free of cost. The project vould supply at
cost about 100,000 fruit plants for establishing orchards over 2,000 ha.
(Iv) Uvesock component:
Farmers would be induced to increase on-farm fodder production
partly by growing maize varieties which are suitable for both grain and fodder
production, and partly by planting trees/shrubs whose foliage can be used as
green fodder.



- 61 -
ANNE 2
Page 5
(v) Fir fightng:
Flres damage not only young regeneratlon but also the mature
trees. Adequate arrangements are not avallable for the control of forest
flres. Since forest fires are highly detrimental to the environment,
provislon has been made ln the project for the procurement of fire fighting
equipment.
COST
U2          The total cost (including physical and price contingencies) is
esttm*ted at Re 284.8 million (US$10.2 million equivalent) as shown in the
U1,16 UeLow.



-62-                                                  ANNEX 2
Page 6
rtal Ptl Pakista
gawirinnta  Pmatenetn a sNearne  cionua   1nti
Punjoi Surrge Kdwtsad rn Athf gattian
Detiled Cast TOM
imntity
Iht   92am    93/94  94        9s/f   96/    97/94  Total       Total      Total
..... .......  .................................................................... ....... ......... . .   ........
1. INWSTMT CSTS
................                                                                                                          co
A. foreetry
Prpatory wark              tuw .   ...                                       . a09.1                            14.9
Nuflfy tOa  * Irodloof 4M  a.itn               3       4      5       4       0            t6      30622.6     109.2
Oistributtun of Seedlings 'Is  ul ings         2       4      4       4       2      0      16     1626.6      583.6
W'hid True Ptwtino         hectre           7n0   3000   40        3eo    710        0  12000      29M.0    1067.4
muraery staOp - Fruft 4  1000ow  diwnm        82       2     as       0       0      0    250        166.4       6.2
N'hld Orcard Platine       hectoe              0    200    S00    500        0       0   1000      *6515.J    1e08.1
Inftfal Project Fencing    kiltet              2       4      *       0      0       0      10       640.7      23.4
124386J    4463.1
B. Solt Consation '53           hectare           100   2000   200   2200   200   1500  12000           63405.     225.3
C. Agricuttural Geeogetnt
V.9. lKt Oiatrfibont       nsumar              5      10      10     10      10     10      55      880.6       291.4
Exicwarnim/Do Plots -4O    ttm Wm.                    .       .                                      374.?       13.3
Terracing for Vqgetablgo t70 hectare          50    150    350    350    300         0   1200      1288.       457.3
21492.2     762.0
0. Vilt lto" oe Pt              ltu            -                    -                                   17688.4     622.1
E. VahelceL
4g Pick-up                                     2       0       0      0       0      0       2      1072.6       41.0
4id Pick-0u Dote Cab       nugmr               2       0       0      0       0      0       2      1237.6       47.3
125 cc Notorcycle          Muabe              12       0      0       0       0      0      12      1074.9      41.1
Water T   rckaP            rad                 2       0       0      0       0      0       2      2131.0       81.4
........ ........ .......
5516.0     210.8
F. Equfimmt
surwy equipent             a.t                .                                                      515.9       18.7
Office Equfpint            l * i* -m                                *471.9                                       16.e
Office Furniture            I   um            *       *       *      *                                124.9       4.5
firefghtfnr Equipment      ct                 *       *       .      .       .      .               56468.2     215.9
Stoe, Toole. lifac '4        w  -             .       .       .      .                               1986.0      72.0
8747.0     327.9
G. Croaulttuwie
-starshed NanaentS m4th                        3       1       1      1       0      1       7       3969.6     14.3
Soilt Cenar1eion Sp        mnth                2       0       0      0       0      0       2       1021.1      39.0
Lasfida Contrt eSp         monh                2       1       1      1       0      0       5       2759.6     101.3
Nonfioring/Evawtumn Sp    nemb                 2       0       0      1       0      1       4       2324.1      8j.1
So;cilogist (Local)        Month               4      12      12     12      10      0      50       1815.2      64.9
HortfeuLtwraleit (local)    month              2       2       1      0       0      0       5        146.2       6.2
Sgil Coneer ticn (local)     th                2       2       2      0       0      0       6        201.9       7.4
12247.8     447.2
N. Trafning                                                                                                          ".
OvercomeTrafnifrJTea       mth                 2    * 3        3      2       0      0      10       2216.2      80.5
In-Contry Training           *y               as      50      50     50      50     50    275          82.3       2.9
Total lINSiHT cots                                                                                   2296.5       83 4
11. IIEirUIT COStS                                                                                        255701.9    9151.9
...............
A. Incrmntal Staff                                                                                        618.3      22 0
Aivialon Framt Officer      erpb                I      I       I       1      I       1      6       683        1.
SLb iv forett Officer      nrwbr                I      1       2      2       2      2      10       82.3       285.9
Forest Ka r                Muar                2       3       6      6       6      6      21      1582.0      55 6
Aaat. A Oiractor           nur                  I      I  1            I      I       1      6       473.7      16.8
Ast Oir Pltnt Protactifn    m _'.               I      1       1       I      I       1      6       473.7      16.8
Engineer                   n*er                 t      I       1       1      1       1      6       e03        16.8
AgricuitUre Officer        r.r                  I      I       2       2      2       2      10      820.3      2.
Oter Staff                 niar                49     74      9      126   106    106    539    17391.0        614.3
22653.1     800.1
S. Offfce Expedfiture            top                       .       .       .      . gm1880.0                         66.6
C.  ihck-w                    nm rAc              1       4      4       4      4       4      21     2415.4       85.2
Water Trucks               ru.ber               1      2       2       2      2       2      10     29930 5
Notorcyclt                  nsAer               3      12     12      12     12      12     63                .......
4274.6     10.9
0. Spryeras A other qtuip       tp VA                                                                     206.2 
Teotl UCNiQ_T C03TS                                                                                29014.0    1024.9
Totxl                                                                                           28479.9   10176.8
41t Deteiled auwy, r fneg lond clearilr4  layaut. etc.
<2 8 ha tat yr a 3 he 2d yr Ma 75000/hA; aediLr    to cover 12000 he.
o For broadleaf; fruit tree distriution coat icluded in eole price.
4  1OX owArhfd charged to projet: seedlings to cver  Al0 ha. soWd 0 mst.
45, E.g. check din  dwne, gutlly pltu. l _es, in ars   4. 42   above.
4, I dfino t frtilira       s wari.
471  L   ind-es erntribwte 50X of cas In labor or  Uterles or both.
*  For firffsghting.
49 lnctuding *pryera I& feeticidue for dentration plto.
Wait Coau Scled by 1000.0 4/2/192  1614



- 63 -
ANNEX 3
PAKISTAN
ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AND RESOURCE CONSERVATION PROJECT
DIr Kohlaan Upland RhbIlllftatlon
and Development
INTRODUCTION
1.          North West Frontier Province (NWFP) is faced with a host of
environmental problems massively aggravated by the presence of over two
million Afghan refugees and their animals. The major ecological issues of
Imediate concern include: watershed protection; soil conservation;
reforestation; range management and rainfed hill farming. The available means
are currently focussed on coping with the threat of devastating depletion of
forest resources and on watershed protection activities in some of the most
critical areas. Suitable technological approaches essential for stabilizing
fragile hill slopes have been developed in the Kalam Integrated Development
Project; Malakand Social Forestry Project; and the Dir Swat Watershed
Management Project, but their application on a wider scale is prevented by
funding and manpower constraints. The severity of the existing problems and
the threat of irreversible degradation particularly in areas where socio-
economic tensions are already high, make it highly imprudent to treat natural
resource depletion with continusd neglect.
2.          Because of intensive grazing by domestic livestock during the past
few decades, plant communities in the rangelands are highly degraded. Forest
trees (particularly Ouercus incana) are frequently and highly lopped for
cattle fodder. The degradation of these two key resources is caused by the
unchecked activities of small cultivators and grazers who are too numerous,
too socially independent, and too isolated to be effectively controlled. The
crux of the problem is that the numbers of people and animals are in excess of
the natural resources to supply them an adequate livelihood or fodder supply.
RATIONALE
3.          Farmers first response to the diminishing land base and declining
crop yields is the extension of agricultura' activities to forest lands which
are cut and cleared to make up for foodgrain deficits. The evldence suggests
that considerable land, which was under coniferous forests about a decade ago,
has been cleared, terraced and subsequently abandoned because crop cultivation
no longer remained economically feasible. The uncontrolled mining of forest
resources and un-wise cultivation of steep slopes in Dir-Kohistan has rendered
the entire ecosystem susceptible to erosion and destruction.



- 64 -
AM=E 3
Page 2
4.          The Government of NWFP has already launched an integrated land
management project in the Kalam area with the assistance of the Swiss
Development Corporation. The project has been designed on a community based
management system in which the basic needs of the people have been taken care
of along with the conservation of national resources. The benefits of these
efforts are now evident and .here is increasing recognition among the
population of the area and the political leaders of the desirability of
expanding these efforts onto the adjoining denuded hillsides.
PROJECT AREA
5.          The project area is located in Dir sub division of Dir district
and covers about 167,000 ha of land with most of the terrain being broken and
consisting of steep slopes and narrow valleys forming a complex system of
watershed and sub-watersheds. The altitude ranges from less than 1,000 m to
more than 3,000 m. The area falls in the temperate zone, having an annual
rainfall of 900 mm to 1,100 mm.
6.          Dir-Kohistan lies in the northern portion of Panjkora watershed
(Kalakand Division of NWFP). About 56X of the land in Dir-Kohistan is
classified as rangeland while the remainder is under forests (36X) and
cultivation (8X). Maiza is the main crop raised on cultivated lands during
summer (Kharif). Potato is the second major crop which accounts for about 20X
of the total cropped area. Apples, pears and peaches are also sources of cash
income, especially for farms situated at higher elevations.
7.          The total population of the project area is estimated at 200,000,
of which 85X are Kohistanis and 15X are Gujars and Pathans. Population
density per ha of arable land is 17.6 compared to 10.3 in Bhimber and 3.4 in
Nurree. The main income sources are livestock production and royalties from
timber sales.
OBJECTIVES
8.          While improving the overall welfare of people in Dir-Kohistan
area, the project aims at reversing the ecological degradation of uplands by
adopting a multi-disciplinary approach. The basic objective is to broaden the
understanding of forestry-farming relationships and to increase the
contribution of range and forest resources to hill farming economy.
PROJECT COMPONENTS
9.          The project will comprise the following components:
(i)   LAnd Use Planning: The object is to map current land use patterns
and identify priority work areas for reforestation; pasture
improvement and agricultural development.



- 65 -
ANEu 3
Page 3
(ii)   Rehoestton: About 4,800 ha of cut-over forest area and community
land will be planted up with coniferous and broadleaved species.
About 11 million tube plants and 1.5 million bare-rooted plants
will be raised in forest nurseries over 10 and 7 hectares
respectively.
(iii)   SON Coneraton Messure: They would consist of gully plugging,
drains, check dams, vetiver grass hedges, and regrassing. The
work would be done over 4,800 ha of forest/coomunity land.
(lv)   Range lmprovement: The pastures would be improved over 2,000 ha
through reseeding and planting of fodder trees, shrubs and
grasses.
(v)  Agrculural Devlopment: It vill include:
(a)   training of farmers in biocultural soil
conservation vorks such as contour
cultivation and vetiver hedges and
Improved upland agricultural practices;
(b)   planting of fruit trees for which
nurseries would be established to raise
seedlings for sale to farmer/villagers at
cost;
(c)   establishing about eight demonstration
plots for growing various varieties of
vegetables; and
(d)   strengthening extension services.
(vi)   Uvestock improvement: It will include:
(a)   strengthening of veterinary services in
the project area to control animal
diseases;
(b)   introduction of 50 lashtnagri rams to
improve the local breed; and
(c)   establishment of an artificial
insemination center to serve 700 cows.
(vii)   Access Roads and Paths: This will include the construction of aboGt
30 km of new graveled roads and 30 km of inspection paths for
access to development related to this subproject.



- 66 -
ANNEX 3
Page 4
(viii)  VWbg AssocaUon: The aim is to organize as many village
associations as possible so as to promote and encourage villagers'
participation in the activities of this subproject.
(ix)   Vllage Develcoment: To provide for basic needs of the people and
help raising their living standard as well as for incentives in
their participation in the village association, the subproject
provides for some funds for piping vater from numerous mountain
creeks to villages, for the construction of rural roads/tracks,
bridges, culverts, irrigation channels/ditches, and so on. To
qualify for this fund the association will have to contribute a
minimum of 40X of costs of the work.
IMPLEMENTATION
10.         The project is essentially an integrated land management project.
It includes development of agriculture, forestry and livestock; rangeland
improvement, antl-erosion measures and construction of rural roads. The
project activities will follow a multi-sectoral approach in which the leading
role will be played by the Forest Department. Staff from agriculture and
livestock will be attached to the Forest Department. The implementation
period is six years.
PROJECT DEVELOPMENT COMMITTEE
11.         A high level committee would be set up under the Secretary Forest
as Chairman for laying out broad policy guidelines for the project. The
committee will also coordinate the activities, direct the channelling of funds
for the project and ensure effective support and participation of the line
departments. The committee may meet once every two months or sooner if
required.
COST
12.         The total cost of the project (including physical and price
contingencies) is estimated at Rs. 227.5 million (US$8.1 million equivalent)
as shown in the Table below.



Pakistan
Enviroemntal Protection & Resource Conservatfon
Project
NFP: Dir Kohiatan Upland Rehabilitation & Developmn
Subproject
Detailed Cost table
Ourntfty
Unit   92/93  93/94  94/95  95/96  96/97  97/96  Total          Total      Total
1. INVESTIENT COSTS
,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,                                                                                  (as 000)   tI '000)
A. Forest aNagment
NIS/Land Classification     laq u-                  -      -       -      - sm458.7                          17.
Tra Nursries 013            hectare          2      2       2      2       2      0      10     11454.1    412.
Bareroot Nureries 4         hectare          1      2       2      2       0      0       7      179.6       64.
Planting of Bln Areas 0),  hectare         300   1200   1200   1200    900        0   480        17156.9    612.
RIplanting & Maintenance 4   hectare        90    570    600    600    420    240   2520         2828.4    '00.
Social Forestry Extenion          sn                       -       -      -       -      -        559.0      19
Social Forestry Seedlins 45' N seedlings     0      1       3      3       3      2      12      9201.3    322.
lI'hold Tree Planting       hectare          0    889   2667   2667   2667   1778  10668        2896.2    992.
71751.5   2542.
S. Soil Consrvation             hectare          0    800   1000   1000   1000   1000   480          16860.9    592.
C. Ran  aNagmnt
Range/Pasture lent    hectare                0    400    400    400    400    400   2000        10488.7    368.
Deom Trials/Seed Plots      hectare          0     10      10      10     10      10     50      4560.3    160.                     1
15049.0    529.
D. Ag ExtensionIlevelpmnt
Adaptive Research Trials    mrber           15     35      35     35      35     35    190       5696.5    201.
Extension Activities       ltup s$ u                       -              -       -      -       1348.4      47.
Fruit Tree Nurseries        mmber            0      2       4      6       6      6      24      2241.1      78.
HNhtd Orchard Planting      hectare          0     20      40     60      60     60    240      11933.7    416.
Vegetable Demo Plota         uaber           0      5       6      8              a 8    35       539.0      18.
21760.7    763.
E. Livestock & Dairy Oenlop
Vaccinen/edicines           IqW an                                                                741.5      26.
Extenfion Services          Lum s           -      -       -              -      -       -        164.6       5.
Al                         ltp sun                          -                    -       -        138.5       4.
An1nl Breeding Purchases   lt   wr          -              -K                                     353.5      12.
Constrnctfon of Pens        lump -    -       - -                                        -        347.5      12.
1745 .6    62.
F. Village Developent 4'
Village Mobilization        wuber            0     10      10     10      10     10      50      1737.3      61.
Civil Works Scheme          rWer             0     10      10     10      10     10      50     17688.4    622.
Tech Educatfon S4port       lump s                                               -       -       1520.1      53.
G. Misc Physical Works                                                                               20945 7    736.
Jeep Roads                  kilometer       3       6       6      6       6      3      30     12167.8    432.                  U >c
Forest Inspection Paths     kilometer       2       7       7      7       7      0      30       287.9      10.
Ffncing 7*t                 kilometer       0       2       4      4       0      0      10       77.4       27.
13233.1     470.



N.  lidng pe                                        1       0       0       0              0       I     I5O5.,m       1845.0        70.
StOff fgee dnces     nter                      3       4       0       0       0       0       7      48.75        4316.3        160.
I. Vdaictea                                                                                                             6161.3       231.
MIM47.9       962..
4d FfIck-.p 4>               rubeI             0       3       0       0       0              3      451.35209T.9                62.
4ed ftubt Cob Pick-up4 -0r                     0       4       0       0       0       0       4      527.71       2647.         96
otoqcyles1 ltO               nu ber            0      10       0       0       0       0      10       76.39       8.....       3.
3126.5        194.
J.  Ofpfent                                                                                                             1642.1        60.
OfftIt Eqlpu nt               lurp ans                9       -       -                                             464.0         16.
Offfie Furniture             twp sumi          -                 -               -       '                          46t9.7        1.
Audfo-Visul Equ9iient         lump a           -      -       -       -                                             621.6         22.
Kist ForetlAajLvsto-ck  - ir  u                                           - -                                       627.      . ......
292.3        107.
K. Conwttemiles                                                                                                         4649.1        167.
btershbd  _.ns Smmitpec    month               3       1       1       1       0       2       8      435.40       3270.2        120.
Soft Ceovatf0n Spec          Ronth             3       1       1       1       0       0       6      435.40       3270.2        120.
Korticulttuatst              month             3       1       1       1       0       0       6      435.40       2759.6        101.
Livestock Specfelfst        m*nth              2       1       1       1       0       0       5      435.40       3346 0       122.
A9 Eewoistino1tth                              3       1       1       0       0       1       6      435.40       2289.4        83.                   1
Non1tcr/Evetu tf0n Spec      woneh             2       0       1       0       0       1       4      U35.40       U15 52        64.
Sociefogist (Local)          month             4      12      12      12      10       0      50       26.87    .........      ....
21399.8       781.        
L. Overem  Trainirng/Tour                                                                                               3335.7       118.
Forestry                     month             0       2       4       4       4       0      14      171.60       1452.6        51.
Agriculture                  month             0       0       2       2       2       0       6      171.60       1452.6        51.
Livestock                    month             0       0       2       2       2       0       6      171.60    .........     ......
6240.9       220.
K. In-Country Training                                                                                                   177.1         6
Refresher (all sctors)       "mnday          S0     100    100    120    120    100    590             0.21        .     ........  ......
Total INVESTNET WSTS                                                                                                    .4      72.
11. REaUnE CMSS
..............
A. Incrmntal Staff                                                                                                       618.3         22.
Forestry ProJect DIrector    number            1       1       1       1       1       1       6       85.56        622.3        22.
For try Range officer        number            2       2       2       2       2       2      11       43.06       75U7.7       277.
Other Forestry Staff         number           25      40      45      45      45      45     245       25.30        473.7         16.
Senior Ag Officer            number            1       1       1       1       1       1       6       65.55       205S5         72.
Other Agrculture Staff       number            6      10      12      12      12      12      6        25.30        473.7         16.             1.0
Aest Livestock Director      number            I       I       I       1       1       1       6       65.55        1486.7        52.             lb
Other Liveetock Stff         nu br             3       7       9       9       9       9      46       25.30        473.7         16.              M
VIllog     Dev Ce v   Enginer  nudber           1      I       1       1       1       1       6       65.55        473.7 516.                     a >c
Vilage Dev Organizer         mnber             1       1       1       1       1       1       6       65.S5        1134.5       40.
VYilegs 0ev Other Staff      nuder             2       5       7       7       7       7      35       25.30    .........    ......
15660.1      554.
g. Offifee Expenditure
All Office                   lqip on                  -          .       .      .       .                           2238.6       79.
C. Vehicle oUt



All Pfck-us                   numdber           0      4       7       7       7       7      32       62.01    37501        131.
Att Hotorcycles               nh er            0       6      10      10      10      10      46       10.25     675.3        23.
4423.5      155.
P. Buidi:g/Equip.ant 010
Building Kaintnco             lIump so                    -           -       -       -       -           -     1166.6        40-
Office & Audio-Visual         lump an                     -               -       -           -    -             312.2        10.
Other Equip  nt               lump             -       -      *       *       .       .             -             66.1         3.
Sub-Total                                                                                                  1564.9        .
Total RECURRENT COSTS                                                                                            2388.0        K43.
Total                                                                                                        227462.4      882.
*1t Includes costs of producing about 11 million seedlings.
422 Incltuds coats of producing about 1.5 iIllion seedlings.
432 80M tubs plants, 201 bsrercot.
43 first year 301, seonxd year 20X.
4S Forest tree seedlings will be given free to landowxnrs to ptant.
6 Vater supply, roads, Irrigation, atc; villages contribute 40X of costs.
72 Steel posts of angis 2U x 20 x 1/46 with 4 strsnd of barbed wire.
45  Forestry 2, villaw   davelopoant 1.
49> Forestry 1, agriculture I  livestock 1 nd villag dcCelopment 1.
(102 Forestry 4, agriculture 2, livestock 2 and village dCvlopnt 2.
Unit Costs Scaled by 1000.0 4/20/1992 16:55
0'
oox
-JN
L.>C



- 70 -
ANNEX 4
PAKISTAN
ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AND RESOURCE CONSERVATION PROJECT
Bhimber Up' rd ReMheblNaton
and Dev.oknwnt
INTRODUCTION
1.          Azad Jammu and Kashmir (AJI) is located in the foothills of the
Himalayas. AJK has a wide range of climatic and ecological conditions and
climate varies from sub-tropical in the valley bottoms to temperate at higher
elevations. The soils are broadly grouped into three categories; hill
plateaux, hill slopes and alluvial valley bottoms. Because of widespread
erosion, eoils in general are truncated and mature profiles are rare. Most of
the serious erosion that has taken place in AJK is man-made as a result of
(i) deforestation and overgrazing; (ii) cultivation of steep slopes; and
(iii) construction of roads without appropriate soil conservation measures.
2.          About 50X of the land in AJK is classified as demarcated forest
(583,000 ha) and the remainder is equally divided between rangeland and
private farmland. The hilly areas of AJK are under serious and continuous
degradation. Farm productivity is decreasing, forests are diminishing and
erosion threatens most of the countryside. The basic problem is that
increases in crop, livestock and forestry producticn have not kept pace with
increases in human and livestock populations. Ecological deterioration is
clearly visible everywhere.
3.          The massive soil erosion resulting from the over-exploitation of
forests, overgrazing of rangelands and unvise cultivation of critical slopes
for agriculture have damaging effects outside AJK as well. Large sediment
flows are silting up reservoirs, reducing their capacity to provide irrigation
water and power supplies to Pakistan's plains where most economic activity
occurs. Efforts made in the past in the field of watershed and range
management have not produced the desired results partly because of
insufficient follow-up after completion of the projects and partly because of
the lack of community involvement. As a result, the AJK government has
selected Bhimber watershed area for a Hill Nanagement Plan which would, among
other things, require changes in the present agriculture practices and the
usage of forest and grazing areas.
PROJECT AREA
4.          The project in located in the Bhimber and Samani subdivisions of
the Mirpur district and has a total land area of 144,000 ha. The proposed
subproject area comprises the drainage basin of the river Bhimber and its
tributaries. The main stem of the Bhimber river is about 50 km long,
originating in the alpine areas and eventually draining into the Chenab river.
The upper reaches of the drainage are severely eroded and ravined, the lover
reaches contain braided channels that expand laterally by undercutting stream
banks and valley bottoms that consist of weakly formed alluvial deposits.



- 71 -
Poge 2
5.    The following table gives the basic statistics of area and population:
Arm   -     Cultivated area           6,339 ha
-     Uncultivated area
(including Khalsa and
Shamilat forests)      17,050  "
-     Demarcated forest         6.146  "
Total:      29,535  n
Populton
-     Human population (1981) 86,444
-     Growth rate              2.7X per annum
-     Density                 235 persons/km2
-     No. of households        14,256
6.          Soils in the area are usually truncated and often lithic.  Their
fertility levels appear to be low. Because they are on slopes, their drainage
is rapid and causes flash floods. Shimber receives both monsoon and winter
rainfall. Summer rainfall is higher than that of winter. The total annual
rainfall is about 940 mm.
7.    The State (Rhalsa) and the communal (Shamilat) forests are virtually
exhausted. These forests have been pillaged for fuelvood, timber and grazing,
leaving only some remnants of the vegetation. Demarcated forests between 600
and 1700 m elevatlon consist largely of low density chir pine (Pinus
r.gkirAbj); blue pine (P. Walichian); deodar (Cedrus deodara) and Fir (hbLes
pijonf). They are now poorly stocked and are in need of supplementary
regeneration. About 80X of the population collects fuelwood from the forest
free of charge.
8.          Livestock plays an important role in the local economy.  Virtuaily
every farmer has several animals, and many own large herds. Livestock mainly
consists of buffaloes (18,056), cattle (14,718) and poultry (90,000).V
9.          Agriculture is confined to 6,300 hectares (21X of the total
project area), with average farm size less than one hectare. The major
concentration of the farm land is in the lover part of the watershed around
Bhimber Town and the Samani Valley. The main crops are wheat, maize and
millet. The average yield per hectate is 1,138 kg/ha for wheat, 1,235 kg/ha
for maize and 860 kg/ha for millet. These low yields are attributed to
inferior varieties, little fertilizer use and poor farming practiees.
I/     Source: Draft PC -1.



- 72 -
Page 3
OWJECTIVES
10.         The sajor objective of the p..oposed subproject is to broaden the
understanding of forestry - forming relationships and to increase the
contribution of range and forestry resources to the hill farming economy.
Simultaneously, the subproject will endeavour to (I) improve agricultural
productivity; (it) foster tree planting on private and public lands;
(iii) undertake soil conservation and torrent control/river bank stabilixation
works; (ilv) provide services to improve the quality of livestock,
(v) strengthen extension services and (vi) develop a monitoring and evaluation
system that would ensure regular feed back to the management.
PROJECT COMPONENTS
11.         The subproject will comprise the following components:
(i)   Land use planning to identify work areas for reforestation and
upland pasture improvement. It will involve:
Production of topographic maps at 1: 10,000 scale;
Development of land classification maps; and
Assessment of present land use patterns.
Foredry
(il)   Establishment of plant nurseries:  Three nurseries having a
combined annual capacity of about 5 million bare root and
container seedlings will be raised one year ahead of the actual
plantation work. It is estimated that one hectare of nursery area
will produce 1.3 million container plants and 0.8 million bare
root plants from conventional bed nurserles;
(iii)   Reforestation of about 3,000 ha of blank or understocked area in
demarcated forest with chir pine and about 9,000 ha of degraded
land in community and privately owned forests with broad leaved
species like Ailanthus, Robinia, Eucalyptus and Leucaena app, at a
spacLng of 2 m x 2 m;
(iv)   Improvement of pastures by planting and reseeding 2,600 ha of land
with selected grasses and fodder trees;
(v) Raising mulberry plantation over 500 ha to encourage sericulture;
(vi)   Soil conservation works consisting of masonry check dams, gully
plugging, rip rapping and gabion for bank protection, growing of
vetiver grass hedges along contour and so on.
Agdcunure
(vii)   Bench terracing on 500 ha of private farmland;



- 73 -
Page 4
(viii)   Training of farmers in biocultural soil conservation and improved
upland agricultural practices through extension services and
demonstration plots;
(ix)   Planting of about 40,000 fruit planta through farmers (selling
fruit plants to farmers at cost);
(x)   Adaptive research trials; and
(xi)   Establishment of demonstration plots with each contact farmer,
total number not exceeding 50.
Uvestock
(xii)   Establishment of two artificial insemlnation centers to improve
the genetic quallty of the livestock.
(xLii)   Introduction of 20 Lohi/Kajli ram  to improve the breed of sheep
and goats.
(xiv)   Strengthen veterinary services in the project area.
Miscellaneous
(xv)   Construction of access/rural road 8 km long.
(zvi)   Construction of basic need cotriunity develcpment works such as
rural water supply, irrigation channel, bridge, culvert and so on,
for which villagers are required to contribute at least 40X of
costs.
IMPLEMENTATION
12.         The responsibility of implementation of subproject works would
rest with the respective line departments. The Forestry Department will carry
out the land classification and land use planning and each participating
department would provide a full time officer to head its component. The
component heads will be technically and administratively answerable to their
respective head of departments, although for day-to-day execution of the work,
they will be under the supervision of the Project Director, a Forest
Department Conservator. The implementation period of this subproject is six
years.
13.         A Project Coordinating Committee would be established with the
Secretary of Forests AJK as its Chairman and the concerned line department
heads and a representative of P & D department and the Project Director as
members to coordinate the activities. The committee would meet at least
monthly and as often as is required. A Project Coordination Unit (PCU) will
be established in the Office of the Secretary of Forests and all information
would converge with PCU. PCU will be responsible for collating reports from
the heads of the components and prepare all progress reports concerning the
r,     d.



- 74 -
AhN 4
Page 5
CWST
14.         The total cost (including physical and price contingencies) is
*cttmated at Rs. 306.4 million (US$10.9 million equivalent) as shown in the
Table below.



Pakistan
Enwiroumntet Protection & Resource Conservation
ProJect
AJK: ShIWher Uplan Reftlitation & Delopwent
S4hproject
Detafled Cost Table
Quantity
Unft   92/93   93/94  T.',5   95/96  96/9?  97/96   Total        Total       total
............................ ............................  ......................,,,,,,,,,,,,,,.,,,, .. 
1. INVESTIENIT COSTS
................(aOm                                                                                               (nO)
A. Forest/Rarge loprovemant
Np/Land Clasification        hectar           NW    10560  10000        0       0       0  23200        47.8         1.7
Nursry Seedlinps             1000 re.dling    t224   2815   4547   5447   5630   5854  25517    56686.9           1990.
Tdtbels at Nurserfes        nw0fer               3       3      0       0       0       0      6       ".            91.
Planting of Seedlings ci,    hecterq           480   1500   21i0   2670   276V        M 0   1      6         n
Rangetand lqwovement t2-    hctere               0    200    36G    530    680    830   2600          6674.4       239.3
Soil Conservation            hectare             0   1500   2500   3000   3000   2000  12000    36724.4            1289.2
Initalt Project Fencing 43   k1lometer           2      4       4       0       0       0      10      640.7        23.4
13488.8       4m3.1
3. AS ExtenieVonJDvelmopent
Adoptive Research Trales     hectare             0       1       1      1       1       1       5      152.0          S.3
Ag Demonstration Plote       hectare             1       2      3       4       5       5      20      185.1          6.5
Terracing/Land Levelting    hectare              0    100    100    100    100    100    S00          4560.3        160.4
Fruit. Tree Seedlinrg       nurber               0   8000   O000   8000   8000   8am   40000          1216.1         42.8
N'hld Orchard Planting      hectare              0      12      12     12      12      12     60      2914.0        102.5,
.........    ........... ....,
9027.5       317.5
C. Livetock/Poultry Dav/Ext
Vaccines/Nedicines            up em             -       -                                             85-  -  540.5  299.8
Anintel/Poultry *reeding     lump as      -                     -                                      443.1         15.8
FeedWS lag Doenatrat's       lump as                    -      -       -                       -      2287.2         80.4
Farm Operations/Misc        ltup cu             -       -      -       -                               606.3         21.4
, ............    ........
11177.0       417.4
D. Civil Works
Land Aqule1tIon              hectere             I       0      0       0       0       0      1      3312.8        126.6
Bufldinfn   1 4              squore mter       500    m00       0       0       0       0    SW0      3709.0        139.4
Buitdings 2 5                qure meter        P20   10        0       0       0       0    1000     2287.5         86.7
luildings 3 6                scquare meter     450    300       0       0       0       0    750      3483.1        130.7
Cattle Crushes              mmdr                          1    0       0       0       0      2        49.9          1.9
Rural Rook                   kiloNeter           3       5      0       0       0      0       8     15716.4        584.1
Village Devetop  nt          luap sa m                                 -               -       -     10986.9        382.5
--... -.-..    ........
3954.5        144U1.9
E. Vehiclts
4ed Pfek-up *eh             Moiler               0       S      0       0       0       0      5      2P6w.1        104.9         m
4d Double Cob Pick-up t41*   mmer                0       5      0       0       0       0      S      3309.4        121.0
Notorcyele  9p               nemb r              0      16      0       0       0       0      16     1533.0         56.1
Forestry Audioviual Van     nutber               O      1       C       0       0      0       1       923.0         33.9
8638.4        316.0



F. fAPPnt
Forestry TryctO 4 AJee@s.   set                 2      2       0      0       0      0       4     219.01                      39.7
Forestrygualdozer          iude 0                     1      0       0       0      0       1    2065.30       261S.4         95.r
Forestry off fee Equmipemnt    lem                                                          ,                    S6-  .  565.6  21.2
Foetry Offiee Furniture   ltP                                 -      - -SU                                       220.1          5.2
Fostry Audfo ViNAl          hUq   -            .      -       -                  -  .                              6.6         26.3
FOrstry Lwnd Ur Pliuun    laUq r               .      -              -       -                                   2-1.4          9.2
As lqplt.mtat   Toots       set                 3      1       1      1       1      1       a      25.12        251.3          9.1
AO Train Netrtlur/EqpAp ,   #t                 10      1       1      1       1      1      15       5.39        101.4          3.8
As Office UqEiii.aI         iap Usun                                                                             247.4          9.S
AS Offcoe Furniture         lUaP sum           -      -       '                                                   97.6          3.7
Livestck AltDiePPOUltry    lump                       - a s                  -      -       -          -        1260.5         4J.1
Livestock Office           laup aen                   .                                                          248.1          9.3
Livestock Office Furn       lau s   *                 - u- *-                               .                     96.3          3.7
VW Off Ic EqP1 ent                                 - lump  .um                                                   248.1          9.3
9W Office Furnitur         ltup                -      - u            - -                    -          -          98.3          3.7
a043.3        299.3
6. Clultncies
Wtershed "uuemont SPpec    month                3      1       1      1       0      2       8     435.40       4649.1        167.7
Soil Conervation Spec       month               3      1       1      1       0      0       6     433.40       3270.2        120.8
As Extnmion Spec            month               2      1       1      0       0      0       4     435.40       2146.1         79.7
Ao Economst                 month               2      0       1      0       1      0       4     435.40       2250.4         62.3
Livestock aegopec Sonth                         2      1       1      0       0      0       4     435.40       2146.1         79.7
er Contror Engolineer       onth                3      1       1      1       0      0       6     435.40       3270.2        120.8
Nonitor/Eveluation Spec     onth                2      0       0      1       0      1       4     435.40       2324.1         41 4.1
Sociologist (L@co.)         month               6     12      12     12      12      0      54      26.87       1958.6         70.1
N. Oversei  Truining/Tour
Forestry offleer            month               0      4       4      4       4      4      20      M1.60       4853.0        170.7
Agricutture Officer         month               0      2       2      2       2      0       a     Y71.60       183.1          66.9
Livestock Officer           month               0      2       2      2       1      0       7     171.60       1626.7         56.0
_....       .......
882.8        295.6
1. In-Coamtry Tralning26
Rsfrssh  Training            oy                0     60      60     60      60     60    300        0.21         91.2          3.2
hMn.rAuricop                 ifder             0       2       2      2       2      2      10      S3.S        760.0         26.7
AglForetjLivestock nhou     uer                 0      1       1      1       1      1       5      80.62        S70.0         20.0
1421.3        S0.0
Total IllfWf cmTS                                                                                             ..3771.3     .....
it.  _ tain  cn1
...............
A. Incrumtal Staff
Cumermto of Forets          Mber                I      1       1      1       1      1      6      125.35        905.9        32.2
Divisien Fort Officer       nudr                1      2       2      2      2       2      11      85.6        1191.1        42.2
Agriculture bainer f0lenr                       1      1       1      1       1      1      6       65.55        473.7        16.6
towOff fer                 ider                2      4      6       6      6       6      30      43.06       1654.1        S8.3
Certogrq smb1C noer                             I      I       I      1      1       1      6       43.06        311.2        11.0
Other Forestry Staff       inMr               60      94     94      94     94      94    S30       25.30      16904.0       S99.5
Deputy As olr w             mietor                                                   1      6       85.56        618.3        22.0
"Jett fttSeW               m wer               1      1       1      1      1       1      6       65.5S        473.7        16.8
Agrcultur Officer            nr                 1      1       1      1       1      1      6       65.SS        473.7        16.8
A uttureninewA nser                             1      1       1      1       1      1      6       65.55        473.7        16.8
Anst Agriculture liwineew   nse                 I      I       I1w                   1      6       65.55        473.7        16.8
OllerA turee Sbf            ndr                17     25      25     25      25     25    142  6 5.30           4523.9       160.5
Depuy Livestock Director      er                   I       I      I           I      1      6       85.56        618.3        22.0



Veterf,my Officer           meg                 1             1       1      1       1      6       45.55      *13           4.8
ProJect Livetock Off iew     uier               1       1      1       1      1       1      6       4306       311.2         11.0
Other Livttok Staff         ,uaer              10      20     22      22     22      22    11J       25.30     3M5           134.0
MAP  tohg IceNOW            mns*                1      1      1       1      1       1      6       45.55      4  *         U.M
PUi Sttisticln              Irer                1       1      1       1      1       1      6       65.55      473.7         16.8
FMeseercloff leer            dme               1       1      1       I      I       1      6        306       31.2          11.0
O rw    sttaff              nuer                5       7      7       7      7       7     a        2530      1279.9         45.4
3016.3       125.8
3. Offfee E_ dItu1*
4o  try                     IWP -                                                                              9-.1         343.2
Livestock  Imp am                                                                   M~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~71.5  25.1
,ai  lam  -                         .    556....    .19.......
12217.4       431.2
All Pick-s                  se                  0      6      10      S0     10      10     46       62.61     SM. 1?.
All Uotorqwles              Mer                 0      10     16      16     16      16     74       10.25     102.S         38.0
frestry AudioViet van        uder               0      1       1       1      1       1      5      107.90      762.9        26.6
7252.1       253.7
3. Uukldl  Fim.nt aM
Tracto                           GUM                  2       4      4       4       4     18      1Ot.90     251.0         97.4
lultdozer                    lpan               0       1      1       1      1       1      5      431.62     3051.6       107.3
forestry uildinh            l sum               0      1       1       1      1       1      5       32.37      208.6         7.3
Fort f amt                  l suw               1      1       1       1      1       1      6       32.91      252.0         8.9
Agril                       t Eqnmt  lp         1       1      1       1      1       1      6       11.33       26.t         3.1 
Livstock  uildi             lum pw              0      0       1       1      1       1      4       39 92      2363          0.3
Livestock apmmt             lumpo               1*      1      1       1      1       1      6       32.37      247*9         8.
a  Offic EEqu nt            Imp sm              1       1      1       1      1       1      6       10.79       62.6         2.9
T rTotaE l                                                                                             6946.7        244.0
Total IEEIET asT                                                                                             620.5        2212.6
total                                                                                                     306375.8     10900.6
413 Incrudel total ptlntirg of 108,000 he plus replantinfs in yr. 2 & 3.
d* Includes total ptlrttlw of 2.000 he plu raptantfWs In yr. 2 & 3.
0p SteI posts of w1is 20 x 20 x 1I46 with few strwdB of barbed wire.
4d  IncIs mIn offile, Wriutlture , Ilvestock centem.
nc Itncs b_odr h   leyr shed, feed storec 2 Al canter A vehJIcIl  ad.
4, reaIs 6 diepado lop cm office sstaff quitws.
4bs forrtr  3    ricutture 1 livestock 1.
ohr 2 woicutte  1, livestock 1 Pl 1.
W Forwstry 8,   iculture 4, livestock 4.
1103 Attached to forestry.                                                                                                                         iOQ
Unit Coosted by 1000.0 4120/1992 16:57                                          .                                                
oo M



- 78 
AN=E S
PAKISTAN
ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AND RESOURCE CONSERVATION PROJECT
AJplne Subalpine Pasture Study of
Upper Neelum Valley In Amd
Jammu and Kashmir (AJK)
INTRODUCTION
1.          The alpine and sub-alpine pastures are an important part of
Pakistan's ecosystem. Their altitude ranges frrAa 600 m at valley _Ioors to
4,000 a or more at mountain peaks vith the permanent snow line above 4,000 a.
The higher rainfall areas are forested up to 3,500 a. Beyond this are the
alpine pastures which are environmentally fragile, and have high grazing
pressure during the summer months. Most of the higher mountain areas lie
outside the lnfluence of summer monsoon rains and receive their entlre
precipltation during winter mostly in the form of snow.
2.          The alpine pastures are an important resource for the resident
population as well as for the nomadic and semi-nomadic pastoral societies, the
BakarMals, who have used them for centuries and have linked them to pastures
In the lower sub-humid Pothwar foothills that stretch from Rawalpindi to
Lahore. The Bakarwals are some of the best animal husbandmen of Pakistan and
constitute one of the most important components of the alpine pasture system
movlng with their families and flocks of sheep and goats up from the Punjab
plains to the Neelum Valley through Azad Kashmir during April-May and
returning again to the plains in September-October. An estimted 20,000
Bakarwals make this annual trek, herding 550,000 goats and sheep and 30,000
other animals principally cows and pack horses. In this migratory process,
they perform a useful economic function by transferring the pasture resources
of remote areas to the urban markets of the plains in the form of vool and
meat. A survey by the Forest Department has estimated a flock mortality rate
of 9 to 11 percent, a sales rate of 15 percent and an average summer season
liveveight gSain of 22 kg. While thLs gain appears large and may be an over-
estimate, it is worth approximately Rs. 400 mlllion for the entlre flock
population and represents the potential transferable value of the alpine
pastures. The sustainable utilization of these pastures is therefore, of a
hlgh priority from the economLc point of vLew.
RAMONALE
3.          A number of studies have been undertaken in the past but none of
them is multidisciplinary in nature. Very little is known, about the dynamLes
of speciflc alplne pasture ecosystems, the extent of degradation, the
potentlal downstream effects of such changes, or the social and production
aspects of user groups. Data is also lacking on technically sound and cost
effective erosion control and other soil conservation measures.



- 79 -
AMUNE 5
Page 2
STUDY AREA
4.          The Upper Neelus Valle) alpine and sub-alpLne pasture ecosystem of
AJK has been selected for study and adaptive trials because of its
representative character. It represents more than 40X of the total area of
AJK and has a population of at least 70,000. Most of the farms are small and
grow a single summer maize crop both for forage and grain. Livestock holdings
comprise one or two cattle and a dozen goats and sheep.
5.          There are about 100,000 hectares of alpine pastures in the Neelus
Valley. Together with the adjoining forests, they support betveen 0.8 to 1.0
million sheep and goats for five to siz months.
6.          The alpine pastures contain slow growing perennials which are
easily damaged and contain palatable annuals which are highly susceptible to
over-grazing. There are very few forage species which can flourish in a cold
and arid climate. Major pasture species in the alpine zone (2,500 a upwards)
are Poa annua, Chrsoggggn echineulatum, Dact.lis glomerate, Stia and
Sykrica and native legumes and in the sub-alpine regions (600 m to 2,500 m)
are Betelox n contgrtus, Themada nathera, ChrX9p.gogn aucheri, and
Penisse&um crentalJ. The current level of production (1 t/ha) is much below
the optimum dry matter production level of the Pothwar foothills. The
standard practice of re-seeding has not been found practical for pasture
rehabilitation because of the constraints of climate and in-accessibility.
Environmentally, the alpine pasture lands are very fragile and subject to
irreversible soil erosion.
OBJECTIVES
7.          The objectives of the subproject are to: (i) survey and study the
dynamics of the Upper Neelum Valley alpine and sub-alpine pasture ecosystem;
(ii) develop an approach that would reduce the degradation of alpine and sub-
alpine pastures; (iii) test the prepoaed approach for rehabilitation and
conservation of affected areas through adaptive trials; (iv) train a cadre of
local officials who would be able to carry out similar studies elsewhere; and
(v) recommend the method for rehabilitation and conservation and prepare
detailed terms of reference for a feasibility study for an investment project
for implementation.
PROJECT DESCRIPTION
S.          In essence the subproject will comprise:
(i)   Skudbe:
(a)   The first component is rangelands production studies which
will cover: survey of vegetation types and assessment;
vegetation ecology and nutrition; survey and inventory of
land and water; and biophysical resources and inventory.



- 80 -
Page 3
(b)   The second component is rangelands utilization studies which
will include: pastoral socioeconomic; grazing ecology and
animal production; vildlife ecology and conservation; and
biological conservation.
(c)  The third component will cover studies of resource
management aspects and will include: vegetation inventory
and monitoring; rehabilitation of primary production
levels;soil and water conservation; grazing movements and
management options; and resource utilization economics, and
administration and policy options.
(ii)   Adaptve Trial will Include:
(a)   primary production trials investigating the impact of soil
and water;
(b)   secondary productivity trials focusing on socioeconomic,
grazing and management aspects and livestock production; and
(c)   resource (human and financial) allocation studies to
evaluate the social and economic aspects of various
rehabilitation and conservation aspects.
(iii)   Training:
two one-year fellowships to an appropriate overseas
institution, one fellowship for range/pasture management and
another for watershed management; and
short courses and seminars for staff.
(iv)   Terms of Refernce fck Feasibility Study:
preparing detailed terms of reference of a feasibility study
for an investment project based upon the results of the
above studies and adaptive trials.
PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
9.          The study and the adaptive trials will be Implemented by the AJK
Forestzy Department, assisted by a team of consultants. It will appoint an
overall Project coordinator who along with an internationally recruited team
leader (range and pasture ecologist/specialist) will prepare a program of
studies and trials. Since the trials and the study will need to take a multi-
disciplinary approach, a special unit will be created within the Forestry
Department which will be staffed largely by recruited subject matter
specialists. The implementation period will be frjg years.



- 81 -
Page 4
TEAM FOR STUDY AND ADAPTIVE TRIAlS
10.         The study and adaptive trials wilil be under-aKr by a specially
created "Alpine/Sub-Alpine Pasture Study Team," consisting of a Project
Coordinator and an internationally recruited study teau leader, supported by
three full-time scientists and other locally recruitod scientists. The
composition and general responsibilities of the study team will be as follows:
-     FHPKmc Coordinator - will be responsible for overall administration
and direction, and coordination with other government departments
and agencies.
-     Range/Pasture Ecologis Tem Lader - will be responsible for
planning, resource management and conservation, economic analysis,
the integration of the various scientific inputs and resource
surveys, the logistics of the baae camp and other organizational
matters.
4Uvock ProducUon Specalist - will be responsible for describing
ezisting livestock production systems and productivity indices and
will initiate adaptive trials on improved livestock manAgement and
husbandry.
Forage Producton Specalis - will conduct survey and inventory of
grazing vegetation, its production level and growth and will
initiate the adaptive trial for improving its production and
growth.
SocologIst (Local - will be responsible for describing the
organization of the nomadic 8akarwva. system and that of the semi-
nomadic and resident grazing groups and will investigate other
potential pressures on alpine pasture areas.
Soclo-Economlst - will be responsible for analyzing the
interrelationship between the livestock population and the
sustainability of the pastures, the socio-economics of the nomadic
and semi-nomadic pastoral societies.
TRAINING
11.         The study will provide two one-year fellowahipA to appropriate
overseas institutions for training local staff, in addition to providing for
short course fellowshins for four junior staff. Candidates will be sent for
overseas training in the second year of the study period.



- 82 -
A-u S
Page 5
REVIEW AND REPORTS
12.         Periodic technical reports detaLling the progress and results of
the various studies and field trials will be prepared. Three seoinars are
planned. Th. fLrst seinar will be the general outline of the trials and
study program; the second will be the preliminary results and possible project
options, and the tird seinazr will be an action plan for the conservation and
rehabilitation of the alpine pasture/sub-alpine grasing ecosystem.
COSTS
13.         The total cost of the subproject, including contingencies, over a
period of four years is Rs. 34.8 ailllon (approimaately US$1.3 oillion) as
shown in the Table below.



Pakistan
Environomntal Protection I Resource Conservstion
Project
AJK: Alpine/Sub-Alpine Pasture Study, Upper Metei Vailey
Detalled Cost Table
Quentity
Unit 92/93 93/94 9V/95 95/96 96/97 97/96 Total   Total      Total
1. INVESTNENT COSTS                                                                    tag. *ooo) (U 000)
A. Preparatort by o 1rkl        luc  et        -       -        -    -                  521.8       1985
*. angeN urrie Est & OP 42    hectare           6   10   10    0    0    0   26    2473.7           WS
C. Researcb/Trial Plots
Clearing&VI Uading         hectare       1S0  10    0    0    0    0  300          68S         2.6
Ilport of Sed              lt p              -    -    -        -           -      9178         3
Saeding/Pltnting           hectare       IS0  150    0    0    0    0  300         684.8      2t.6
Naintenonc of Pltitingf     hectare        0   50   80   30    0    0  160          397.6      14.3
Fencinu/Gumrding 3b        luip an                 -            -    -             "94.1 '
3262.8     121.0
D. Solt Conservation            hctare        1S0  IS0    0    0    0    0  300         78.7        292
E. Field Work for Studies       lu  em su            -          -                       605.7
F. Duildisp
Purcae of Land 40          lu p           -                      - u-    -          866 0      3
Office Constructfon 5'    WAre mster  400    0    0    0    0    0  400           1506.1      57.6
Office tent 4'              la  em              -          -          -    -        106.9       4.0
Foret Rnger Office Rent <7> luip e              -    -    -    -    -       -       265.4       9.7
274.4      104.4                           co
G. Vehcles
4ud Pick-up                nmbr            2    0    0    0    0    0    2         1072.6      41.0
4ud Pick-ip Double Cb      nmlr            2    0    0    0    0    0    2         1237.6      47.3
125 cc otorcyele           radar           5    0    0    0    0    a    5                     17.9  .1
2758.0     105.4
H. Eqiat
Survey & Ag Equiapmnt      st             -    -                                    352.4      13.2
Office Equipmnt            luip em                                      -           437.9      16.S
Office Furniture            lqp eSm       -          -     .        -               163.7       6.2
Audio-Visual Eq ipmtnt      luuiemp an_154.3                                                    S9
Nursery & Field Equipeant I               -    -    -    -    -    -    -           194. 47'3
1302.9      49.0
1. Consultanelas
ePasture Ecologist 49   month              2    1    1    0    0    0    4         2146.1      797
Livestock Specielist       month           2    1    0    0    0    0    3         1567.2      59.0
ForaeSProductlmn p         month           2    1    1    0    0    0    4         2146.1        7
Soclo-Ecnmiet              month           2    1    1    0    0    0    4         2146.1      797
Sociologist (Local)        month           4    8    8    4    0    0   24          8.0        30.2                        Qi >
Livestock local)           month           2    2    1    1    0    0    6          20 0        74.0
Forag Prouction (local)    month           2    3    3    2    0    0   10          3471       12.6                        o  eo
..~~....
J. Training                                                                             9309.6     35
Ovwrses Fetlowship o102    month           0   12   12    0    0    0   24          1334.1     482
Oversa Short Cours         month           0    1    1    1    1    0    4          955.6      33.9
In-CountrySamirs           Monday         20   40   40    0    0    0  100           27.3       1.0



sbh-Tota                                                                                       21516.9        0.2
Total I111#S8111   cmT                                                                               20156.
It. E     T USrcnf
...............
A. 1ncrentat  tf1                                                                                                     14.6
SfOIjP tDhretuu              mer             I    1    1    I    0    0    4            U.56   t t                .2
Sr. *griculturlatf*grmm      mar             I    1    1    1    0    0    4           65.55       37.8           1.
Litot Specialist              er             1    1    1    1    0    0    4            43.06      202.2    tl 
Ecologist                   uusw             I    I    I    1    0    0    4            65.55       W.11.2
Eawlmst            1Mor                      I    1    1    1    0    0    4            65.55       W            11.2
Rom Offfoer                   uwr            2    2    2    2    0    0    8           43.06                     174  1
Ot  Staff  >mwr                            35   35   35   35    0    0   40            25.30     4153.3        151.3
a. Office Expendilwe I.*          lum            -    -    -    -    *    *    *               *        441.0         16.1
C. diiding feintenwne.           tawu   -              - a        -        -        .          a         73.4          2.6
D. Vehlet OCI
Pick-q                      nuber            4    4    4    4    0    0   16            62.01     1694.5         61.6
Netorcewles                  numr            S    S    S    5    0    0   20            10.25       MA            9.
1959.2         71.3
E. Office a Other Eqapemt         uap an         .    -    -    -                                                      3 -    a  -  9.5  3.2
Total CELEN  TS                                                                                    8663.2         314.7                    1
Totat                                                                                           34811.        1267.6                    0
-               -
41o Detailed aurwys, Mepping tImut, tnd classification, etc.
4b Estabtlhing 6 ha 0s 7 to /ko In lot yr ad 4 he In 2d yr.
453 Steal posts of wnles 20 x 28 x 14A  x 7' with 4 strands of brbed wire.
'4* not f Inance by tDA.
453 Two offices In Xuzzefarabed of 200 squrre a each.
46 For rental of epece ihfle toazf or sbd offices are edwi eonstruction.
7), For offices can resfdmace.
$  inrluding tents, coiong ger, other flotd eqaiuunt.
490 Term Leedar.
4101 TWo one-_ecursees.
unit Cost Scaled by 1000.0 4V20/1992  16:58
ni



- 85 -
PAKISTAN
ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AND RESOURCE CONSERVATION PROJECT
RveWn Ro       o A"ng t  Cheab and Rtvl Rin
INTRODUCTION
1.          Paki tan's rlverlne forests commonly known as 'Bela' forests
comprise about 9X of the total forest area and are located primarily in the
Punjab and Sindh provinces. They are subject to periodic flooding, with
erosion and deposition being a continuing feature. The total area under those
forests is 307,000 ha of which 192,000 ha are productive and the rest covered
by . rank growth of Kana (Saccharum munje); KUhi (Ssccherum spontaneun), Bhan
(populous euphratlca) and Tamzrix dioca. Once the riverine forests
contributed to the wealth and growth of the Indus Valley civilization, but now
their contrlbution Is minimal and they are deteriorating fast. Currently
about 100,000 ha are estimated to be under severe stress. Major causes of
their decline are over exploitation and hydrological changes In the flow
regime of the river Indus and its principal tributares. Since the Bela
forests along with civil engineering structures play an Important role In the
stabilization of river banks, there still remains an environmental and
economic need to maintaln them as they provide timber and fuelwood to the
local population, and a habitat for wildlife.
2.          The crucial role of the riverine forests in maintaining an
environmental balance in the flood plains, contributing significantly to the
rural energy supply, and providing industrial wood for pulp and paper
producte, has prompted the Punjab Forestry Department to attempt their
rehabilitation.  Out of 57,000 ha of land thst is under Bela typ of forest in
the Punjab, a considerable area is unproductive. The soils of the riverine
areas are usually good deep loss. As substantial areas of land are situated
in regions of low rainfall, Insufficient moistuct makes it difficult to
establish tree crops.
OBJECTIVES
3.          The pr.oject will reforest 2,000 ha of riverine land along the Ravi
and Chenab rivers a* a pilot undertaking. Vith present tree species and
planting technlques, the current growth rate is 1 S/Aa/year which is nearly
one-fourth of the potential yield of these areas. The productivity of the
tr9c crops would be increased by using portable lift pumps for Irrigating the
trans during establishment and their Initial three years of growth. At the
end of that period the tree roots would reach groundwater which is usually at
six to ten feet deep. Additionally, the project would plant short-rotation
fast growing tree species which would ultimately result in greater biomass
production at a relatively low cost. In recent years, the Forestry Department



- 86 -
ANNEX 6
Page 2
has tested new species with new methods of planting. By growing these species
in compact blocks, it foresees the development of paper and furnlture
industries in the province.
PROJECT DESCRIPTION
4.          The project will undertake the following activities:
(I) Ae to be planted:
The project will reforest 1,200 ha of bare and under-stocked land
in the Lahore Forest Circle and another 800 ha in the Sargodha Circle. The
areas to be reforested in the Lahore Circle are known. The exact location of
the &reas to be planted in the Sargodha Circle is yet to be identified, mapped
and studied with respect to its topography, socio-economic perspectives and
inundation conditions. These activities will be carried out at the start of
the project in the first year.
fl) Planting Program:
Establishment of Eucalyptus and Shisham plantations in bare areas
within the riverine forests would be the major operation during the project
period. The planting program, in hectares, will be as follows:
Year 1      Year 2      Year 3      Year 4      Total
Lahore Circle      200         400         400         200         1,200
Sargodha Circle    100                                               800
Total     300         600         700         400         2,000
Reforestation will not be confined to one area but will occur in all the
Forest Divisions managing the riverine forests. Planting in Bela forests will
be done mostly in November/December for Eucalyptus and in February/March for
Shisham.
(ll) Planting mttwi:
Using a 2x2 meter spacing, the project requires 2,500 seedlings
per ha or about 5.0 million seedlings to plant 2,000 ha. nother 30X
seedlings would be requlred to replace the failures during the first and the
second years making the total seedling requirement of 6.5 million. Half of
the seedlings 3.25 million will consist of Eucalyptus plants raised in
polythene tubes and the remaining 3.25 million stumps (root-shoot cuttings) of
Shisham raised in bed nurseries. Of this number, 20X seedlings will be
purchased from social forestry nurseries (private nurseries encouraged by the
department) and the remaining 80X will come from the existing Forest
Department nurseries.



- 87 -
Page 3
(lv) Se preperatlon:
To improve seedling survival, site preparation vill remove
competing vegetation. This will involve stubbing of Saccharum species before
planting and weeding of grasses after planting.
(v) AMtuMl Pnng:
The object being maximum biomass productlon per unit area. it is
proposed to raise a alxture of Eucalyptus and Shisham in alternate pits spaced
at an interval of 2m x 2m. Eucalyptus will be harvested after 8 years and
Shishas after 20 years. A second crop of Eucalyptus will be taken from
coppice.
(vi Iripton:
Since the micro-environment of the riverine areas is arid,
seedlings will require irrigation during the initial three years of growth.
Twenty-five irrigations will be given during the first year, 20 during the
second year and 12 during the third year. For this purpose, the project will
Install portable lift pumps and engines at the rate of one for every 10 ha.
Irrigation channels amd field dLtches will be dug for irrigating the
seedlings.
PROJECT IMPLEMENTAMON
5.          The Punjab Forestry Department will implement the subproject,
using Lts ezisting managerial and supervLsory structure   It would recrult
only two new Range Officera, one for each circle to assist the ezisting
Divisional Forest Officers in carrying out the subproject works and a number
of lower level staff such as tractor and vehicle drivers, pump operators,
irrigation workers and forest guards. The impleentation period will be six
years.
PROJECT COST
6.          The total subproject cost is estimated at Rs 68.4 allion
(approximately US$2.5 million) incluslve of physical and price contingencies
as shown in the Table below.



- 88 -                                    ANNEX 6
Page 4
Pakistan
Enviromrntat Protect1on & Resource Conervatfcn
Project
unJab: tiverine Reforestation along the Chwnb 9 lef
Sihroject
Detailad Coot Table
Oumntity
UnWt  92/93 93/94 94/95  95/96  96/97 97/98  Total         Total      Totat
1. ln'ESmNTl COSTS
........I . . COSTS                                                                        (Rs '000)  (15 '000)
A. Physical Works
Pr paratory Work 1          lukp  Um     -     -             - am-                       4165.1       151.3
Ldor Circle cst Plant       hectare    200   400   400   200         0     0   1200      6747.7      245.0
Labore Circ(e 0 pltnting 4) hectare     20    so   140   140    s0    20   480            266.6       10.2
Serkod Circle lot Plant    hectare    100   200   300   200          0     0   80o       4566.2      164.8
tarkodl Circle tcpltntinr 4hectere      10    40    8o   100    70    20   320            193.9        6.9
........    ...............
15959.5      575.2
O3.  Pating lWinteae
Field Works 4)              hactre    300   600   700   400          0     0  2000       3631.6      131.5
irrioation Lebour 4         lump        -             -      -      -     -      -      14597.6      520.1
Plantetfon Nfinton noe 45   hectare    300   600   700   400         0     0  2000       4162.4      150.8
22391.8      802.6
C. Vehicles
4wd Pfek-up Double CI       nu' er       2      0      0      0      0     0      2      1237.6       47.3
Sot wIth Outboard Notor    number        2      0      0      0     0      0      2      330.0        12.6
125 cc Notorcycle           nubr         4      0      0      0     0      0      4      358.3        13.7
1925.9       73.6
b. Equlpmnt
PUnD aith Ases eorlos i6    got        100   110       0      0     0      0   210      9406.9       351.2
Offie EcEufpnt              luop aM                                                       " -   -   -   -   -  .  3.3
Offife FurnCtur             lump um     -      -      -      -      -     -      -       101.8         3.7
35 hp Tractor/InpLem_nts    set          2      0      0      0     0      0      2      513.6        19.6
Other TooLs/Suplies         lump aum           -      -      -            -      -        96.2         3.5
10209.3      381.3
Totat IUWStUEUT COSTS                                                                 .0486.6      1835.
it. MOOUIT COSTS
A. IneMrontal Staff
Rtne Officer                number       2      2      2     2      2      2    11       622.3        22.1
Other taff ts               numb r      30    60    82    S0    30    16   266          8281.4       296.6
6903.?      316.6
B. Office Expsvr ture            lump sum    *      -      -                                  464.8        16.6
C. Vehicle OIN
Pick-up                     rer          0      2      2     2      2      2    10      1159.6        40.8
moats                       qwsr         0      2      2     2      2      2    10       610.3        21.5
Notorecycle                      r       0      2      4     4      4      4    1S       264.2         9.3
........     ...............
2034.1       71.5
*. Office EW _i*                 luwp 5                                                        5 -  -  -  -  -  -  4.1  1.9
E. u    O                        lump s                    .      .     .      .             6432.2       229.2
178.9         637.8
Total                                                                                   68375.5      2473.4
U DOetailed surve, aqipifn, lan  cleerfng, layout, etc.
4     IOX tfrat ywr, 20X second ywr ad 10X third yar.
43 Soeholhes/ueLts/water coursas, ditchs/irrgtion exct pmp cot & OiL.
. NuLmr of irrigations: lst yr  25, 2d yr - 20, 3d yr  12.
45 Wading, cleaing of mter course & pfts.
43 26 I/*  15 hp; procrred locally according to lsort retrictions.
m) Includin  p    oertors & drivers.
Valume scae'd by 1000.0 4/20/1992 16:59



- 89 -
AM 7
PAKISTAN
ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AND RESOURCE CONSERVATION PROJECT
Punjab's Provnc1l WildlIfe Suvey
INTRODUCTION
1.          The Government of Pakistan has taken a number of initiatives in
the conservation field in recognition of the worldwide importance of
preserving genetic mater.al.  In spite of these efforts, many animal and plant
species are close to extinction, and many more are severely threatened and
endangered.
2.          This subproject was initiated by the Forestry, Wildlife, Fisheries
and Tourism Department of the Government of Punjab and has evolved in
coordination vith Bank identification and preparation missions. It will focus
on the survey of wildlife population and its habitats which i. the vital data
for planning and management of wildlife, national parks, saactuaries and
reserves.
RATIONALE
3.          Serious conservation efforts in Pakistan began in 1966 when the
World Wildlife Fund was invited to suggest wildlife preservation strategies.
An extensive wildlife appraisal followed in 1971 which resulted in the
establishment of the National Council for Conservation of Wildlife in 1974.
The most significant ach*Ievements in Pakistan's 23 year conservation history
include: a ban on wildlife export trade for selected species; the
establishment of wildlife management training programs; the establishment of 7
national parks, 72 wildlife sanctuaries and 7 game reserves and designation of
3 significant wetland areas under the RANSAR Convention (the International
Convention for Protection and Consorvation of Wetlands of National
Importance).
4.          In Punjab, the provincial government has notified 25 wildlife
sanctuaries (2,012,000 acres), 17 games reserves (5.953,000 acres) and one
national park, Lal Sohanra (127,000 acres),  The total protected area is about
16X of the land mass of the province. These refuge areas are uot being
managed scientifically mainly because of insufficient baseline data. In
addition, information regarding wildlife habitat requirements and management
for the refuge areas is almost non-existent.
PROJECT OBJECTIVES
5.          The main objective of this subproject is to assist the Punjab
Wildlife Research Center (PNRC), Gatwala, Faisalabad in carrying out wildlife
surveys and develop guidelines for wildlife habitat management plans In the
Punjab province. In addition, it will strengthen the institutional capability
of PRC.



- 90 -
N 7
Page 2
PROJECT DESCRIPTION
6.          The subproject's activities vill focus on:
(i)   training wildlife staff in appropriate animal survey,
animal handling methods and assLating in conducting
the survey;
(ii)   assisting in the design of population surveys of
ecologically and/or commercially valuable species in
selected refuge and non-refuge areas within the
province;
(iii)   training staff in data management and interpretation;
(iv)   assisting in the development of guidelines for
wildlife habitat management in the Punjab; and
(v)   strengthening PURC through recruitment of new staff
and the provision of necessary field transportation,
scientific and field equipment and the construction of
offices and staff quarters.
RECRUITMENT OF NEW STAFF
7.          The PWRC is presently headed by the Deputy Game Warden, Wildlife
Sciences, who is assisted by three Research Officers, four supervisors and a
team of laboratory and field staff. The Census Unit attached to the Center is
headed by an Assistant Game Warden, who is assisted by three supervisors. The
Center is currently understaffed and it is planned to recruit about 24 new
staff to carry out this project.
PHYSICAL FACILITIES, TRANSPORTATION AND EQUIPMENT
S.          Research staff at the Center currently share facilities with the
Punjab Forestry Research Institute and as a result, the Center is overcrowded.
The situation will be further exacerbated with the addition of the new staff.
It is therefore necessary to provide new research and training facilities,
housing, stores and car sheds, necessary vehicles and scientific equipment in
order to implement the subproject.
TRAINING
9.          There will be two major components to the training program; local
in-service training (about 500 staff days) and short course/study tours abroad
(4 officers @ 3 months each). The local in-service training programs will be
developed, documented and implemented by the foreign technical consultants in
consultation with their counterparts from PNRC, Wildlife and the Directorate
General of Wildlife. There will be three distinctly different in-servico
training programs offered as part of the subproject: (i) population survey
methods and animal handling techniques; (ii) data management and



- 91 -
AM7
Page 3
interpretation methods; and (iii) wildlife habitat evaluation, vegetation
management a*d techniques for habitat rehabilitation. The training programs
will be sequentially phased over the first four years of the subproject.
IMPLEMENTATION
10.         The Director General (Parks and VildlLfe) Punjab vill have overall
responsLbility for the subproject. The Dlrector Wildlife Sciences, of PWRC,
vili be responsible for the technical aanagement of the work on a day-to-day
basis. The consultants" Team Leader will be responsible for the technical
assistance component of the subproject and will coordinate with, and act as an
advisor to the Subproject Director. Each of the three consultants will work
closely wLth a counterpart from the Center.
11.         The objectives of this subproject are closely related to the
objectives of other development schemes in the Wildlife subsector. The
methods and approaches learneo. in the subproject vould benefit these schemes
and should be incorporated into their activities. The subproject
implementation period will be five years.
COST
12.         The total cost of this subproject is estimated at Rs 40.7 million
(US$1.5 million equivalent) as shown in the Table below.



Pakistan
Ewireuntal Protetifn & Asosww eCmervation
project
PuJtb: Witdlife Survey &  Neginnt Pluw_if
Dtilted Coot Tabte
Oumntity
Unit  9/93 93/94 94/9  95/96    9   97/9M  Total         Total        Total
.................................................  ........   --------
1. INVESIEIT COSTS                                                                           .(s UU)   cs  'a
................
A. Wildlife Survey Field Ik 02  lup  e                - a s               - -                  403.6         14.9
S. VildltifN m1n .wntPlan O,             l  -                             - -oa                277.7         10.0
C. FMSAd Vorks
Vegetation Stucy Fencgq 4bilemmter         4      4      0      0     0      0      8     49.5          18.3
D. MIltdins
Office Construction       square mter   450       0      0      0     0      0   450    1965.5          75.1
Reide & other 0.          aqAre mter   625   625         0      0     0      0  1250    4675.6         174.7
641.1        249.9
E. Vehilees
4ud Pick-up        _er                     2      0      0      0     0      0      2     1072.6        41.0
4wd Pfck-upDohble Cob     ner               2     0      0      0     0      0      2     1237.6        47.3
4d Van W                    er              0     1      0      0     0      0      1      812.5        32.3
125 ccN torcY-le            mker           0      4      0     0      0      0      4      353.2        14.0
3575.9       134.6
F. Eqpuipt
Survey/Cping Eqadp.snt   set               -     -      -      -     -      -      .      27..         104.1
Office Equiment           l    em          -                 - -                              - .  .  406.2  14.9
Office Furniture          lum em                 .             -     - - -                 151.9         S.6
Radio Equfpent 45                             .      .         -  .         .      .      170.4         65.3
Audlo-VisutI EqLpmnt 43  lwp -um                 a                   -      -      .       266.6         10.0
Other qufp pSif                            -                                                2 .  .  .  .  .  U0.3  15.6
5676.0       215.5
6. Cenwlttminc
Ulidltfe Survyp             nth            3      1      1      1     0      0      6     3270.2        123.5
U'ltife Nbttat/Ecologfst   mn              3      1      1      1     0      0      6     3270.2        120.5
Swnctury/Perk Sp          MOnth            3      1      1     1      2      0     a      457T.0       165.9
1111.4       407.6
N. Overs   Trafinf/Tour
IVildlife selce           mnth             3      0      0     0      0      0      3       60.7         23.1
Populaton Survey          month            0      3      0     0      0      0     3       445.7         23.6
Date 1N1_eent             mont             0      3      0     0      0      0      3       645.7        23.6
Uildltif NItt EcoloW    month              0      0      3     0      0      0      3       664.4        24.5                    0
2579.4       94.i
1. InCousmtry Training           idy           SO   1S0   1S0   1S0        0     0   SOO        141.4         5.1
Totl I_T            COST                                                                   30697.2      1150.7
It.    -1  CM
A. Incremw        I staff
Project Director            r              1      1      1      1     1      0     S        756.9        27.3
AntOmVdo                                          a 2  2  2    2      2      0    10        75.7         2.6



Botanist                   UW*             1      I     1      1      1     0      5      65.55      396.8       14.3
Statistician              nSer             I      I     1      1      1     0      5      6S.55      396.8       14.3
Other Staff                uler           14    19    19    19    19        0    90       25.30    2775.3        99.6
5121.5      184.0
*. Office Epediture w                          .      .  -  - S                       *W                 635.0        22.7
C. uilding Naintenance         top su             *      -     -      -                                  5 -  -  521.4  18.4
D. vehicle 04N
Pick-up s                     er           4      4     4      4     4      0    20       82.01    2184.5        78.6
4ud Van                   nser             1      1     1      1      1     0      5      82.01      54.1        19.7
Notorcyles                 1ber            4     4      4      4     4      0    20       10.25      273.1        9.6
3037     106.1
E. Office & Other Eqipment          e-r              - -  -  -                  -                        S59.3        20.0
Total RECOR      CSTS                                                                                9640.9         .
Totel                                                                                             40738.1     1584.O
'1 Field wok expenses inctlud hiring of pak animl_s  guide, tabour, etc.
42 Steel posts of utle  28 x 28 x 1/40 ith 4 strands of barbed wire.
4) Quarter for lowr staff, stores  d gaere.
44 For carrying trai1nr  an fleld trips.
45 For tracking animls md cmnicatimns.
d  For study an  training.
72 including report printing In yr 6.
Unit Costs Scaled by 1000.0 4/20/1992 16:59
sLn



- 94 -
PAKISTAN
ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AND RESOURCE CONSERVAllON PVROJECT
RehabIliatIon and Replnting of Indus Deft Mangroves
INTRODUCTION
1.          In Pakistan, mangrove forests grow on the coasts of both
Balochistan and Sindh provinces. While their growth in the former is largely
restricted to the Porali River delta to the north vest of Karachi, the Indus
delta mangroves represent the sixth largest mangrove block worldwide and,
occupy virtually the entire Sindh coast from Karachi south to the Indian
border.
2.          For the past seventy years and especially during the 1950s and
1960s, increasingly large quantities of fresh water have been removed from the
Indus river system for irrigsation, leaving less than 20X to flush the
mangroves. The only mangroves to receLve fresh water over and above the
meager rainfall are those in the most northerly block, primarlly from Karachi
sewage, or around the mouth of the Indus (for three months as opposed to nine
months originally). The Environmental Impact Assessment (EIA) of the Left
Bank Outfall Drain system considers that the irrigation drainage water, which
will be released into Shah Samando Creek, in the south-eastern sector of the
Indus delta, will have no effect on the mangroves because its salinlty (20,000
ppm) is less than the salinity of normal seawater (35,000 ppm). Avicennia
marina, the main variety of mangrove in the Indus delta (locally known as
timer), can live in salinities of up to 2.5 times that of seawater, but its
growth is invariably stunted and exposure over many years might result in
death.
3.          The Korangi Creek area, on the outskirts of Karachi and the
northern fringe of the Indus delta mangroves, suffers from the highest
industrial and domestic pollutlon in this region. IUCN (International Union
for Conservation of Nature and Natural Resources) studies consider that air
pollution generally gave no cause for alarm but that liquid pollution in the
form of untreated sewage, oil refinery effluent, metal bearing tanning wastes,
chermal effluent and mercury all required detailed monitoring if future
problems were to be avoided.
RATIONALE
4.          Although timer has low caloriflc value and is not regarded as good
fuelwood, it is used by most local villagers for their cooking and heating.
It is estimated that about 35-45,000 m3 of timer are removed as fuelwood each
year. The Forest Department charges Rps. 12.0/maund (40 kg) of fuelwood.
Some 85X of local villages use timber shoots and leaves as fodder for their
livestock. For lopped fodder, the Forest Department charges Rps 60.0/boat



- 95 -
ANNEX 8
Page 2
load (40 kg). Visual estimates of the village livestock population are 8,000
camels, 500 buffalos/cattle, and 1,700 goats and sheep. Only about 2% of
these animals were listed on grazing permlts ln 1984/85. In very approximate
fLgures, this coastal population of browsing animals would consume about 40.0
ill 'n forage unlts/year.   Assuming that only half of thls forage is
obtained from the mangroves, browsing or lopping could be removing 200,000
metrlc tons of tree follage per year.
5.          By far the most valuable commercial products from the mangrove
area are the fisheries. The shrimp industry, which produces about a quarter
of the flsheries' revenue as a whole, catches about 29,000 metric tons. The
value attributed to the Sindh fisheries' shrimp is around Rs. 1.35 billion.
Approzimately 100,000 people (fishermen and fish processors) are dependent or
partially dependent on mangrove fishing.
6.          Mangrove forests provide protection to coastal villages against
tiLal action and erosion and reduce siltation in navigation channels around
ports. At Port Qasim. only the off-shore channel (approximately 8 km long) is
dredged during fair weather in the monsoon, and on average about 2.5 million
m3 of silt are removed annually. The inner, mangrove-protected channel does
not require dredging.
PROJECT AREA
7.          The Indus delta mangroves are situated in the Thatta district of
Sindh Province. The average annual rainfall is around 220 mm, mainly in the
monsoon season (April-September). Air temperature varies from a winter
minimum of 9.50 C to a summer maximum of 30-350 C. Cyclones are very
infrequent but tldal winds can occur in June-September. Solls conslst of
mized coastal deposits from the Indus river; they comprise alluvium, with sllt
and clay from land drainage. They are rich in salts such as sodium chloride,
carbonate and nitrate and some calcium. The underlying rocks are sedimentary,
mainly limestone.
8.          Out of 410,000 ha of land under mangroves nearly 282,800 ha are
with the Forest Department, 63,700 ha are wLth the Land Utilizatlon Department
and 64,000 ha vLth Port Quasim Authority. According to the 1:250,000 scale
map produced by the Pakistan Space and Upper Atmosphere Research CommassLon
(SUPARCO) from Landsat Imagery, these areas have the following composition:
- Dense or normal vegetatlve cover  44%         124,445 ha
- Sparse or no cover                22%          62.223 ha
- Sand bars                          7%          19,798 ha
- Water channels                    27%          76,364 ha
9.          The present mangrove forest is almost entirely composed of
Avlcennia marina, vith a sprlnkling (less than 5%) of CeriLop  tagal.  Six
other mangrove tree species have been recorded in this area, namely:
AsmMuiera conjusta. Ceriops rozbur piLana, Rhiz2ph=ra a&lculata, I. mucronata,
ASgicrA  cornLculata and SonnerAtja caseolaarLs. Mangroves grow in the



- 96 -
ANNEX 8
Page 3
waterlogged and oxygen-deficient soils of tidal mud flats, where no other
higher plant can survive. In spite of regular inundation with seawater, they
are X.rophytic and live in constant physiological drought. They have very
eztensive root systems aind other anatomical modifications such as specialized
roots (pLeum atgh2res), to provide aeration in waterlogged soils. There are
at least 315 vertebrate species of animal that live in the mangrove delta,
comprising six mamals (including a dolphin and a porpoise). 61 birds, 13
reptiles and 235 species of fish. Mangroves provide critical nurseries for
commercial or potentially commercial marine life in addition to fishes, i.e.
crabs, molluscs and crustaceans, notably 23 species of shrimps and prawns.
10.         Approximately 200,000 people, primarily fisherfolk, occupy the
land immediately adjacent to the mangrove mud flats. Around half of this
population resides in the Korangi coastal area, while the remainder is spread
over the entire land area southward to the Indian border. Over 60X of the
population use timer as their principal source of fuel and over 80X use timer
as fodder for their livestock.
PROJECT OBJECTIVES
11.         The main objectives of the subproject are to:
(i) establish a central body within the Forest Department
to initiate the first phase of a regeneration program,
patrol the mangroves, act as the coordinating body for
research on the forest, marine biota and the
ecosystem's wildlife, accumulate experience and
promote cooperation between all bodies concerned;
(ii) conduct sociological studies with the object of
finding alternative sources of fuelwood and fodder to
reduce over-exploitation;
(iii) initiate research programs on the ecosystem (trees,
marine live and wild fauna and flora).
PROJECT COMPONENTS
12.         The subproject has the following components:
(i) Strengthening the Coastal Forest Division by providing
adequate staff and finance to undertake a first phase
regeneration program of 16,000 ha over a six-year
period.
(il)   Enforce protection measures, coordinate research and
accumulate knowledge and experience on management
problems.
(iii)   Start social forestry in tLa coastal area with the
object of encouraging alternative sources of fuelwood



- 97 -
Page 4
and fodder to reduce pressure on mangrove.
(is)   Iaitiate research programs on mangrove ecosystem
namely:
(a)   promote remedial measures for watural and
artificial regeneration of mangroves,
growth form and increment, problems of
salinity;
(b)   identify commercial and potentially
commercial species in the mangrove creoks,
trace zheir life histories and dependence
on the ecosystem, and make proposals for
their management and rational harvesting;
(c)   continue sociological studies to identify,
more clearly, threats to mangroves and
devise measures for their rehabilitation;
and
(d)   continue studies on land-based
vertebrates, ldentify their relative
importance in the ecosystem, trends In
their population and recommendations for
their management.
PROJECT IMPLEMENTATiON
13.         A coastal Forest Division will be established under the
subproject, comprising a Divisional Forest Officer (DFO), a ScientifLc Offlcer
(80), and three Range offices. Rach of the range offices will have four
foresters, eight forest guards and a complement of ancillary staff. This
division will be responsible for implementing the subproject with the DFO as
its Project Director. The implementation period of the subproject will be six
years.
14.         The DPO, SO and RFOs will each havo a residence and office
constructed under the project. All lower level uniformed staff will share
living quarters. Furniture and equipment will be provided for the offices and
for the laboratory. The DFO will be provided with a motorised launch and the
S0 and RFO'. will each have a fiberglass boat with an outboard motor. Six
boats vitiout engines will be shared among the foresters and forest guards.
IMPLEMENTATION PROGRAM
15.         Re-establishment of woodland in bare areas within the mangrove
forest Is expected to be the major operation for the division during the
subproject period. During the first phase, some 16,000 bA will be regenerated
in the siz years, comprising 8,000 ha of planting mangrove seedlings or soed
In bare and 8,000 ha of assisted regeneration. Trials of other mangrov



- 98 -
ANNE- a
Page 5
species from the Indian subcontinent will be established under the research
prograem.
16.         Re-establishment will not be conflned to one area of the forest
but will occur through the tract. It wll be concentrated, during the project
period on: ti) the easier, low-lying, frequently inundated bare areas to
complete stocking on reasonably well-regenerated areas; (Li) near villages, to
deflect domesjtic stock to other areas; avd (iii) near the sea, behind sand
bars, to restrict sand movement. The majority of planting vill occur during
four months, mainly, during the rains (July-September and I'ebruary/Narch).
Initial planting ensl*, iwill be 3 x 3m (1,100 plants/ha). Plantlng stock can
comprise seed, gemlnated seed (propagules), wildings, contaLner plants, or
bareroot plants. The subproject vill require some 12.6 million seedlings for
planting.
17.         Sociological research will be conducted primarily among the
adjacent coastal vlllages. Its principal objective is to reduce mangrove over
exploitation for fuel and fodder by creating alternative sources of these
commodities and incomu.
i8.         Silvlcultural research will be largely confined to the Indus delta
mangrove forest and will be undertaken primarily by the SO. It will
encompass: (i) salinity vithin the area, its effect on regeneratlon and means
of combatting it; (li) establishment of specie trials; (iii) genetic
improvement of the Indus mangroves; (iv) history of forest decline in the
delta; and (v) promotion of bee-keeping In the forest.
19.         The marine creek study will be undertaken by the Marine Reference
Collection Center of the University of Karachi and vill involve an examination
of the mangrove associated shrimp and fish populations of both commercial and
potentially commercial species. It will confirm the dependence of shrimp and
other fisheries on mangroves and Ldentify the flshery resource of the
mangroves, their role in the ecosystem and alternative sources of fisheries
and provide a scientlfic basis for a closed fishing season for prawns.
TRAJNING
20.         A total of 8 man months have been provlded In the subproject for
short course training and study tours for staff. The Divisional Forest
Officer/Subproject Director in consultation with the consultants will decide
on the program of the training.
COSTS
21.         The total cost of the subproject, including physical and price
contingencies, is estimated at Rs. 99.9 million (US$3.6 million equlvalent)
over a period of six years as shown in the Table below.



Pakistan
Enviror_ntal Protection & Resoure Ca*seraticn
Project
Sndh: ItdRebtltetatn & RepLantliw of tid  betta wmrov
Saholect
Deta fed Cost Tabl
Unit  923  95394  94/95 95/96  96/97 9796  total          totl        total
I * IUWESTNE5 cSTS
~~~~~~~~~.,., ....................                                            (VA... .......)..  ........
1. It~~ (Ru '006)    (US '00)
A. Phylest Wo
&urvev/llbppfrgPrep Work  l(  ump         -                  m          -              391.3         U4.6
Planting Mnk Area1        hectare      00   90   1200  1500  180   2000  a000    16871.6            663.2
Asisted leguwation        hectar      600   900  1200  500  1800  2000  O0M          11764.2       413.4
Social fostry              lup a m                                -     -              1977.2        70.4
*'Ltd Tre Plnting         heet         40    80   100   120   120   110   570         1492.8         52.6
sou_deryNsrku             lu           -                   -      -                    334.4         11.8
Off lCOStoruatrrs          tu                 -     -      -      - -                 189.5         700.2
........     .......
53815.4      1928.4
6.  ech progr                  t     -      -            -      -     - V                  342.6         123.9
C. Vahicles
4wd Pick-up               tlit          3     0      0      0     0      0      3     1606.9         61. 
4Wd ouble-C  Pick-Up       uit          1     0      0      0      0     0      1      618.8         23.7
notrcyclte                mit           6     0      0      0      0     0      6      537.5         20.5
leLacShb                  wilt          1     0      0      0     0      0      1     1650.1         63.1
FibG lsotEn gine          uit          4      0      0      0     0      0      4      660.0         25.2
FiblScot Wo Enginr        unit         6      0      0      0     0      0      6      742.6         20.4
9. Equfnma t
3S5ptractor               unlt          4     0      0      0     0      O      4      606.0         23.2
OiceEqpwIt         lim -        -      -              -                         365.2         13.5
Off ice Furniture         l   um       -     - W m                -     -      -       167.4          6.3
Laoratory Equilnt         lu  smp         - a                    -      -      -       327.3         12.3
Agricuiture/fxteion       Im p         - OM                       -     -              380.2         14.3
12.S WV Gmntors           unit         3      0      0      0     0      0      3     177.1          66.0
Other Haterielt/Svple     lium         -     -      -      -      a                     M -  3.1      9.0
........     ...............
3811.3       14.5
E. Conutmteissz
SilvicAtwallst 41        rmnth         2      1      1      0     0      0      4     21.1           79.7
brin.iM  los, t  31       m gonth       2     1      1      0     0      2      6     3528.9        126.6
Ecamlst 1                 month         2     0      1      0     0      1      4     209.4          83.2                       OQZ
Socitoloist (toal) 2x    month         6    12    12    12        0      0    42      1476.8         53.4                      4
t. rra(ntng                                                                             943.2        3U2.8
O_Wr.  COSOseTours <W  mntm             0     2      2      2     2      0      a        181         66.9
Total t      t COSTM                                                                   76194.4      2826.8
II* _ELIT  kvms
..0...'a.'m...... Ssf
A. InOrefnntal ta2ff
Olvision Forest Officer    meir         1     1      1      1     1      1      6      618.3        22.0



S iv F         offfoer   U           1     1     1     1      1     1     6      i55        Wn-r
-treat Osear       -"        2     3      3     3     3     3    1       43S.0      -.5          3.1
oIU. Pwstff   _ffi           r                  ,s  0    n   n  n    n    33     25.0    1270          49s.V
14M.2    35224
. Offhe           _              -      -     -            - to  -u      -20
C. valets m *
Plek-qa                 m~uR         0     2     4     4     4      4    1S      82.1      2113.5         '
bterq~~~lm         meNN       0     3      6     6     6     6    27       10.2563                 .
lOmLasmIa                            0     1     1     1     1      1    5       75.53      3I.0SA
Ussts               1R"        0     2      4     4     4     4    1        43.1      1112.4
Oote  NobtNW            INe          0     3     6     6     6      6    n        L.U       20. E.3
43".8   153.0
D. mlldlqd_IEtlI  US
35 P" Fwacta           top.n        0     2     1     4     4      4    18      33.95     " S
Othe Eql.n a  -OSIsUw gm                                                                     "A  -1.     6.?
aWI   latam.             lewme                  -            - -         -          .       317..       11.2
90totat                                                                              172.5       d.6
........   ...............
Total t0126  Comi                                                                         2l731.6      76.I1
Total                                                                                  "95.7       3_.0
ib Inciwlw of .frfar, am        hotel, 11,al ce* etc.
*  2nclwlw of lwatl expnm.
*  Inclusiw  of erfarm  d ard
Unit Cog.- lkeI by 100W.0 41/1992 17:00
OQ 



- 101 -
9
Table 1
PAKISMA
ENVNMENTAL   CTION AND RESOURCE CONURVATION PWOJECT
Forgn and Locl TfInI
Forein Trah*ig                Loold Traek
luUAn,1_3ubprsd                   PhD    MSG  Short TOm                short TWM
(no)    (no) (staff mouths)       (staff days)
1.    KUAD                        -        -         1S                 1,050
2     PPA                         -        -          9                   100
3.    p31K                        -        -         13                   300
4     Punjab P&D                  -        -          9                   120
5.    Sndh EPA                    1       3          30                   160
69    NUP EPA                     -       4          24                   420
7.    Nurree/Kahuta               -        -         10                   275
S.    Dir Kohistan                -                  26                   590
9.    Jhimber                     -        -         35                   300
10.   Alpine Pastures             -        -         28                   100
11.   Wildlife surveys            -        -         12                   S00
12.    ngrove Replantin           -        -          8
Tasi                        1       7         219                 3.915



- 102 -
AM9
Table 2
PAKISTA7N
ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AND RESOURCE CONSERVATION PROJECT
Forein and Local Te.cincal Assance
TechnIal Auitance
IntemUtonaly   Locly
Ins"tiluon/Expertlse                                     Rnecuitd    Recrued
------(staff months)-
1.    EUAD:
(1)   environmental policy expert                   12                -
(ii)   legal expert                                   6                6
(1i1)   environmentallst/ElI guldelines                6                6
(Lv)   environmental .ngineer/envir.
quallty standards                            6                6
(v)   mass avareness expert                          3                3
Subtoal                                 33               21
[. n  Punjab P&D:
envlronsentallst/environmental sectlons              9               16
3.    Slndh EPA:
(i)   environmentalists/EYA procedures              10                4
(il)   environ, engineers/solld waste dlsposal       10                4
(ii)   mass awareness expert                           3                1
Subtotal                                23                9
4.    NWFP EPA
(1)   environmentallsts/EKIA procedures             18                6
(ii)   environ. engineers/solid waste dlsposal       18                6
(ili)   mass awareness ezpert                          3                6
Subtotal                                39               18
5.    DEPM:
(1)   GIS ewperts                                   10                2
(il)   deslgn GIS tralulng courses                    2                -
Subtotal                                12                2
6.    Punjab Foresty Departne:
(A)   MS: (a) watershed management                   7                -
(b) hortlculture                         -                5
(C) soil conservation                    2                6
(d) landsllde control                    5                -
(e) monltoring and evaluation            4                -
(f) sociology                            -               50



- 103 -
Table 2
Page 2
Technical Assuance
lntentionally  Locally
InsUtutlon/Expertl                                       Recuited    Reruited
------(staff months)-
(ii)   VildIlfe Survey and Management Planning:
(a) vlldlife surveying                  6
(b) wildlife habitat ecology            6
(c) wildlife sanctuary management       8                -
Subtotal                               20               61
7.    Slnd Forestry Department:
(L)   silviculture                                  4                -
(LL)   marlne biology                                6
(iLL)   economics                                     4                _
(iv)   sociology                                     -               42
Subtotal                               14               42
8.    NWFP Foresry Department:
DKRD: (a) vatershed management                8                _
(b) soil conservation                   6                -
(c) horticulture                        6                -
(d) livestock                           5                -
(e) agricultural economics              6                -
(f) monitoring and evaluation           4                -
(g) sociology                                          50
Subtotal                               35               so
9.   AJK Forestry Department:
(i)   BURD: (a) watershed management                8                -
(! ) soil conservatlon                  6                -
(c) agrlcultural extensLon              4                -
(d) agricultural economics              4                -
(e) livestock/rangeland develop.        4
(f) river control                       6
(g) monitoring and evaluation           4                -
(h) sociology                                           54
(ii)   ASPS: (a) range/pasture ecology               4                -
(b) livestock                           3                6
(c) forage production                   4               10
(d) socLo-economy                       4
(e) sociology                           -               24
Subtotl                                51               9
Total                                              264             315



2
Ke Tasks                                                                  Dato                    Agaey Responsible
1.   Consultants:
(i)  Agency request proposals                                                    Oct 31, 1902           UAi)u would coordinate tbet
Mii) Agency receive proposal                                                      Dec 31, 1992          recruiting of ccnsultnta
(iLL)  Detemine winning proposal                                                    Feb 28, 1993         for all imlemntig agecies
(iv)  Sign contract                                                               Mar 31. 1993
2.  Additional Staff:
(i) Emtablish three now sections                                                 Dec 31, 1992          gmAD
(Ii) Recruit one Director, three Deputy Directors                                 Dec 31, 1992          PEPA
(iii)  Recruit one Director, three Deputy Directors                                 Sep 30, 1993         PEPA
(iv) Recruit one Director                                                         Sep 30, 1994          PEPA
Cv) Recruit and flll four Assistant Director positions                           Dec 31, 1992          Sindh EPA
(vi) Recruit three Axsistant Directors                                            Jun 30, 1994          Sindh EPA
(vii) Recruit four Deputy Directors                                                Jun 30, 1995          Sindh EPA
(viii)  Recruit two Deputy Directors, five Assistant Directors and
two administrative higher level staff                                       Jun 30, 1994          NWFP EPA
Cix) Staff new environmentaL section                                              Dec 31, 1992          Punjab PM
(x)  Hire two additional full-time teaching staff                                Dec 31, 1992          DEPI
3.   Write Operating Definitions and Regulations for the 1983 Ordinance:
Mi)  Hire consultants                                                            Mar 31, 1993          EUAD
111)  Finish first draft                                                          Jun 30, 1993
(iii)  Finalize definitions and regulations                                        Sep 30, 1993
4.   Initiating EIA Procedures:
Ci)  Develop draft project screening procedures                                  May 31, 1993          PC's environmental division and PEPA
(ii)  Finalize project screening procedures                                       JUn 30, 1993          PC and PEPA
(iii)  Develop draft EIA procedures                                                May 31, 1993          PEPA with provincial EPAs
(iv) Finalize EIA procedures                                                      Jun 30, 1993          PEPA with provincial EPAs
(v) Ccmence screening projects regarding undertaking EIAs                        Jul 1, 1993           PC, Punjab P&D, Sindh EPA, ENFP EPA
x
I.-



- 105 -
ANK  1 1
PAKISTAN
ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AND RESOURCE CONSERVATION PROJECT
SupervIlon Plan
Bank Supevislon Input Into Key Activils
1.          The staff input indicated in the attached table "Bank Supervision
Input into Key Activities" is in addition to the regular supervision needs for
the review of progress reports, procurement, correspondence and so on. The
estimated annual staff time for regular supervision is four staff-weeks (sw)
for the project's first two years, then two sw per year for the remaining
years.
Borrowes Contibution to SupervIsIon
2.          Starting in February 1993, project implementation agencies will
submLt progress reports ncot later than end-February and end-August each year.
KUAD's International Section will be responsible for coordinating and
presenting progress reports for all federal implementing agencies, and
collating the provincial reports for submisslon to IDA. Provincial and AJK
Planning and Development Departments will be responsible for ensuring
provincial project staff prepare progress reports and submit these to EVAD.
3.          EUAD's International Section will be responsible for coordinating
and arranging supervision mission itineraries, arrangements and wrap-up
meetings. To facilitate project start-up, EUAD would organize a project
launch workshop.



- 106 -
ANNEX 11
Page 2
lJbAW: Bank Supeviion Input Into Key AcUvites
Approximate
Date                                   Expected Sill            Staf Input
(month/year)    Activity                 Requiements             (staff weeks)
7/92        Project Launch Mission  Environmentalist              4
(discuss and review     Ag. Economist
all programs under
project and ensure
implementing agencies
know their
responsibilities)
3/93        Supervision Mission      Environmentalist             8
(review hiring of       Ag. Economist
consultants,            Agriculturalist
diagnostic surveys,
recruiting additional
staff, preparation of
EIA guidelines, nursery
establishment,
establishment of
Punjab's environ-
mental section)
9/93        Supervision Mission      Environmentalist             9
(review final designs,  Ag. Economist
community agreements,   Agronomist
EZI  guidelines and     Legal Ezpert
procedures, regulations
for 1983 Ordinance)
3/94        Supervision Mission      Environmentalist             7
(review establishment   Ag. Economist
of responsibilities/    Agronomist
work programs of EUAD,
PEPA, Sindh and NWFP
EPAs, and implementation
of subprojects)
onwards     Two Supervision          As needed                12-14
Missions per year
plus:
11/95       Mid-term Review          As needed                   10
3/98        Project Evaluatlon       As needed                   10



- 107 -
ANNE12
PAKISTAN
ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AND RESOURCE CONSERVATION PROJECT
Economic Intenl Rates of Retum
Mwres, Kahuta *nt Kotil Sattian Upland Rehabllftatlon and D.vsopment
1.          The chief objective of the subproject for the Murree, Kahuta and
Kotli Sattian Tehsils is to restore or improve land productivity in selected
areas by undertaking reforestation and soil conservation works. The project
would improve agricultural productivity in some treated areas through the
establishment of fruit orchards. Apples would likely be the favored crop, but
other fruits should also be technically and financially feasible.
Afforestation would involve primarily the planting of broadleaf fuelwood
species.
2.          At full development (project years 9-10) the proposed apple
ezpansion over 1,000 ha would increase the area's annual apple production by
12,000 tons, vhich would represent an increase in the country's total output
of approximately 10. The financial analysis uses a farmgate price of Rs 4
per/kg for apples. This price is somewhat less than the currently estimated
price of Rs 6-8/kg. Given population trends, this incremental production
alone is not likely to have strong impact on prices, but there is also ongoing
fruit development in other areas in the country. The economic price of apples
was derived from the financial price by applying the SCF.
3.          Intercropping of alf&lfa for the first three years of orchard
establishment would cover on average 75X of the orchard area. The alfalfa
yields start at 16 tons per ha of orchard and decline to 12 tons in the third
and final year of harvesting. In total, 42,000 tons of fodder would be
produced while orchards mature. The financial analysis used a local market
price for alfalfa of Rs 1.5 per/kg. the economic price was also obtained by
applying the SCF.
4.          The following tables Indicate the sensitivity of the subproject's
rate of return to variations in costs and benefits.
Table1: Financal Innal Ras of Retun of Net SWaM$
(%)
Benefits
base        up 201      down 201       lag 1 yr      lag 2 yr
Costs
base         14.2        18.3            9.6           11.9           10.2
up 201       10.4        14.2            6.0            8.8            7.6
down 20X     19.3        23.9           14.2           15.9           13.6



- 108 -
ANNEt 12
Page 2
Table 2: Economic Intenal Rates of Retum of Net Streams
(%)
Benefits
base        up 20X      down 20X       lag 1 yr       lag 2 yr
Costs
base         14.1         18.2           9.4            11.7          10.1
up 20X       10.2         14.1           5.8             8.6           7.4
down 20X     19.1         23.7          14.1            15.8          13.4
Bhlmber Upland Rehabilitation and Development
5.          The analysis of the Bhimber Upland Rehabilitation and Development
subproject centers on the benefits that occur jointly from improvements in
crop production, animal husbandry and the productivity of range and forest
areas. Under the project, maize yields vould increase from 1,200 kg per ha to
2,800 kg per ha. The outputs of fodder and crop residues would increase
respectively from 680 and 1,200 kg to 700 and 1,500 kg/ha. Valuing grain,
fodder and other crop residues, financial farm revenues per sown ha of maize
would increase from Rs 4,760 to Rs 9,570 at full development, while inputs and
bullock labor costs would rise from Rs 2,015 to Rs 3,048. The overall return
to labor rises from Rs 42 per day worked without the project to Rs 73 per
manday with the project, following an increase in farm labor from 66 to 89
days/ha. Subtracting the value of farm labor at Rs 40 per day, the total net
financial benefit per ha of maize is expected to increase from Rs 105 to Rs
2,962 for an increment of Rs 2,857.
6.          At present average yields of 600 kg per ha, the production of
wheat grain and fodder generates a revenue of about Rs 2,340 per sown ha.
After deducting the costs of inputs and animal hire, this level of income
yields a return to labor of about Rs 33 per farm day worked. In contrast,
with a yield of 2,400 kg per ha, the value of fodder oats production per sown
hectare would approach Rs 3,600. Farm costs per ha, meanwhile, would not
change by much. The financial costs for inputs and animal labor would
increase from Rs 1,320 to Rs 1,545 for an increment of Rs 225 per ha. Farm
labor requirements would increase slightly from 31 to 33 days per ha. As a
result, the return to labor per day worked is expected to change from Rs 33 to
Rs 62 ha. With the substitution of fodder oats the total financial benefit
per ha now sown in wheat, net of all costs including labor, is expected to
rise by Rs 955 per ha.
7.          In financial terms the net benefit per farm ha is expected to
improve from about Rs 27 to Rs 3,400, an increment of about Rs 3,430 which
should provide a good incentive for participation. In economic terms the
results of the changes in crop production are somewhat different. The net
economic benefit per ha of maize is expected to increase from about Rs 1,310
to about Rs 4,739 (an increment of about Rs 3,430). This increase is due
primarily to the higher value of maize in border prices. In contrast, the net



- 109 -
ANEXL IZ
Page 3
benefit per ha of substituting fodder oats for wheat falls from Rs 788 to
Rs 39 because vheat in border price terms is economically a much higher-valued
i      crop than fodder oats.  The overall result is still an increment of about Rs
2,980 per farm ha (from Rs 1,780 to Rs 4,760).
8.          The total farm area of the project is approximately 6,339 ha.  At
full development (project year 8) annual incremental production would amount
to over 10,000 tons for maize and over 6,800 tons for fodder.
9.          Range improvements, including soil conservation works, reseeding
and controlled utilization, and afforestation with fodder species are expected
to increase the availability of fodder from two to at least three (dry matter)
tons per ha, raising the basic carrying capacity of that land to 2.5 sheep per
ha. A single harvest of the range and farm production together would increase
the annual fodder supply to over 58,700 tons.
10.         Incremental annual sales of livestock are expected to rise to 365
liveveight tons despite destocking. The financial (economic) value of this
incremental production is expected to be Rs 9.13 (Rs 8.24) million per year.
Farmers will incur some nev cocts for medicines, dips, and so on, but in total
these expenses are likely to be more than compensated by the overall reduction
in the labor needed for tending animals with the project (217,814 days versus
373,395 days at Rs 40/day: a decrease of Rs 6.2 million at full development in
annual costs). The financial (economic) value of Rs 9.13 (Rs 8.24) million
per year would therefore represent a conservative estimate of the annual net
incremental benefit arising from improved livestock production alone.
11.         Better control of livestock would permit an improvement in natural
forest regeneration. Comparing the average annual growth of a partially
stocked forest vith one where all age classes are represented, that
regeneration would allow an estimated 122 additional trees to come up per ha
over an area of 4,000 ha. Commercially this vould mean at first the
harvesting of an additional 793 ft3 of small wood per ha per year, or 3.17
million ft3 annually over the area, starting in project year 31. The
financial (economic) value of this incremental production would be Rs 47,580
(Rs 42,822) per ha per year or Rs 190.32 million (Rs 171.29 million) over the
area. These benefits are cumulatively phased according to the phasing of
livestock improvements.
12.         The production of fuelvood from deciduous trees, which includes
those planted to increase the supply of fodder in grazed areas, would amount
to 5 ton per ha at 10, 20 and 30 years after planting. The financial and
economic value of this would be Rs 4,500 per ha, or Rs 36 million over the
area of 8,000 ha per thinning. In total, the planting of broadleafed trees
would produce 120,000 tons of fuelwood having a total value of Rs 108 million.
13.         The planting of conifer species over 2,000 ha of demarcated
forests would produce 22.1 million ft3 of timber, or 11,050 ft3 per ha, by the
time of the first thinning (30 years after planting). This figure assumes a
stocking of 1,700 trees per hectare, a thinning of 25X of the stand and a
volume of 26 ft3 per tree. In constant terms the total financial (economic)



- 110 -
ANNEX 12
Page 4
value of this thinning would amount to Rs 1,326 (1,193.4) million.
14.         The following tables Indicate the sensitivity of the subproject's
rate of return to variations in costs and benefits.
Tabl 3: Financial Intel Rates of Return of Net Stems
(%)
Benefits
base        up 20X      down 20X      lag 1 yr       lag 2 yr
Costs
base         13.1        15.4          10.7            11.9          10.9
up 20X       11.2        13.1           9.1            10.2           9.4
down 20X     16.0        18.8          13.1           14.2           12.9
Table  Economic Intenl Rates of Rturn of Net Stems
(%)
Benefits
base        up 20X      down 20X      lag 1 yr       lag 2 yr
Costs
base         12.1        14.4           9.7           11.0           10.0
up 201       10.2        12.1           8.0             9.2           8.5
down 201     15.0        17.8          12.1           13.3           12.1
Dir Kohlslan Upland RehbIlItaton and Deveopment
15.         Benefits from the Dir Kohistan subproject resemble those for the
Bhlmber subproject. The adoption of improved agricultural practices in the
project area is expected to increase production of cereals and other crops by
1,600 tons over 1,000 ha of farms. Improvements in total farm incomes and
returns to labor are expected to be comparable to those achieved in Bhimber.
Orchard development would extend over 240 ha and lead to the annual production
of about 2,900 tons of fruit. Fodder would amount to almost 1,100 tons per
year from the participating farms. Together vith thls increase in fodder
supply and the rehabilitation of about 5,000-10,000 hectares of rangelands
through field works and the introduction of managed grazing, improved animal
husbandry would lead to the incremental production of 200 liveveight tons of
meat per year. Controlled grazing would also allow the regeneration of about
5,000 hectares of forests, yielding in thirty-five years an increase in annual
timber production of almost 4 million ft3. Social forestry plantings over
10,700 hectares would yield 160,000 tons of fuelwood.



- 111 -
ANENX 12
Page 5
RedoDesa tokn Along the Chmnab and Ravi
16.         This subproject would develop irrigated fuelvood plantations
within areas formally under Forestry Department cor,trol. In the past, the
department has not been a position to exploit these lands, which are subject
to occasional flooding and not well suited for agriculture. The essential
goal of the subproject is to introduce a land use more productive than the
graxing alone that has since developed In the areas.
17.         The project would install simple irrigation schemes to establish
planting of eucalyptus and shlsham (Dalbergia slssu). The eucalyptus would be
a fast-growing fuelvood species having a first harvest in the eighth year
after planting and a second felling in the sixteenth year coppicing. The
average production per tree at each felling would be about 20 cubic feet.
Using a planting density of 3,025 seedlings per hectare, production of
fuelwood would be 30,250 cubic feet or about 254 tons per hectare at each
felling. Total project production over 1,000 ha vould amount to 508,000 tons.
According to current management practices shisham plantings would undergo
three thinnings before felling for timber in twenty years. The first thinning
would occur in year 6 of a stand, harvesting 4,185 cubic feet or 16.7 tons of
fuelwood per ha with the felling of 332 of the area (the initial planting
density is also 3.025 trees per ha). In year 11, another 33X would be felled,
yielding 13,375 cubic feet or 53.5 tons of fuelwood. Finally, in year 20, the
rest of the stand is felled, producing 24,595 cubic feet or 98.4 tons of
fuelwood and 6,150 cubic feet of timber. The planting of shisham over 1,000
ha is expected to produce in total about 168,000 tons of fuelwood and 6.15 ft3
of timber. In the analysis the phasing of the eucalyptus and shisham
establishments occur in equal increments of 150, 300, 350 and 200 ha.
18.         The financial and economic analyses use a price of Rs 0.9 per
kilogram for shisham fuelwood; although, fuelwood from older shisham, being
more dense than eucalyptus wood or wood from siz-year-old shisham, would be
able to obtain a higher market value. The timber is valued in end-of-1991
prices at Rs 50 per cubic foot. The economic value of timber was derived by
applying the SCF.
19.         Upon planting grazing would be restricted, but cutting grass to
carry out would be permitted. As plantations develop, revenues from grass
cutting would decline for a time, but recover as trees are felled.
Incremental losses in the supply of fodder would not be significant.
20.         The following tables indicate the sensitivity of the subproject's
rate of return to variations in costs and benefits.



- 112 -
ANNEX 12
Page 6
Tabt Z: Financial Interal Rates of Retum of Net Streams
(%)
Benefits
base        up 20X      down 20X      lag 1 yr       lag 2 yr
Costs
base         27.2        30.7          23.2           23.4           20.6
up 20%       23.9        27.2          20.0            20.6          18.2
down 20X     31.5        35.1          27.2           26.9           23.6
Tjb. 8: Economic Intenal Rate of Retun of Net Sbeams
(%)
Benefits
base        up 20X      down 202      lag 1 yr       lag 2 yr
Costs
base         30.0        33.6          25.7           25.6           22.4
up 202       26.5        30.0          24.5            22.7          19.9
down 20X     34.4        38.2          30.0           29.3           25.6
RehabIlItaon and Repanting of Indus Delta Mangroves
21.         The rehabilitation and replanting of mangroves wili  yield direct
benefits through the production of fuelvood and fodder. Mangrove plantations
can be harvested in forty years to yield 40 e of dense woot per ha.  Using a
weight of about 25 kilograms per cubic foot of wood, one ha would produce
approximately 35.7 tons. This fuelvood waa valued at Rs 1 per kilogram,
financlally and economically, to reflect a higher heat efficiency of mangrove
wood over other fuelvoods. In total, the project, treating an area of 16,000
ha, would lead to the production of over 570,000 tons of wood with a total
value of Rs 570 million between project years 40 and 44. Also, fodder could
be collected annually from plantations at a rate of 300 kilograms per hectare
startlig fifteen years after planting. By project year 20, the treated area
could produce yearly 4,800 tons of fodder with a value of Rs 4.8 million until
felling begins.
22.         The chief environmental objective of maintaining the Indus Delta
mangroves is to sustain the area's shrimp and fish industry. The mangroves
apparently provide an important spawning area; however, the exact relatlonship
between the size and state of this habltat and fishery production is not
established. It cannot be said, for example, what proportionate effect
incremental losses in area, reductions in fresh water discharges from the
Indus or current levels of pollution would have on total population and
overall production. Nevertheless, one may hypothesize that there is some
relationship between degradation and the potential sustainable hrimp
population with the project, and then determine how large an impact the
project would have to induce to justify the proposed investment. Experience



- 113 -
AM12
Page 7
elsewhere indicates that a mangrove area of 100,000 acres (40,000 ha) would
support the annual production of 1,000 tons of shrimp. For the project area
of 16,000 ha, 400 tons of shrimp per annum from the treated area would
represent an upper limit to the benefits that the project could claim In
preventing the loss of flshery production. A hypothesized environmental
impact equal to or falling below this figure could be considered feasible.
23.         Given expected production benefits from mangrove fuelvood and
fodder, it has been estimated that an incremental production of about 330 tons
of shrimp by year 20 of the project (developing gradually ten years after the
start of the project) would justify the project economically. With each
trawler landing 26 tons per year, this production lncrement would mean
preventing the redundancy of about 12 vessels. In 1985, the shrimp bionass of
the Indus Delta represented about 68X of the blomass of the total shrimp
fishery off the Sindh coast. With most of the yearly flsh catch occurring off
the Sindh coast, the Indus Delta (in- and off-shore) may supply some 68X of
the yearly catch, or about 23,112 tons, in proportion to its biomass. The
hypothetlcal production increment would therefore represent about 1.4X of the
Indus Delta annual catch.
24.         Financially, the increment in production would need to be about
395 tons, or close to the mangrove production parameter mentloned above. The
increment would be equivalent to preventing the redundancy of about 15
trawlers. The production inciement would represent 1.7X of the Indus Delta
harvest.
25.         Prevention of a drop ln the steady-state harvest of shrimp, under
open access to the fishery, from 33,988 tons to about 33,593 tons (a fall of
395 tons) would be equivalent to preventlng a shlft in the maximum sustainable
population from 176,000 tons to not less than 174,800 tons, or a change of
less than 0.7X.
26.         Incremental productlon of fuelwood from mangroves is expected to
total 571,000 tons within 40 to 44 years after the start of the project and
have a total financial and economic value of Rs 571.2 million. The production
of fodder would begin in year 15 of the project and rise to 4,800 tons
annually by project year 20 and have a financial (economic) value of Rs 4.8
(Rs 4.32) million a year. If a less of about 400 tons in the annual shrimp
harvest is avoided under the project through either nev production or the
prevention of further environmental degradation, both the financial and
economic internal rate of return would exceed 12X Thls incremental
production appears feasible and would represent a rather small fraction of the
overall productivity of the fishery.
27.         Social forestry plantings under this component are expected to
produce a total of approximately 8,000 tons of fuelvood over 570 ha. This
would add a total revenue of Rs 7.2 million to the benefit stream against
costs to farmers, largely in the form of labor, of Rs 1.0 million, The
overall impact of this addition to the base net benefit stream, however, would
be slight.



- 114 -
Page 8
28.         The following tables indicate the sensitivlty of the subproject's
rate of return to varlations ln costs and benefits.
Tbil J: FhincbW Innl R1o  of Retun .f Not Srems
(%)
Senefits
base        up 20X       down 20X      lag I yr       lag 2 yr
Costs
base         12.3         13.4           11.1           11.7           11.2
up 20X       11.3         12.3           10.2           10.8           10.3
down 20X     13.6         14.6          13.0            12.9           12.3
Tabfj10: Econondlrnwnal Rats of Run of Not Srenms
(%)
Benefits
base        up 20X       down 20X      lag I yr       lag 2 yr
Costs
base         12.4         13.4          11.2            11.8           11.2
up 20%       11.4         12.4           10.2           10.9           10.4
down 20X     13.6         14.7          12.4            13.0           12.3



- 115 -
ANI    12
Tabb 11
PAKISTAN
ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AND RESOURCE CONSERVAIION PROJECT
AJK: Ehmber Up4nd Rebllfatlon & Develpmnt Subprolec
Fiatnclal and Economic Anlysib
Prkc  Used In the AnmAysis (Rp)
Item                              Unit    Financial Prlce    EconomLc Price
Maize                              kg              2.90               3.70
Maize seed                         kg              2.90 - 3.17        3.70
Wheat                              kg              2.90               5.00
Wheat seed                         kg              2.90               2.90
Wheat/maise
Fodder                             kg              1.00               0.90
Maize Residue                      kg              0.40               0.36
Fodder oats                        kg              1.50               1.35
Mutton kg lvt                                     25.00              22.50
Urea                               kg              4.50               7.70
NP/DAP                             kg              4.90               9.30
Amonium sulphate                   kg              3.00               5.70
Farm manure                        kg              0.16               0.14
Farm labor                         ad             40.00              32.00
Animal labor                        d            100.00              90.00



- 116 -
MANEX 
Tabe 12
PAJISTAN
ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AND RESOURCE CONSERVATI  PROJECT
AJK~ Bhlbw Upland RhabIlittion & DevsIopmui SubprojM
FInanolIl and EoonomIc Anlysb
DUwhion of EoonomIc Price for Arl    Commodit
Naise      Whaat       Urea      DAP
World Price' RB/t                    1002       1503        205S      2735
Shipping/Insurance S/t                40          40         45         45
CII, Karach1s RB/t                 3,332       4,522      5,950      7,568
Port Charges BaIt                    360         488        488        488
Transport to Museffarabad7 Rs/t      573         573        573        573
Transport to Nirpur Ra/t            (210)      (210)       (210)      (210)
Distribution Ra/t                   (174)       (174)      (310)      (310)
Transport to faru Rs/t              (196)       (196)      (196)      (196)
Faragate Price Ra/t                3,685       5,003      7,727      9,345
I  World Bank Comodity Projections, February 1990, projected to 1995
in March 1992 prices.
2 US Maize No. 2, Yellow, FOB Gulf Ports.
9 No. 1 Western Red Spring, Thunder Bay.
Urea (any origin) bagged, FOB N.S. Europe.
D DAP bulk, FOB US Gulf.
*  US$1 - Rs 23.8.
7 1,062 miles 6 Rs 0.6/t/mi x SCF.
* 93 L 6 Rs 2.5/t/mi x SCF.
3 1 31 mRs7/t/mi z SCF.



- 117 -
A12
Tabe 13
PAKISTAN
ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AND RESOURCE CONSERVATION PROJECT
AJK  Blmber Upland RWebUlalon &  -8-slopm.  Subproject
FhincIl and Econo   Anlysi
Dwrvaon of the Ecmic Pric for Fuewood'
Import Parity Price of Kerosene Rs/I                               3.96
Heat value of kerosene Kcal/1                                     8,109
Effective heat from kerosene (40% efficiency) Kcal/1              3,244
Cost of kerosene effective hear Rs/l.000 Kcal                       1.2
Hear vale of air dried fuelvood Kcal/kg                           4,700
Effective heat from fuelvood (15X efficiency) Kcal/kg               705
Value of fuelvood In kerosene equivalent Rs/kg                     0.86
Investsent Center, PAO/World Bank Cooperative Program, "Integrated
Uill Farming Development Project (Phase II)", 2 vols., report
No. 23/91 CP-PAi 46)(a restricted-circulation docuent)(Rome:
21 March 1991), vol. 1, annez 7, tables 18 & 19.



- 118 -
AN1
PAKISTAN
ENVIRON!ENTAL PROTECTION AND RESOURCE CONSERVAIION PROJECT
Related Documents and Data Avilabble In Projet Fle
A. Reports and Studis on the Sector or Subector
A.1   Bank Group Reconnaissance Nission Report:  Pakistan Environmental
RehabLlitation, Protection and Msanageaent, June 20, 1985
A.2   Bank Group Country Economic Memorandum Mission Report:  Pakistan,
Population, Natural Resources and the Environment, February 1988
A.3   International Union for Conserv tion of Natural Resources Workshop
on Tidal Wetland Management, June 24, 1990: Korangi-Phitti Creek
Project, Pakistan, Dr. P.A. Driver
A. 4 A.R. Kemal, Fais Bllquees, Zafer Nabmood, Pakistan Instltute of
Development Economics:  Sustainable Development in Pakistan with
Focus on EnvLronmental Issues
A.5  Government  of  Pakistan:        National  Conservation  Strategy,
November 1991
A.6  Asian  Development  Bank  Inception  Report:    Strengthening  of
Environmental Management, Pakistan, Aprll 1991
B. Report and Studis Dealng with the Projec
B.1  Agriculture  Operations  Division  EMCLG  Identification  Report:
Pakistan Proposed Environmental Protection and Resource Conservation
Project, February 1989
B.2 Agricultural Operations Division EMEMA Country Department I
Preparatlon Report: Pakistan Envlronmental Protection and Resource
Conservation Project, January 28, 1991
B.3  Agricultural Operations Division, South Asia Country Department 3:
Project Implementation Volume, February 1992
B.4  Bakan  Nalmstrom,  Swedish  Space  Corporation,  Post-Preparation
Mission: Remote Sensing and Geographlcal Information Systems for
the Proposed Environmental Protection and Resource Conservation
Projact, February 1990



- 119 -
ANNEX 13
Page 2
C. ebcted Working Pqpwr
C.   Barry Deren, Working Papers: The Econoic and Financial Analyses of
Kohat-Korak Rangeland Development, Ihiabor Upland Development,
Replanting of Indus Delta Nangroves, RiverinG ReforestatLon along
the Chenab and Ravi Rivers, and Nuree-Kehuta Upland Development
C.2   Colin Holloway, Working Paper:  Rehabllitation of the Indus Dolta
Nangroves



- 120 -                             CHART I
PAKISTAN
ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTON AND
RESOURCE CONSERVATION PROJECT
Proposed EUAD Organizational Structure
Adcitional
- c~~~Ik
.             ~~~~~Jolnit                           .on             . asaiy
Seiuuy                                Dfreotr Ocezul . .
t .~~~~~~ ~---    ---- MtAg                    
CCn"ronmmt. AdAdnistmUon         Dfu~(Hnm SAttkinflt.
Fnoe & CodUflUonW                          Urban Afabu &
(9P.=3                                 ratdiI Ab.dl
 Basic Pay DSualee
R h | | ~~~~T-i [w            T chrw      Tft:hnlel 
-fk         om_         Ofk          Omew |'r S
:3:?.yt:':>:.:,   3 M  a 7/18
BtR adcPScaie,l



- 121-                                  CHART2
PAKISTAN
ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AND
RESOURCE CONSERVATION PROJECT
Existing EUAD Organizational Structure
Additional
Secret
(BPS-21;
...I..    . 
Joint Secretary/
Jolnt Secretaly   .<             ~~~Dirctor General    .
(Environment, Admiistrtion                      (Human Settlement.
Fbutrice 8 Coordlnation)  >;                    Urban Aflfirs &
(BPS-20)                                  Katchl Abadis)
Deputy           Deputy Secretaiy            Director           DIr  tor
Secretary  Znance & 9 -:- -a ; fv> ;;>.--
(Environment &        Coordlnation)   :
Admini mstrastntI o n)  ( BP S 19 )....
SclnSecUcon              Of Scer ...::. :.:  ... 
OfNcer              (Finance)   l 
(AdmlnSttlon) i  (BPS-17/18)  -
Section    ea I Sectlon
Otllcer         I    OMNcer                                             .
(General)           (Finance)     -..
Section              Section     .
Offlcer              OM Ber     :
(Envonment)          (Coordbaon
Seccton    :f
I OfEXce    li
(Environment! 
...  f:f::.:.9... .:' .B ' . .9:  .'.f: .:8  f '



- 122 -                 ~~~~CHART 3
PAKISTAN
ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AND
RESOURCE CONSERVATION PROJECT
Proposed PEPA Organizational Structure
Director - General
(BPS:20)
D1z ,torrDirector                                   Director
(Environmnental            (EIA Procedures)
(Legal)                  u  S.cll) 
lQ|u(| ality Stand )(BPS- 19)
Deputy                     Deputy                       Deputyr
   Dictor  A              Director                     Dutor       ;
c.         S-<@skB.zifB.#.i,:X                         w  k,  as ....  ,,:.^  .. iC.fffk.    5B,rk.F(BPS-18)
.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~?,CiksB,$,'ikk.E;  9> 
r*



- 123 -                             CHART 4
PAKISTAN
ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AND
RESOURCE CONSERVATION PROJECT
Proposed Sindh EPA Organizational Structure1
Director - General
(BPS-20)
Director
(BPS- 19)
2            -1    - - - - - - -L            
Deputv-Dlrecr-Dector         ty-Dfrector
| DX>D2eucor i |(Natfoni Resource   !epuontym           AilsSto)t
(E.Proedues)I                                              F
) *Sf |    alageen   ixx PollIutat Dlschare  (BS8 
Z~~F~~mXt1  - =    m    1 ~~Into air. wmlater ands- ;-B,
|Assistant        rAsdstant   s              As%Vstat        Assbtant
Dirctor          mD tor                D retor             7etor
' This Is a proposed orpnatlonal structure layout, It could change
considerably as EPA &evelops.
2The project would fund for Deputy-Director positions.
3 Slndh Govenment has created these seven Assistant-Director positions but
they are not yet fied.



- 124 -                       CHART 5
PAKISTAN
ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AND
RESOURCE CONSERVATION PROJECT
Proposed NWFP EPA Organizational Structure
Director - General
(BPS-20)
Director
(BPS-19)
Deputy-Director E' Deputy-Director              kg Depfctor
* ;e: .-D  e $   - -   -  I .. i: : -
Assistant      I; Asss tant    I I  Ass1istant  *6. FXi1hs UWte
Director     L   Director     I   Director R  (OffierI
(BPS- ~17       (BM17)
*>~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ -S - . - - ,. "-i 
1'The project would fund the posiUons outlined by broken lines
2 One of these staff would be an Adminrstraive Offlcer, the other a
Superintendent



WIiNOAL POETIH  AM UUK                CQVhTZN NDJWYr
ProPosed ElA Posmea
stop   Project Implementr                  PC or Provincial rD 1oviromm_ntel Sectirn        EPM  or Prwincial. ZPA                       Pbte
(PI)                                           (1,)                               (2)
1      Submits preliminary                a)  Screens proposal to dotormine if                                                     a)  El and    Jaoltl.
project proposal to go             Initial environmental examination (ZEE) In                                               develop aWretoprl
required. and If so directs P1 to prepare                                                creening ystm; ond
IEE according to E2 requirements; and
b) Are there any
b)  Checks project location to ensur, it                                                 regional economic/
is consistent with any reogional                                                        environmental development
development plans or not sited in                                                       plans covering proposed
environmentally sensitivo arease                                                        project site?
2.     Preparoe  IEE and submits                                                            a)  Reviews IEE, and if                Appropriate project
to E2 for review.  IEE                                                              satisfactory end Ek  is needed,         siting is most 9iportent.
will receogmiend either:                                                            advises P1 to proceed with EIA          Project site should be
(i) no follow-up lIA                                                                along with project feasibility          shifted rather than
needed; or (ii) follow-up                                                           study; and                              locating in
EIA Is needed and presents                                                                                                  environmentally sensitive
proposed terms of                                                                   b)  Advises El on IEE result.           area.                           I
reference followinA E2 a
EIA requirements.
3.     Prepares EIA with own                                                                Reviews ZIA report and if result
staff or concultant.                                                                is satisfactory, advises P1 and
including progress and                                                             e1 that project is
final reports according to                                                          environmentally sound provided
E2 a established                                                                    enviro mental constraints for
procedures.                                                                         plenning/conatruction/operations
specified in hIA are observed in
project planing/impl_ntation.
4.                                        Advises P1 that project plan must include
specific environmental constraints in
project final design and lmplsemntation.
and that P1 my go ahead with final
design.
5.     Prepares final project                                                               Previews final design. and it
design.                                                                             appropriate advises E that P1
may proceed with eonstruction.
6.     Undertaken  nd completes                                                            Honitors construction to ensure
construction.                                                                       P1 observes anviro  aentel
constraints.
7.     Trial run of project to                                                             Trial evaluation to ensure
allow final payment to                                                              operational procedures will meet
construction contracto                                                              environental constraits for
environamesntal acceptability.
F IPejet opeIeisLn5                                                                        Surveitlance to ensure compliance
with operations environmental
constraints.



MAP SECTION



6-
T A J I K I S T A N
~ ~-~~7  C.CHINA
PAKISTAN                                                                                                              ,1vjri
ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AND                                                                                                                                                               3 eS
RESOURCE CONSERVATION PROJECT
ingoringt
SUBPROJECTS:                                                                                          <             D                               5  A \r x,-,,   _|
1. Murree Kahuta and Kotli Sattion Uplond                                                                                                       0
Rehabilitation and Development
2. Dir Kohistan Upland Rehabilitation and Development                                                                                      ... . 'OJ, r ,00
3. Bhimber Upland Rehabilitation and Development
4. Kohat Karok Rangeland Rehabilitation and Development                                    Poro h,r,                                                   AND
5. Alpine/Sub-Alpine Posture Study in Upper Neelum Valley                              o                                            LA     D       KASHMIR
6. wildlife Survey and Management Planning                                                              KK                                                 4 
7. Riverine Reoreostation along Chenab and R -vi                                                                    .           ,        h
8. Rehabilitation and Replanting of Indus Delta Mangrove                              o               
1j > mh~t  Bcm    'J A                   0Cia Jheh.e7 it
`         ISOHYETS IN MM.                                                                                                                               to
*b     NATIONAL CAPITAL
-32                    0       PROVINCE CAPITALS
0      OTHER CITIES AND TOWNS
- -    RIVERS
N.o _                   PROVINCE BOUNDARIES                                                       *                      K '                                                 \  
*--*--  INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES                                                                                                                  %e.kbup
//       5            fortSanden                            \oO Fo alobod                              0
J                                                                        7~~~~~ 
QUE                       oLo                               N   p  |\   A       B    \
I           _           { t                                o5661                       (           Ajk >   <@                        /  a                             I  I~~~~~~~~I ./
ISLA/MIC                             9/* 0jqc1_ a 
REP; Of IRAN B' J,,~                                                                     Ln                                                        ( VA
K                                        . r  .                                             rIO
r_~~ /                                                                   0                       /   :i) 2  
/1    N~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~I            
KARACiH'!z    Thora,   /tei X2pTe ofTenrrordd used
|-            N                        AA
Khomp                                                . g                           ~                            Stclus o cny tem1ary cr arty   9    |
.200  'O                                                         KILOMETERS~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0 h, -
N   H~~~~~~~~~r 



