Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFCIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 13564
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
CHINA
DAXINGANLING FOREST FIRE REHABILITATION PROJECT
(CREDIT 1918-CHA)
SEPTEMBER 27, 1994
Agriculture Operation Division
China and Mongolia Department
East Asia and Pacific Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
MOP: US$1.00 = Y3.71 = SDR 0.7225
PCR: US$1.00 = Y8.71 = SDR 0.7369
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 to December 31
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 meter (m)     =    3.28 feet
1 kilometer (km) =    0.62 miles
1 hectare (ha)    =    2.47 acres
1 metric ton (mt) =    1,000 kg
1 cubic meter (cm)=   35.31 cubic feet
ABBREVIATIONS
DCA             Development Credit Agreement
DXAL       =    Daxinganling Forest
ERR        =    economic rate of return
FRR        =    financial rate of return
MFO        =    Ministry of Forestry
MOP        =    Memorandum and Recommendation of the President
PCR        =    Project Completion Report
PMO        =    Project Management Office
RVP        =    Regional Vice President



FOR OFFICLAL USE ONLY
THE WORLD BANK
Washington, D.C. 20433
U.S.A.
Offie of D' - -GenwA
Oprwaon Evluatin
September 27, 1994
MEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
Subject:     Project Completion Report on China
Daxinganling Forest Fire Rehabilitation Project (Credit 1918-CHA)
Attached is the Project Completion Report on China: Daxinganling Forest Fire
Rehabilitation (Credit 1918-CHA). Parts I and III were prepared by the East Asia and Pacific
Regional Office. The Borrower prepared Part II.
The project was a disaster relief operation approved under special procedures
following a 1987 forest fire that burned more than one million ha of standing timber, killed 211
people, and destroyed essential infrastructure in four forestry bureaus in Heilongjiang Province and
Inner Mongolia. The objectives of the project were to salvage 15 million m of burned timber,
reduce the risk of future forest fires, and support regeneration of the burned area.
The project was designed in six months and implementation began following a start-up
workshop. Despite rapid preparation, borrower ownership of the project was substantial and project
objectives were agreed by relevant stakeholders. Less timber was salvaged than had been anticipated
at approval because the scale of the operation had been overestimated, but the salvage component
proved highly profitable, earning a net profit of more than US$100 million. Fire forecasting and
protection have proved highly effective, but the regeneration component has displayed mixed results.
Two design weaknesses emerged during implementation: the original design paid insufficient attention
to forest regeneration, and the distribution and use of profits was not addressed. The project's ERR
is estimated at more than 200 percent and the overall project outcome is satisfactory. Institutional
development under the project has been substantial and sustainability overall appears likely,
dependent on provision of operating funds. Sustainability of the regeneration component is less
certain.
The quality of the PCR, from Bank and Borrower perspectives, is most satisfactory.
The PCR describes a strong overall performance but acknowledges implementation problems: toxic
pesticides were used at the start of the project to preserve harvested timber, contrary to Bank
recommendations, but this was discontinued following Bank supervision; procurement of essential fire
fighting equipment was slow and inefficient; and, investment in new plantations was suboptimal. In
Part II, the Borrower provides valuable insights on the application of Bank procedures in a disaster
relief operation.
An audit or an impact evaluation may be undertaken.
Attachment
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties, its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.






FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
CHINA
DAXINGANLING FOREST FIRE REHABILITATION PROJECT (CR. 1918-CHA)
Table of Contents
PREFACE  ...............................................
EVALUATION  SUMMARY                        ...................................    iii
PART I - PROJECT REVIEW FROM BANK'S PERSPECTIVE
Project Identity    ........................................                                                         1
Background          ..........................................                                                       1
Project Objectives and Description                ............................                                      2
Project Design and Organization   ..............................                                                    3
Project Implementation   ....................................                                                       4
Project Results   .........................................                                                         6
Project Sustainability    .....................................                                                     7
Bank Performance ......................................   8
Borrower Performance   ....................................                                                          8
Project Relationship           .....................................                                                9
Consulting  Services   ......................................                                                       9
Project Documentation and Data   ..............................                                                     9
Findings and Lessons Learned    ...............................                                                     9
PART II - PROJECT REVIEW FROM BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE
Summary  ............................................  12
Project Preparation  ......................................  12
Project Implementation ....................................  13
Project Achievements ....................................  16
Achievements of the World Bank    .............................    18
Achievements of the Borrower   ...............................    19
PART III - STATISTICAL INFORMATION
Table  1:       Related Bank Loans and Credits                  ......................    22
Table 2:        Project Timetable    ...............................    23
Table 3:        Estimated and Actual Credit Disbursement   ................    24
Table 4:        Project Implementation Indicators  ......................    25
Table 5A:   Project Costs    ............                       I           .....................    26
Table 5B:   Project Financing               ...............................    27
Table 6A:   Project Results: Direct Benefits   .......................    28
Table 6B:   Project Results: Economic and Financial Impact  .............    29
Table 6C:   Project Results: Research Work   .......................    30
Table 7:        Status of Covenants    ..............................   31
Table 8A: Use of Bank Resources: Staff Inputs ...                                                                  32
Table 8B:   Use of Bank Resources: Missions   ......................    33
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.






- 1-
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
CHINA
DAXINGANLING FOREST FIRE REHABILITATION PROJECT (CR. 1918-CHA)
PREFACE
This is the Project Completion Report (PCR) for the Daxinganling Forest Fire
Rehabilitation Project in China, for which Credit 1918-CHA in the amount of SDR 41.1 million
was approved on June 9, 1988. The credit was closed on March 31, 1994, two years behind
schedule. It was 100 percent disbursed, with a cancellation of SDR 0.5 million on March 1,
1991. The last disbursement was on June 9, 1994.
The PCR was jointly prepared by the Agriculture Operations Division, China and
Mongolia Department, East Asia and Pacific Region (Preface, Evaluation Summary, Parts I and
III), and the Borrower (Part II).
Preparation of this PCR was started during the Bank's final supervision mission of
the project in April 1994, and is based, inter alia, on the Memorandum and Recommendation
of the President (with Technical Annex), the Development Credit Agreement, supervision
reports, correspondence between the Bank and the Borrower, and internal Bank memoranda.






- iii -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
CHINA
DAXINGANLING FOREST FIRE REHABILITATION PROJECT (CR. 1918-CHA)
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Objectives and Design
i.        The Daxinganling Forest Fire Rehabilitation Project was designed as an emergency
operation in the aftermath of a devastating fire that destroyed one million hectares of China's
most important forest in May 1987. Its main objectives were to: (a) recover 15 million m3 of
burned timber through development of an emergency salvage operation; (b) reduce the incidence
of future fire damage through modernization of the fire prevention and control program; and (c)
support the regeneration of the burned area through development of research trials and
procurement of nursery equipment. The project was well designed: the objectives were clear
and agreed by all stakeholders; the project activities correctly targeted the most pressing
investment requirements; and there was a high degree of government ownership of the design
process. Two design weaknesses emerged during implementation. First, the original project
focussed heavily on the immediate requirements of timber salvage and fire protection and did
not address the secondary issue of forest regeneration in any detail. Second, the original project
design did not focus on the distribution and use of the huge amount of profits generated by the
timber salvage operation, estimated at RMB 880 million, most of which are being used to
finance a large new regeneration program.
Implementation Experience
ii.       The project was implemented effectively within the basic framework designed at
appraisal. Actual implementation indicators have met or exceeded the original targets in most
areas. Under the salvage component, the Government effectively coordinated the construction
of roads, the establishment of temporary logyards, and the felling, logging, and storage of 11.7
million m3 of burned timber (the original salvage target was revised from 15 to 11.7 million m3
following detailed timber surveys). During implementation, the Government made two useful
modifications to the project design by accelerating the logging schedule and by storing all burned
timber in temporary logyards instead of in local rivers. Under the fire protection component,
new fire detection activities were introduced, including helicopters for aerial patrol, weather
forecasting and detection, a computerized fire information management system, look-out towers,
and microwave and UHF communication systems. Similarly, the existing fire-fighting capacity
was enhanced through an increase in the number of fire brigades and provision of new fire-
fighting equipment. During implementation, the Government made a useful modification to the
project design by reducing the number of aircraft for fire detection and control and relying
instead on ground-based systems, such as look-out towers. Under the regeneration component,



- Iv -
the Government implemented the limited activities related to research and nursery development
and then launched an ambitious and expensive nine-year program to reforest the entire burned
area, which was not included in the original project.
iii.       While overall performance was strong, three implementation problems were
encountered. First, highly toxic pesticides were used for the preservation of harvested timber
in the temporary logyards at the start of the project, and not water sprinkling as recommended
in the Bank's technical documents. This was quickly corrected following Bank supervision
mission recommendations. Second, procurement of key fire protection equipment was slow and
inefficient, which delayed the commissioning of the fire protection system and led to two
extensions of the credit closing date. Third, the new investment in plantation establishment is
not optimal: (a) the afforestation models have not been subject to sufficient economic analysis
and, consequently, do not optimize costs and benefits; (b) the current site classification system
used in the project area does not adequately assess plantation productivity and tree growth; (c)
many of the newly established plantations are of poor quality, with large variation in tree height,
poor stem formation, some pest and animal damage, and inadequate tending; and (d) the quality
of planting materials is uneven, reflecting problems with nursery management practices.
Project Results
iv.        Despite the minor problems in implementation, the project has been quite successful.
Under the salvage component, the sale of burned timber generated Yuan 2.6 billion in gross
revenues and Yuan 880 million in pre-tax profits, leading to an extremely high financial rate of
return (FRR) in excess of 200 percent. This impressive return, however, is slightly below the
appraisal estimate since the actual salvage quantity was less than projected. The economic rate
of return (ERR), also estimated in excess of 200 percent, is in line with the appraisal estimate
as the reduction in salvage amounts was more than offset by an increase in the economic prices
for timber. Under the fire protection component, fire losses have been dramatically reduced:
the average number of fires per year has decreased from 42 before to 15 after the project; and
the extent of fire damage per year has decreased from 135,000 ha before to 75 ha after the
project. These results exceed the original appraisal estimate of annual fire damage of 30,000
ha at the end of the project. The FRR and ERR for this component are estimated at 83 percent
and more than 200 percent, respectively. The regeneration component has displayed mixed
results. The activities that were included in the original project have generally performed well:
the provision of new nursery equipment permitted a significant increase in seedling production
and the research trials have provided a number of useful findings about regeneration. However,
based on limited data made available so far, it seems that many of the newly established
plantations are not growing well, which will lead to sub-optimal rates of return over time.
Proiect Sustainability
v.         The salvage component is completely finished and no additional costs or benefits are
expected after project completion. The fire protection component is expected to maintain a
significant level of net benefits throughout the twenty-year life of the equipment.  Its
sustainability, however, will depend on: (a) the provision of adequate budgetary support for
future operation and maintenance requirements, particularly for the microwave communications
system, fire information  management system, and fire fighting equipment; and (b) the



- v -
continuation of high technical and management standards. The sustainability of the regeneration
component is uncertain at this point and the Government will need to carefully monitor the costs
and benefits of regeneration investments. In particular, the Government will need to review
measures to enhance productivity and lower investment costs in plantation establishment, through
revisions to the silvicultural prescriptions and improved seedling quality.
Findings and Lessons Learned
vi.        Overall, the project should be considered a success. It has generated a wide array
of economic and social benefits, including the accelerated logging of burnt timber that would
have otherwise been lost for economic use, improved fire protection of China's largest forest,
increased employment and income in a remote rural area that had suffered a devastating socio-
economic loss, regeneration of an important natural resource that provides essential
environmental services, and significant technology transfer and capacity building. The only
weak part of the project is the small plantation establishment program in the regeneration
component. The key lessons include the following:
e The importance of developing integrated forest management plans and sustainable
harvesting programs for the remaining natural forest areas in China;
- The importance of developing an effective institutional mechanism for
coordinating the various government and non-government agencies involved in
implementation and technology transfer;
3 The importance of reviewing and revising the traditional silvicultural prescriptions
used in plantation establishment in China, with emphasis on the introduction of new
species, improved planting materials, and more efficient silvicultural practices;
e The importance of developing detailed environmental management guidelines for
project implementation to avoid problems such as excessive reliance on toxic
pesticides; and
* The need to improve MFO understanding of: (a) Bank procurement guidelines,
particularly international competitive bidding procedures; and (b) project economic
and financial analysis, particularly in the evaluation of cost-effective afforestation
techniques.
vii.       In response to these lessons, the Bank has supported a series of forestry activities,
including the FY90 National Afforestation Project, the FY93 Institutional Development Fund
grant for forestry, and the FY94 Forest Resource Development and Protection Project, that have
emphasized: (a) improved planning and management of natural forests and nature reserves; (b)
introduction of new afforestation technologies for plantations and protection forests, particularly
new species and improved planting materials; (c) formulation of environmental management
plans with detailed specifications for site preparation, water conservation, and pest and fire
control requirements; and (d) capacity building in MFO in the areas of project management,
procurement, and economic and financial analysis.






PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
CHINA
DAXINGANLING FOREST FIRE REHABILITATION PROJECT (CR. 1918-CHA)
PART I: PROJECT REVIEW FROM BANK'S PERSPECTIVE
Project Identity
Project Name:                  Daxinganling Forest Fire Rehabilitation Project
Credit Number:                  1918-CHA
RVP Unit:                      East Asia and Pacific Region
Country:                       China
Sector:                        Agriculture
Subsector:                     Forestry
Background
1.        The forest sector plays a critical role in the Chinese economy, providing 40% of
household energy, almost all of the lumber and panel products for the large construction sector,
and raw material throughput for the domestic pulp and paper industry. The resource base is
small, with a total forest area of 120 million ha at the time of appraisal, and demand has
exceeded sustainable supply for several decades. Consequently, natural forest areas have been
heavily depleted outside of the remote northeast and the level of per capita roundwood
consumption has remained among the lowest in the world. In response to the growing imbalance
between supply and demand, the Government's sectoral development strategy at the time of
appraisal emphasized: (a) increased timber production from intensively managed high-yielding
plantations; (b) more intensive exploitation of mature and over-mature natural forests in the
northeast; (c) expansion of forest industries; and (d) expansion of forest research, education, and
extension. The Government was aiming to increase the forest cover by 20 percent by 2000,
which was intended to support a doubling of the annual level of industrial roundwood harvesting
and a tripling of the annual level of wood-based panel production.
2.        The Government's development strategy was hampered by three key problems.
First, plantation forestry did not adequately utilize improved silvicultural technologies,
particularly high quality genetic material, improved nursery management, and optimal use of
labor and chemical inputs in planting and tending.  Second, the policy framework for
afforestation, particularly the heavy emphasis on state forest farm investment and controls on
pricing and marketing, undermined efficient development of non-state forest resources. Third,
the country suffered from an extremely high level of annual fire losses, estimated to reach 10
percent of national industrial timber production before the project, as a result of limited fire
prevention and control programs and obsolete fire-fighting equipment.



-2-
3.         The forest fire problem was highlighted in May 1987, when a huge fire swept
through the Daxinganling Forest (DXAL Forest) in the far northern portion of Heilongjiang
Province. The DXAL Forest, which covers 22.7 million ha, is China's most important forest
resource and contains almost one-quarter of the country's total forested area and standing volume
of wood. The fire, which was the most disastrous in China's history and one of the worst in
the world, burned one million ha of standing timber, killed 211 people, and destroyed a large
amount of infrastructure in four forestry bureaus. The total timber loss was estimated at 38
million m3, including 15 million m3 of high quality larch and pine trees with an approximate
railside value of US$980 million (equivalent to national softwood log imports of three years).
Fire damage had long been a dangerous problem in the DXAL Forest, where an average of
135,000 ha of forests were lost each year during the two decades prior to the 1987 fire.
4.         The Government launched an extraordinarily impressive campaign to rebuild the
social and economic infrastructure that had been destroyed in the fire; almost all of the homes,
schools, factories, and other buildings had been replaced within six months. The Government
then approached the World Bank Group in end-1987 to assist in developing a program to salvage
the burned commercial grade timber (although the trees were killed by the fire, the wood
remained saleable for a period of two to three years before insect and fungus attack destroyed
the fibers); and to modernize the DXAL fire protection system.
Project Objectives and Description
5.         The main objectives of the project were to assist the Government in: (a) recovering
the economic value of the burned timber through development of an emergency salvage
operation; (b) reducing the incidence of fire damage through modernization of the fire prevention
and control technologies in the entire DXAL Forest (the objective was to reduce annual fire
losses from 135,000 ha to 30,000 ha and the average fire size at detection from 60 ha to 2 ha);
(c) improving the institutional capacity of the Government to manage the massive salvage
operation and new fire protection program; and (d) restoring the economic and environmental
benefits of the DXAL forestry resources through development of technical support services for
regeneration, such as improved research and nursery programs. A related objective was to
minimize the processing time for project preparation in view of the urgency of the salvage and
fire protection operations. Hence, the project was designed as a disaster relief operation and
was processed under special procedures.
6.         The project supported the following activities.
(a) The salvage component was designed to recover 15 million m3 of burned timber
over four years. It involved: (i) construction and upgrading of 3,900 km of access
and logging roads; (ii) felling, logging, and storing of timber in temporary logyards
or in local rivers; and (iii) transporting and marketing of timber to end-users in line
with road and rail capacities.
(b) The fire protection component focussed on (i) aerial and satellite fire detection;
(ii) aerial suppression to initiate fire-fighting measures; and (iii) improved



- 3 -
communication systems, ground facilities for aircraft, and fire brigade performance.
(c) The regeneration component involved research on regeneration methods and
provision of nursery equipment. Since little technical information existed about
species succession in natural regeneration under extreme climatic conditions, the
component supported regeneration trials and the selection of appropriate nursery
materials and equipment.
(d) The technical assistance component supported a large planning workshop to
develop detailed implementation schedules, short- and long- term consultancy
assignments in a variety of technical subjects required during implementation,
overseas study tours to assist in the selection of project equipment, and domestic
and foreign training in a variety of subjects.
Project Design and Organization
7.         The project was identified and prepared over a six-month period following the fire
by a team of experts from the World Bank, Ministry of Forestry, DXAL Forestry
Administration Bureaus in Heilongjiang and Inner Mongolia (DXAL Administration), experts
from local forestry universities and research institutes, various Government officials, and foreign
consultants in a variety of fields. The project was well designed: the objectives were clear and
agreed by all stakeholders; the project activities correctly targeted the most pressing investment
requirements following the fire; and the organizational structure that was developed was effective
in coordinating the large number of people and institutions involved in implementation. In
particular, the project design included two innovative features that contributed to a high degree
of government ownership of the project: (a) a three-week workshop was held at the start of the
project in which Government officials, Bank staff, and technical experts mutually developed
detailed implementation arrangements; and (b) project staff visited a number of different
countries on study tours to identify the optimal equipment for fire protection activities before
equipment and procurement arrangements were finalized under the project.
8.         While the overall design was effective, two weaknesses emerged during project
implementation. First, the original project focussed heavily on the immediate requirements of
timber salvage and fire protection. It did not address regeneration issues in any detail, except
for the provision of a small amount of funds for nursery equipment and silvicultural research
trials. Since the regeneration of the one million hectares of burned land has become the main
focus of Government effort and investment following the completion of the timber salvage
operation, the original project design might have addressed more systematically the complicated
technical and economic issues involved in regeneration of boreal forests. Second, the original
project design did not focus on the distribution and use of the huge amount of profits generated
by the timber salvage operation, estimated at RMB 880 million. The project might have
reviewed these distributional issues more carefully to ensure an optimal allocation of the
economic benefits generated by the Bank and Government's investment. While the Bank did
raise both of these points during project preparation, the Government was more concerned about
the immediate emergency investment requirements and did not want to focus on secondary
implementation issues.



-4-
Project Implementation
9.         The project was implemented effectively within the basic framework designed at
appraisal. As shown in Table 4 in Part III, the actual project implementation indicators have
met or exceeded the original targets in almost every area.  Throughout the six years of
implementation, project staff have basically complied with all of the covenants of the
Development Credit Agreement (DCA) and the understandings reached at project negotiations.
Similarly, most of the recommendations of Bank supervision missions were adopted. Specific
implementation issues by component are reviewed below.
10.       Salvage Component.  The Government's performance in timber salvage was
extraordinarily impressive by international standards. It effectively coordinated the construction
of 2,277 km of roads; the establishment of 15 temporary logyards; the felling, logging, and
storage of 11.7 million m3 of burned timber; and the transport and marketing of 11.6 million m3
of timber (0. 1 million m3 of timber of stored timber deteriorated during the project and was not
suitable for sale). In fact, the salvage program was completed more quickly than scheduled in
the original project design, which contributed to less deterioration in the quality of the harvested
timber than was expected and, consequently, higher sales revenues.
11.       There were two important changes to the original project design during
implementation. First, the detailed timber assessment studies that were commissioned at the start
of the project indicated that the preliminary estimate of salvageable commercial timber used in
preparation documents was too high: the revised estimate was 11.7, not 15, million m3.
Consequently, the road construction, logging, storage, and marketing implementation plans were
adjusted accordingly. Second, the original project design made provision for temporary storage
of up to 5 million m3 of timber for several years in the Amur and Pangu Rivers, since it was
expected that Government would not have sufficient space or time for the development of
temporary logyards (water storage of logs is standard practice for protecting timber from insect
and fungus infestations until transportation can be arranged). However, the local implementation
capacity proved to be very strong and temporary logyards were developed for all timber storage,
which eliminated the extra costs associated with river storage and led to higher net benefits for
the project.
12.        Only one problem emerged during implementation of the salvage component: the
Government relied on highly toxic pesticides, and not water sprinkling as recommended in the
Bank's technical documents, for the preservation of harvested timber in the logyards at the start
of the project.  Bank supervision missions emphasized that this practice generated severe
environmental and health hazards for the local community and violated the environmental
management covenant of the DCA. The Government agreed to stop using pesticides and
thereafter developed a comprehensive water sprinkling program at the end of the first year based
on Bank recommendations.
13.       Fire Protection Component. The implementation of the new, comprehensive fire
management program was good, though slow. New fire detection activities were introduced,
including helicopters for aerial patrol, weather forecasting, lightening detection, development
of a sophisticated computer fire information management system, establishment of look-out



- 5 -
towers, and introduction of new microwave and UHF communication systems. Similarly, the
existing fire-fighting capacity was improved through an increase in the number of fire brigades
and provision of equipment, such as all-terrain vehicles, commanding vehicles, transportation
trucks, wind blowers, and radio communication equipment. The Government made one
significant and effective modification to the original project design during implementation. It
reduced the number of aircraft for detection and fire-fighting purposes and relied more heavily
on ground-based systems, such as look-out towers, lightening detectors and weather monitoring
stations.  This change reduced investment costs and operational complexity without any
significant loss in fire protection capacity, thereby contributing to higher net benefits for the
project.
14.       While the Government recognized the urgency of the fire protection program, the
implementation of this component was quite slow as a result of widespread procurement delays,
which led to two extensions of the credit closing date. In addition, the Government failure to
follow the agreed procurement procedures for six all-terrain vehicles led to the cancellation of
SDR 500,000, equivalent to about US$ 692,000, of the credit. These procurement problems
reflected three factors: (a) the Bank's original timeframe was unrealistic for the selection and
procurement of the large amount of complicated equipment financed under the project; (b) the
internal government procurement procedures were not timely and efficient, as the participation
of many different local departments slowed and complicated the decision-making process; and
(c) some suppliers did not provide equipment and service in line with their contractual
obligations, which delayed the commissioning of the microwave communications system for over
one year.
15.       Regeneration Component.  The regeneration of the burned forest was not an
important element in the original project design; the project simply made a small provision for
establishment of research trials related to natural regeneration and procurement of equipment for
nursery production and seed processing. However, following the successful completion of the
salvage operation, the Government decided to launch an ambitious nine-year program to reforest
the entire burned area in order to maximize economic, environmental, and social benefits. This
huge and expensive operation, which is largely financed by the profits generated by the timber
salvage operation, involves natural regeneration (about 65% of the area), plantation
establishment (16%), natural regeneration with "human interface" such as enrichment planting
or aerial seeding (11%), and hill closing (8%). The Government's program has been well
designed based on careful analysis of site conditions and relatively appropriate reforestation
models, particularly the heavy reliance on low-cost natural regeneration. However, several
implementation problems have emerged with regard to the most expensive part of the program,
the establishment of commercial timber plantations, as reviewed below.
16.       First, the afforestation models used in plantation establishment have not been subject
to sufficient economic analysis and, consequently, do not optimize costs and benefits. For
example, they do not incorporate many of the improved silvicultural treatments for planting
densities, planting hole size, fertilizer application, and tending that were recently developed for
other parts of Heilongjiang under the FY94 Forest Resource Development and Protection
Project.  Second, the current site classification system used in the project area does not
adequately assess plantation productivity and tree growth, and, consequently, is not conducive



- 6 -
to efficient selection of plantation sites. The productivity-based classification system that is
currently used in Southern China offers a more cost-effective approach. Third, many of the
newly established plantations are of poor quality, with large variation in tree height, poor stem
formation, some pest and animal damage, and inadequate tending. If expensive plantations are
going to be established in poor growing conditions, it is essential that they be managed more
carefully in order to maximize growth potential.
17.        Finally, the quality of planting materials is uneven due to three factors, which
contributes to the low productivity of plantations and a low return on investment. First, the
selection of the nursery equipment financed under the project was not carefully thought out; as
a result, some pieces of equipment such as the bed former, transplanter, and root cutter are not
being used at all in project nurseries.  Second, seedling quality could be further enhanced
through better identification of seed origination and parent material, more widespread use of
undercutting to promote better root formation, and additional research on seed sowing, nursery
bed depth, and lining out and wintering of seedlings.  Third, there has been insufficient
dissemination of technical assistance to project nurseries. For example, nursery staff are not
familiar with many of the technical suggestions provided by previous Bank supervision missions.
Similarly, the nurseries themselves have not effectively shared their own research results and
implementation experience with each other.
18.        Technical Assistance Component. The technical assistance program, comprising 1
large planning workshop at the start of the project, 37 domestic training courses for 1,439
technicians, 29 overseas study tour and training programs for 156 technicians, and 2.6 person-
months of consultancy activities, was implemented effectively and in line with the appraisal
program.
Proiect Results
19.        Despite the few problems with equipment procurement and plantation establishment,
the project has been quite successful. It has generated a wide variety of financial, economic and
environmental benefits, including the accelerated logging of burnt sawlogs for the industrial and
construction sectors that would have otherwise been lost, improved fire protection of the most
important forest resource in China, increased employment and income in remote rural areas that
had suffered a severe economic loss, and restoration of an important environmental habitat for
biodiversity preservation.
20.        Salvage Component. The sale of the burned timber generated Yuan 2.6 billion in
gross revenues and Yuan 880 million in pre-tax profit, of which Yuan 430 million was paid to
the Ministry of Finance in a variety of taxes and fees and Yuan 450 million was retained by the
DXAL Administration. The financial rate of return (FRR) of the salvage component is estimated
in excess of 200 percent, which is based on the assumption that the incremental production
attributable to the project is 6.7 million m3 since the Government had logging capacity for 5
million m3 prior to the project. However, this impressive FRR is below the appraisal estimate
since the actual salvage quantity was 3.3 million m3 less than projected. Actual unit production
costs and sales revenues were quite close to appraisal estimates. The economic rate of return
(ERR) excluding environmental and social benefits, is also estimated in excess of 200 percent,



- 7 -
in line with the appraisal estimate. The revised ERR remains high since the reduction in the
salvage quantity was more than offset by an increase in the economic prices for timber
(economic output prices in the analysis are based on free market prices prevailing in the DXAL
project area during implementation, which are close to border price equivalents). Given the
level of national imports and national consumption, the release of the additional timber onto
domestic markets did not exert any adverse impact on domestic market prices.
21.        Fire Protection Component. Fire losses have been dramatically reduced under the
project, despite the delays in commissioning key equipment: the average number of fires per
year has been reduced from 42 before to 15 after the project; and the extent of fire damage per
year has been reduced from 135,000 ha before to 75 ha after the project. This remarkable
achievement, which exceeds the original appraisal estimate of annual fire damage of 30,000 ha
per year at the end of the project, is due to the increased coverage of ground and aerial
monitoring, improved fire forecasting, expanded fire brigades, and new fire-fighting equipment.
The FRR and ERR for this component are estimated at 83 percent and more than 200 percent,
respectively. The revenue stream in the discounted cashflow analysis is calculated from the
estimated change in the incidence of fire losses as a result of the project (only lost timber
production, not any savings related to human life or property, is valued).
22.        Regeneration Component. The regeneration program has displayed mixed results.
The activities that were included in the original project have generally performed well. The
provision of new nursery equipment permitted a large increase in nursery area, from 23 ha
before to 214 ha after the project, and annual seedling production, from 5 million seedlings
before to 117 million seedlings after the project. However, as reviewed in para. 17, seedling
quality remains uneven and there is significant scope for enhancing quality through improved
nursery management practices (a new bilateral aid program is addressing these nursery issues).
In addition, as reviewed in Table 6C in Part III, the research trials supported under the project
have provided a number of useful findings to support development of an effective regeneration
strategy. However, based on limited data made available so far, it seems that many of the newly
established plantations are not growing well, which will lead to sub-optimal rates of return over
time.
23.        Technical Assistance Component. The training, workshop, study tour, and local and
foreign consultancy activities significantly raised domestic institutional capacity to manage the
diverse and complicated project activities.
Proiect Sustainability
24.        The salvage and technical assistance components are completely finished and no
additional costs or benefits are expected after the completion of the project. The fire protection
component is expected to maintain a significant level of net benefits throughout the twenty-year
life of the equipment. Its sustainability, however, will depend on (i) the provision of adequate
budgetary support for future operation and maintenance requirements, particularly the microwave
communications system, fire information management system, and fire fighting equipment; and
(ii) the continuation of high technical and management standards. The DXAL Administration
has both the financial and human resources to ensure the continued strong performance of the



- 8 -
fire protection system. The sustainability of the regeneration component is uncertain at this
point and the Government will need to carefully monitor the costs and benefits of regeneration
investments.  In particular, the Government will need to review  measures to enhance
productivity and lower investment costs in plantation establishment, through revisions to the
silvicultural prescriptions and improved seedling quality.
Bank Performance
25.        Bank staff responded very quickly and effectively to the Government's request for
emergency assistance. Despite the Bank's unfamiliarity with the sector (the Bank had financed
only one previous forestry project in China), the project was prepared and appraised in a six-
month period and Board approval occurred less than ten months after the first identification
mission. Similarly, despite the complexity of the operation, the project utilized a relatively small
amount of staff resources (81.6 staff weeks from identification to Board approval). During the
preparation and appraisal stages, staff performed well in developing a quick and comprehensive
understanding of the emergency requirements, explaining Bank lending and procurement
procedures, framing a realistic and useful project design, and, most importantly, building a
strong relationship with the Ministry of Forestry (MFO) and the DXAL Administration. While
overall Bank performance was strong, some aspects of the appraisal were weak as a result of
the time pressures to process quickly the emergency operation. As reviewed in para. 8, there
was limited attention given to developing a cost-effective regeneration strategy for the burned
area and reviewing the use of the huge profits generated by the sale of the burned timber.
26.        The Bank also invested a large amount of resources in supervision, including 58.5
staff weeks and five missions between 1988 and 1992, in response to implementation problems.
Supervision missions focussed on the salvage operation, particularly the storing, transporting,
and marketing arrangements, and the regeneration program, particularly the quality of the
planting material. However, the fire protection system and regeneration program were under-
supervised towards the end of the project, as no supervision missions visited the project area
between May 1992 and April 1994. The regeneration program in particular would have
benefitted from additional Bank input about the quality of the planting stock, improved
silvicultural prescriptions, and the economic analysis of the afforestation models.
Borrower Performance
27.        The Borrower's performance was very effective, which is particularly impressive
in view of the emergency context of the operation, the complexity of project activities, the
introduction of many new technologies, and the implementing agencies' general lack of
familiarity with Bank guidelines and operating procedures. The project management office
(PMO) at MFO and the senior project staff at the DXAL Administration provided excellent
management and supervision, the seven design institutes that were involved in project
preparation developed comprehensive and detailed planning documents, the staffs in the two
project provinces cooperated very well, and the technical staff at the forestry bureau level
displayed good technical competency throughout implementation. Two minor weakness with the
Borrower's performance emerged over the life of the project. First, as reviewed in para. 14,
the management of procurement activities, particularly with regard to international competitive



- 9 -
bidding procedures, was not timely and efficient. Second, some forestry bureau field staff did
not adequately follow up on recommendations made by Bank supervision missions to improve
the operation of nurseries in the regeneration program.
Project Relationship
28.       The relationship between the Bank and the Borrower was strong throughout the
project. A few minor conflicts arose during implementation with regard to procurement and the
regeneration program, but these did not undermine the joint cooperation or commitment to the
project.
Consulting Services
29.       Total consulting services under the project amounted to 2.6 person months, including
1. 1 person-months for timber storage and preservation, 0.5 person-months for pest and disease
control, and 1.0 person-months for weather and telecommunication equipment. The consultants
generally performed well. The performance of contractors supplying equipment was less
satisfactory, as the suppliers of the telecommunications equipment did not provide equipment and
services in line with their contractual obligations.
Proiect Documentation and Data
30.       No Staff Appraisal Report was prepared for the project since it was processed as an
emergency operation under special procedures. The Memorandum and Recommendation of the
President, including its technical annex, and the working papers in the project file provided a
useful and clear framework for both the Bank and the Borrower during implementation. In
addition, the semi-annual progress reports and quarterly production reports prepared by the PMO
and the excellent data records maintained by the DXAL Administration facilitated close
monitoring of the project during implementation. The data required for the PCR were readily
available at the PMO and the DXAL Administration.
Findings and Lessons Learned
31.       Overall, the Daxinganling Forest Fire Rehabilitation Project should be considered
a success.  It has generated a wide array of economic and social benefits, including the
accelerated logging of burnt timber that would have otherwise been lost for economic use,
improved fire protection of China's largest forest, increased employment and income in a remote
rural area that had suffered a devastating socio-economic loss, regeneration of an important
natural resource that provides essential environmental services, and significant technology
transfer and capacity building. The only weak part of the project is the small plantation
establishment program in the regeneration component, which is likely to generate positive but
low rates of return.
32.       One of the valuable results of the project was an increased understanding of
economic development and project management issues in the forestry sector for the Bank and



- 10 -
Government. The key lessons, which helped shape the development of the Bank's successive
forestry investments in China, include the following:
* The importance of developing an effective institutional mechanism for
coordinating the various government and non-government agencies involved in
implementation and technology transfer;
* The importance of developing integrated forest management plans and sustainable
harvesting programs for the remaining natural forest area in China;
* The importance of reviewing and revising the traditional silvicultural prescriptions
used in plantation establishment in China, with emphasis on the introduction of new
species, improved planting materials, more efficient silvicultural practices, and
lower stocking densities;
* The importance of developing detailed environmental management guidelines for
project implementation to avoid problems such as excessive reliance on toxic
pesticides for timber preservation; and
e The need to deepen MFO understanding of: (a) Bank procurement guidelines,
particularly international competitive bidding procedures; and (b) project economic
and financial analysis, particularly in the evaluation of cost-effective afforestation
techniques.
33.       In response to these lessons, the Bank has supported a series of forestry activities,
including the FY90 National Afforestation Project, the FY93 Institutional Development Fund
grant on forestry, and the FY94 Forest Resource Development and Protection Project, which
have emphasized: (a) improved planning and management of natural forests and nature reserves;
(b) introduction of new afforestation technologies for plantations and protection forests,
particularly new species and improved planting materials; (c) formulation of environmental
management plans with detailed specifications for site preparation, water conservation, and pest
and fire control requirements; and (d) capacity building in MFO in the areas of project
management, procurement, and economic and financial analysis.



- 11 -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
DAXINGANLING FOREST FIRE REHABILITATION PROJECT (CR. 1918-CHA)
PART II: PROJECT REVIEW FROM BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE
Prepared By:     The Project Office for the Emergency Loan from the World Bank
Ministry of Forestry
People's Republic of China
Date:            April 1994



- 12 -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
DAXINGANLING FOREST FIRE REHABILITATION PROJECT (CR. 1918-CHA)
PART II: PROJECT REVIEW FROM BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE
1.    SUMMARY
1.1   According to the Credit Agreement on Da Xing An Ling Fire Control and Rehabilitation
Project signed by IDA of the World Bank and the Chinese Government on July 15, 1988, the
World Bank provides SDR41,100,000 (equivalent to US$56,900,000) with long term and free
interests, and the Chinese Side provides counterpart fund of RMB156,900,000 Yuan. The fund
provided by the two sides is used to salvage 15,000,000 cubic meters of burned timber (later
confirmed as 11,740,000 cubic meters) in Da Xing An Ling forest region in Heilongjiang
Province. At the meantime, the fund is also used to establish such systems as aerial forest
protection, microwave communication, automatic weather stations, lightning location, integrated
fire information processing through the use of computer. The duration of the project is three
years, from Oct. 15, 1988 to Oct. 31, 1991. At the approval of the World Bank, the credit
amount was adjusted from SDR41,100,000 to SDR40,600,000, the project was prolonged to
March 31, 1994. The counterpart fund, after the approval of the Chinese Government, was
adjusted to RMB199,310,000 Yuan.
1.2   Thanks to the support from  related departments in China and the guidance and
supervision from the World Bank, as well as the efforts from local project implementing
agencies, the various components of the project is successful one which has realised the expected
objectives.
2.    PROJECT PREPARATION
2.1   The big fire on May 7, 1987 in Da Xing An Ling forest region in Heilongjiang Province
resulted in great losses to forestry production and the living of the people. The local ecological
environment was severely damaged. In order to recover the forest resources in the burned areas
and establish an integrated fire management system in forest regions both in Heilongjiang and
Inner Mongolia so that the two forest regions could develop production under safe and stable
conditions, and finally increase the administrative and management level and improve the
ecological environment, the Ministry of Forestry applied to the State Council for the Da Xing
An Ling Forest Fire Control and Rehabilitation Project in June 1987. In August the same year,
the State Council and the State Planning Commission approved the use of the World Bank loan
by the Ministry of Forestry.
2.2  In light with the proposals of the project identification mission from the World Bank on
the issues of timber salvage, the establishment of air-ground combined forest fire control system
and the regeneration of forest resources in the burned areas, Ministry of Forestry started, in



- 13 -
December 1987, to study and discuss the allocation of credit from the World Bank and the
counterpart fund from the Chinese side for Da Xing An Ling forest areas in the two provinces.
Ministry of Forestry also organised and drew up the project feasibility study report.
2.3  In January 1988, the pre-feasibility appraisal mission from the World Bank visited China
and carried out appraisal on DXAL Project and later on submitted official project proposal to
the World Bank. The DXAL Project was then approved by the World Bank after the
commercial negotiation of the project between the World Bank and China in May 1988 and was
signed by both sides on July 15 the same year. The project came into effect on Oct. 15 and the
official implementation of the project thus began.
2.4   From the project implementation point of view, the project identification mission and the
pre-feasibility appraisal mission from the World Bank raised very good recommendations on
timber salvage, forest regeneration and fire management system for DXAL project. Meanwhile,
it is correct that the World Bank appraisal mission decided to focus on timber salvage and
increase the portion of credit on forest fire control component. In general, except the fact that
the credit categories needs to be adjusted because of change of exchange rate, the increased cost
for equipment procurement, and the requirement of labour cost in civil works specified as "to
be allocated" by the credit agreement, other items are basically in line with the implementation
of the project. SDR40,600,000 provided according to credit agreement ensures the procurement
of equipment and technical assistance necessary for the project. Because the project was listed
as an emergency loan project, valuable time was saved for the project implementation.
3.    PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
3.1   In order to realise the objectives and accomplish the obligations required by the credit
agreement, in accordance with project components and implementation time table, Ministry of
Forestry allocated the credit and counterpart fund to DXAL Forest Company in Heilongjiang
Province and the DXAL Forest Management Bureau in Inner Mongolia. The two local project
implementing agencies drew up the implementation plans according to the implementation time
table, the counterpart fund from the Government and the fund raised by themselves. The
implementation plans need to be approved by Ministry of Forestry. Because of late delivery of
micro-wave communication equipment by the suppliers, the construction period was prolonged.
The original construction task of the communication equipment was basically finished within the
prolonged period.
3.2   From the project implementation point of view:
A.   The credit and the counterpart fund ensure priorities. The use of fund is rational.
The total investment accomplished under the project is RMB526,624,000 Yuan, of
which,
RMB97,384,000 Yuan for timber salvage, accounting for 18.5% of the total
investment;
RMB411,097,000 Yuan for forest fire control, accounting for 78.0% of the total;



- 14 -
RMB10,423,000 Yuan for forest regeneration, accounting for 2% of the total;
RMB7,720,000 Yuan for other cost, accounting for 1.5% of the total;
B.    Existin2 Problems. The progress of the project is unbalanced. The construction
of forest fire management system is relatively slow. The construction of micro-wave
communication, automatic meteorology and lightning location system could not be
accomplished within the original time span. The main reasons are: (1) forest fire
management system is a very complex engineering project. It's a difficult technique,
which needs good technical conjunction from various aspects, from the system design,
planning and implementation to equipment installation. The actual time taken is longer
than expected; (2) There are too many formalities to go through when dealing with
equipment tendering. There are many interventions by the domestic departments. The
time for procurement is delayed too much. It usually takes 6-12 months at least for each
equipment procurement (international competitive bidding) from publication of bid notice
to the signing of the contract; (3) Suppliers fail to be in compliance with the contract;
Late delivery of goods happened. For example, the micro-wave equipment offered by
Telettra, Italy was delivered ten months late in comparison with the time specified in the
contract. The micro-wave engineering project in Inner Mongolia was, therefore, delayed
for nearly one year. Both Telettra and Siemens of Italy often delivered either wrong or
less equipment. This issue has not been solved by the end of October 1993. The
installation in China had to wait for contract-specified equipment for three months. In
addition, the supervising and monitoring personnel from Telettra and Siemens have not
come to China to implement contract up to the end of February 1994, resulting in a
severe delay on project completion and acceptance; (4) The progress of some engineering
projects has been affected by insufficient fund raised by local governments themselves.
Equipment Procurement
3.3   A total of 276 sets/pieces of equipment such as vehicles, aircrafts, telecommunication and
silviculture have been purchased during the implementation of the project either through
international competitive bidding or three quotations. The purchase was organised by Ministry
of Forestry and participated by technicians from such departments as design, manufacturing and
by experts from related sectors. The equipment mentioned above has been inspected and
accepted by the two local project implementing agencies as well as commercial inspection
department, and has been allocated to final end users.
3.4   During the process of equipment procurement, the procurement guidelines of the World
Bank was strictly adhered. The relationship between domestic and foreign manufacturers were
correctly treated. The quantity and quality of the equipment purchased was ensured by the fair
evaluation on the technical and economic specifications offered by responsive bidders. The bid
evaluation was done in accordance with procurement guidelines of IDRC and IDA of the World
Bank. From the current operation of the equipment procured, most of them are in good
operational conditions and have realised the expected objectives.
3.5   To summarize the equipment procurement, we have successful experiences, we do also



- 15 -
have problems, which are:
(1) It is relatively difficult to undertake bid evaluation because there are quite a lot of
responsive bidders who provided insufficient technical clarification necessary for such
a complex system;
(2) The current procurement formalities are complicated with too many departments in
charge of approval, resulting in very much delayed equipment procurement;
(3) The domestic bid evaluation procedures are not comprehensive. There are also too
many participating departments and too many interventions. What's more, it takes a very
long time to finalise the evaluation results because there is not any appropriate institution
to coordinate. It takes one year and seven months, and one year and four months for the
evaluation of all-terrain vehicles and micro-wave equipment respectively;
(4) Because of inadequate knowledge on the technical performance of foreign silvicultural
equipment, and the actual domestic requirement in these equipment, some of the foreign
silvicultural equipment procured has not been made best use of. Some equipment for
green houses needs to be further improved so as to create benefits as soon as possible.
Adiustment of Credit Category and Counterpart Fund
3.6   During the process of project implementation, along with the changing situations, the
credit categories and counterpart fund have been adjusted within the scope of credit agreement,
and in accordance with the quantity and price of equipment to be procured, and the actual
requirement of the project. The adjustment made is as follows:
A.    Credit Category Adjustment
Category I: The amount for equipment & facilities, vehicles and aircrafts has been
increased from the original SDR33,700,000 to SDR34,280,000;
Category II: The labour cost of civil works has been increased from the original
SDR3,000,000 to SDR 6,000,000;
Category III: The cost for training and study tours has been reduced from SDR600,000
to SDR320,000;
Category IV: SDR3,300,000 listed as "to be allocated" has all been reduced out.
3.7   The reasons for adjustment of credit categories are: (1) According to the agreed minutes
of negotiations on the DXAL Fire Control and Rehabilitation Project, the labour cost for civil
works is SDR6,000,000 (equivalent to US$8,000,000). SDR3,000,000 was therefore increased
to be used for labour cost in the construction of fire-control roads; (2) At the stage of feasibility
study report and appraisal, it is impossible to have accurate estimation on the price of equipment
to be procured and on the equipment quantity necessary for forest fire management system.



- 16 -
During the project implementation, some of the equipment prices went up. An additional
amount of SDR580,000 needs to be invested in this aspect; (3) The training and study tours have
been accomplished according to the original plan. The surplus fund was therefore reduced out.
B.    The Adjustment of Counterpart Fund
3.8   The original domestic fund approved by the State is RMB156,900,000 Yuan. After
verification, the total domestic fund necessary for the project is RMB199,310,000 Yuan, 27%
more than the original plan. The reasons are: (1) The going-up price increased the cost of the
project. Statistics from Inner Mongolia and Heilongjiang shows that the price of construction
materials rises 15-20% each year. (2) During the drawing up of feasibility study report, the
estimation on the price of civil works and domestic equipment is too low. The preliminary
design budget exceeded the original estimated price. (3) In the feasibility study report, some
civil works necessary are not included and the amount of some civil works are not sufficiently
estimated. (4) Because there is no definite idea about the changes of exchange rate, in order to
prevent overspending of credit, part of the equipment and spare parts which should have been
procured by the credit were actually purchased by using domestic fund. This increased the
portion of counterpart fund.
3.9   In short, the adjustment on credit categories and counterpart fund is tally with the actual
situation and could make more rational use of credit and counterpart fund, finally ensuring that
the objectives of various project components be realised.
4.    PROJECT ACHIEVEMENTS
4.1   Within the Implementation Period:
A.    Timber salvage: 11,740,000 cubic meters, transportation of burned timber
11,578,000 cubic meters, local timber processing   550,000 cubic meters; Road
construction 2,2777 km, 15 temporary log yards for transportation of burned timber.
The following equipment was procured: 184 timber trucks, 76 sets (pieces) of road
construction equipment, 11 debarkers, 20 sets of timber loaders, 624 sets (pieces) of
trailers of various kinds for timber transportation.
B.    The regeneration area for burned regions is 722,000 ha. 186.2 ha. of nurseries
affected by the fire have been improved and expanded. Two sets of advanced seed
processing equipments, four sets of green house seedling breeding equipment, one set of
container soil production line have been procured. The annual seedling production
reaches 117,205,000, meeting the regeneration requirement.
C.    An integrated forest fire management system has been established, combining
ground fire control facilities and aerial forest protection. (1) The ground fire control
facilities set up are: 47 micro-wave communication station, 39 UHF stations; 77
automatic weather forecasting stations;  9 lightning location stations; 3 sets of fire
information processing through the use of computers; 771.7 km of fire control roads;
352.4 km of passes to stations of micro-wave, weather forecasting and lookout towers;



- 17 -
64 lookout towers; 45,389.10 square meters of houses and buildings; 4 helispots; 3 oil
filling stations (garages). (2) The equipment procured includes: two 4-ton helicopters,
eight 2-ton helicopters; 34 all-terrain vehicles; 33 commanding vehicles; 54 transportation
trucks of various kinds; 130 pieces of radio communication equipment, instruments and
facilities; 3,590 pieces of professional fire suppression equipment, tools and instruments
etc.
4.2   Since the implementation of the DXAL Fire Control and Rehabilitation Project in the past
five years, the World Bank missions have visited China for the project inspection for many times
and believe this is a successful project. At the same time, project inspection has also been
carried out by the project administrative authorities at different levels, and the auditing agencies
at central and provincial levels. The inspection results indicate that all components of the project
have been completed and the expected objectives of the project specified by the credit agreement
have been reached. Namely:
A.    Good benefits have gained from the salvaged timber. The total sale of burned
timber is 11,578,000 cubic meters with an income of RMB2,610,000,000 Yuan. If
deducting the direct and indirect production cost, the net income is RMB880,000,000
Yuan. This income is used for forest regeneration. The cleared burned areas and the
sanitary conditions are helpful for forest regeneration and have accelerated the recover
and development of forest resources.
B.    The capacity of timber production and road construction in DXAL forest region
in Heilongjiang has been obviously improved. In order to complete timber salvage and
transportation, advanced road construction machinery, machinery for timber
transportation and storage have been procured.  The timber production capacity is
expanded by 600,000 cubic meters, and the annual mechanized road construction capacity
in new forest areas increased by 100 km.
C.    Silviculture and afforestation level has been greatly increased. In order to ensure
a successful forest regeneration in the fire affected areas, in addition to the procurement
of advanced seed processing and seedling breeding equipment so as to produce high-
quality seedlings, cooperative research activities were also undertaken between forestry
colleges, universities and research institutes to carry out research on seedling breeding
and silviculture and afforestation. 38 items of research results have been achieved, of
which 25 have been put into actual production. The use of the results has increased the
plantation quality. The survival rate can reaches 85.3%, 33.2% more than before.
D.    The aerial forest protection capacity has been improved.  Because of the
procurement of helicopters, the aerial patrol capacity has been increased by 100%.
Should there is emergency, the fire crews transported by helicopters to the fire site can
be increased by 20% and 10% for Heilongjiang and Inner Mongolia respectively.
E.    The speed and accuracy of the fire detection and forecasting in the forest areas
has been increased. Because of the establishment of such systems as automatic weather
forecasting, lightning location, fire information processing through the use of computer



- 18 -
and the establishment of lookout towers, a comprehensive monitoring and forecasting
system for fire status in the whole forest areas has been formed. The fire information
is transmitted timely and effectively through micro-wave communication and UHF
communication. Through this system, fire occurrence can be discovered within 15
minutes in the developed areas and within 30 minutes in the unopened areas. The
accuracy for fire location in developed areas reaches over 95% and 85% in unopened
areas.  Because of the increased fire forecasting speed and fire location accuracy,
conditions are created to suppress fires at an earlier stage.
F.    Fire suppression capacity has been increased. The professional fire brigades in
the two local project implementing agencies has been increased from 4,035 to 6,777.
Because of the procurement of all-terrain vehicles, radio commanding vehicles, heavy-
duty transportation trucks, wind blowers and radio telecommunication equipment, the fire
brigades can reach the fire site within one-two hours. The fire suppression capacity has
been increased by 50% in comparison with the period before the project implementation.
G.    Commanding form  for fire control has been enhanced and the scientific
management level increased. Due to the establishment of fire control information
network from lower level to higher level, that is, from forest bureaux to forest
management bureau (forest company in case of Heilongjiang Province) to the National
Fire Management Headquarters in Ministry of Forestry, fire occurrence and fire hazard
information can be sent immediately from lower level to higher level through this
network, thus creating conveniences for dispatching, commanding and deployment for
fire suppression activities.
H.    Because of the successful implementation of the DXAL Fire Control and
Rehabilitation Project, the timber salvaged has been made the best use of, forest
resources been recovered gradually and the regional ecological environment been
improved.  Especially, the establishment of micro-wave and UHF communication
network and the network of computers has not only changed the backward
communication situation in the forest regions but also deployed and created job
opportunities for 995 people. It has promoted the stable development in economy and
society in the forest areas. This project has been a model which combines economic
benefits and environmental benefits.
5.    ACHIEVEMENTS OF THE WORLD BANK
5.1   During the appraisal and implementation of the project, many World Bank missions have
visited China for project inspection and guidance, raised helpful suggestions and solved new
problems timely. In general, the World Bank has made outstanding achievements in the
management of the DXAL Fire Control and Rehabilitation Project. The achievements are
mainly reflected through the following aspects:
High Efficiency Management
5.2   It takes only about nine months from project identification, appraisal of feasibility study



- 19 -
report, to the signing of the credit agreement. Before the signing of the credit agreement,
considering the emergency situation for timber salvage, the World Bank agreed to procure
equipment for logging and transportation and road construction with an amount of US$6,900,000
through retroactive financing. Guidance and support were provided by the World Bank to solve
the problems occurred during the process of procurement. Approval for various procurement
items were also undertaken timely. All these measures have played a very important role in
timely accomplishment of timber salvage and transportation, and equipment procurement.
Strict Project Inspection and Monitoring
5.3   The inspection and management system undertaken by the World Bank for this project
is effective and successful. In addition to the review of the submitted documents like project
progress report, financial statement and auditing reports as well as various procurement papers,
the World Bank sent working missions consisting of the Bank officials and consultants to
undertake on-site inspection in China. These working missions raised timely suggestions and
solutions to the problems occurred during the process of project implementation, which have
improved the production technique, project organization and management, forming a sound base
for the successful implementation of the project.
5.4   The credit category adjustment was approved by the World Bank in light with exchange
rate change, the equipment procurement quantity and the going-up price. This makes the use
of credit in different categories more rational. Meanwhile, the World Bank agreed to delay the
project duration, which ensures the smoothly implementation of the project from time point of
view.
5.5   Constructive suggestions were raised by the World Bank inspection teams regarding the
problems and constraints in forest regeneration and in the use of foreign silvicultural equipment.
These suggestions have been accepted and used in the project implementation, resulting in a
further improvement of management level both in afforestation and management.
6.    ACHIEVEMENTS OF THE BORROWER
6.1   Competent project management organizations were set up. Project leading groups were
set up in Ministry of Forestry, DXAL Forest Company in Heilongjiang and DXAL Forest
Management Bureau in Inner Mongolia. Project offices were also set up under the project
leading groups. Professionals and managerial staff in the field of forestry, capital construction,
planning, finance, equipment procurement and fire control etc. The project offices are relatively
independent. It has such functions as external coordination, organization & management,
monitoring the project implementation.  The main responsibilities of the project offices
include:organize project implementation, arrange equipment procurement and planning of civil
works, organise technical experts and related department to compile draw up bid documents for
equipment procurement, tendering and bid evaluation and deal with approval formalities, grasp
goods arrival information and coordinate problems occurred during procurement. It also has the
functions to approve and adjust credit and counterpart fund plan, raise suggestions on the
amendment of credit agreement, organise the review and approval o the project preliminary
design, hold meeting of various kinds and carry out project inspection either at fixed or unfixed



- 20 -
dates. The successful implementation of the project is ensured from the organisation point of
view.
Enhance Proiect Management
6.2   The main measure taken by project management institutions at different levels are:
A.    To undertake job training for managerial staff in an attempt to increase their
professional and management level. The project management agencies at different levels
organised the study and training through multiple forms for the people in the field of
planning, finance, fire control and equipment procurement. At the same time, 37
technical courses on timber storage, anti-decay for timber, micro-wave and lightning
location etc. were held with 1,439 technicians trained. Theses training courses have
promoted a more effective use of credit and thus increased the benefits of project
investment.
B.    To enhance design and operation management. For many times, the seven design
institutes were organised by DXAL Fire Project Office in Ministry of Forestry to carry
out design liaison and coordination, and review of preliminary design. The design plan
and preliminary design have all met or surpassed the economic specifications specified
by the feasibility study report. At the same time, the DXAL Project Office in Ministry
of Forestry, together with local administrative sectors, reviewed and inspected the
operational charts and budget for some key engineering projects. This kind of review
and inspection has made technical specifications more reliable and the fund be more
accurately allocated.
C.    Enhance the Monitoring. Inspection and acceptance for the Progress and Quality
of Engineering Projects. During the process of project implementation, many inspections
have been carried out by Ministry of Forestry and the local project implementing
agencies in the aspect of progress of engineering projects, installation quality, the use of
imported equipment, allocation and use of counterpart fund. Problems found have been
solved timely. The Commanding Headquarters has also been set up in the local project
implementing agencies in accordance with different responsibilities of the related
department. The headquarters is responsible for direct commanding, management and
monitoring of some main engineering projects in an attempt to ensure high-quality
projects.
D.    Absorb Advanced Technologies and Experiences. Increase Technical and
Management Level. Ten overseas study tours and 18 overseas training groups for
contract implementation have been sent by Ministry of Forestry with 156 man/times of
technical and managerial staff trained. These people, after came back from foreign
countries, direct project implementation and management with their knowledge learned
abroad. For example, a professional team with quite high technical and management
experiences has been formed through the overseas training and study on micro-wave
engineering project. It has successfully accomplished micro-wave installation and test
trial by overcoming great difficulties, thus ensuring a smoothly operation of the
communication network.



- 21 -
E.    The project management agencies have enhanced their close cooperation with such
sectors as planning, finance, auditing, banks, customs and commercial inspection. The
great support and professional guidance from the World Bank Department in Ministry
of Finance and the World Bank Resident Mission in Beijing ensures the successful
implementation of the project.



- 22 -
PART III - STATISTICAL INFORMATION
TABLE 1: RELATED BANK LOANS AND CREDITS
Loan/Credit                  Loan/Credit                   Purpose                  Year of          Status              Comments
Title                            No.                                                Appioval
North China Plain           Cr. 1261-CHA      Establishment of 232,C00 ha              FY82      Completed 12/87
Agriculture Project                           of forests, orchards and
shelterbelts
Forestry Development        Cr. 1605-CHA      Establishment of 82,000 ha of            FY85     Completed 6/91
Project                                       plantatiors and improved
management of existirng forests
Pishihang-Chaohu            Ln. 2579/         Production of 61 million                 FY85     Completed 6/92    Satisfactory
Area Development            Cr. 1606-CHA       seedlings for border arnd                                            progress; PCR
Project                                       commercial plantations                                                planned in FY93
Red Soils Area              Cr. 1733-CHA      Establishment of 8,515 ha                FY86      Completed 6/92    Satisfactory
Development Project                           of orchards and 4,350 ha. of                                          progress; closing
woodlots                                                             date 6/92
Shandong Agricultural       Cr.  2017-CHA    Establishment of 30,000 ha                FY89      Under              Satisfactory
Development Project                           of forest and 12,500 ha of                         implementation    progress
Chinese dates
National Afforestation    Cr. 2145-CHA        Establishment of 985,000 ha              FY90      Under              Satisfactory
Project                                       of timber plantations;                             implementation    progress
strengthening of research arid
institutional capacity
Second Fed Soils Area       Cr. 2563-CPA      Establishment of 14,000 ha of            FY94      Board approval
Development Project                           forests and 17,000 ha of                           in 3/94
orchards
Loess Plateau Watershed   Cr.                 Establishment of 270,000 ha of           FY94     Board approval
Rehabilitation Project                        commercial and conservation                        in 5/94
forests.



- 23 -
TABLE 2: PROJECT TIMETABLE
Item                      Date              Date              Date
Planned          Revised           Actual
Identification            8/87                                8/87
Preparation               10/87                               10/87
Appraisal Mission         1/88                                1/88
Negotiations              5/88                                5/88
Board Approval            6/88                                6/88
Signing Date              7/88                                7/88
Effective Date            9/88                                9/88
Closing Date  1/          3/92              3/93              3/94
Completion Date           9/91              6/93              5/94
Notes:
1/ The closing date of the credit was extended twice in order to complete the
commissioning of the fire protection control and monitoring system, which was
delayed due to slow preparation of procurement documentation and late delivery
of goods and services from suppliers.



- 24 -
TABLE 3: ESTIMATED AND ACTUAL CREDIT DISBURSEMENT (US$ MILLION)
Appraisal Estimate            Actual        Actual as I
Year       Absolute   Cumulative        Cumulative      of Estimate
1988            0.00          0.00            7.35  1/
1989           25.00         25.00           14.19                57%
1990           22.00         47.00           18.71                40%
1991            7.00        54.00            32.33  2/            60%
1992            2.90         56.90           48.35                85%
1993            0.00         56.90           52.01                91%
1994            0.00         56.90           55.10  3/            97%
Notes:
1/ Includes US$ 5.5 million deposited into the Special Account.
2/ SDR 0.5 million, equivalent to US$ 0.692 million, was cancelled on 3/1/91.
3/ The credit was fully disbursed as of 6/10/94.
Fluctuations in the SDR/USS exchange rate over the project period led to a slight
decrease in the US$ equivalent value of the credit.



- 25 -
TABLE 4: PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION INDICATORS
Indicators                                    Unit    Appraisal        Revised        Actual       Actual/        Actual/
Estimate        Target                      SAR          Revised
(%) 
I.   FOREST FIRE CONTROL
1. Aerial Fire Fighting
a) Aircrafts  1/                 no.             22            10            10            45           100
b) Patrol Airports               no.              2             2             2           100           100
c) Heliports                     no.              8             B             8           100           100
2. Ground Fire Fighting
a) Vehicles   2/                 no.           256            170           189            74           111
b) Buildings                     m2         16,795        45,389        45,389            270           100
3. Fire Control Facilities
a) Roads & Forest Tracks         km          1,316         1,124          1,124            85           100
b) Lookout Towers                no.             89            64            64            72           100
4. Communications Network
a) Microwave/UHF Stations        no.             36            86            86           239           100
b) Computer Terminals            no.             36            35            35            97           100
5. Weather Forcasting               km
a) Stations   3/                 no.             ..            95            95            ..           100
b) Labs                          no.              2             2             2           100           100
6. Lightening Monitoring            no.              4             8             8           200            100
II. TIMBER SALVAGE
1. Roads and Forest Tracks          km           3,900         2,277         2,277            58            100
2. Logging Equipment                 no.           138           915           915           630            100
III. REGENERATION
1. Greenhouses                      no.             80            44            44            55            100
2. Equipment                        no.              7             7             7           100            100
Notes:
1/ Including small and medium helicopters, small patrol airplane, and water dropping airplane.
2/ Including all-terrain trucks, commanding cars, trucks, and motorcycles.
3/ Including automatic weather, observation, relay, and base weather stations.



- 26 -
TABLE 5A: PROJECT COSTS (US$ MILLION)
Appraisal Estimate  1/                       Actual
Item                                  Local      Foreign      Total        Local      Foreign      Total
Cost  2/    Cost          Cost      Cost  3/    Cost           Cost
Timber Salvage                          379.1        22.7       401.7       307.4        12.6       320.0
Forest Fire Control                      75.3        34.0       109.3        31.3        39.1        70.4
Regeneration                              3.8         1.3         5.1        91.5         1.4        92.9
Technical Assistance and Training         0.1         0.8         0.9         0.0         0.4          0.4
Total Project Cost                     458.2         58.8       517.0       430.2        53.5       483.7
Notes:
1/ Appraisal estimate from Schedule A of MOP
2/ The appraisal estimate assumed a constant exchange rate throughout implementation (US$1.00 =
Y3.71 = SDR 0.7225).
3/  The actual exchange rates were as follows:
1988          US$1 = Y 3.72 = SDR 0.7692
1989          US$1 = Y 4.72 = SDR 0.7407
1990          US$1 = Y 4.72 = SDR 0.7299
1991          US$1 = Y 5.70 = SDR 0.7246
1992          US$1 = Y 5.70 = SDR 0.7143
1993          US$1 = Y 8.70 = SDR 0.7194
1994          US$1 = Y 8.70 = SDR 0.7194



- 27 -
TABLE SB: PROJECT FINANCING (USS MILLION)
Planned  1/               Revised  2/                 Actual  3/
% of                      % of                       % of
Source                                        Amount        total    Amount            total    Amount  3/    Total
IDA Credit                                        56.9       11.0%          56.2          na           55.1        10.7%
Domestic Sources                                 460.1       89.0%             na         na          428.6        82.9%
Total Financing  (US$ million)                   517.0      100.0%             na         na          483.7       100.0%
Notes:
I/ Planned estimate as in Development Credit Agreement, using US$1.00 = SDRO.7225 exchange rate.
2/ Credit allocation was revised in line with cancellation of US$0.692 million equivalent.
3/  The final credit allocation is based on an average exchange rate of US$1.00 - SDRO.7369



- 28 -
TABLE 6A:  PROJECT RESULTS - DIRECT BENEFITS
Indicators                                         Unit         Appraisal                   Actual/
Estimate        Actual      Appraisal
I.   FOREST FIRE CONTROL
1. Coverage of ground fire monitoring             %               82               85         104%
2. Coverage of aerial monitoring                  %              100             100          100
3. Time for discovering fire
A. Developed areas                          minutes            15              15          100%
B. Undeveloped areas                        minutes            30              30          100%
4. Accuracy of fire forecast
A. Developed areas                             4               95              95         100%
B. Undeveloped areas                           %               85              85          100%
5. Fire damage area/total area                    %                3           0.015      >1,000%
6. Forest area saved                          million m2          48               96         200t
7. Stumpage value saved                       million Yuan       242             482          200%
II. TIMBER SALVAGE
1. Anual timber harvesting capacity            1,000 m3          600             600          100%
2. Anual road building capacity                   km             100              100         100%
3. Burned timber salvage quantity             million m3          15           11.74           78%
III. REGENERATION
1. Seed collection                                kg           3,500           5,360          153%
2. Nursery development                            ha             1SO             214          142%
3. Anual seedling production                  million ha          84              117         140%
4. Forest regeneration                         1,000 ha        1,044             722           69%
A. Plantations                              1,000 ha          172             101           59%
B. Natural regeneration w/ enrichment   1,000 ha              115              98          85%
C. Natural regeneration                     1,000 ha          677             463          68%
D. Hill closing                             1,000 ha           79              59           75%



- 29 -
TABLE 6B: PROJECT RESULTS - ECONOMIC AND FINANCIAL IMPACT
Rate of Return           Net Present Value at 10%  1/
(%)                       (million Yuan)
Appraisal   Final           Appraisal   Final
Estimate    Estimate 2/     Estimate    Estimate 2/
ECONOMIC IMPACT:
Timber Salvage Component 3/             >200        > 200            1645       642
Fire Management Component 4/            > 200       > 200            1576        177
FINANCIAL IMPACT:
Timber Salvage Component 3/             > 200       > 200            747        443
Fire Management Component 4/            29.3       83                425         101
Notes:
1/ The MOP used a 10% discount rate in the discounted cashflow analysis, which has been followed in the
PCR calculations.
2/ Final estimates for the timber salvage component are based on actual data for 1988-1993. Final estimates
for the fire management component are based on actual data for 1988 - 1993 and projected data for 1992-
2018.
3/ The revenue stream for the timber salvage component is based on: (i) the incremental production from
salvaging burned timber (it is assumed that the existing capacity prior to the project could have salvaged 5
million cubic meters); and (ii) the residual value of project assets. Production costs include initial capital
investments and annual recurrent operating costs, comprising wages, fuel, administrative overhead, and other
recurrent expenditures. Financial input prices were adjusted by an average conversion factor of 1.30 to
derive economic prices, which is a weighted average of the standard conversion factor for non-tradables and
actual border price equivalents for tradables. Economic output prices were based on free market prices
prevailing in the DXAL project area during implementation, which are close to border price equivalents
(about 75 % of project output was sold at state administered prices and 25 % at free market prices). The final
estimates of the NPV for the economic and financial cashflows are lower than in the MOP due to the fact that
the actual salvage quantity was 3 million cubic meters less than projected and to different exchange rate
assumptions.
4/ The revenue stream for fire management component is calculated from the estimated change in the
incidence of fire losses as a result of the project (only lost timber production is valued, not any savings
related to human life and property). Financial costs were adjusted by an average conversion factor of 1.25 to
derive economic costs, which is a weighted average of the standard conversion factor for non-tradeables and
actual border price equivalents for tradables. The final estimate of the FRR and ERR are higher than in the
SAR because the actual incidence of fire during the past seven years has been dramatically lower than the
assumptions used in the MOP. However, the final estimates of the NPV for the economic and financial
cashflows are lower than in the MOP due to different exchange rate assumptions.



- 30 -
TABLE 6C: PROJECT RESULTS - RESEARCH WORK
Research Work                              Purpose                              Status      Impact
Forest regeneration methods.               Provide technical standards for      Completed  Standards have been
forest regeneration.                 1993        applied in four areas.
Planting technology in high-               Establish pilot plantations to try   Completed  250 hectares of pilot
yielding plantations.                      out regeneration models and          1993        plantationsestablished.
technical standards that fit local               Impact not clear.
local conditions.
Techniques of cultivation of spruce and    Increase the cultivating             Completed  Under experiment.
fragrant poplar; breeding of Xingan        area of rare species.                1992
poplar; selection of birch.
Natural regeneration model.                Further understanding the technology  Completed  ITproved margetn
and application of natural           1992        measures used in
regeneration.                                    fire affected areas.
Regeneration methods that can be           Provide standard technical           Completed  Some experiments
applied to seeding on steep slopes.        specifications.                      1991        were conducted in
Amur. Impact not
clear.
Standardization of seedling breeding       Advance nursery development          Completed  Objective met at 2
techniques for large nurseries.            and increase seedling production.    1991        of 4 nurseries.
Use of root containers for improved       Improve the seedling quality by       Completed  Study results used at
seedling.                                  20% to meet national standards.      1991        1 of 4 nurseries.
Application of peat to potting soils.     Improve quality of soil medium in     Completed  Results have been
conainterized seedlings.             1990        applied in Tuqiang
and Tahe nuseries.
Direct seeding in afforestation.           Reduce afforestation costs and       Completed  Results indicated
speed up regeneration program        1990        limited application
for direct seeding.
Disease control techniques for Scotch      Identify appropriate control         Completed  Disease successfully
pine seedlings.                            measures.                            1990        controlled.
Pests and diseases control techniques     Identify appropriate control          Completed  Results have been in
in plantations.                            measures.                            1990        applied inplantations.
Seed propagation technology for            Improve quality and quantity of      Completed  Some success in
Scotch Pine and Larch.                     seed.                                1990        improving quality and
quantity of seeds.
Use of agrochemicals in weeding.           Select approperiate herbicide.       Completed  Results widely used
1990       in nurseries.
Seedling standards for boreal              Develop seedling standards           Completed  Results widely used.
forest species.                           to ensure uniform quality.            1989



- Ji -
TABLE 7: STATUS OF COVENANTS
Covenant  1/         Description                                                                              Status
DCA 3.02             Goods, works and consultant services would be procured                 Largely in compliance throughout the
in accordance with schedule 3 of the DCA                               project, although the original ceiling
on non-ICB procurement was exceeded
DCA 3.03(a)          Project would be implemented in accordance with environmental          Largely in compliance, except for the
standards acceptable to IDA.                                           initial use of pesticides for timber
preservation.
DCA 3.03(b)          All necessary measures would be taken to reduce fire and pest          In compliance throughout project.
hazards in project area.
DCA 3.04             Borrower would establish satisfactory arrangements for aircraft   In compliance throughout project.
operation and maintenance.
DCA 4.01             Project accounts would be audited annually and submitted to IDA   Largely in compliance, although
June 30 of the following year.                                         accounts were sometimes submitted late.
NU (2)               Company owning aircraft would be established with satisfactory    Completed.  A service contract with
financial and technical structure or a service contract with           CAAC was signed.
CAAC would be executed prior to disbursement for aircraft.
NU (5)               MFO would provide updated information on damaged timber                Completed.
volumes, including commerical quantities, by August 1988.
NU (7)               MFO would provide semi-annual progress reports and quarterly           Largely in compliance.
production reports.
Notes:
1/ DCA = Development Credit Agreement of 7/88
NU - Negotiation Understanding from agreed minutes of negotiations of 5/88.



- 32 -
TABLE BA:  USE OF BANK RESOURCES - STAFF INPUTS (IN STAFF WEEKS)
Stage of Project Cycle               Planned          Revised          Final
Through Appraisal                            na              na            75.8
Appraisal Through Board                      na              na             5.8
Approval
Board Approval Through                       na              na              na
Effectiveness
Supervision                                  82              80            58.5
TOTAL                                        na              na           140.1



.33
-  33 -
TABLE SB: USE OF BANK RESOURCES - MISSIONS
Stage of                              No. of       Days in      Specialization       Performance    Type of
Project Cycle            Date        Persons        Field       Represented  1/       Rating  2/    Problems
Identification          Aug-87               4            17    PO, FI, F, FF
Preparation             Oct-87               5            16    PO, FI, F, FF,E
Appraisal               Jan-88               2            17    FO, FI
Supervision 1           Jul-88               2            17    PO, Fl                         2     Technical
Supervision 2           Mar-89               2            21    PO, FI                         2    Procurement
Supervision 3           Oct-89               1             5    FI                             2    Procurement
Supervision 4           Jun-90               5            16    PO, FR, F, FF,FI               2    Procurement
Supervision 5           Mar-92               3            27    PO, FR, FI                     1
PCR Mission             Apr-94               3            14    PO, Fl, RA                     1
Total Supervision                           16           100                                   2
Total over Project Life                     27           150                                   2
Notes:
1/  E = Economist, F- Forester, FI * Forest Industries Specialist, PO - Project Officer
FR   Forestry Research Specialist, RA - Research Assistant, FF - Forest Fire Specialist
2/ Key to performance rating:
1 - Problem free or minor problems
2 - Moderate problems
3 - Major problems



