Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 1918 CHA
(Da Xing An Ling Forest Fire Rehabilitation Project)
between
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated July 15, 1988
CREDIT NUMBER 1918 CHA
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated July 15, 1988, between PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA (the 
Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association).
WHEREAS the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and priority 
of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has  requested the 
Association to assist in the financing of the Project; and
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, 
to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Page  2
Section 1.O1. The "General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit 
Agreements" of the Association, dated January 1, 1985, with the last sentence of 
Section 3.02 deleted (the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this 
Agreement.
Section 1.O2. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions have the respective meanings therein set forth and the 
following additional terms have the following meanings:
(a)
"Special Account" means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of 
this Agreement; 
(b)
"MFO" means the Borrower's Ministry of Forestry, and any successor 
thereto; and
(c)
"Project area" means the Da Xing An Ling natural forest area located in 
Heilongjiang Province and Nei Monggol Autonomous Region in northeastern China.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Development Credit Agreement, an amount in 
various currencies equivalent to forty-one million one hundred thousand Special 
Drawing Rights (SDR 41,100,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the Credit 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for 
expenditures made (or, if the Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of 
the reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project described in 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit.
(b)
The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain in 
dollars a special account in a bank acceptable to the Association on terms and 
conditions satisfactory to the Association. Deposits into, and payments out of, the 
Special Account shall be made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 4 to this 
Agreement.
Section 2.O3. The Closing Date shall be March 31, 1992 or such later date as the 
Association shall establish. The Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of 
such later date.
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a commitment charge 
on the principal amount of the Credit not withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be 
set by the Association as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of 
one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum.
(b)
The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from a date sixty days after the 
date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to the respective dates on which amounts 
shall be withdrawn by the Borrower from the Credit Account or cancelled; (ii) at the 
rate set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date or at such other 
rates as may be set from time to time thereafter pursuant to paragraph (a) above. The 
rate set as of June 30 in each year shall be applied as of the next payment date in 
that year specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement, except that the rate set as of 
June 30, 1988 shall be applied as of July 1, 1988.
(c)
The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as the 
Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of any kind imposed 
by, or in the territory of, the Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this 
Agreement for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such other 
eligible currency or currencies as may from time to time be designated or selected 
pursuant to the provisions of that Section.
Section 2.O5. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge at the 
rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of 
the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Page  3
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be payable 
semiannually on May 1 and November 1 in each year. 
Section 2.07. (a) Subject to paragraphs (b) and (c) below, the Borrower shall 
repay the principal amount of the Credit in semiannual installments payable on each 
May 1 and November 1 commencing November 1, 1998 and ending May 1, 2023. Each 
installment to and including the installment payable on May 1,
2008, shall be one and one-fourth percent (1-1/4%) of such principal amount, and each 
installment thereafter shall be two and one-half percent (2-1/2%) of such principal 
amount.
(b)
Whenever: (i) the Borrower's gross national product per capita, as 
determined by the Association, shall have exceeded $790 in constant 1985 dollars for 
five consecutive years, and (ii) the Bank shall consider the Borrower creditworthy for 
Bank lending, the Association may, subsequent to the review and approval thereof by 
the Executive Directors of the Association and after due consideration by them of the 
development of the Borrower's economy, modify the terms of repayment of installments 
under paragraph (a) above by requiring the Borrower to repay twice the amount of each 
such installment not yet due until the principal amount of the Credit shall have been 
repaid. If so requested by the Borrower, the Association may revise such modification 
to include, in lieu of some or all of the increase in the amounts of such 
installments, the payment of interest at an annual rate agreed with the Association on 
the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, 
provided that, in the judgment of the Association, such revision shall not change the 
grant element obtained under the above-mentioned repayment modification.
(c)
If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant to paragraph (b) 
above, the Association determines that the Borrower's economic condition has 
deteriorated significantly, the Association may, if so requested by the Borrower, 
further modify the terms of repayment to conform to the schedule of installments as 
provided in paragraph (a) above.
Section 2.O8. The currency of the United States of America is hereby specified 
for the purposes of Section 4.O2 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry 
out the Project through MFO with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with 
appropriate forestry, financial and administrative practices, and shall provide, 
promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources required for 
the Project.
(b)
Without prejudice to the provisions of paragraph (a) above, the Borrower 
shall employ, short-term technical specialists whose qualifications, experience and 
schedule of employment satisfactory to the Association, for the purposes of assisting 
road construction, logging and transport under Part A of the Project.
Section 3.O2. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, procurement of 
the goods and consultants' services required for the Project and to be financed out of 
the proceeds of the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to this 
Agreement.
Section 3.03. (a) The Borrower shall ensure that the Project will be carried out 
in compliance with environmental standards acceptable to the Association.
(b)
Without prejudice to the provisions of paragraph (a) above, the Borrower 
shall take all necessary measures to reduce hazards of fire and insect infestations in 
the Project Area.
Section 3.04. The Borrower shall establish arrangements satisfactory to the 
Association for the purposes of operation and maintenance of aircraft provided under 
the Project.
Page  4
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.O1. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained records 
and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices the 
operations, resources and expenditures in respect of the Project of the departments or 
agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying out the Project or any part thereof.
(b)
The Borrower shall:
 
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section 
including those for the Special Account for 
each fiscal year audited, in accordance 
with appropriate auditing 
principles consistently applied, by independent auditors 
acceptable to 
the Association;
(ii)
furnish to the Association, as soon as available, but in any case 
not later than 
six months after the end of each such year, a 
certified copy of the report of such 
audit by said auditors, of such 
scope and in such detail as the Association shall 
have 
reasonably requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Association such other information concerning said 
records, accounts 
and the audit thereof as  the Association shall from 
time to time reasonably 
request.
 
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Credit 
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall:
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with paragraph 
(a) of this 
Section, records and accounts reflecting such 
expenditures;
(ii)
retain, until at least one year after the Association has received 
the audit for 
the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal 
from the Credit Account was made, all 
records (contracts, orders, 
invoices, bills, receipts and other documents) 
evidencing such expenditures;
(iii)
enable the Association's representatives to examine such records; 
and
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual 
audit referred to 
in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the report 
of such audit contains a 
separate opinion by said auditors as to 
whether the statements of expenditure 
submitted during such 
fiscal year, together with the procedures and internal 
controls involved in their preparation, can be relied upon to support the related 
withdrawals.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination
Section 5.01. The following  event is specified as an additional condition to 
the effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement within the meaning of Section 
12.01 (b) of the General Conditions, namely, that the Borrower's State Council shall 
have approved the Development Credit Agreement.
Section 5.02. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is 
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VI
Representatives of the Borrower; Addresses
Page  5
Section 6.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is designated as 
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.O3 of the General 
Conditions.
Section 6.O2. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.O1 of the General Conditions: 
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Finance
Sanlihe
Beijing
People's Republic of China
Cable address:
Telex:
 
FINANMIN
22486
Beijing
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 2O433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
 
INDEVAS
44OO98 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.
248423 (RCA) or
 64145 (WUI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA
By /s/ Qian Yong Nian
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ Attila Karaosmanoglu
Regional Vice President
Asia
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the amounts of the Credit to each Category 
and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
                            Amount of the
                          Credit Allocated            % of
Page  6
                            (Expressed in         Expenditures
    Category               SDR Equivalent)       to be Financed
(1)  Equipment,                 34,200,000       100% of foreign
     machinery,                                  expenditures or
     vehicles and                                100% of local
     aircraft                                    expenditures
                                                 (ex-factory cost)
(2)  Civil works                 3,000,000       90%
(3)  Consultants'                  600,000       100% of foreign
     services and                                expenditures
     training
(4)  Unallocated                 3,300,000
                                __________
         TOTAL                  41,100,000
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
 
(a)
the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of any 
country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of any country other than that of the Borrower; and
(b)
the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of the 
Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower.
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made: (i) in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this 
Agreement, except that withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not exceeding the 
equivalent of SDR 5,100,000, may be made in respect of Categories (1) and (3) on 
account of payments made for expenditures before that date but after February 16, 
1988; and (ii) in respect of payments for aircraft unless the arrangements referred to 
in Section 3.04 of this Agreement shall have been established.
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objectives of the Project are to assist the Borrower in: (i) salvaging the 
large quantity of timber affected by the recent fire in the Project Area; and (ii) 
establishing fire protection and rehabilitation programs to protect, restore and 
maintain the sustainable productive capacity of the forests in the Project Area.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Borrower and the Association may agree upon from time to time to 
achieve such objectives:
Part A:
Salvaging operations
 
(1)
Felling and logging of about 14 million cubic meters (cbm) of dead timber of 
lumber quality;
(2)
Temporary storage and preservation of timber which can not be transported or 
marketed immediately; and
(3)
Transportation and marketing of about 14 million cbm of timber through the 
construction and upgrading of about 3,900 km of roads including temporary roads.
Part B:
Fire Protection
 
Establishment of a comprehensive fire protection system for the Project Area.
Page  7
Part C:
Regeneration
 
Regeneration of the burnt area through improvements in seed collection and 
processing, and on research and trials with advanced nursery and  regeneration methods 
and silvicultural treatment.
Part D:
Consultants' Services and Training
 
Provision of consultants' services and training to support planning and 
implementation of the Project activities and to improve management of forest resources 
in the Project Area.
* * *
The Project is expected to be completed by September 30, 1991.
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I.
Procurement of Goods and Works
 
Part A:
International Competitive Bidding
 
Except as provided in Part C hereof, goods shall be procured under contracts 
awarded in accordance with procedures consistent with those set forth in Sections I 
and II of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published 
by the Bank in May 1985 (the Guidelines).
Part B:
Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
 
In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures described in Part 
A hereof, goods manufactured in China may be granted a margin of preference in 
accordance with, and subject to, the provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the 
Guidelines and paragraphs 1 through 4 of Appendix 2 thereto.
Part C:
Other Procurement Procedures
 
1.
Machinery, equipment and aircraft estimated to cost not exceeding the equivalent 
of $7,000,000 in the aggregate, may be procured under contracts awarded through 
limited international bidding procedures on the basis of evaluation and comparison of 
bids invited from a list of at least three qualified suppliers eligible under the 
Guidelines and in accordance with the procedures set forth in Sections I and II of the 
Guidelines (excluding paragraphs 2.8, 2.9, 2.55 and 2.56 thereof).
2.
Contracts for civil works shall be awarded in accordance with local competitive 
bidding procedures acceptable to the Association.
Part D:
Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
 
1.
Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final contracts:
 
(a)
With respect to each contract estimated to cost the equivalent of 
$200,000 or more, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the 
Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for such contract are to be made out of the 
Special Account, such procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed 
copies of the contract required to be furnished to the Association pursuant to said 
paragraph 2 (d) shall be furnished to the Association prior to the making of the first 
payment out of the Special Account in respect of such contract.
(b)
With respect to each contract not governed by the preceding paragraph, 
the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall 
apply. Where payments for such contract are to be made out of the Special Account, 
such procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed copies of the 
contract together with the other information required to be furnished to the 
Association pursuant to said paragraph 3 shall be furnished to the Association as part 
of the evidence to be furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of Schedule 4 to this 
Page  8
Agreement.
(c)
The provisions of the preceding subparagraphs (a) and (b) shall not apply 
to contracts on account of which the Association has authorized withdrawals from the 
Credit Account on the basis of statements of expenditure. Such contracts shall be 
retained in accordance with Section 4.01 (c) (ii) of this Agreement.
2.
The figure of 15% is hereby specified for purposes of paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 
to the Guidelines. 
Section II.
Employment of Consultants
 
In order to assist in carrying out the Project, the Borrower shall employ 
consultants whose qualifications, experience and terms and conditions of employment 
shall be satisfactory to the Association. Such consultants shall be selected in 
accordance with principles and procedures satisfactory to the Association on the basis 
of the "Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the World 
Bank as Executing Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981.
SCHEDULE 4
Special Account
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
 
(a)
the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1), (2) and (3) set 
forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(b)
the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Credit allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories 
in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
(c)
the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equivalent to SDR 
4,000,000 to be withdrawn from the Credit Account and deposited in the Special Account 
pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule.
2.
Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, payments out of the Special 
Account shall be made exclusively for eligible expenditures in accordance with the 
provisions of this Schedule.
3.
After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special 
Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account may be made as follows:
(a)
On the basis of a request or requests by the Borrower for a deposit or 
deposits which add up to the aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation, the 
Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and 
deposit in the Special Account such amount or amounts as the Borrower shall have 
requested.
(b)
The Borrower shall furnish to the Association requests for replenishment 
of the Special Account at such intervals as the Association shall specify. On the 
basis of such requests, the Association shall withdraw from the Credit Account and 
deposit into the Special Account such amounts as shall be required to replenish the 
Special Account with amounts not exceeding the amount of payments made out of the 
Special Account for eligible expenditures. All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the 
Association from the Credit Account under the respective eligible Categories, and in 
the respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by the evidence 
supporting the request for such deposit furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of this 
Schedule.
4.
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account for which the 
Borrower requests replenishment pursuant to paragraph 3 (b) of this Schedule, the 
Borrower shall furnish to the Association, prior to or at the time of such request, 
such documents and other evidence as the Association shall reasonably request, showing 
that such payment was made for eligible expen
Page  9
ditures.
5.
(a)
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, no 
further deposit into the Special Account shall be made by the Association when either 
of the following situations first arises:
(i)
the Association shall have determined that all further withdrawals 
should be made 
by the Borrower directly from the Credit 
Account in accordance with the provisions 
of Article V of the 
General Conditions and paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of this 
Agreement; or
(ii)
the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the 
eligible Categories, 
minus the amount of any outstanding 
special commitment entered into by the 
Association pursuant 
to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to the 
Project, shall be equal to the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized 
Allocation.
(b)
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the remaining 
unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the eligible Categories shall follow 
such procedures as the Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower. Such 
further withdrawals shall be made only after and to the extent that the Association 
shall have been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit in the Special 
Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized in making payments for eligible 
expenditures.
6.
(a)
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any payment out 
of the Special Account (i) was made for any expenditure or in any amount not eligible 
pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule, or (ii) was not justified by the evidence 
furnished to the Association, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the 
Association deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Association shall so request, 
refund to the Association) an amount equal to the amount of such payment or the 
portion thereof not so eligible or justified. No further deposit by the Association 
into the Special Account shall be made until the Borrower has made such deposit or 
refund.
(b)
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any amount 
outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for 
eligible expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, 
refund to the Association such outstanding amount for crediting to the Credit Account.
