Dscument of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 8523-BD
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
BANGTADESH
THIRD RURAL ELECTRIFICATION PROJECT
APRIL 9, 1990
Industry and Energy Division
Country Department I
Asia Region
This document bas a restricted distribution and may be used by recipient only in the performanee of
tbeir offiWial duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



BANGLADESH
THIRD RURAL ELECTRIFItVTION PROJECT
CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit    -    Taka (Tk)
Taka 1.00        -    US$0.0295
Taka 33.9        -    US$1.00
Taka 1.00        -    Paisa 100
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
kV       -  Kilowatt (- 1.341 horsepower)
mW          Megawatt (thousand kilowatts)
MVA      -  Megavolt-Ampere (thousand kilovolt amperes)
kWh      -  Kilowatt hour (- 860.42 kcals)
GWh      .  Gigswatt hour (million kilowatt hours)
kV       -  Kilovolt (thousand volts)
TOE      -  Ton of oil equivalent (thousand kilograms oil equivalent)
kcal     = Kilocalorie (- 3.968 British thermal units (Btu))
km       =  Kilometer (0.6214 mile)
MCFD     -  Thousand cubic feet per day
MMCFD    -  Million cubic feet per day
TCF      =  Trillion cubic feet
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ADB      -  Asian Development Bank
ACRE     -  Area Coverage Rural Electrification
BPC      -  Bangladesh Petroleum Corporation
BPDB     =  Bangladesh Power Development Board
CIDA     -  Canadian International Development Agency
DCA      =  Development Credit Agreement
lIRR     -  Economic Internal Rate of Return
ERL      -  Eastern Refinery Limited
ESAC     =  Energy Sector Adjustment Credit
pY       -  Fiscal Year
GOB      -  Government of Bangladesh
ICB      -  International Competitive Bidding
KFAED    -  Kuwait Fund for Arab Economic Development
KfW      -  Kreditanstalt fuer Viederaufbau
LCB      -  Local Competitive Bidding
LIB      =  Limited International Bidding
LPG      -  Liquified Petroleum Gas
LRMC     v  Long Run Marginal Cost
KMEM     -  Ministry of Energy and Mineral Resources
NRECAIGC -  National Rural Electric Cooperatives Association/Gilbert Commonwealth
ODA      -  Overseas Development Administation (UK)
OECF     -  Overseas Economic Cooperation Fund (Japan)
OPEC     =  Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries
PBS      -  Palli Bidyut Samity (Rural Electrification Cooperative)
REB      -  Rural Electrification Board
SFD      =  Saudi Fund for Development
TOR      -  Terms of Reference
TFYP     =  Third Five Year Plan
UNDP     -  United Nations Development Programme
USAID    =  United States Agency for International Development
REB's Fiscal Year X July 1 to June 30



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
BANGLADESH
THIRD RURAL ELECTRIFICATION PROJECT
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower             s People's Rep.blic of Bangladesh
Beneficiary          s Rural Electrification Board (REB)
Amount               t SDR 79.6 million (US$105 million)
Terms                s Standard, with 40 years maturity
Cofinancing          s USAID, under an existing commitment until July 199:,
and thereafter under an extension to be confirmed by
December 31, 1990, of the ongoing technical assistance
grant.
Onlendins Terms      : The Government of Bangladesh (GOB) would relend the
proceeds of the credit to REB for a period of 33 years
including a grace period of 8 years, at a rate of
0.752 per annum (capitalized) during the grace period
and 22 during the repayment period. The assets of the
completed schemes would be transferred by REB to the
respective Rural Electrification Cooperatives (Palli
Bidyut Samities--PBSs) on the basis of sub loans. The
sub loans would be for a period of 30 years. including
a grace period of 5 years, at a rate of 0.75? per
annum (capitalized) during the grace period and 32 per
annum during the repayment period. GOB would bear the
foreign exchange risk.
Project Description t The project would include: (a) installation of
distribution networks in four new PBSs (Comilla,
Dinaipur, Manikganj and Cox's Bazar), all of which
show good prospects for financial viability;
(b) expansion of five existing PBS networks and
intensification of existing PBS networks financed by
IDA under the First Rural Electrification Project
(Cr.1262-BD); (c) rehabilitation of distribution lines
and substations to be taken over from BPDB; (d) tech-
nical assistance to strengthen REB and PBSs;
managerial, financial and institutional performance,
and training; and (e) construction of REB central
facilities (offices, training center and workshop/
warehouse).
Risks                s No major technical risks are foreseen.  The major
implementation risk concerns possible constraints on
GOB's local funds to support the program. This risk
has been mitigated by reducing the program's overall
size, by improved planning and construction super-
vision by REB and by extending the implementation
period from five to seven years.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World BakQauthorization.



Local     Foreign      Total
-------(US$ Million)------
Estimated Costs
New PBSs                                   20.2        42.8        63.0
PBS Extension/Intensification              11.3        25.8        37.1
RiB Central Facilities                      8.8         0.5         9.3
Technical Assistance and Training           2.0        10.1        12.1
Base Cost                                  42.4        79.1       121.5
Physical Contingencies                      2.1         4.0         6.1
Price Contingencies                        14.5        18.1        32.6
Total Project Cost al                      59.0       101.2       160.2
Interest during Construction                3.3          -          3.3
Total Financing Required                   62.3       101.2       163.5
Financing Plans
IDA                                        19.1        85.9       105.0
Cofinancing                                 2.4        15.3        17.7
GOB                                        40.8         -          40.8
Total                                      62.3       101.2       163.5
a/   The total project cost net of taxes and duties (US$15.4 million) is
US$144.8 million.
Estimated Disbursements
IDA FY           91    92      93     94      95     96      97       9s
Annual          2.3   10.9   18.8   22.6   22.3   16.1       9.0      3.0
Cumulative      2.3   13.2   32.0   54.6   76.9   93.0   102.0   105.0
Economic Rate of Returns    172
Maps                         IBRD 22134



BANGLADESH
THIRD RURAL ELECTRIFICATION PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Table of Contents
Pase No.
1   ENERGY SECTOR
A. Sectoral Importance  . . .    .  .  .  .  .  .    ..........  .  1
B. Energy Resources and Supply   .                              1....  . .....  1
C. nergy Consumption   ...    .   * . ..   ..............       2
D. Organization of the Energy Sector  .3...... .                3
S. Energy Pricing   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .4
F. GOB's Energy Sector Strategy   .S........                    5
G. Bank Group Involvement in the Energy Sector                  S
H Cofinancing and Donor Coordination   .........                7
II. THE BENEFICIARIES
A. Rural Electrification                                       7
Baclkground   . . . . . . . . . . . . .    . .  . .        7
Future Developments  ....  .  .  .  .  .  . ...    .       8
B Rural Electrification Board       g...4..           .9
Organisation of RlB  ....  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .  9
Lending Operations to PBSs                                 9
Subsidies  . .4. .  .  .  .  . .4.4 44   * . . .   *.*  .  *..  10
Scheme Selection and Implementation  . . . . . . .        10
RIB Supervision and Honitoring of the PBSs    . . .       11
Impact Evaluation of the RE Program  ..                   11
Coordination between BPDB and REB.                        12
Transfer of BPDB Lines to PBSs                            12
Training.. 1* .  ...  .*. .         *. .  .    * .    . . .  .  **...  13
C. Palli Bidyut Samlties-PBSs (Rural Electrification
Cooperatives)   . .*. . .*.   . . . . . . . . . . .  .   .  13
Organization Structure   ..13
PBS Responsibilities   ......4...                         13
Losses in PBSa System.                                    14
Advisory Consulting Services                              14
III. THE PROJECT
Project Setting  .... .  .    .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .      14
Project Objectives   ........         .... . . . . .  .     15
Project Description  ....  .  .    ....  .  .  .  .  .  .   .  15
System Design  . . .  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .         16
Project Cost   . . . . . . . *.  . . ... .16
Project Financing  ....  .   .............       .          18
Project Implementation and Consulting Services   . .        16
Procurement  . . . . . *. .. .. .  . . . . . . . .  .   .   19
Disbursement                            ; . * . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  20
Developmental Impact   . .............. .                   21
Project Monitoring              ...                         22
Risks  . . . . . . . .............. ... .   * *  .4.....    22
This report is based on the findings of an IDA appraisal mission In December
1989 comprising Messrs./Mnes. S. Oushes (Senior Power Engineer), MG. Webb
(Principal Energy Economist), S. Mukherji (Financial Analyst), L. Haistre
(Consultant, Power Economist) and B. Wu (Consultant, Financial Analyst).
Mrs. A. Thornton supervised the production of the report.



-ii-
IV. FINANCES
A. Rural Electrification Board  . . . . . . . . . . . . .         22
Financial Objectives .e................   .                 22
Past Results and Present Position  . . . . . . . . .        22
Future Performance   ......................... ...          25
Accounting Systems and Organization  . . . . . . . .         26
External Auditing  ....  .  .  .    ...............     .    26
Insurance Arrangement  . . . . . . . . ..  . . . . .        26
B. PBSs   . . .  .......   ;t.........................            27
Past Operation lesults   ........ .... ..                   27
Auditing   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ..... . .             28
V.  PROJECT JUSTIFICATION
A. Electricity Demand Forecast  . . . . . . . . . . . . .         29
Demand Forecast for Rural Electrification Program  .         29
Demand Forecast for the Project PB$s   . . . . . . .         30
B. Least Cost Analysis  . ...............   .                     30
C. Economic Internal Rate of Return   . . . . . . .      . ..     31
D. Sensitivity and Risk Analysis  . . . . . . . . . . . .         32
E. Justification of Bank Group Involvement  . . . . . . .         33
VI.  SUMMARY OF AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS  . . . .        34
ANNEXES
2.1   Bangladesh Historical Growth in Demand Energy Generation and Sales.
2.2   Bangladesh Generating Capacity and Energy Forecast.
2.3   Bangladesh Maximum Demand and Generation Forecast.
2.4   RED Organization Chart.
2.5   REB Staffing.
2.6   Timing, Cost and Financing of the RE Program.
2.7   Selection Criteria for Areas to be Electrified.
2.8   Status of Transfer of BPDB Lines to PBSs in Operation.
2.9   REB Training Program.
2.10  PBS9 Organization Charts.
2.11  PBSs Characteristics.
3.1   Project Details.
3.2   Project Cost Estimate.
3.3   Project Implementation Sc.edule.
3.4   Disbursement Profile.
4.1   Past Financial Performance and Financial Projections for REB.
4.2   Assumptions used for REB Financial Projections.
4.3   Financial Projections for the Project PBSs.
4.4   Assumptions used for the PBS Financial Projections.
4.5   Key Performance Indicators for Selected PBSs.
5.1   Detailed Analysis of PBS Past Demand.
5.2   Economic Internal Rate of Return.
6.1   Data and Documents available in Project File



TABLES
3.1  Project Cost S"uiary.
3.2  Project Financing Plan.
3.3 Procurement Arrangements.
4.1  REB Operating Performance: FY85-89
4.2  REB's Projected Operating Performance FY90-95
4.3 Key Performance Indicators for Selected PBSs--1988189
4.4 Project PBSs--Projected Operating Performance FY94-2003
5.1  FY82-89 Development of PBSs' Electricity Sales
5.2  Demand Forecasts for PY90-2000



TD    RURAL IICTRIFiCAMION PROJEOT
STAFF APPRAISAL RIIPOR
1. ENERGY SECTOR
A. Sectoral Importance
1.01    The energy sector plays a key role In Bangladesh's development.
Given its severe resource limitations and persistent balance of payments
constraints, the country needs an efficient energy sector to promote
economic growth, mobilize resources for sector entities and the Government
budget, and reduce foreign exchange outlays on energy Imports. However,
shortages of local resources, caused lrimarily by the under-pricing of
energy and inadequate cost recovery actions, and the absence of a coordin-
ated plan for channeling foreign assistance to priority investments, have
impeded the achievement of energy targets. Further, in the past, unreli-
able power supply has constrained overall economic growth, and only 82 of
the population has access to electricity. The Government's Third Five-Year
Plan (TFYP) (FY86-90) recognized the need for the energy sector's
accelerated development and earmarked about 162 of total public allocations
for the sector (para. 1.13).
B.  Energy Resources and SUDplY
1.0,    Bangladesh's principal commercially exploitable energy resources
consist of substant'al reserves of relatively low-cost natural gas and
limited hydropower potential. There are also potential oil, coal and peat
resources for which the economic feasibility has yet to be determined,
although this is the subject of ongoing studies for coal and oil. At
present, substantial quantities of oil are still imported. About 402 of
total energy supply is from commercial resources, and the remainder is from
traditional fuels in the form of crop residues, animal dung and wood. In
FY87, domestic sources (natural gas and hydropower) accounted for about 602
and imported sources (oil and coal) for about 402 of commercial energy
supplies.
1.03    Natural Gas and Oil.  Natural gas output increased from 45 billion
cubic feet (bcf) in FY80 to about 147 bcf in FY89 (14Z annual growth rate).
It is now the main source of commercial energy, accounting for about 592 of
supply compared to 36Z in FY80. Estimated recoverable reserves, all located
in the east zone, are about 10 trillion cubic feet (tcf), sufficient to meet
incremental demand for another 15 years and to supply all existing gas-
using projects and those to be commissioned in the 19909 throughout their
designed lives. Further, prospects are good for increasing the reserves to
at least 15 tcf. The Government of Bangladesh (GOB) has accorded high
priority to these reserves' development: the gas exploration and development
program is reviewed annually with IDA in accord with an agreement under the
Energy Sector Adjustment Credit (ESAC) (Cr.1999-BD). Oil was discovered in
the Sylhet gas field area in 1989; however, it is too early to estimate the
find's full significance. Under the Petroleum Exploration Promotion Project
(Cr.1402-BD) GOB prepared promotional packages aimed at attracting



-2-
international oil companies to undertake petroleum exploration. Tne
promotions, which were carried out in London, Houston and Dhaka in June/July
1989, were well attended and more than 20 companies purchased exploration
data packages. By January 15, 1990, the closing date for submission of the
offers, however, GOB has received only one offer and is considering
extending the closing date. With these efforts petroleum imports are being
reduced. In FY88 they claimed about 13Z of the country's limited foreign
exchange earnings, compared to 242 in FY86.
1.04    Coal and Peat.  Several thick coal seams at depths of less than 200
meters have recently been located in the Barapukaria area of Dinajpur
District in the vest zone. With the assistance of consultants funded by the
Overseas Development Administration (ODA), UK, GOB is assessing the tech-
nical and economic feasibility of mining this coal. The consultants' mid-
1988 report estimated total potentially mineable resources of 265 million
tons, with an average he-t value of 11,400 British Thermal Unitsllb.
Following the report's review by GOB, ODA and IDA, a full feasibility study,
to be completed by December 1990, was initiated. Good peat deposits are
known to exist in the Faridpur and Khulna districts in the vest zone. The
Bangladesh Power Development Board(BPDB) is assessing the potential for
mining and processing peat and installing a small experimental generation
plant.
1.05    HYdropower.  Bangladesh's hydropower potential is estimated to be
about 1,500 GVh/year, of which 1,050 GWh/year has been developed with the
installation of 330 MS capacity on the Karnafuli river at Kaptai (near
Chittagong). Two other prospective hydro sites have been investigated in
the same area; however, since their development would require the relocation
of about 30,000 people, no detailed engineering studies have been
undertaken.
1.06    Traditional Fuels.  Per capita biomass supplies are continuously
diminishing, and Increases in forest-based fuelwood or a major shift to
covmercial fuels are not viable options to meet the supply gap due to the
high population density and low income levels. However, the substitution of
commercial fuels for traditional fuels is occurring slowly. It is therefore
important for GOB to improve biomass recovery and conversion efficiency,
e.g., in cooking stoves, charcoal kilns and other wood-burning equipment.
GOB has agreed, under the joint World Bank/UNDP Energy Sector Management
Assistance Programme, to undertake an inter-fuel substitution study to
assess the micro and macroeconomic impacts of substitution and formulate a
least-cost strategy for meeting commercial energy needs. Funding for the
study is presently bei<>g sought.
C. Energy Consumption
1.07    Bangladesh's per capita commercial energy consumption of about 42
kilograms of oil equivalent per annum is among the lowest in the world
(about one-ninth of the average for low-income countries). In FY87, gross
commercial energy consumption was about 4.6 million tons of oil equivalent,
of which natural gas accounted for 54?, petroleum 38S, hydropower 52, and
coal 3S. However, with the accelerated development of gas supplies, the
consumption of coamercial energy increased rapidly at 10.8? a year during
FY83-87, compared with annual real GDP growth rate of about 4.1?. The GDP/



-3-
commercial energy elasticity was thus rather high at about 2.6, compared to
the average of about 1.1 for all developing countries. The bulk of gas
consumption in FY88 was in power generation (442) and fertilizer production
(362); however, other industrial, commercial and domestic uses are expanding
steadily. There is considerable inefficiency in commercial energy use and
hence substantial scope for improvement, particularly in industry, petroleum
refining and electric power transmission and distribution. This issue is
being addressed through the Industrial Energy Efficiency Project
(Cr.2942-BD), the Pover Distribution (16 Towns) Project (Cr.2016-BD), and
the proposed Power Distribution and Rehabilitation Project (FY9lS). Total
consumption of traditional fuels (biomass etc.) declined by 52 during FY83-
87, principally because of a sharp fall in the use of rice hulls.
Consequently, total energy consumption increased by only 2.4Z a year during
FY83-87, aru t.he overall GDP/energy elasticity was about 0.6, comparable to
that for all developing countries.
1.08    With increased gas availability and GO8's policy of substituting gas
for imported petroleum products, the country's dependence on imported energy
was significantly reduced during FY8O-87 from about 60? to 402 of the total
commercial energy needs. Further, the share of crude oil and petroleum
products in commercial energy supply declined from 552 in FY80 to 38Z in
FY87. However, petroleum products are still a dominant source of energy in
the transportation sector. Despite this decline in the relative importance
of petroleum products and the global decline in petroleum prices, petroleum
imports continue to be substantial and claimed about 132 of the country's
foreign exchange earnings in FY88 (para. 1.03).
D. Organization of the Energy Sector
1.09    The principal institutions responsible for energy sector policy are:
(a) the Planning Commission, which is responsible for macroeconomic
planning, including the Five-Year Plans and the Annual Development Plans
(ADPs), and for approving all capital investments costing more than Tk 5.0
million (US$152,000); and (b) the Ministry of Energy and *U;neral Resources
(MEMR), which is responsible for overseeing the operations of the four
principal publicly-owned energy sector entities which produce, transport and
deliver most of Bangladesh's commercial energy. The entities are BPDB, the
Rural Electrification Board (REB), Petrobangla, and the Bangladesh Petroleum
Corporation (BPC). BPDB is responsible for electricity generation, trans-
mission and distribution, except in areas served by REB. REB is responsible
for the construction of rural electrification schemes and organizing pros-
pective consumers into semi-autonomous cooperatives called Palli Bidyut
Samities (PBSs) which buy electricity from BPDB and distribute it to their
consumers. Petrobangla is responsible for the exploration, production and
delivery of natural gas and the exploration and development of oil and solid
minerals, including coal. Under the ESAC, GOB reorganized Petrobangla as a
holding company, holding equi.y in a new set of operationally independent
operating companies established along functional lines for exploration and
drilling, production, transmission and distribution of gas. BPC is respon-
sible for purchasing and refining crude oil and marketing petroleum
products. The refining operation is carried out at Bangladesh's only
refinery by Eastern Refinery Limited (ERL), a BPC subsidiary. Liquefied
petroleum gas (LPG) is bottled and sold to private marketing companies by
LPG Limited, another BPC subsidiary. Three other BPC subsidiaries market
petroleum products and LPG.



-4-
1.10    The exceptions to public sector domination of the energy sector are
in traditional energy and in the distribution of petroleum products handled
by BPC subsidiaries, which rely primarily on privately-owned road and river
tankers for transport and on private dealers for local retailing. Although
the petroleum distribution system is operating satisfactorily, the expected
future growth in demand for cometc±al energy may stretch the system's
capability to meet demand efficiently. Consequently, there may be scope for
increasing private sector participation. Private sector participation is
also being encouraged in other areas of the energy sector. Private sector
involvement in the distribution of LPG in Ehulna is being promoted under the
Refinery Modification and LPG Recovery and Distribution Project (Cr.1749-BD);
this private asector role will be enhanced under the proposed Bakhrabad LPG
Recovery and Distribution Project (PY91). Further, GOB is seeking to
increase private oil exploration through promotional packages under the
Petroleum Exploration Promotion Project (Cr.1402-BD) (para. 1.03).
E. Energy Pricing
1.11    GOB's key energy pricing policy objectives include economic
efficiency, resource mobilization and equity. Accordingly, it has been
Increasing energy prices to reflect the costs to Bangladesh of meeting
consumers' energy requirements, while minimizing the adverse effects on low-
income consumers. In accordance with this policy, gas prices were increased
by an average of 18? annually during FY86-90. In FY90, the average gas
price is about Tk 43.5/MCF, which is slightly abov- the estimat.. long-run
marginal cost (LRMC) of supply (Tk 40.0/MCI). In accordance with its
efficiency and resource mobilization objectives, GOB agreed under the ESAC
to ensure that the weighted average domestic price (net of distribution,
marketing and other handling costs) is always at least 115? of the border
price. In December i989 this ratio was 111, marginally below the agreed
level.
1.12    Turning to electricity prices, BPDB's tariff rates for each consumer
class are unifom throughout Bangladesh, while each PBS sets its own tariff
rates with the approval of REB. Electricity tariffs have been raised
frequently in recent years. During FY80-90, BPDB's average tariff rates
were increased at an annual average rate of about 12.52 in nominal terms and
about 2.52 in real terms, with a total increase of about 28? in real terms,
while rates for energized PlSs were increased at average annual rates of 13?
in nominal terms (4? in real terms) during FY84-90. BPDB's average tariff
is now Tk 2.16/kWh and that for PBSs is Tk 2.60/kWh.
1.13    Under the Second Rural Electrification Project (Cr.1633-BD) and the
Power Transmission and Distribution Project (Cr.1648-BD), GOB, BPDB, and REB
agreed to carry out a tariff study based on LRMC and to Implement agreed
recommaendations. Coopers and Lybrand Associates Ltd. (UK), completed the
study In August 1986 and highlighted various deficiencies, including an
excessive number of tariff categories, tariff rates lower than the economic
costs of supply, significant cross-subsidization, an-d little incentive to
reduce consumption during the system's peak period. Based on the tariff
study, GOB reformed power tariffs in early FY88. For BPDB, a new simplified
tariff was introduced In August 1987. The number of tariff categories was
reduced from 19 to 10; new two-rate time-of-day tariffs for 33 kV and 11 kV
consumers and an optional time-of-day tariff for large low-voltage consumers



-5-
were i    'tced; and the sizes of the subsidized blocks of energy for
residenti. consumers were greatly reduced. In the PBSs, tariffs for
residential consumers were changed from a constant rate to three block
Increasing rates to limit electricity consumption at heavily subsidized
rates. The new tariff structures greatly improved the signals which
electricity prices give to consumers &bout the costs to Bangladesh of
meeting their consumption requirements. In addition to the restructuring,
PBSs' average tariff rates were increased by about 251 on July 1, 1987, and
on August 1, 1987 BPDB's tariffs were increased by about 17X. Subsequently,
electricity tariffs for all consumers were increased by about 32 on July 1,
1988 as a result of the FY89 gas price increase.  Further, effective July 1,
1989, PBS tariffs were increased by about 11?, and BPDB's tariffs were
increased by about 7.51. The FY90 tariff increase was accompanied by a
doubling of the kWh excise tax rate to Tk 0.10 to mobilize resources for the
Budget. Following these tariff Increases, BPDB's overall average tariff
rate is about 70? of LRHC, and that for PBSs is about 562 of LRMC. BPDB's
tariff rates for supplies to industrial, commercial and large (above 200
kVhlmonth) residential consumers esceed LRNC while the tariff rates for
small residential consumers and bulk rates to PBSs are below LRMC. Despite
the series of tariff increases, neither BPDB nor most PBSs have been able to
meet their financial covenants (paras. 4.01 and 4.11).
F. GOB's Energv Sector Strategy
1.14    Recognizing the importance of improving energy supplies to meet
forecast demand, GOB accorded high priority to the energy sector in the TFYP
(para. 1.01). The TPYP's principal energy objectives are to: (a) accelerate
the development of domestic natural gas resources to reduce the country's
dependence on imported oil; (b) improve the reliability and quality of power
supply and reduce power system losses; (c) improve energy use and efficiency
through conservation measures and appropriate pricing policies; (d) meet
energy demands at least cost to the economy; (e) improve the energy sector
entities' performance; and (f) encourage the private sector's participation
In the energy sector, particularly in gas and oil exploration. Following
donor-funded studies, GOB has implemented, with some measure of success,
agreed recommendations regarding policy changes, capital investments,
pricing decisions and resource mobilization (paras. 1.09 to 1.12). However,
due to over ambitious and uncoordinated investment plans and local currency
constraints, implementation of capital investment programs have not
proceeded as planned. To underscore its commitment to the sector's develop-
ment, GOB allocated Tk 61 billion (US$2.0 billion equivalent) at FY85 prices
for energy investments under the TFYP. Energy accounts for 162 of the total
plan allocation, compared with about 12? under the Second Five-Year Plan,
and is exceeded only by the allocation to the agricultural sector.
G. Bank Group Involvement in the Energy Sector
1.15    Lending in the power and gap subsectors has been designed to:
(a) strengthen investment planning to meet forecast demand for gas and
electricity at least cost, (b) improve sectoral institutions' performance
and provide training, (c) optimize the use of available energy resources
through appropriate energy pricing and conservation measures, (d) appraise
discovered gas fields and optimize their development, and (e) attract
private capital to intensify oil exploration.



-6-
1.16    Since 1973 IDA has supported GOB's energy strategy through 13
credits, amounting to US$858 million equivalent, representing about 152 of
IDA resources committed to Bangladesh. Seven of the credits were for power
projects aggregating to US$390 million, while the remaining six credits,
totalling US$305 million, were for other energy projects. The credit for
the Greater Khulna Power Distribution Project (Cr.934-BD) was closed on
June 30, 1986. The project completion report, which will be issued in mid
1990, shows that changes in design and procurement delays occurred due to
inadequate system studies and detailed design. Based on that experience.
BPDB has strengthened its planning and design organizations to ensure that
all major system studies and bid documents are prepared in a timely manner.
Except for the procurement problems in the Project's initial stages, BPDB's
project implementation was satisfactory. Implementation of the Ashuganj
Power Project (Cr.1254-BD) was very good; the project was completed ahead of
schedule and below the estimated cost. Both projects generated the expected
benefits and contributed to the power subsector's more efficient develop-
ment. Implementation of the Rural Electrification Project (Cr.1262-BD) is
nearly complete and all the seven rural electrification cooperatives (PBSs)
financed under the project are in operation. The Second Rural
Electrification Project (Cr.1633-BD) is under implementation with a
scheduled completion by 1991/92. Both projects are about 12 to 18 months
behind the schedule envisaged at appraisal. REB and PBSs' financial
performance have been unsatisfactory mainly because of improper financial
policies, non transfer of BPDB lines and customers to PBSs in rural areas,
and lack of coordination between BPDB and REB. These issues will be
addressed under the proposed Project (paras. 2.14, 2.15 and 4.03).
1.17    Although considerable progress was achieved through the above
projects, they did not provide an effective means to rationalize the entire
energy investment program and address issues affecting the overall organiza-
tion of Bangladesh's power and petroleum subsectors. Thus during FY87, GOB
and IDA developed a comprehensive energy sector program, including invest-
ment planning, institutional development, and energy pricing and resource
mobilization, to be implemented under the ESAC. The ESAC was made effective
in June 1989 and all of the first tranche was released by December 31, 1989.
A second tranche review mission visited Bangladesh in that month. Although
GOB had made substantial progress in meeting the release conditions,
especially concerning energy pricing and the reduction of power system
losses, IDA decided to delay the second tranche release pending satisfaction
of other agreements. Based on recent progress, the release could occur by
June 30, 1990. Since the ESAC provides a policy framework for investment
projects, they need relatively few, mainly project-specific, conditions to
ensure their effective implementation.
1.18    Under the ESAC, it has been agreed that new capital investments
would be focused on priority projects under an agreed three-year rolling
Priority Investment Program (PIP). GOB has included this Project in the PIP
for FY90-92 since GOB accords high priority to improving the econouic
conditions of the rural population and to furthering the substitution of
indigenous energy (basically electricity generated using natural gas) for
Imported petroleum products.



-7-
H. Cofinancing and Donor Coordination
1.19    Under Cr.934-BD, Cr.1254-BD, and Cr.1586-BD, there has been sig-
nicant cofinancing between IDA and the Asian Development Bank (ADB),
Ireditanstanlt fuer Wiederaufbau WKfV), Canadian International Development
Agency (CIDA), Kuwait Fund for Arab Economic Development (KFAED),
Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries (OPEC), and the United Nations
Development Programme (UNDP). Furthermore, during the preparation of the
ESAC, donors representing twelve major bilateral and multilateral agencies
attended several coordination meetings. This coordination resulted in KfW
cofinancing the ESAC. There was no cofinancing under Cr.1262-BD and
Cr.1633-BD since the various donors involved in the RE program provided
financing under parallel operations (para. 2.03). However, despite the fact
that the schemes were carried out in parallel, coordination among the donors
was good and led to adopting uniform onlending terms and consistent
financial covenants for all the RE projects.
II. THE BENEFICIARIES
A. Rural Electrification
Background
2.01    Although in 1976 over 902 of Bangladesh's population lived in rural
areas, and agriculture accounted for nearly 601 of its gross domestic
product and employed over 751 of the labor force, less than 31 of the rural
population had access to electricity. At that time, GOB decided to extend
the public supply ef electricity to rural areas to improve the quality of
life of the rural population and stimulate economic growth through the
development of agriculture and small-scale agro-industries. Following that
decision, GOB created REB in 1977 to carry out a national program of rural
electrification (para. 2.06). In 1978, a comprehensive rural electrifi-
cation master plan was developed by RED, with assistance of USAID-financed
consultants, National Rural Electrification Cooperative Association and
Gilbert Commonwealth (NRECAIGC). The plan envisaged the country-wide rural
electrification in five phases by year 2000. Because of resource
constraints the target date for program completion is now 2005 and may be
delayed further.
2.02    Rural electrification under the plan is based on the concept of
'Area Coverage Rural Electrification' (ACRE), involving the design of a
basic distribution system to provide a backbone system that can cater for
rapid increases in the number of consumer connections. The ACRE concept
involves the development of autonomous member-owned rural electric coopera-
tives (PBSs), each of which covers an area of 900-1,300 square km. and has
between 20,000 and 30,000 members. Each PBS includes three to five
upazilas, which are administrative districts. The formation of PBSs has
been progressing smoothly under REB guidance and its consultants, although
it involves a lengthy and laborious process at the local level in insti-
tution building and training. The PBSs are subject to supervision and
control by REB, which is the lending and construction institution.



-8-
2.03    The rural electrification master plan envisages the creation of 62
PBSs by FY200S. Phase I was completed in 1986, Phase II is expected to be
completed in 1989, and Phase III is now underway with scheduled completion
in 1992193. These three phases cover about 402 of the geographical rural
area with a population of 31 million. Phase I was financed by USAID
(US$69.3 million for 13 PBSs), IFARD (US$30.0 million for 8 PBSs), and ADB
(US$7.2 million for the expansion of 2 PBSs). Phase II is being financed by
IDA (US$48.0 million for 7 PBSs under Cr.1262-BD and Cr.l504-3-BD), USAID
(US$50.0 million for 4 PBSs), and Finland (US$5.7 million for 1 PBS).
Phase III, comprising the formation of 7 new PBSs and the extension and
intensification of the Phase I and 1I PBSs, is under construction with
financial assistance from IDA (US$79.0 million for 7 new PBSs and extension
of 5 existing PISs under Cr.1633-BD), USAID (US$60.0 million for the
intensification of the 17 PBSs financed under their previous projects), CIDA
and Saudi Fund for Development (SFD) (US$28.0 million and US$15.0 million
respectively, for the extension of 8 Phase I PBSs financed by KFAED), and
Finland (US$4.4 million for the augmentation of 22 existing substations).
2.04    By June 1989, 33 PBSs under Phases I and II had been connected to
the grid and were supplying over 396,000 consumers, of which 315,000 were
domestic, 56,000 commercial, 14,400 irrigation, 7,600 industrial and 3,000
others (including public lighting). In FY89, total electricity sales were
372 GWh (about 10 of BPDB sales) and were divided as follows: domestic/
others 25S, industrial/commercial 502, and irrigation 252. Annex 2.1 gives
historical growth in demand, energy generation and sales for Bangladesh, and
shows the relative contribution of PBSs' consumption. While the sales have
been significantly lower than that projected under the Second Rural
Electrification Project, the average annual growth rate was 43Z during FY83-
89. A major reason for the lower than forecast sales has been BPDB's delays
in providing power supply to newly constructed PBSs substations and in
handing over BPDB lines with associated customers to PBSs (para. 2.15). The
seven new PBS6 under Phase III have been organized and most of them are
expected to commence operation in 1990/91.
Future Developments
2.05    GOB is now considering the implementation of Phase IV of the
program. In June 1988, REB completed the prefeasibility study for this
phase to cover an area of about 60,000 sq km. in 206 upazilas, including
about 800,000 new connections. It identified 19 areas for the formation of
new PBSs and 22 areas for annexation to existing PBSs. However, considering
the economy's absorptive capacity and the ongoing program's scale, in
February 1989 MEHR reduced the program to 110 upazilas with 11 areas where
new PBSs would be formed and 19 areas which would be annexed to existing
PBSs. The Phase IV program is now planned to cover about 32.000 sq km. of
rural areas and provide service to about 435,000 consumers. Its estimated
cost is about US$350 million, including about US$250 million in foreign
currency. It is planned to start in FY91 and to be completed by 2000. In
addition to IDA financing for Phase IV-A, GOB is seeking additional
financing for Phase IV-B from ADB, IFAED, Japan, SFD and Finland. Annexes
2.2 and 2.3 show forecast to year 2000 of BPDB generation capacity as well
as the impact of future sales to REB.



-9-
B. Rural Electrification Board
Organization of REB
2.06    REB and PBSo are the proposed Project's prospective beneficiaries.
RED is a government entity which was formed in 1977 with dual respon-
sibilities as the implementing agency for constructing RE schemes and the
financial intermediary and supervising agency after completed scheues are
handed over to the P8Ss (para. 2.11). It is responsible for the initiation,
planning and implementation of rural electrification schemes within the
framework of the rural electrification master plan. Its specific responsi-
bilities include: (a) arranging finance for rural electrification schemes;
(b) constructing new distribution systems and rehabilitating existing
schemes; (c) organizing prospective consumers into PBSs and prescribing
their by-laws; (d) establishing PBSs' technical and administrative
standards; and (e) approving their tariffs. Although RED's Ordinance also
allows it to generate electricity to supply rural areas, it has not done so
and has no firm plans to construct power stations. RnE's management
consists of a chairman, three full-time members and four part-time members.
GOB determines the chairman and members' period, terms and conditions of
appointment. REB's organization and staffing charts are shown in
Annexes 2.4 and 2.5. IDA considers its structure appropriate for REB's
activities and objectives. Since the rural electrification program's
inception, NRECA, under financial assistance from USAID, has been supporting
REB's development as a viable and effective organization. MRECA's contract
will expire on July 31, 1991; however, GOB has requested USAID to finance a
five-year extension of NRECA's contract (para. 2.21).
2.07    The fragmentation of REB's headquarters in Dhaka in 16 rental
buildings impedes effective management coordination and high productivity.
Further, REB is considering computerizing some of its activities and
rationalizing its working environment. The availability of suitable central
office facilities would greatly improve REB's productivity and effective-
ness. Also, PBSs' increasing demands for maintenance repair services could
be met at least cost by establishing a central, fully equipped REB workshop.
To address these issues the proposed Project includes new headquarters
offices for REB, together with a new training center and workshop/warehouse
facilities (para. 3.04(g)).
Lending Operations to PBSs
2.08    As of June 30, 1989, REB's investment in the rural electrification
schemes was Tk 7.8 billion (Annex 2.6). About 72S ox the financing require-
ments were provided by external sources (para. 2.03), with the balance of
28X covered by GOB contributions. To mobilize resources within the
subsector for the RE program's future phases, REB acted as a financial
intermediary, administering funds allocated to the RE program. Upon
completion and transfer of a scheme to a PBS, REB onlends the construction
cost of the scheme to the PBS. In the early years, onlending terms were
different for the various sources of financing. However, since 1983 all
onlending arrangements have followed onlending terms first introduced under
IDA Cr.1262-BD. Under these terms, Government contributions to the RE
program are passed on to REB as equity, while external financing obtained by
the Government is ='Aent to REB with a maturity of 30 years, including a



-10-
grace period of 5 years, at an interest rate of 0.752 p.a. during the grace
period and 21 p.a. thereafter. When a completed RE scheme is transferred to
a particular PBS, the entire construction costs of the scheme are passed to
the PBS as a loan with a maturity of 30 years, Including a grace period of 5
years starting from the date of PBS registration, at an interest rate of
0.75Z p.a. during the grace period and 32 p.a. during the repayment period.
In both cases, interest during the grace period is capitalized and added to
the loan principal. As of June 1989, REB had made loans of Tk 7.2 billion
to PBSs.
Subsidies
2.09    The rural electrification program is subsidized in three ways:
(a) through an operating subsidy during the first five years of a PBS's
life; (b) through the bulk supply tariff (BST) since the rate is below LRHC;
and (c) through grants and soft onlending terms on loans to finance
investment. Two of these subsidies, (a) and (b), are of limited duration.
The operating subsidy only supports PBSs during their infancy, and the BST
subsidy is being eliminated gradually through the phased increase of the BST
rate to LRMC. The subsidy inherent in the onlending terms is justified by
the fact that rural electrification program is of national interest and has
a high economic internal rate of return, although it requires a subsidized
interest rate to be financiallv viable. However, in future such subsidies
would be limited and the PBSs Lhould be able to generate part of the funds
needed for the RE program's expansion. GOB/REB agreed under the proposed
Project that the individual performance agreements (para. 2.11) would
include shorter repayment periods for those P8Ss whose cash position, after
meeting operating expenses, debt service liability and payments into the
replacement reserve fund, would enable advance payments to be made against
the debt service liability.
Scheme Selection and Implementation
2.10    To determine priorities under Phase IV-A, BEB selected 11 areas
according to a rating system that -mphasiz-s existing infrastructure,
availability of power supply and roads, ?Ad potential number of customers.
The ranking approach, which was also us.,d in Phases I-III, is discussed in
Annex 2.7. For the proposed Project, GOB agreed to carry out ten-year
financial projections of the 11 candidate PBSs and to select only those
showing good prospects for financial viability. Following IDA appraisal of
the proposed Project, a Project Proforma containing details or project
targets, physical facilities, proposed financing and cost benefit analysis
is prepared by REB. GOB's procedures require the Project Proforma to be
reviewed by the Project Evaluation Committee (PEC) of the Planning
Comuission and to be approved by the Executive Committee of the National
Economic Council (ECNEC). To ensure that project implementation would not
be delayed while obtaining necessary GOB approval and clearances, draft
Project Proforma for the proposed Project were prepared by REB and approved
by PEC as a condition of negotiations. A condition of Credit effectiveness
would be GOB's approval of the final Project Proforma.



-11-
REB Supervision and Monitoring of the PBSs
2.11    REB is responsible for the initial promotion of PBSs and exercises
statutory control over them. This includes the supervision of their opera-
tions, assiating with the implementation of technical and administrative
control systems which RUB has developed for the PBSs, and training PBSs'
staff. Pollowing REB's implementation of a project, schemes are handed over
to the newly created PBSs. REB lends the initial cost of the scheme,
secured by a mortgage, to the PBS, provides loans to cover their working
capital requirements, and arranges finance for PBSs' expansion. During the
first five years of operation, an operating subsidy is provided by GOB.
Under the uniform onlending agreement, all the PBSs, after the first five
years, are expected to earn sufficient revenue to cover operating expenses,
including depreciation, and generate, after debt service and provision of
increase in working capital, a surplus equivalent to at least 202 of annual
capital expenditure after the sixth year of operation. PBSs' actual
financial results as well as projections made by Coopers and Lybrand
Associates (C&LA) (para. 2.12) indicate that PBSs' financial performance
will vary widely, and that it would be more appropriate to set specific
targets in the form of Performance Agreements. During negotiations it was
agreed that REB will introduce procedures for the annual determination of
Performance Agreements with individual PBSs, that it vould satisfactorily
enforce such Agreements and would each year monitor, to the Association's
satisfaction, PBSs' performance against the targets. The financial targets
would include the year in which revenue should cover operating costs, debt
service, the level of self-financing to be achieved each year, accounts
receivable, accounts payable and system losses. It is anticipated that some
targets, such as those for operations and maintenance costs would be set at
common levls for all PBSs. REB has established a Financial Planning Cell
to prepare financial projections for existing and proposed PBSs using a
model developed by C&LA. For REB, the Financial Planning Cell would be in
charge of preparing, negotiating and monitoring the Performance Agreements
with the PBSs. The Performance Agreements would include a target on
accounts pavable for power purchases, namely that such purchases would not
exceed the total billed consumption of the preceding two months. Further,
the agreement would include a target for accounts receivable which should
not exceed 3 months' average billing of the twelve preceding months (the
seasonal effect of irrigation being taken into account). The introduction
of Performance Agreements for all energized PBSs would be a condition of
effectiveness of the proposed credit.
Impact Evaluation of the RE Program
2.12    REB has set up an Evaluation Cell in its Program Planning
Directorate to assess the impact of completed rural electrification schemes
on rural communities. A study of the 12 Phase I PBSs financed by USAID was
carried out in 1983 by REB's Evaluation Cell, USAID and Dhaka University's
Institute of Statistical Research and Training. Further, an exploratory
study of small scale industrial and commercial development in four PBSs was
carried out by the Bangladesh Center for Advanced Studies in 1988. The
study assessed the socio-economic changes which have occurred in rural
communities as a result of electrification. A comprehensive assessment of
the RE program's overall developmental impact, including the strengthening
of REB's evaluation cell, is being carried out with USAID assistance. The



-12-
results of the various studies indicate that ACRE program's major objectives
are being realized. However, many erergized PBSs are not financially
viable. To address this issus, in 1988 USAID appointed consultants (C&LA),
to study i.3s' financial policies and performance. The study concluded that
although the RE program as a whole could be financially viable, individual
PBSs' financial performance would vary widely depending on consumer mix and
density.  The study made several recommendations to improve REB/PBSs'
financial viability, which are being implemented by GOB/REB under this
Project.
2.13    NRECA prepares annual evaluation reports on the RE program's
implementation. The most recent report, covering 1988, identified a number
of problems* including the need to improve power supplies to PBSs, delays in
handing over BPDB's lines to PBSs, shortage of local currency for project
implementation, and the need for a new headquarters complex for REB to
improve staff productivity and efficiency. These problems are being
addressed under the proposed Project (paras. 2.07 and 2.15).
Coordination between BPDB and REB
2.14   Although BPDB's member (Distribution) is a part-time ex-officio
member of REB's Board, coordination between REB and BPDB has been ineffec-
tive. Because BPDB has not supplied power to some substations constructed
by REB under Phase II and III for long periods of time, newly constructed
PBSs' distribution networks could not be energized. Although these problems
were anticipated under the Second Rural Electrification Project, BPDB failed
to expand its transmission and distribution capacity in a timely manner to
provide reliable power supply to PBSs. Coordination between REB and BPDB at
the operation level needs to be improved to ensure that REB's expansion
program ic consistent with BPDB's plans,and that PBSs participating in the
proposed Project receive adequate power on time.   As a condition of
negotiations for the proposed Proiect. a joint MEMRtREB/BPDB engineering and
planning group has been created and is operational. A list of BkDB
substations which need to be upgraded to provide timely supply to the PBSs
has been prepared jointly by BPDB and REB.
Transfer of BPDB Lines to PBSs
2.15    In the planning of PBS distribution networks, REB assumes, in
accordance with the 1977 RED Ordinance, that existing BPDB 11 kV lines and
customers within the PBSs areas would be handed over to the PBSs. Although
BPDB has handed over about 3,750 km of lines, there is a backlog of about
1,700 km to be handed over (Annex 2.9). Further, several PBS villages
already equipped with distribution networks cannot be energized because the
BPDB lines, which are part of the supply system, have not been transferred.
During negotiations a dated action plan for the transfer of BPDB lines to
PBSs was agreed with GOB and about 500 km of BPDB lines have already been
transferred to PBSs. The actual handing over of the remaining 1,200 km of
the backlog would be a condition of Credit effectiveness. To avoid this
problem in the project PBSs, during negotiations it was agreed that the
proiect areas would be surveyed and a dated program prepared for BPDB
handover of lines and customers before the start of project implementation.



-13-
Training
2.16    REB's training program is designed to meet its own requirements.
together with those of PBSs and local construction and consulting firms
which are implementing the rural electrification program. Between July 1980
and June 1989 it trained about 14,700 persons in courses designed and
supervised by NRECA (Annex 2.10). Its training programs have enabled REB to
overcome a shortage of linesmen in PBSs which had earlier hindered consumer
connections. By June 1989, about 725 PBS employees had participated in
training courses for linesmen. REB, with assistance by NRECA, has also
initiated training in Rot Line Maintenance. A comprehensive training
program and the teaching of working procedures has enabled the PBSs to
manage their technical operations efficiently. Wbile REB's training program
is challenging when judged in terms of the number of persons to be trained
and skills to be developed, to date it has been successful in meeting its
objectives. However, the lack of a centrally located training center with
adequate physical facilities for conducting technical training programs,
continues to hamper the Training Directorate efficient functioning. This
issue vould be addressed through the construction of training facilities
under the proposed Project (para. 2.07).
C.  Palli Bidyut Samities (PB88  (Rural Electrification Cooperatives)
Organization Structure
2.17    The PBS system consists of member-owned autonomous cooperatives for
electricity distribution in rural areas. A PBS's initial Board of Directors
is selected from local citizens, subject to the approval of REB's Board of
Directors. After their appointment the directors register the PBS with REB,
which then proceeds to promote PBS membership among potential consumers.
The Board of Directors consists of 10-15 members elected by an annual
members' meeting. Eligibility to become or remain a director includes being
a bona fide member of a PBS and a resident of its area.  Any person or
organization in a PBS area may become a member of the PBS following
acceptance by the Board of Directors and payment of the membership
application fee of Tk 10.
2.18    The typical organizational structure for PBSs was developed by REB,
with NRECA's assistance. Two sample organizational charts have been
prepared as flexible models to meet different levels of activity
(Annex 2.11).  The chief executive, the General Manager, is accountable to
the Board of Directors. Four main departments, each headed by an Assistant
General Manager, are responsible for extension and member services, finance,
construction and maintenance, and general services. In each PBS five
positions are reserved for female advisors to the PBS Board, who serve as
channels for expression of women's development needs in PBS areas. The
organization structure has been reviewed by IDA and found satisfactory.
PBS Responsibilities
2.19   A PBS's responsibilities begin when a scheme is handed over after
construction and energisation. A PBS's principal objective is to supply its
members and other consumers with electricity. Its functions includes
(a) distribution of electricity and making consumer connections; (b) meter
reading, billing and collection; (c) purchase of electricity from BPDB;
(d) planning and implementing the expansion of local distribution systems



-14-
with REB's financial and technical assistance; and (e) technical and
financial aosistance to consumers for wiring their premises, acquiring and
installing electrical appliances, and improving their power factors through
the installation of capacitors.
Losses in PBSs Systems
2.20    System losses are a problem for most PBSs.  In June 1989, system
losses in 5 out of the 17 PBSs which had been energized for at least four
years were about ten percentage points higher than the anticipated levels,
namely that losses would not exceed 252 in a PBS's first year of operations,
202 in the second year, 152 in the third year, and lOZ in subsequent years
(Annex 2.12). To identify the causes of losses and introduce appropriate
remedial measures, in 1988189 R8B with NRECA's assistance, carried out a
study to determine the causes of high PBS losses. The study determined that
from year five, a typical PBSs' technical losses should generally be about
71 to 10X. The remaining losses are non-technical in nature, resulting from
illegal connections, improper meter reading or outright corruption. During
negotiations, dated loss reduction targets to be incorporated in the
Performance Agreements were agreed with GOB/R8B (para. 2.11).
Advisory Consulting Services
2.21    The first agreement with NRECA, financed by USAID, to provide
general institution building and technical consulting services to REB and
PBSs, was signed in February 1978. Among other things, NRECA assisted in
setting up PBSs' accounting and operating systems, which IDA considers
appropriate. The initial const?lting services agreement with NRECA expired
In July 1984 but was extended initially to July 1987 and subsequently to
July 1991 under USAID financing. However, in 1991 RIB and PBSs will still
require institutional strengthening and technical consulting services
(para. 3.08). During negotiations REB agreed to continue to employ, under
terms and conditions acceptable to IDA. consultants to review technical
specifications, supervise construction, and assist REB and PBSs in
developing their technical and institutional capabilities (para. 3.08).
III. THE PROJECT
Project Setting
3.01    GOB attaches great importance to the scheduled completion of the
ongoing rural electrification program by FY2005 (para. 2.01). However,
because of resource constraints, GOB is focusing on the intensification of
service connections within existing PBS areas to improve existing PBSs'
financial viability, and expansion of the backbone system to new areas. The
proposed Project consists of the first part of Phase IV (Phase IV-A), which
would start in 1991, when major works under Phase III have been completed.
It comprises the installation of new electricity distribution networks in
four proposed PBS areas; rehabilitation of existing distribution networks in
those areas; expansion of five PBSs and intensification of the networks in
seven existing PBSs; and technical assistance to strengthen REB and PBSs'
financial and institutional performance. GOB is approaching other donors to
finance Phase IV-B of the program (para. 2.05).



-15-
Proiect Objectives
3.02    The Project's main objectives would be to substitute power at least
cost for imported petroleum products and to strengthen REB and PBSs'
performance byt (a) expanding existing distribution networks to unserved
areas; (b) rehabilitating systems which REB would take over from BPDB;
(c) reducing system losses; and (d) improving PBSs' financial viability and
institutional performance by increasing the density of connections and
modifying accounting practices. It is anticipated that the Project, by its
completion date, vill extend the public electricity supply to about 122,000
domestic consumers, 20,000 commercial consumers, 2,900 industrial consumers,
and 5,600 irrigation pumps.
Project Description
3.03    The proposed Project would consist of the supply and installation of
the necessary equipment and material and the associated engineering services
for the implementation of Phase IV-A of the Rural Electrification program.
It would include: (a) the installation of new distribution networks in four
new PBSs (Manikganj, Comilla, Dinajpur and Cox's Bazar); (b) expansion of
five existing PESs' networks to include seven new upaxilas (Rangpur PBS-1,
Rangpur PBS-2, Pabna PBS-1, Meherpur PES and Kushtia PBS); (c) intensifica-
tion of seven PBSs financed by IDA under the First RE Project (Cr.1262-BD);
(d) rehabilitation of existing BPDB lines and substations to be taken over
by PBSs; (e) construction of central facilities for REB (offices, training
center and workshop/warehouse); (f) consultant services to assist REB in
project engineering and construction supervision; and (g) technical assis-
tance and training to strengthen the managerial, financial and institutional
aspects of both REB and the PBSs.
3.04    The proposed Project (details of which are given in Annex 3.1) would
consist of the following components:
(a) construction of about 6,035 km of 33 kV and 11 kV three phase and
single phase primary lines, and about 3,015 km of 4001230 volts
secondary lines;
(b) construction of 18 substations 33111 kV of 10 MVA each and upgrading
of 6 substations;
(c) service materials for consumer connections including service
connections, meters and LT capacitors;
(d) support commodities consisting of vehicles, motor cycles, tools,
communications equipment, boats, etc.;
(e) rehabilitation of about 850 km of existing 33 kV, 11 kV and low
voltage lines and distribution substations now operated by BPDB but
to be taken over by PBSs in the areas included in the proposed
Project;
(f) general plant for the PBSs consisting of local transport, office and
residential buildings, including cost of land and office equipment;



-16-
(g) infrastructure and support faciliti.. for REB consisting of
headquarter offices (10,000 square me-ers), training center,
workshop and warehouse facilities (12,700 square meters); and
(h) consulting services to assist REB and the PBSs in project execution
and management, including upgrading of technical and financial
skills.
System Design
3.05    The system design was selected in 1978 for the program as a whole
after evaluating alternatives for the primary voltage (11 kV vs. 33 kV),
types of poles, types of conductors, and three phase vs. single phase
expansion. It was found that 11 kV was the least cost primary voltage for
both three phase and single phase lines, together with both three phase and
single phase transformers. ACSR conductors mounted on wooden poles were
selected as the least cost design for the lines. The basic design will
continue to be used for the proposed Project following its successful use to
date. Although some modifications have been introdsiced to take account of
experience learned from specific site conditions in Bangladesh, Including
the need for further actions to be taken--both through design and operation-
-to reduce system losses. A priority action is to raise the system power
factor to the level of 0.90 and the proposed Project includes procurement of
LV capacitors of various size and pole-mounted 11 kV capacitors. During
negotiations REB agreed to submit no later than December 31, 1990 a dated
program, satisfactory to IDA, to install capacitors on both the 11 kV and LV
systems to ensure that the power factor does not fall below 0.90.
Pro]ect Cost
3.06    The Project's estimated cost, including physical and price
contingencies, duties and taxes, is US$160.2 million based on mid-1989
prices. It comprises US$101.2 million on foreign exchange, and US$59.0
million in loca)l costs, including US$15.4 million in taxes and duties.
Physical contingencies of 5S are assumed for equipment, materials and
services on the basis of previous experience with rural electrification
projects. Price contingencies for foreign costs are assumed at 4.9S each
year from 1990 to 1995 and 3.7S each year thereafter. Price contingencies
for local costs are assumed at 10 for FY90, 91 for PY91, 8S for FY92 and 72
each year thereafter. The cost estimates are summarized below and presented
in detail in Annex 3.2.



-17-
Table 3.1: PROJECT COST SUIOARY
Local   Forelgn  Total   LocaI   Foreign Total   Foreign Exchange Cost
(r*io htillon)(USS Million)                        (U)
A. Now PBSn
Line Material ^/           296.1  1202.?  1497.3        6.7      1C.4    44.1              s0
Substation Matorial &       a4.5   140.4   174.9        1.0       4.1      5.1             s0
Support Comoditie          10.2    05.9    02.1        0.5       1.9      2.4             s0
Line Construction          100.0             100.0      2.9                2.9
Substation Construction     10.5              10.6      0.8                0.8
Consulting services         58.4     41.7    97.1       1.6       1.8      2.9             45
General Plant               68.7              56.7      1.7                1.7
REB Overheads and          119.2             119.2      8.5                8.5
other *xpeem /             - -  -   -   -   -
Sub-Total A                087.6  1462.8  2140.8    20.2         42.6    08.0              66
B. P65 extens./intenaif.
Line Material I/           186.9   757.2    "44.1       5.5      22.8    27.6              80
Substation Material 2       18.5    74.6    98.8        0.5       2.2      2.7             s0
Support Comrodities          4.6     16.7    28.8       0.1       0.6      0.7             s0
Line Constructlon           68.0              68.0      1.9                1.9
Substation Construction      7.5               7.5      0.2                0.2
Consulting servics          29.9    24.5    54.4        0.9       0.7      1.0             45
RIB Overhead  and           76.1              75.1      2.2                2.2
other expenses                       -
Sub-Total B                165.5   675.2  1260.7    11.8         26.6    87.1              69
C. REB central facilities
Subtotal C                 288.5    16.4   816.9        6.0       0.5      9.8              6
0. TA and TraininA
SubtotaI 0                  69.1    842.2   411.5       2.0      10.1    12.1              ea
Total aBse Costa          1440.6   2088.6  4129.4    42.4        79.1    121.5             65
Physical Contingencies      72.0   184.4   206.4        2.1       4.0      6.1            e6
Price Continencies         492.1   615.0  1107.1    14.5         16.1    82.0             5s
Total Project Costs       2004.9   8488.0  5442.9    59.0    101.2   100.2                 es
Interest during Constr.    112.1             112.1      8.8                8.8
Total Finance  Required  2117.0  8416.0  5655.0    02.8    101.1    168.5
/   The Ites lnclud the cost of materials required to construct new lim   and to
rehabiIltato old Itnes, secure matrtal for consumer connections and LT capaectors.
V    Thsese ita Include th  cost of mterial to construct n  substations and to rehabilItate
the old substations.
0    Thee it.o. lnclud costa lncurrd on REB adeinlotration, doevlopmnt, operation (from
date of registration to date of mrgiMtion), and staff training costa of P*Ss; and
compensation charge to im  for system taken over by PUS.



-18-
Prolect Financing
3.07    The financing requirements, including interest during construction
(IDC) at a rate of 0.752 p.a., are US$163.5 million, including US$62.3
million in local costs and US$101.2 million in foreign exchange. A proposed
IDA credit of US$lO million equivalent would finance 852 of the foreign
cost and 442 of the local cost excluding taxes and duties and IDC, which
would represent 732 of the total project cost (excluding lr.al taxes and
duties and IDC). USAID has been requested to finance the technical assis-
tance component, representing 152 of the foreign cost and 62 of the local
cost. The remaining 502 of the local cost, together with local taxes and
duties and IDC, would be covered by grants from GOB to RED. The proposed
financing plan is summarized in Table 3.2. Cost overrun and foreign
exchange risk would be covered by GOB. During negotiations GOB agreed to
continue to provide to REB, as a grant contribution, all the local funds
that may be required for the proposed Project.
Table 3.2s PROJECT FINANCING PLAN
Local     Foreign     Total
(US$ Million Equivalent)
IDA                             19.1      85.9       105.0
Cofinancing                      2.4      15.3        17.7
GOB                             40.8 a/     -         40.8
Total                           62.3     101.2       163.5
aI Of which US$15.4 million is taxes and duties.
Project Implementation and Consulting Services
3.08    The Project would be implemented during 1991-97 after major works
under ACRE Phase III would have been completed. The implementation schedule
is shown in Annex 3.3. As the main implementing agency, REB would be
responsible for the overall project management, including% (a) project
engineering, design, construction and system operation; (b) procurement and
logistics; (c) financial system, record and accounts; (d) development of new
PBSs; and (e) training. Engineering design and layout of the backbone
distribution systems would be done by REB, which also oversees design and
construction. Detailed design and layouts of the village distribution
systems would be done by local consultants, and construction of the distri-
bution systems, including substations, by local contractors under contracts
with REB. Under Phases l-III of the rural electrification program, REB has
assisted in developing an adequate number of competent firms to meet the
proposed Project's consultancy and construction requirements. REB would
procure project equipment using technical specifications prepared on the
basis of the design criteria adopted for the RE program. While involvement
of REB staff and local consultants would be much greater than in previous
projects in engineering, design and construction supervision, the develop-
ment and organization of Phase IV PBSs, together with the continuous
monitoring of the 40 PBSs under Phases I-I1l, would require further manage-
ment and technical support from the expatriate consultants NRECA/GC. GOB
has requosted USAID to continue financing NRECAIGC beyond July 1991 for



-19-
another five years. If USAID does not provide this financing GOB would find
an alternative financing source. During negotiations agreement was reached
on the scope of the technical assistance and training to be provided by
consultants during project implementation. The financing of the additional
technical assistance component after July 1991 should be determined before
December 31, 1990.
Procurement
3.09    The various components would be procured as follows:
Table 3.3: PROCUREMENT ARRANGEMENTS
Procurement arrangements
(US$ Million)
ICB       LCB      Other        NA        Total
Line Material I/            73.5       0.5        0.5      18.6        93.1
(73.5)     (0.5)     (0.5)                (74.5)
Substation Material 21      8.0        0.2       0.2        1.8       10.2
(8.0)     (0.2)     (0.2)                  (8.4)
Support Commodities 2/      2.9        0.-       0.2        0.5        3.8
(2.9)     (0.2)     (0.2)                 (3.3)
Line Construction                      7.4                              7.4
(6.0)                           (6.0)
Substation Construction                0 8                             0.8
(0.5)                           (0.5)
Consulting Services                              4.2                   4.2
(4.2)                 (4.2)
General Plant                                    2.7                   2.7
RED Overheads and
other expenses                                              8<4        8.4
REB Buildings                          8.7       0.9        2.5       12.1
(7-4)     (0.7)                 (8.9)
TA and Training                                 17.5                  17.5
84.4      17.8      26.2       31.8 3/   160.2
(84.4)    (14.8)     (5.8)               (105.0)
1/  Includes 1-phase and 3-phase meters and service drops.
2/ Material and equipment to be procured on LIB basis are included under
'Other".
3/  Local duties and taxes relating to materials and construction costs are
shown under column 'NAR.
Notes   Figures in parenthesis are the amounts proposed to be financed by
ID.



-20-
3.10    Procurement of most material and equipment needed for the project
would be on the basis of ICB according to IDA guidelines. Local suppliers
and manufacturers competing for the supply of goods under ICB would have a
preference of 152 or the applicable customs duty, whichever is less.
Contracts for minor quantities of materials, tools, spares and equipment not
exceeding US$100,000 each and in aggregate not exceeding US$1,000,000 would
be procured according to LIB procedures. In addition, contracts for minor
quantities of materials not exceeding US$50,000 each and in aggregate not
exceeding US$1,000,000 would he procured using LCB procedures satisfactory
to IDA. All the construction work financed by IDA, including the civil
works related to lines and substations, would be carried out using local
contractors selected according to LCB procedures satisfactory to IDA. Civil
works related to buildings and REB'; central facilities to be financed in
part by IDA and in part through GCn s contribution to the project, would be
constructed by local contractors also selected through LCB procedures.
Except for REB's Headquarter complex, all the buildings are scattered
geographically and would cost less tha.. US$200,000 each. Since the local
construction industry can provide competitive prices, IDA has agreed that
these buildings, like the construction works, can be procured under LCB
procedures. However, as per Bank Group's Procurement Guidelines, para 3.3,
any foreign firms wishing to participate will be allowed to do so.
Consultants for project engineering and supervision would be selected and
employed in accordance with the Bank Group Guidelines for the use of
consultants.
3.11    To suit the implementation schedule procurement of the equipment,
materials and support commodities would be split in four tranches over 1991
to 1995. Further each tranche would include separate packages to be
procured under ICB as shown in Annex 3.3. All bidding packages and
contracts over US$100,000 would be subject to IDA's prior review and will
apply to about 90o of the estimated cost of IDA-financed items.
3.12    Under GOB's current policy, single phase meters cannot be imported
and, further, all single LV customers are required to purchase their own
meters in the local market. The application of this policy to rural areas
would cause a significant drop in new connections and it would be contrary
to the RE program's objectives. Prior to negotiations, GOB waived the
import ban for all IDA-financed proiects including the proposed Project, and
agreed that meters would be purchased by REB under ICB and not by individual
consumers.
Disbursement
3.13    Disbursements under the proposed credit would be in respect of
materials and equipment, erection and commissioning expenditure, and
consulting fees, as shown belows
(a) 1001 of the CIF expenditure of imported material for lines, sub-
stations and support commodities; in the case of locally
manufactured goods, 10OZ of ex-factory expenditure, and in the case
of goods procured locally, 70? of the expenditure;
(b) 1001 of total expenditure of consulting services, including
inspection of equipment and materials; and



-21-
(c) 852 of civil vorks related to the expenditure of erection and
commissioning, including civil works related to lines, substations
and infrastructure facilities.
These disbursements would be fully documented except for small civil works
costing less than US$20,000. In such cases, disbursement will be made
ag'Rinst Statemeat of Expenses (SOE), the documentation of which will not be
submitted to IDA but retained for inspection by supervision missions. The
standard procedures for auditing SOEs would apply. To facilitate disburse-
ment, a Special Account would be established in the Bangladesh Bank (Central
Bank) on terms and conditions satisfactory to IDA. The amount of the
Special Account is proposed to be set at US$2.5 million. The disbursement
schedule is indicated in Annex 3.4.
Developmental Impact
3.14    Environment.  The Project's direct environmental impact would be
limited to the construction of distribution lines and substations and PBS
headquarters facilities. There would also be an indirect, but very limited,
impact caused by increased irrigation schemes and expansion of small scale
industries. The Project would have a positive environmental impact by
providing a higher quality of life since lighting by electricity is cleaner
and less of a fire hazard than kerosene lamps. The replacement of diesel
and gasoline engines would reduce local air pollution and lead to a net
improvement in air quality since the grid generating plants are more
efficient and generally burn natural gas. Tree cutting requirements would
be minimal since much of the area requiring pole setting is on farmland
under cultivation. With each PBS headquarters limited to 3 acres and each
pole requiring only about 2.25 square feet of clearance space, total lost
agricultural land would be negligible. Overall, the Project would be in
Category B in terms of environmental impact, although many components would
be in Category C. The engineering and construction codes and practices used
are largely derived from those used by NRECA in the US which provide for the
mitigation of the minor environmental impacts. The scheduling of line
construction would be such as to minimize damage to agricultural crops.
3.15    Poverty Alleviation.  Much of the labor force in rural areas is
comprised of poor and landless persons. Income distribution would be
achieved through increased economic activity and creation of employment
opportunities mainly in agriculture and small scale industry. The RE
program would provide employment to the local labor force for erecting the
distribution works and through the economic activities set in motion as a
result of backward and forward linkages of the program. An assessment of
the RE program's overall developmental impact will be carried out during
1990 under USAID financing.
3.1E    Women in Development.  The extension of electricity supply to rural
households would have a positive impact on women but mainly in the higher
income groups. Female advisors have been officially made a part of the PBS
Boards and serve as channels for the expression of demands by women in the
PBS areas. Further, PBSs employ many women in their headquarter offices
especially for the revenue function. At the community level, electrifica-
tion of public facilities such as dispensaries, schools, offices and places
of worship will result in better services to the residents and in particular
to women attending these facilities.



-22-
Project Monitoring
3.17    During implementation the proposed Project would be monitored by
REB with the assistance of consultants. After completion (within six months
after the closing date or a later date agreed with IDA) REB would furnish to
IDA a Project Completion Report on the Project's execution and initial
operation, its cost and benefits, REB's performance and the accomplishment
of the Credit's objectives.
Risks
3.18    The Project presents no major technical or environmental risks and
involves no complexities as it is a continuation of the ongoing program of
rural electrification. The principal risk concerns possible delays in
project implementation because of shortage of local funds from GOB. This
risk has been mitigated by reducing the program's overall size, by Improved
planning and construction supervision by REB, and by extending the
implementation period from five to seven years.
IV. FINANCES
A. Rural Electrification Board
Financial Obiectives
4.01    REB's financial objectives originate from the financial covenants
agreed under Cr.1262-BD and Cr.1633-BD which require REB to achieve an
operating ratio 1/ not exceeding 751 in any fiscal year beginning FY86 and a
minimum long-term debt service coverage of 1.5. Other donors have adopted
the same covenants. As explained in paras. 4.03 and 4.04, REB so far has
been unable to meet its financial objectives. To improve the financial
position of REBI/PBSs, the consultants, Coopers and Lybrand Associates (UK),
recommended that the existing onlending terms should be modified. This
issue will be addressed under the proposed credit (para. 4.03).
Past Results and Present Position
4.02    EEB's FY85-89 operating performance is summarized below and given
in greater detail in Annex 4.1
11   Operating ratio in context of this analysis has been defined as the
ratio between all operating expenses, excluding depreciation but
including interest charges and operating revenues.



-23-
Table 4.1: REB OPERATING PERPORMANCE--FY85-39
(In Tk Million)
FY85     PY86     FY87      FY88     FY89
Revenues                             4.1      6.4      63.5     72.9     99.7
Expenses                            23.1     29.2      32.4     37.2     43.9
Repayment of Loans from PBS          0.0      0.0       0.0      0.0     50.1
Internally Generated Funds         (16.2)   (20.0)    56.7      39.8    111.3
Debt Services
Interest                         29.4     38.8     34.1      61.4     93.5
Amortization                      0.0      0.0       0.0      0.0     77.3
Operating Ratio                     12.0     10.2       1.0      1.3      1.3
Debt Service Coverage Ratio         (0.6)   (0.5)       1.7      0.6      0.7
4.03    Since the RE program's inception, REB has been acting both as the
implementing agency responsible for the construction of rural electrifi-
cation schemes and as the financial intermediary and supervising agency
after the completed schemes are handed over to PBSs. REB's performance as
an implementing agency is impressive. As of June 1989, 33 PBSs with
combined assets of Tk 7.1 billion have been energized. This, together with
construction work in progress of Tk 0.3 billion, represents an average
annual investment level of Tk 0.7 billion during the ten-year period of
FY80-89. However, a review of REB's past financial performance reveals a
disturbing trend which, if not addressed, could undermine REB's long-term
financial health as a financial intermediary. It relates to REB's serious
liquidity problem, as reflected by its continuing dependence on GOB
budgetary allocations to cover its operating expenses and REB's inability to
service its debt to GOB from internally generated funds. The basic causes
of REB's insolvency are: (a) the tandem relationship between the grace
period on GOB loans to REB and the grace period on corresponding REB loans
to PBSs; (b) PBSs' default on debt service to REB; and (c) the inordinate
delays in the scheme closing process. These are discussed in more detail
below.
4.04    Onlending Terms.  Given the two to three year time lag between the
signature of REB loans with GOB and the date of a PBS's registration, the 5-
year grace period on each GOB loan to REB expires before the end of the 5-
year grace period on the corresponding REB loan to a PBS, which starts from
the date of PBS registration. This tandem relationship has two adverse
implications for RIB's cash flow. First, during the grace period of REB
loans to PBSs, REB cannot use interest revenues from PBSs to cover its
operating expenses (administrative expenses and interest on GOB loans) since
interest charges on REB loans to PBSs are capitalized. Second, REB has to
service its debt to GOB before PBSs start repaying the onlent funds to REB.
In recent years, GOB has been deducting REB's debt service obligations from
its annual allocation to REB. While this practice has allowed REB, unlike
other public institutions, to be current on its debt service obligations
under the SLA, on the IDA credits, it has diminished local funds for new
schemes. Similarly, the five-year grace period on REB's loans to PBS starts



-24-
at the date of PBS registration instead of at the date of energization,
which is typically one year later. Consequently, debt service for a PBS
becomes due before it has been operating for five years to build up its
sales and generate an operating surplus for meeting debt service to REB. To
ensure REB's and PBSs' solvency and to provide a rational basis for
monitoring REB's future financial position, during negotiations GOB/REB
aareed thats (a) the grace period on GOB loans to RB should be extended to
8 years while keeping the repayment period of 25 years and other onlending
conditions similar to those already agreed under Cr.1633-BD: and (b) the 5-
year grace period on REB loans to PBSs should start from the date of
commercial energization, which is the end of the month when bills are first
sent to consumers. The conclusion for the proposed Credit of a Subsidiary
Loan Agreement between GOB and REB satisfactory to IDA is a condition for
credit effectiveness. Further, during nesotiations it was agreed that on
completion of each scheme under the proposed Prolect REB will enter into a
Subloan Agreement with the PBSs under terms and conditions satisfactory to
IDA.
4.05    Depreciation Fund.  By June 1986, debt service to REB from the
first 4 PBSs became due, and by June 1989, 12 PBSs were liable for debt
servicing. Although 7 of them had operating surpluses after interest
charges and depreciation, only a partial payment of Tk 50 million was made
in FY89. One of the factors explaining the PBSs' poor debt service
performance was the depreciation fund policy prescribed by REB. According
to this policy, each PBS should maintain a depreciation fund in a bank
account and deposit the full amount of its annual depreciation charge into
the said account. Compliance with this policy took precedence over debt
service payments to REB. This resulted in some PBSs accumulating large
balances in the depreciation fund account while, at the same time, owing
substantial arrears to REB. In view of the serious shortages of local funds
and the crowding-out impact that GOB's contributions to the RE program would
have on other development programs in the country, the efficient use of the
resources mobilized in the subsector is critical to the long term
sustainability of the RE program. The recent report submitted by Coopers
and Lybrand Associates (UK) (para. 2.12) noted that there is no
justification to continue the current practice. This conclusion has been
endorsed by the major donors of the RE program. In 1989 REB agreed to
suspend the depreciation fund and to introduce a replacement reserve fund
limited to a maximum of 5 of gross fixed assets. This policy was fully
implemented effective July 1, 1989.
4.06    Scheme Closing Process.  REB's liquidity problem is further
compounded by the inordinate delays in the scheme closing process. In many
cases, capital investments that have been completed and handed over to EBSs
have remained in REB's accounts as current assets for several years. Thus,
REB has been deprived of interest revenues which would have accrued. This,
together with the inappropriate treatment of interest accrued during the
grace period on REB loans to PBSs in the income statement explains very high
operating ratio during FY85-89. To avoid the future reoccurrence of this
situation, during negotiations, REB agreed that the process of scheme
closing out would be completed within six months from the date of a PBS's
commercial energization (para. 4.09).



-25-
Future Performance
4.07    REB proforma financial statements vere prepared for FY90-95
(Annex 4.1) on the basis of the investment plan of the Phase IV rural
electrification program and the revised onlending terms discussed In
paras. 2.05 and 4.04 and other assumptions set out in Annex 4.2. Due to the
deficiencies in the management of the accounting systems for capital work-
in-progress, assets transfer and loan sales to PB8s, accurate Information on
a PBS by PBS basis is not available at this stage (para. 4.09). Since
reconciliation between assets transfer and loan sales for the existing 33
PBSs just began recently and will be completed only by end-1990 financial
projections were prepared on the ACRE basis (group of PBSs financed under
the same operation). REB's projected financial performance is considered
conservative in view of the assumption used. For instance, the final
completion date of Phase III RE program in 1992/93 ie taken as the asset
transfer date for all the PBSs involved, and interest revenues are assumed
to flow in thereafter. In reality, however, REB will collect interest
revenues and repayment of principal from some PBSs much earlier than that.
Key financial indicators based on the proforms statements in Annex 4.1 are
shown in Table 4.2.
Table 4.2: REB'S PROJECTED OPERATING PERFORMANCE FY90-95
(In Tk Million)
FY90    FY91    FY92      93    FY94    FY95
Revenues                       225.2   221.0   249.5   261.4   257.1   252.8
Expenses                        54.0    62.5    72.6    84.2   107.2   120.4
Repayment of Loans from PBSs 297.0   297.0   297.0   297.0   297.0   297.0
Internally Generated Fund      477.5   466.2   486.6   488.9   473.3   455.8
Debt Service:
Interest                      49.7    93.6    90.6   111.2   119.2  115.8
Ammortization                102.2   194.0   194.0    194.0  194.0   194.0
Operating Ratio                  0.4     0.7      0.6     0.7     0.8      0.8
Debt Service Coverage Ratio      3.1     1.6     1.7      1.6     1.5     1.5
4.08    During the forecast period FY90-95, total investment on the RE
program is estimated at Tk 16 billion of which Tk 10.5 billion (652) is in
foreign exchange. It is expected that external donors would provide
financing for the investment program's entire foreign cost (para. 2.05) and
the local cost would be covered by GOB equity contributions. Clearly, REB's
financial position as a financial intermediary depends on the PBS's future
performance. Assuming an 8-year grace period on GOB loans to REB and that
the system of annual performance agreements described in para. 4.10 is
successfully implemented, REB's financial position would improve substan-
tially. Its operating ratio would not exceed the covenanted level of 752
and debt service coverage would be maintained at or above 1.5 throughout the
period. To ensure resource mobilization within the limit of affordability
and to enhance REB's long-term financial viability, it was agreed during
negotiations that REB shall ensure that: (a) its administrative expenses and



-26-
interest payments in any fiscal year beginning FY91 shall not exceed a
maximun of 752 of the aggregate interest and other revenues received from
all sources during that fiscal year: and (b) its internal sources of funds,
including PBS loan repayments in any fiscal year, shall cover at least 1.5
times the debt service requirement.
Accounting Systems and Organization
4.09    REB's accounting systems were designed by NRECA based on sound
accounting principles. Subsequently, REB has implemented and operated the
system under NRECA's supervision. REB's financial functions are managed by
the Board Member of Finance, who is assisted by four directors overseeing
matters relating to finance, accounts, PBS loans and auldit and procurement,
and one deputy director for internal audit. In recent years, several
financial management deficiencies have been identified. These include
problems associated with the operation of the material accounting system and
in the management of accounting systems for capital work-in-progress, assets
transfer and loan sales to PBSs. As a result, information on asset transfer
and loan sales on a PBS by PBS basis is difficult to obtain. This has
caused inordinate delays in the scheme closing process and seriously
affected REB's capacity to generate revenue. REB is aware of this situation
and reconciliation work is now under way. To ensure timely and long-lasting
improvements in the identified areas, during negotiations REB agreed that it
would prepare and furnish to IDA by December 31, 1990 an action plan to
implement the required reforms to its accountin8 systems and procedures and
thereafter implement the said plan as agreed with IDA.
External Auditing
4.10    REB's accounts are audited by private auditing firms.  Under
previous Credits (Cr.1262-BD and Cr.1633-BD) REB is required to furnish to
IDA, not later than nine months after the end of each fiscal year, certified
copies of its financial statements accompanied by the auditor's report. The
quality of the audits for the recent years has shown some improvement,
although some deficiencies remain to be addressed. To ensure accountability
for resources used by REB, during negotiations it was agreed that REB should
have its accounts audited by independent auditors acceptable to IDA and
furnish to IDA no later than nine months after the end of each fiscal year
certified copies of its financial statements, accompanied by the auditor's
report which would cover the Special Account and include a separate opinion
as to whether 80E submitted can be relied upon to support the related
withdrawal applications.
Insurance Arrangement
4.11    All REB loans to PBSs are secured by mortgages on the assets
transferred to PBSs. To provide coverage for PBSs' assets, REB has
established an insurance pool fund, requiring each PBS to maintain a
replacement reserve fund equal to 52 of its gross fixed assets. The fund is
administered by RIB. This arrangement is considered adequate.



-27-
B. Palli Bidyut Samities (Rural Electrification Cooperatives)
Past Operation Results
4.12    As of June 1989, 33 PBSs were in operation, of which 12 have been
operating for six years or more. Recognizing that newly formed PBSs would
need time to build up their memberships to self-sustaining levels, GOB
agreed, under Cr.1262-BD and Cr.1633-BD, to provide PBSs with operating
subsidies to cover operating losses, if any, during the first five years of
their operations. It was also agreed that REB would cause each PBS to take
measures, including tariff adjustments, to: (a) earn, starting from the
sixth year, revenues sufficient to cover cost of electricity purchases,
othe: operating expenses, depreciation and interest expenses, thereby
eliminating the need for GOB subsidies; and (b) generate, starting from the
seventh year, a cash surplus equivalent to 20Z of its capital expenditure
after meeting debt service and working capital requirements.
4.13    A review of the operations results of the 12 PBSs which have been
energized for six years or longer indicates their performance has fallen
short of expectations. As shown in Table 4.3, although 11 out of 12 PBSs
have earned operating surpluses, only three made principal repayments to REB
in FY89. The poor performance of many PBSs is attributable to several
mutually reinforcing factors, including unfavorable consumer mix, low
consumer density, high system losses and low load factor. The problem has
been compounded by delays in the transfer of designated BPDB lines and
associated consumers to PBSs (para. 2.15). While the transfer of the entire
backlog of BPDB lines to PBSs is a condition of effectiveness for the
proposed Credit (para. 2.15), additional actions need to be taken
immediately to improve PBSs' operating efficiency and put them on a sound
financial footing. To this end, a system of Annual Performance Agreements
would be established to set specific annual operating and financial
performance targets for existing operating PBS. The introduction of the
said system would be a condition of Credit effectiveness (para.2.11).
Table 4.3: KEY PERPORMANCE INDICATORS FOR SELECTED PBSs--FY89
Date of    Avers   Operating  Not Oper.
KINM  of PBS  En.rgization  Torifr    Ratio    Incoms   Share of Revenue () / System Loss
Tk/kWh            '000 Tk  (1)    (2)   (a)       m
Dhaka         08/02/80    2.48     0.80    26,057    17      S7    16       20
Co.T I la     01/Ol/01    2.47     0.92     4,045    20      es    17       20
Jwesre II     02/02/81    2.84     0.07     1,100    19      68    18       17
Nator. I      08/15/81    2.88     0.0899      C    24       86    41       14
Sirearni      04/14/01    2.40     0.92     3,6S5    20      40    84       19
Moul vrn Xar    06/28/01    2.08   0.77    11,079    23      72     0       11
Jessor I      06/29/51    2.50     0.95     2,128    28      89    88       14
T  ngail I    10/19/81    2.27     0.07     1,278    15      40    45       24
Chandpur      12/18/01    2.51     1.27    (7,718)   89      48    18       21
Metors I      08/08/82    2.48     0.90     1,078    29      54    17       19
Hbpganj       10/12/82    2.58     0.85     5,986    25      69     6       15
Pnbn.  I      01/06/88    2.47     0.8      2,207    25      6o    15       14
1/ (1) D.z".ti. sales
(2) Induetty
(8) IrrigatTon



-28-
4.14    Based on the investment costs, implementation schedule and demand
forecast discussed in paras. 3.06, 3.08 and 5.04, financial projections for the
four new PBSs to be financed under the proposed Credit have been prepared.
Table 4.4 presents a summary of perfozmance indicators for selected years. The
projected financial statements and the assumptions are given in Annexes 4.3 and
4.4.
Table 4.4s PROJECT PBSs--PROJECTED OPERATING PERFORMANCE PY94-2003
(In Tk Killion)
FY94  FY95   FY9   Mn   FY98  FY0   FY20ao  FY2003
Electricity Purchase (U1h)  14.6  24.0    60   69.0  91.8  100.0   107.5   120.6
Electrielty Sol"e (G)      10.9  19.2   81.5  60.2  79.4  89.7    96.7   108.4
Syte Lo"   )               26    20      1?    15    18    18        18       13
Average RetalI Tariff (Tk/kWh)   8.78  4.07   4.44  4.64  5.25  5.75   .18    7.44
Not Inuos                  (8.9)  (6.2)  (0-0)  (0.2)  48.0  87.0    08.7   176.2
008 Subsidy                 5.5   4.0    a.?
operating Ratio             1.1   1.0    1.0   0.9   0.9   0.6        0.6     0.7
Det Servica Coverage                                          1.1     1.8     1.9
S.lt-Flnenclsg Ratio (S)                                      6.1     9.9     9.9
Current Ratio               1.5   1.8    2.0   2.5   2.9   1.8        1.4     2.0
4.15    Table 4.4 shows that the four new PBSs would become financially
viable beginning from the 5th year of operation and their financial position
would strengthen during the next five years, with debt service coverage and
current ratio projected at 1.9 and 2.0 respectively at the end of the 10th
operating year. During negotiations GOB agreed to continue to provide an
operating subsidy to the PBS, if needed, during the first five years of
operation in accordance with a formula acceptable to IDA.
Auditing
4.16    Under previous credits, REB agreed to cause PBSs to have their
accounts audited by independent auditors acceptable to IDA and to submit to
IDA, not later than nine months after the end of each fiscal year, certified
copies of their financial statements accompanied by the auditor's reports.
In the past, accounts for those PBSs financed by InA were submitted within
the covenanted period. However, the quality of audits were very poor. This
problem is particularly due to the restriction that an auditing firm is only
allowed to audit a single PBS and for no more than three years. The system,
designed to provide opportunities to all auditing firms in the private
sector, has so far failed to ensure the quality of the audits. REB has
agreed to revise its current procedure and allow auditing firm, acceptable
to IDA, to audit more than one PBS. To ensure that REB continues to conform
to the audit arrangements agreed under Cr.1262-BD and Cr.1633-BD during
negotiations it was agreed that REB should cause the PBSs to have their
accounts audited by independent auditors acceptable to IDA, and to furnish
to IDA not later than nine months after the end of each fiscal year,
certified copies of their audited financial statements, the audit report and
their coaments or, if necessary, a plan for corrective actions.



-29-
V. PROJECT JUSTIFICATION
A. Electricity Demand Forecast
5.01    The electricity demand forecast used to quantify the proposed
Project's benefits is based on an analysis of historic sales data and growth
rates. Average growth rates of PBSs' electricity sales by consumer category
during FY82-89 are shown in Table 5.1, together with the forecast pattern of
consumption at appraisal of the Rural Electrification Project (Cr.1262-BD),
and the actual patterns in FY84 and FY89. Actual consumption has been
substantially different than projected; the percentage of sales to
irrigation consumers is six times higher than the forecast level, and for
industrial consumers is nearly 502 higher, while that for residential
consumers is less than half the projected level. The actual consumption
pattern will assist more PBSs in becoming financially viable and improves
the economic viability of the rural electrification program. A detailed
analysis of the past demand is presented in Annex 5.1, Table 1.
Table 5.1: FY82-89 DEVELOPMENT OF PBSs' ELECTRICITY SALES
Average Yearly        Pattern of Consumption as Per:
Consumer Category       Growth Rate          RE I Appraisal    FY84    FY89
Residential                55.3                   58.0          24.9   25.1
Commercial                113.6                    6.0           5.6     6.9
Irrigation                 61.2                    4.0         22.5    24.7
Industry                   63.1                   32.0          46.7    43.0
Other                      34.1                    -             0.4     0.3
Total Sales                61.4                  100.0        100.0  100.0
5.02    Two load forecasts have been prepared: a general one for the whole
rural electrification program and a specific one for the project PBSs, both
of which are shown in Table 5.2.
Demand Forecast for the Rural Electrification Program
5.03    The MY90-2000 forecast was prepared using a multiple non-linear
regression model which implicitly assumes that sales in new and extended
PBSs will replicate the performance of existing PBSs at the same stage of
development.21 That is, the first year sales by consumer category of a new
PBS will be identical to the average sales recorded by existing PBSs in
their first year of operation, and similarly for subsequent years. The
forecast includes a major change in the relative sales shares of industrial
and irrigation consumers, with a relative increase in the latter. Further,
by FY2000, the impact of the development of residential sales causes the
peak demand to increase faster than energy sales, with a consequent
reduction in the load factor from 0.38 in PY89 to 0.31 by FY2000. This
2/   The detailed forecast is given in Annex 5.1, page 2. Full details of
the load forecast methodology are given in the project file.



-30-
decline emphasizes the importance of the early introduction of effective
load management measures, including time-of-day tariffs for irrigation
consumers and other consumers with contracted demands above 10 kVA.
Table 5.2 shows that such measures could reduce estimated peak demand by
about 300 MW by FY2000, with an associated discounted cost saving of more
than Tk 8 billion (US$240 million).  Consequently, during negotiations REB
aareed to introduce time-of-day tariffs, or other suitable load management
measures, for large consumers before December 31, 1990.
Table 5.2: DEMANID FORECASTS FOR PY90-FY2000
Consmur Category               P'rogr  Forocast---    -Project Forecast-
FM00       FY2000    Growth Rates   FY05       PY2000
G     X    OW      X   FYs0-2000(X)  GH    X         Il   s
Residential         98.4  25.1  621.1  27.7      16.9     9.6  19.8  48.7  20.1
Comercatl           25.6  6.9  106.7  5.8       14.1      2.9  5.6  13.5  8.4
Irrigation          91.8  24.7  684.0  35.8     19.7    11.0  22.1  28.2  17.6
Industry           160.1  48.0  574.6  80.5     12.8    26.8  52.0  72.1  44.9
Other                1.8  0.8   14.4  0.6       24.6
Total Soles        872.1 100.0 1,698.0 100.0    15.9    49.8 l00.0 160.6 100.0
Purchses           468.0 124.4 2,164.4 114.0     18.2    60.7 121.0 184.6 115.0
Psk DOmand          NW    X      w                        M X  W    X    !"   X
Non-CoincIdwotl     168.0 100.0  896.5 100.0     17.0    16.1 100.0  81.6 100.0
Without Load Manaemant 140.0  69.1  780.0  80.1  17.0    16.1  69.1  55.1  89.1
With Load Management   96.7  61.2  488.9  54.0  15.8    11.7  04.7  44.5  72.0
Demand Forecast for the Project PBSs
5.04    The proposed Project would start in FY91, and the first PBS would be
energized in FY93. Consequently, FY93 was taken as the base year for the
Project PBSs' demand forecast. The forecast, which is presented in
Table 5.2, and detailed in Annex 5.1, Table 3, was prepared using a fully
disaggregated approach based on 13 existing PBSs' past sales data. Thus,
for residential and commercial consumers the forecast number of consumer
connections and consumption per consumer for the first five years of the
forecast period was derived from an analysis of the relevant data from
existing PBS. The forecast suggests that the Project PBSs' share of total
sales to residential consumers will be slightly higher than that for all
PBSs in the RE program (29Z compared with 27.72); the share of sales to
irrigation consumers will be considerably lower than that in the program as
a whole, but this will be more than offset by the forecast high share of
sales to industrial consumers.
B. Least-Cost Analysis
5.05    Two types of least cost analysis have been undertaken.  One, which
was prepared by REB/NRECA, analyzed each component of the proposed Project
to determine its optimum design and capacity to ensure that the forecast
electricity demand in the project PBSs would be supplied at least cost. The
methodology, cost data and recommendations have been reviewed by IDA and
found to be satisfactory. The other considered alternative energy sources



-31-
to electricity supply, such as kerosene or diesel fue:, to identify the type
of energy which would meet the forecast energy requirement for each
specified end use, e.g., lighting, irrigation pumping, motive power, etc.,
at least cost.3/ The analysis showed that electricity to be supplied by the
proposed Project would meet forecast energy demands in the specified uses at
least cost.
C. Economic Internal Rate of Return
5.06    The economic internal rate of return (EIRR) has been estimated for:
(a) the entire Project, including the TA costs and those of the planned
training center, workshop, etc.; (b) for the four new PBSs; and (c) for the
five PBSs which would be extended. In each case the analysis was undertaken
over 30 years. All foreign costs were measured using border prices in terms
of mid-1989 prices. Local costs were expressed in terms of equivalent
border prices using conversion factors of 0.8 for materials, equipment and
services, 0.8 for skilled labor and 0.8 for unskilled labor. A standard
conversion factor (SCF) of 0.8 was applied to costs such as house wiring and
electric motors for irrigation pumps. Electricity supply costs were
estimated as the long run marginal cost (LRMC) of generation increased by
10X to account for system losses prior to the 33 kV bulk supply points.
Since it was ascertained, on the basis of with and without project analysis,
that the incremental demand associated with the Project would not be large
enough to change the planned transmission investment program, costs
associated with the 220 kV and 132 kV lines were excluded from the analysis.
Operation and maintenance (O&M) costs were estimated as 52 of cumulative
annual investment costs. The estimated investment, O&M and LRIC supply
costs are given in Annex 5.2, Table 1.
5.07    Based on the estimated economic costs, the EIRR was estimated using
two different measures of benefits. A minimum measure of the benefits
associated vith the incremental electricity sales is given by incremental
sales revenue using Y90 tariffs. On this basis, the adjusted EIR for the
entire project is estimated to be -2.8Z, and for the four new PBSs the five
PBSs to be extended to be about zero percent. Using this measure of
benefits, tariff rates would need to be increased by about 80Z to give an
EIRR of 12? for the total project. However, it should be noted that (a) the
revenue-based measure of EIRR is more an evaluation of the adequacy of
tariffs (which are about 562 of LRMC), than of the Project's true economic
worth; and (b) the project cost includes US$17.0 million of technical
assistance for the entire rural electrification program.
5.08    A better measure of the EIRR is that based on estimates of
consumers' willingness to pay (WTP) for the incremental electricity sales.
A conservative estimate of WTP was made as follows: (a) for residential and
commercial consumers it was based on the cost of lighting using either
kerosene wick lamps (yield equivalent to a 20 W electric bulb) or
pressurized kerosene lamps (yield equivalent to 60 U bulb); and (b) for
industrial and irrigation consumers it was based on the cost of running a
13 These analyses formed the basis for the calculation of consumers'
willingness to pay for electricity for particular uses. Details are
given on the project file.



-32-
diesel plant using imported high speed diesel oil. For each consumer group
the WTP-based benefits estimates were prepared as followss first, to
estimate benefits for those electricity sales which would represent a
substitution of electricity for an alternative fuel, WTP was measured as
indicated in (a) and (b) above. Second, the incremental electricity sales
which are forecast to occur as a response to the lower price of electricity
vis-a-vis its substitutes and as a response to the availability of
electricity supply, were valued assuming a linear demand curve with a
maximum WTP as just described and a minimum equal to the FY90 tariff rate.
The discounted weighted average WT? was estimated to be Tk 6,2/kWh, and the
8IRR for the entire project, including the TA and costs of the training
center and workshop/warehouse, was estimated to be 172. Similarly, the EIRR
for the four new PBSs was estimated to be 34Z and for the five PBSs which
are to be extended it was estimated to be 55?. It should be noted that all
of the foregoing WTP-based measures of the EIRR are conservative since they
assume that consumers' WTP to pay for new product uses of electricity (e.g.,
residential consumers' use of televisions, electric fans, etc.) is always
lower than the WTP for lighting and, further, they all assume zero benefits
for the proposed training center.
D. Sensitivity and Risk Analysis
5.09    Sensitivity analysis was carried out on the WTP measures of the EIRR
(Annex 5.2, Tables 2, 4 and 6) to ascertain the likely risk that the project
will be uneconomic. The analysis is presented in terms of the percentage
change in a particular item required to yield the specific EIRR. For
example, for the total project's EIRR to fall from the estimated 17Z to 12?
would require any one of the following to occur: (a) a 33Z increase in the
project's investment and O&M costs; (b) a 40S increase in the electricity
supply cost (LRMC); Ic) a 212 decrease in consumers' WTP; (d) a 43? decrease
in forecast demand (in GWh); (e) a 25? decrease in the forecast number of
consumer connections; or (f) a 43Z decrease in forecast consumption per
consumer. The results for (a)-(d) above are shown in Figure 1. The
sensitivity analysis indicates that the base case EIRR is robust since the
base case estimates for WTP (c above), number of consumer connections (d
above) and consumption per consumer (e above) are all derived from existing
PBSs with similar characteristics to the project PBSs. Thus for each of
these variables the probability of a decrease in the base case value is
considered to be very low. The probability of a significant increase in the
estimated LPMC is also assessed to be low since it is derived from BPDB's
planned investment program which is unlikely to be increased in size.
Further, the project's base case cost estimates have been derived from 1989
awarded contracts, and the probability of a further significant increase is
considered to be small. Finally, in view of the foregoing, the probability
of a set of changes in the variables (a)-(e) above sufficient to reduce the
EIRR to 12? is also considered to be very low.



-33-
Fiaure 1: ZCO=OtC INTUM, RAIT  OF UTUR t
SENSIT VITY ANALYSIS WOLE PROJECT
SENSSITIVITY  ANALYSIS
Ver Ist Ion of S I R vs paresers
140%S<                  
120%
640%-
I-0
4 2%                 16       IX      2X       2420
OISCOUNT RATE
Oemanf       A  WtP      q  LRMC
E. Justification for Bank Group Involvement
5.10    In addition to meeting the forecast demand for energy in rural areas
at least cost, the proposed Project would, through IDA's involvement:
(a) improve the power subsector's efficiency and sustainability by
strengthening existing PBSs and enhancing the institutional
performance of both REB and PBSs;
(b) enhance energy conservation through the reduction of power system
losses;
Cc) resolve BPDBIREB coordination and line transfer issues, which is
necessary for the efficient implementation of the rural
electrification program;
(d) expand training facilities; and
(e) improve both REB and PBSs' operational and financial performance.



-34-
VI. SUMMARY OF AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS
6.01    During negotiations the following agreements were reached with GOBt
(a) GOB will cause REB to introduce procedures for the annual
4etermination of Performance Agreements and, each year, to the
Association's satisfaction, monitor PBSs' performance against the
agreed targets (para. 2.11).
(b) GOB will cause BPDB to expand in a timely manner its transmission
and grid capacity to provide reliable power supply to the PBSs to be
established under the proposed Project (para. 2.14).
(c) GOB agreed on a dated action plan for the transfer of BPDB lines to
PBSs and will cause BPDB and REB to implement this plan in a timely
manner (para. 2.15).
'd) GOB will provide REB, as Grant Contribution, all the local funds
that may be required for the proposed Project; (para. 3.07).
(e) GOB will relend the proceeds of the proposed Credit to REB under a
Subsidiary Loan Agreement under terms and conditions acceptable to
IDA and which shall include: (i) repayment period of 25 years after
an 8-year grace period; (ii) an interest rate of three-fourth of one
percent (3/4 of 12) per annum during the grace period, and an
interest rate of two percent (2Z) thereafter, and (iii) the foreign
exchange risk to be borne by GOB (paras. 2.08 and 4.04).
(f) GOB will provide PBSs with a subsidy during the first five years of
operation in accordance with a formula acceptable to IDA
(para. 4.15).
6.02    During negotiations the following agreements were reached with REB.
(a) REB, with the assistance of their existing consultants, will prepare
each year individual performance targets for the PBSs and will
monitor PBS performance against the agreed targets (para. 2.11).
(b) REB will cause PBSs to pay promptly for their electricity purchase
so that the unpaid consumption of any of them at any time - does not
exceed the total billed consumption of the preceding two months
(para. 2.11).
(c) REB will cause the PBS to reduce their accounts receivable to not
more than 3 months of average billing of the twelve preceding months
(the seasonable effect of irrigation being taken into account)
(para. 2.11).



-35-
(d) RBE will continue to employ under terms and conditions acceptable to
IDA, consultants to provide REB and PBSs with technical assistance
required for the implementation of the proposed Project, and for the
entire on-going rural electrification program, after July 1991
(paras. 2.21 and 3.08).
(e) REB will (i) propose not later than December 31, 1990 a dated
program, satisfactory to IDA, for the installation of capacitors, to
ensure that the power factor does not fall below 0.90; and (ii)
thereafter carry out such program (para. 3.05).
(f) fB will maintain and cause PBSs to maintain records to reflect
their operation and financial condition in accordance with
consistently maintained and appropriate accounting practices
(para. 4.09).
(g) On completion of each scheme under the proposed Project REB will
enter into a Sub-Loan Agreement with the PBS under terms and
conditions satisfactory to IDA, including (i) a repayment period for
the principal represenzing the cost of the scheme of 25 years after
five-years grace period starting at the date of PBS comercial
energization; and (ii) an interest rate of three-fourth of one
percent (314 of 1X) during the grace period and three percent (3Z)
per annum thereafter (paras. 2.08 and 4.04).
(h) REB will ensure thats (i) its administrative expenses and interest
payments in any fiscal year beginning FY91 shall not exceed a
maximum of 752 of the aggregate interest and other revenues received
from all sources during that fiscal year; and (ii) its internal
sources of funds. including PBSs' loan repayments in any fiscal
year, shall cover at least 1.5 times the debt service requirement
(para. 4.08).
ti) REB will prepare and submit to IDA by December 31, 1990 an action
plan to implement the required reforms to its accounting systems and
procedures and thereafter implement the said plan as agreed with IDA
(para. 4.09).
(j) REB will have its accounts and PBS's accounts, audited by
independent auditors acceptable to IDA and furnish, and cause PBSs
to furnish, to IDA no later than nine months after the end of each
fiscal year, certified copies of their audited financial statements,
the audit report and their comments and, if necessary, a plan for
corrective actions (paras. 4.10 and 4.16).
(k) REB will introduce not later than December 31, 1990 appropriate load
management measures and time-of-day tariffs, so as to ensure an
adequate and higher load factor (para. 5.03).



-36-
6.03    The following conditions should be met before Credit effectiveness:
(a) approval of the final Project Proforma (para. 2.10).
(b) introduction of Individual Performance Agreements for the 33
operating PBSs (para. 2.11).
(c) actual transfer of 1200 km of BPDB's lines to PBSs (para. 2.15).
(d) conclusion of a Subsidiary Loan Agreement between GOB and REB
(para. 4.04).
6.04    Subject to the above conditions, the proposed Project constitutes a
suitable basis for an IDA credit of SDR 79.6 million (US$105 million
equivalent) at IDA standard terms with 40 years maturity to the People's
Republic of Bangladesh.



SANCLAVESH
TSlRD RURAL ELECTRIFICATION PROJECT
BANGLADESH  RISTORICAL CIWTH IN DEIWID, MMY  MMEEATION AND SA
< ---------------------------------------------------------a¢tuol---------------------------------------------------------- >
nscAL IABM                               1975   1974   1975   1976   1977   1978   1979   1980   1981   1962   1983   1984   1985   1986   1967    1968    199
GENEREA     31R                   GWh  1065.6 1265.4 1322.1 1459.8 1618.6 1912.9 2122.3 2353.3 2661.8 3036.5 3432.7 3560.5 4528.4 4800.3 5587.0  6541.4  7114.8
EASTE ZO2EB RBQUIRU               GMh  656.8  982.4 1022.0 1115.7 1224.4 1444.4 1603.5 1744.5 1978.3 2292.1 2465.3 2847.6 5183.5 3365.0 3994.7  457S.0  5098.5
VESTl   ZOnE R.EQUIMR3S           CUb   228.6  283.0  300.1  344.1  394.2  468.5  519.0  608.8  685.5  744.4  947.4 1112.9 1344.9 1435.3 1592.3  1968.4  2016.3
IRAESPER EAST-VEST                C                                                                                              477.4  222.3  797.8  1179.5  1435.4
ASREII VWEST-ES                   C                                                                                                20.6  106.4   10.9       -       -
E-V SNTEROOHMM  XWSUS             GM                                                                                               22.4   12.1   42.7    90.2   106.2
PEAK DW96D                        NW    221.6  250.1  266.1  301.3  342.3  395.6  436.5  461.9  545.2  603.7  709.0  761.0  687.0  683.0 1083.0  1316.8  1390.0
ESt ZONE                          MV    174.4  184.8  198.8  219.9  254.0  287.0  331.3  337.6  599.1  450.7  505.8  552.0  651.0  613.0  745.0   925.4   980.0
VEST ZONE                         mV     47.2   65.3   67.3   81.4   88.S  108.6  105.2  124.5  146.1  153.0  203.2  209.0  236.0  270.0  340.0   391.4   410.0
SYSTE  LOAD FACTOR                 2     55.92  37.86  56.72  55.33  34.0S  55.2X  55.52  58.22  55.71  57.41  55.32  59.42  5S8.3X  62.12  58.92   56.72   58.41
EAST ZONE SYST   LOAD PACTOR       2     56.12  60.71  58.72  57.91  55.01  57.51  55.22  59.02  56.61  58.12  56.11  58.92  55.82  62.72  61.42   56.42   59.42
VEST ZONE SYSTE LOAD FACTOR        2     55.32  49.52  50.92  48.32  51.02  49.22  56.32  55.92  53.42  55.52  53.22  60.82  65.12  60.72  53.52   57.42   56.11
RE  SALES                         GMN                                                                        13.0   44.6   87.8  142.6  162.9  232.9   294.6   372.0
REB LOSSES                       GOH                                                                                19.4   19.2   30.4   55.4   61.1    69.6    91.0
REB PURCHASES                     CHH                                                                               64.0  107.0  173.0  238.3  294.0   364.2   463.0
TOTAL SALES                       GO    623.9  828.2  855.2  932.0 1013.0 1204.5 1381.3 1406.3 1740.4 2029.1 2283.0 2608.4 2842.0 3306.8 3485.3  3772.7  4695.1            W
LOSSES  11.                      GON   461.7  437.2  486.9  527.8  605.6  708.4  741.0  947.0  921.4 1007.4 1149.7 1352.1 1686.4 1493.5 2101.7  2768.7  2419.7
S     42.52  34.6S  36.86  36.22  37.4X  37.02  34.92  40.22  34.62  33.22  33.52  34.12  37.21  31.12  37.62   42.32   54.02
CONSUMERS:  BPDB                 '000   258.2  281.8  280.0  305.0  348.4  402.6  450.8  521.2  568.4  645.1  669.2  727.6  803.7  888.6  963.1 1,038.3 1,151.6
CONNECTIONS: RED                 '000                                                                 8.9   20.6   70.3  103.9  153.8  196.9  269.3   325.3   396.1
CONSUMPTION 21.                KWHICOR2416.1 2939.1 2982.5 3055.8 2907.7 2991.5 3064.3 2698.4 3061.9 3145.5 3411.5 3585.1 3536.0 3721.5 3619.0  3633.4  4076.9
CONSUMPTION 21.                KWHICONE                                                                    630.5  634.7  845.2  927.1  928.8  864.6   905.6  "99. 
LES VOLTAGE WISE
LV: .231.4 kw                     GNE   136.2  187.8  183.5  266.6  381.3  517.5  611.0  614.6  762 4  825.1  944.0 1135.4 1379.0 1662.4 1811.9  1936.2  229".6
NV: 11 kV                         GOW   487.7  640.4  651.9  663.4  631.7  687.0  770.3  791.7  875.0 1025.0 1133.0 1208.0 1129.0 1244.9 1213.7  1295.1  1766.1
NV: 33 kV                        OGM                                                                103.0  179.0  206.0  267.0  334.0  399.5  459.7   551.4   629.4
C CONSUMPTIONS
DMILV(.4kv)                    KNEICON 527.4  666.5  654.6  880.7 1094.5 1285.3 1355.5 1179.3 1341.3 1279.1 1410.6 1557.8 1715.7 1870.9 1881.4  1864.7  1996.8
REB/LV(. 4kv)                  KWHICONE.                                                                   630.5  634.7  845.2  927.1  926.8  864.8   905.6  "99.1
DPD0/MV(llkv)                  NWHICONS.                                                            865.5  675.7  740.0  745.7  686.7  697.8  633.5   676.0   882.6
8PDS1MV(33kv)                  G4HICONS.                                                                                    7.2    7.3    7.8    7.3       7.7     7.4
GROWTH RATES
TOTAL BFDM  SALES                      <---------------------------  12.32-----------------><---------  16.711------------->-------------  13.42--------------->
TOTAL LV SALES                         <---------------------------  24.0S-----------------><---------  16.52-------------><-------------  13.62X---------------
(OUT OF WHICB RESIDERTIAL)                                                                  <---------  21.0S-31---------><-------------  13.32--------------->
TOTAL llkV SALES                       <---------------------------   7.2-----------------1>---------  l.t------------->2<-------------  11.8--------------->
TOTAL 33kV SALES                                                                               <---------  37.42--31---------><-------------  17.2X---------------'
11.  System losses do not include R.E.B. lossea.
21.  CONS * Consumer(); COONN - Coranection(s). 
31.  Period FY1981 - FY1984 only, due to a change in tariff categories during FY1980.
2/.  CONS- Consumr(s): COE - Connction(s)
N



B A N C L A D e s 4
I71IR9 RURAL ELECTRIVICATION PROJSCT
BANlClADESH CERMTI0tl CAPACITY AND ENRYFORECAST
Average hvrere AverW
XAklfF                                                                                                                              rcto of rate of rte of
CASCORIES         1985   1986   1#87   1988   1999    1990    1991   1992   IM9   1994   1995    1996   1997   19#   1999   2000   growth  growtth growtJh
LV      RV       -------- actual --l-----   t----------------------------------foer cst ----------------------------------l  fy81-89 fy85-89 fy89-00
Residerts-         A           GM  63S.0  715.8  825.6  885.4 1044.0   1253    1467   1747   2062   2433   2848    3277   3772  *328   4937   5630 A 15.09X   13.49X  16.0X
Irtgtlote;.        B           3W1  56.0  51.1  36.2  62.9  9f.3           its     133    161    198    240    290     337    391    4$4   S27    607 8 16.211   18.66X  '18.3X
Industrt*4         C           GMil 317.0  117.4  349.7  370.9  398.1    442       477    529    587    651    722     765    oil   860    906    941 C  7. 96S    6.03S   8.1S
Intictttetou       D           AM 27.0  45.1  76.7  64.5  5S.8              61      64  t0        77  84        92      98    103    108    113    its  D  5.14X  *.68X   7.0X
Comercil-          E           GW   250.0  278.1  S08.7  391.1  531.4    652       768    905   1075   1277   1518    1789   2108   2484   2918   3410 e 17.US2  24.705  18.4X
NVGneCral               F      GMll 1129.0 1244.8 1213.7 1285.1 1766.1   2061    2311   2582   2860   3168   3519    3981   *434  U367   5294   5699 P  9.79S   13.391  11.21
NV                        |   OW011  161.0  161.2  IS! 7  I87.2  166.4    189      200    218    237   258    281      292    303    315    327    335 H  4.051    0.371  6.6X
uttters            J           GMiq   96.0  255.0  19f.0  161.4  175.0    ITS      181    185   189    193    199      201    205    209    213    217 J                     2.0X
U08 e S^LES to Olll C01SWMSS  anl 2669.0 3068.5 3191.3 3408.5 4232.1   4951    5621   6397   7285   8304   9469   10740  12126  13625  15235  16957    12.19S   12.89S  13.45
1Un SALS RllblDEltTAL GWM  34.9  44.8  5B.7  78.9  93.4    116             140    164    193    224    259      Soo    343    392    452    521             27.90X  16.9S
COMMIECAL   Clll   9.6   13.9  17.3  21.7  25.5           30      35     42    48      35     GS      70     79    se      98    109              27.66X  14.1Z
ISRlCATION   Clll  26.3  29.5  37.9  51.6  91.8    11            144    179    218    263    312     370    *36    508    584    664              36.69X  19.71
TWMt S.RES   111   71.2  93.7  118.0  141.1  160.0    Is?        216    247    278    313    351     390    431    475    523    575              22.441  12.3X
O?IIEz       Clll   0.6    0.9    1.1    1.3    1.3        2       2      2      2      3      4       5      6      a     11      14               IL4    NA
Rl8 ?OTA  SALgS               c   142.6  182.8  233.0  294.6  372.0    450       SS?    633    740    858    989    1134   1294   1471   1667   1883              26.721 15.91
R158 LOSSS              CiW  30.4  U3.5   61.0  69.6  91.0    106           126    139    152    163    175     192    211    230    249    281
X    17.6X  23.31 20.71  MI.X  I9.7S   19.01  19.0X  18.0X  17.0X  16.0X  15.0X   14.51  14.01 13.5X  13.0S  13.0S 
NVG fALSS to RED             I Clll  173.0  238.3  294.0  364.2  463.0    556      663    772   892   1021   1164    1326   1505   1701   1916   2166 X 20.21X   26.U5X  15.0X  Co
OMD  TOTAL SALSS               CJII 2842.0 3306.8 3485.3 3772.7 4695.1   5507    6284   7169  8177   9325  10633   12066  13631  15326  1715   19121    13.571   14.08X  13.6X
OROVIT R^lt               x     9.0X  16.42   5.4X   8.2X  24.4X   17.3X  14.11  14.lX  14.1X  14.01  14.OX   13.51 13.X  12.42  11.9X  11.5X
BYD LOSSES                     OMB 1696.4 1493.5 2101.7 2768.3 2410.7   2360    2567   2788   S024   1277  3544    3810   *071   4323   43S9   4780
X    37.21  3I.IX  37.6X  42.3X  33.9X   30.0X   29.OZ 28.OX  27.02 26.OX  25.0X   24.0X  23.0X  22.0S  21.0X  20.0X
CDMRBIOSNl REBrIIDN            anll 4528.4 *800.3 5587.0 6541.0 7105.8   7867    8851   9957  11201  12602  14177   15877  17702  19648  21710  23902    12.58X   11.94X  11.71
ORJT RATE                 1    13.22   6.0X  16.4X  17.11   8.61   IO.7X   12.51  12.5X  12.5X  12.5X  12.5X   12.0X  11.52  11.0X  10.5X  10.1X
00ERSu            BPDR    1000  803.7  888.6  958.8 0138.3 1151.6   1258    1374   1501   1640   1792   1958    2139   2337   2553   2790   3049        9.281    9.45X   9.31
CONNCTIONS         RED     .000153.8 196.9 269.3  J36.6 407.2           471     554    645    745    85U    977    1112   1259   1422   1602   1800    27.01X   25.28X 14.51
8PCC    .OSUP          MsD   1W03320.8 3453.3 3328.6 A282.6 3674.9    3936    4091   4262   4442   4634   4936    5021   5189   5337   5461   5561          2.23X    2.55X   3.8X
anB    l>§ll 927.1 92S.S865.28 75.2 91S.6    9f5    1140   1144    99    1003   1012    1020   1027   1034   1041   1046              4.31X   -0.47X   1.2X
XhIIBSBDthILS
zomREQUIII        EAST     OM 3l194.7 3367.0 3959.9 4571.3 4994.0    3198    6021   6716   7490  8353  9314  I1033811423 12564 13756 15005    12.66X   12.68X1 0.5X
Wm       OM 1302.0 1414.5 1577.8 1872.9^13S0.8    2469    2830   3241   3711   4249   4863    5539   6279   7084   7954   8897    11.49X    9.27X 13.91
8PD      WA l*S28.4 4800.5587.0 6541.0 7114.8    7867   8851   9957 11201 12602 14177   15877 17702 19648 21710 23902
DO-D                  E45S gm       651.0 613.0 743.0 925.4 980.0    1095    1221   1350   1492   1650   1824    2017   2219   2431   2650   2878    11.691   10.921X10.31
IIEST     NW1236.0 270.03U0.0 391.4 413.0            509     583    662    751    852    967    1094   1235   1387   1551   1727    13.03X   I3.00X 13.9X
amD       NW1887.0 883.0 1083.0 1316.8 1393.0    1604    1804   20.2  2243   2502   279O    3111   3454   3818   4201  4605    12.211   11.68X11.5X
LOO FACTOS            EAST      X    56.OX 62.7X  6O.8XS6.4XS8O.1X   56.3X   56.3XS56.8XS57.3S1  7.8X 50.3X   58.5X 58.8XS59.0XS39.3XS59.5X
Wm             63.OX  39.8X 53.01   54.6t   S8.9X   55.4X   55.4X  35.9X  56.41 56.92 57.41   37.8X  58.0S  58.XS85.51  58.8X
amD       I    58.3X62.1XS89.9X56.7X 58.3X   56.0x   56.0X 56.5X 57.01X57.5XS38.01  5S.SX S8.5X %8.7X 59.01  $9.3X



BANGLADESH
THIRD RURAL ELECTRIFICATION PROJECT
BANGLADES8 MAXIMM DEK0ND AND GMMETATION FORECAST
MAXIMUM DEMAND                                                 1988   1989   1990   1991   1992   1993   194   1995   19"6   1997   1998   19"   2000
(2*)
( 1) TOTAL AVAILABILITY                  7+16         MNW     1,972  1,935  2,184  2,232  2,506  2,735  2,930  3,440  3,722  3,894  4,644  5,194  5,174
( 2) TOTAL REQUIREMENT                   9+21         MW      1,317  1,393  1,604  1,804  2,012  2,243  2,502  2,791  3,111  3,454  3,818  4,201  4,605
( 3) TOTAL AVAILABLE RESERVE              1-2         Mw        655    542    580    428    494    492    428    649    611    440    826    993    569
( 4) REQUIRED RESERVE                 8+19+20         MNW       380    380    360    371    371    391    391    481    481    .81    621    660    660
( 5) FINAL SURPLUS I (SHORTAGES)       10A+22        MK         (15)  (175)   156      57      37    (16)  (117)   168      79    (62)   146    193    (91)
( 6) EAST NON TRANSFERABLE SURPLUS 10-14-15           Mw        291    336      64      0      86    117    154       0     51     21      59    140       0
EAST ZONE
( 7) AVAILABLE                                        MN      1,592  1,692  1,825  1,814  2,102  2,275  2,470  2,980  3,280  3,452  3,702  4,002  4.002
( 8) LARCEST UNIT                                     MW        210    210    210    210    210    210    210    300    300    300    300    300    300
t 9) ZONE DEMAND                                     MN         925    980   1095   1221   1350   1492   1650   1824   2017   2219   2431   2650   2878
(10) AVAILABLE FOR TRANSFER       7-8-9 If >0         MN        457    502    520    383    542    573    610    856    963    933    971  1,052    824
(1A) EAST SHORTAGE               7-8-9 if <0         Mw          0       0      0      0       0      0      0       0      0       0      0      0       0
INTERCONNECTOR
(11) VOLTAGE LEVEL                                    kV        132    132    230    230    230    230    230    230    230    230    230    230    230
(12) CAPABILITY PER CIRCUIT                           mW         83     83    228    228    228    228    228    228    228    228    228    228    228
(13) NUMBER OF CIRCUITS                                5          2       2      2      2       2      2      2       4      4       4      4      4       4
(14) ACTUAL TRANSFER TO WEST Min(12*13,10,21-10OMN) MNW         166    166    409    383    456    456    456    856    912    912    912    912    824                      1
(15) EAST TRANSFERABLE SURPLUS  Min(10-14,12*13-14) MW            0      0      47      0       0      0      0       0      0      0       0      0       0
if >0
WEST ZON!
(16) AVAILABLE                                        MW        380    243    359    418    404    460    460    460    442    442    942  1,192  1,172
(17) RECEIVMD FROM EAST                    14         Mw        166    166    409    383    456    456    456    856    912    912    912    912    824
(18) MAXIMUM AVAILABLE                  16+17         MW        546    409    768    801    860    916    916  1,316  1,354  1,354  1,854  2,104  1,996
(19) IST LARGEST UNIT                                 MW        110    110      90     90      90    110    110    110    110    110    250    250    250
(20) 2FD LARGEST UNIT                                 MN         60     60      60     71      71     71     71      71     71      71     71    110    110
(21) ZONE DEMAND                                      Mw        391    413    509    583    662    751    852    967   1094   1235   1387   1551   1727
(22) FINAL SURPLUSI(SHORTAGE) 18+15-19-20-21          MW        (15)  (175)   156      57      37    (16)  (117)   168      79    (62)   146    193    (91)
GENERATION
EAST ZONE GENERATION                                 GWh      5,751  6,533   7144   8128   9234  10478  11879  13716  15867  17660  19374  20906  22541
EAST ZONE DEKAND                                     GWh      4,580  5,097   5398   6021   6716   7470   8353   9314  10338  11423  12564  13756  15005
TRANSFER CAPABILITY                                   GSW     1,454  1,454   395   3995   3995   3995   3995   7989   7989   7989   7989   7989   7989
ACTUAL TRANSFER TO WEST                               GWh     1,171  1,436   1746   2107   2518   2988   3526   4402   5529   6237   6810   7150   7536
WEST ZONE GENERATION                                  GWh       784    573    723    723    723    723    723    461        10      42    274    804   1361
VEST ZONE AVAILABLE                                   GWh     1,955  2,009   2469   2830   3241   3711   4249   4863   5539   6279   7084   7954   8897
NEST ZONE DEMAND                                     GmW      1,955  2,009   2469   2830   3241   3711   4249   4863   5539   6279   7084   7954   8897
SURPLUS I (SHORTAGES)                                GNh          0       0      0      0       0      0      0       0      0       0      0      0       0



BANGLADESH
THIRn RURAL ELECTRIFICATION PROJECT
Organ!adtlon Chart of th Rural Elctrlflcatlon Board
_,,I1                  I: rE                                            _ F.
mm       ||It {3I.
[mm }X                                         11



-41-                                                     ANNEX 2.5
RUOIA ElSTRFIGTION IQR
INumbr of Sanctioned nd Actusl Staff ra at June 1989
Top Management-i    t 1d881 Mandedtaent-2     Proflmonal-4           Support Staff           Totl
Sanctioned   Actual  Sanctioned  Act6.I   Sanctiond   ActuaI                     tunl| anctioned   Actual
1. Chairman's Office               I            1       1(1)         1        a             a       4(*t)         4        9(2)          9
2. Secretary                       1            1       2(2)         2        SOS)          a       S( 4)          8      14(.11)       14
3. Peronnel and Adminiatrative
Dire.tort.e                     (.1)        -       2            2        7C(S)         7      41(*14)       41       ZOOM1)        sO
4. Directorate of Program          1            1       9      8             t 14()         9      14(-7)         7       82(-12)       20
S. Member Eneineering              1            1       -            -        1(01)         1       3             8        S(.1)         b
6. Chief Engineer (Project)        1            1       1()          t        3(1)          a       S(*0          a        S(*?)         S
7. Chief Engineering (System
Operation and Standard)         (.1)        -       -            -           1)         .        (4)           -        (.8)         -
S. T;mber Products                 -            -       1            1        2             2       8-1)          7      11(-1)        10
9. Superintending Engineer         4            4       4            4        4             4      24            24       86            36
10. Project Division                -            -      1S           I6       48            48    ISO(+12)       1SO     244(*M2)      244
11. Directorate Srytem
Engineering Desin              1            1       4            4        4             4       8             S       17           17
12. E A H                           1            1                             9(e2)         9      74(*17)       74      69(019)       59
13. Directorate of Syrtem
Operation                      1            1       5(*2)                 6(.11)        S      24(*9)        24      86(*22)       S6
14. Material Planning Standard
and Specification               (.1)        -       1(4)         1        4             4       1(4)           1      6(09)         6
iS. Member Finance                  1            1       -                      0 1(1)       1       8             8       S(,)          S
16. Controller of Accounts and
Finanee                         (01)        -                    -        -             -        (43)         -         (4)          -
17. Directorate of Finance          I            1       8            8       15            1        8(-S)         o      27(-S)        24
1i. Internal Audit                  -            -       1            1        2(*d)         2       9             9      12( 1)        12
19. Accounts Directorate             (-1)        -       6(+1)        8       810(19)       81      14(*4)        14      48(+25)       48
20. Procureaent Directorate         1            1       8            8        5(*1)         a       6(1)          6       1S(d)         1S
21. PBS Lans and Audit              1            1       2            2        6(*4)         6      10(-1)          9      19(*3)        18
22. Member (P8S and Trainine)       1            1       -            -        l(*1)         1       a             8 a       (41)         5
2. Executive Directors (Qq
Development and Management)    (01)         -       -            -        _             _        (.8)         -         (*4)        -
24. Policy Development and
Review P8S/RE                  -            -        (.1)        _         (1)          -        (1)          -         (8)         -
25, Training                        1            1       8            8        7             7      17( 1)         17     28(+1)        28
26. Management Operation and
Development (North Zone)       1            1       8(+I)        8        G(O           6       S             8       18(06)       1S
27. PBS Development and Hmnagement
Operation (South Zone)         1            1       8(*1)        8        4(*7)         4       5(*3)         a       13(*11)       18
20(.6)       20      66(41S)     68       186(+9)       181     478(*74)      468     747(+182)    730
* Denotes the proposed post.
- Denotes the posts which have been surrendered in spite of the apprvel given by the OSMAN CMOga,ES



-42-
ANNEX 2.6
INMR "A"L ELEC1RIPICAUWI PROJECT
Timing. Cost and Financing of the RE Propram
-Cost (Tk Biliton)--    Financing                       Implementation
ACRE          No. PMS        Local   Foreign  Total        Source      USI Mltlilon      Period
Phase 1           18           0.8       1.t      2.1   USAID              79.2          1978-88
Phase 1 Ext.       8           0.6       0.7      1.8   KFAED              29.6          1981-87
2 PUS Ext.                     0.06      0.1      0.2   AD                 10.8
Phas 2-A           5           0.6       0.9      1.4   USAID              40.0          1982-89
Finland           6.7
Phase 2-8          7           0.7       0.9      1.6   IDA                40.0          1982-89
Phase 8-A          7           1.6       1.7      8.2   IDA                79.0         1986-92
(Ext. 5)
Phase 8-8    Int. PS           0.6       1.5      2.1   USAID              60.00         1987-98
Phase 1/1 Ext.
Phase W-     Subst. Ext.       0.06      0.1      0.1   Finland             4.4          1987-91
Pha8se 8-c    It. P8S          0.5       1.4      1.9   Canada             28.0         1987-92
Phas  1 Ext.                               Saudi Arabia      16.0
TOTAL ONGOING     40           5.2       8.9    14.1                      891.2
Phase 4-A          4           2.1       8.2      5.8   IDA               105.0         1991-97
(Ext. S/mnt. 7)
Phase 4-0                                                                               1992-2000
Phase 5                                                                                 1997-2005



-43-
ANNEX 2.7
Page 1 of 2
BANGDES
TRIRD RURAL ELECTRIFICATION PROJECT
Selection Criteria for Areas to be Electrified
1.       For past operations the criteria employed by RED (developed
jointly by REB and NRECA with USAID approval) to study, rank, and select
new areas of the country for electrification, places emphasis on
Infrastructure and numbers of potential consumers. The steps followed by
REB in identifying priority areas are as follows:
(i) Selection of a large number of prospective upazillas for detailed
study: these areas are distributed throughout the country to
achieve regional balance in the initial stages of identification.
(ii) Collection of detailed data for each upazilla (or group of
upazillas) covering the following subjects:
-  available power supplys this covers available MW capacity on
132 (33 kV substations, after assessing total installed
transformer capacity and maximum demand at the substation, and
capacity of 33 kV lines);
- number of villages in the area;
-  area population;
- number of households;
-  area in square miles;
- miles of paved road in the area;
-  percentage of land area likely to be flooded regularly;
- number of institutions (bank branches, extension offices, etc.)
in the area;
-  extent of irrigated land;
- numbers of tubewells and diesel-driven pumps, covering shallow
and deep tubewells, and low-lift pumps;
- number of commercial establishments; and
- number of small, medium and large industries.



ANNEX 2.7
Page 2 of 2
(iii)  Each major infrastructure and consumer potential indicator is
ranked among areas, using a straight numeral ranking beginning
with 1 for the top area in the category, after eliminating those
areas that do not have surplus substation and 33 kV line capacity.
Weighting factors, developed in the Phase I feasibility study and
ranging from 0.3 to 1.0, are then applied to the rank of each
category. The sum of the adjusted ranks of categories for each
area constitutes that area's final overall ranking; the lowest
number represents the highest overall rank.
(iv)  If an extreme regional imbalance emerges from the strict ranking
procedure, constraints representing regional equity considerations
are applied, i.e., a minimum number of areas per region is
observed.
2.       For the proposed Project, in addition to the criteria indicated
above, a financial simulation of the candidate PBSs was carried out using
the PBS financial model developed by Coopers and Lybrand Associates. The
four new PBSs selected to be developed under the project ranked among the
best and all of them showed good prospects for financial viability.



-45-
ANNEX 2.8
T?K  IAL CTI                 BOA
Status of Transfer of BPDB Lines to the 33 PBSs in Operation
(As of June 30, 1989)
Name of PBS                         Taken Over          To Be Taken Over
As of June 30, 1989
(KR)                  (KH)
Dhaka PBS-I                            225.30                 64.9
Tangail PBS-I                           96.00                  -
Comilla PBS-I                          248.54                 16.0
Chandpur PBS                           217.45                 77.6
Moulavibazar PBS                        95.30                   -
Habigoni PBS                           133.67                  6.9
Pabna PBS-I                            141.01                  -
Pabna PBS-II                            52.00                  -
Sirajganj PBS                          137.00                  -
Natore PBS-I                           117.85                  -
Natore PBS-II                           55.62                  -
Jessore PBS-I                          254.39                 68.8
Jessore PBS-II                          97.39
Rangpur PBS-I                          128.89
Satkhira PBS                            64.88
Kushtia PBS                            149.00                 64.0
Pirojpur PBS                            68.50                151.2
Mymensingh PBS                          87.16                147.0
Peni PBS                               223.65                  9.6
Joypurhat PBS                           23.70                 24.8
Dinajpur PBS                           339.90                 11.2
Rangpur PBS-II                         309.92                163.8
Bogra PBS                               15.90                 68.8
Thakurgaon PBS                         177.00                153.6
Jamalpur PBS                             -                    22.4
Chittagong PBS-I                         -                   159.2
Madaripur PBS                           55.29                 12.3
Barisal PBS-II                          45.59                111.8
Bagerhat PBS                           144.79                 32.6
Meherpur PBS                            33.27                184.8
Narsingdi PBS-I                          8.10                 32.0
Chittagong PBS-1I                        -                   172.8
Noakhali PBS                             -                    55.2
TOTAL                           3,747.06             1,811.3



-46-
ANNEX 2.9
Page 1 of 3
SANGLADES
UB RUn  &CTRICATXO3 PROE
EBB Training Program
Total  'EB-conducted Training. Trainees by Recigient Category
iEB Personnelt                      122          19S
PBS Personnelt                      496          78?
Other Personnels                      15          2S
REB-conducted First Year Level vs. Advanced Training
Trainees           Periods          Trainee-Days
First Year Levels          300     47Z        900      515       1,752     531
Advanced Levels            333     53S        877      49?       1,571      472
Training Course Implementation: to Date and for April-June, 1989
-TRAINEES----
NAME Of COURSE                              PARTICPANTS             Class   4/S9O  To
P-er lodl   8/SO   Oats
COURSES FOR PBS BOARD DIRECTORS:
Choi leong  and Problems in the POS     PBS Dirncter, Lay Advisors               -      -       79
Establishing Good Member Relation       PS Directors, Lady Advisors              17    11      174
PBS Directores Orientation Cour         PBS Directors, Lady Advisors             -      -      647
Policy Devlopment                       PS Di eOters, Lady Advisors              24    81      308
The PBS Director In the Board Roe       PMS Directors, Lady Advisors             84    20      950
Understanding Financial Reports         P8S Directors, Lady Advisors             18    11       SOO
Undorstanding Policy Instruction        PBS Directors, Lady Advisors             88    20    18
Workshop on P8S Policy Instructions     PS Directors, Lady Advisors, WMe         -      -       189
Board Meting *nd PMS MNnament Intro. PS Directors, Lady Advisors                 -      -       19
PBS Board Retrh r Course                P8S Directors, Lody Advisors             42    81        81
FINANCE COURSES:
Accounting                              REB/PIS Finance Personel                 -      -       138
Auditors Orientation Course             Contract Auditors                        -      -       263
Billing Procedures                      Flance Personnel                         -      -      206
PBS Audit Manual Court                  PBS Finance Personnel                    -      -       43
Prparing Financial Reports              PBS AM (Finance) and Accountant          -      -       193
Procuremnt Proedurs                    RE, PBS OffIcors                         -      -        31
REB/PBS Geneanl Account                RnB, PBS Finance Peronnel                 -      -      277
Retill Rat Constercion                  PBS AC  (Member Service)                 -      -        14
Understanding Financil Reports          RED/P8S Otopirs                          -      -       87
Work Ordr Procedur  nd CPR              RED Oficers/PBS Finanoe Personnel        42    87      278
Workshop on Imprest Fund                REB Personnel                            -      -       81
MANAGEMENT COURSE$:
Class for Departmental Exas             RED Personnel                            -      -       84
Controlling and  e souring Reslts       PBS Directors, Lady Advisors             -      -        14
Duplicating Machin Operation            PBS Offloo Employ e                      -      -       89
Effectiwe Management of the PBS         REB Dirctors                             -      -        16
Manaesemt: ItO mature nd Scope          RE Off Icr, PBS Ose, AGVM               27    19      616
Managments Understnding People          MM Off icer, PBS On., AGMa                  -          -
lgng the CO Depar                       PS Dpt. Nad (CO)                         -      -       49
Managing th OS D rtt                    PBS AM(4S)                               -      -       8S
Monaling the MaPoertes Dept.            PBS ACN(GS)                              21    10       124
Managing tah  P1S                       P8S   rl Manager                         -      -        14
Managing thme OBSn      Depart          PBS AOM(FIN)                             -      -        1



-47-                                 ANNEX 2.9
Page 2 of 3
-----TRAINEES-----
NAME OF COURSE                               PARTCI-PAT               Cilass   4/09-  To
PAtTSCSPANTS      Per!ods   8/    Date
New Connection Procedures                PBS Flnnce , GS Personnel                  -      -        27
Office and Administrative Duties         RU Line lspector                           -      -        49
OffIce Man 9agont                        Ra, PaS Manageont Personnel                21      t      145
Office Procedure/Pcrsonn.l Policy        RU Officers                                -      -        29
PBS Enforcement Course                   PBS Assistant Enforcement Offtler          -      -        16
Planning and Organizing                  PBS GU., ACM.                              -      -       176
Reords Mnagemnt                          RED, PBS Offleer                           21      5      160
Training of Trainers Course              Selocted REB Offic rs                      67    a9        89
The Nature of Supervision                RES ADb and Class 1I Officers              42     a3      131
Introductlon to POS Instruction          RE/PBS Offi crs                            -      -        So
ORIENTATION COURSs:
Orlentation Coure                        REB, BS Offic rs and Support Staff         so     as   1,449
Refresher Course on REB Activities       REB Officers and Supporting Staff          -      -       S18
COS4RUCTICN COURSS:
DistrTbution Line Construction           Contractor Linemen and Supervisors         -      -       6O4
Lin Construction Orientation             Construction Contractor Principles         -      -       275
POS System Construction/Inspection       REB, POS, Consultant Engineers             -      -       764
Substtiton Construction Workshop         RIC  Consultants and Sub Contractors       -      -        71
Wrehoue Managemnt                        RE3, POS Stores, Personnel                 42     21      339
CONSUMER WIRING AND POWER USE COURSES:
Power Use In the PS                      Wiring Coordinators/Itnpectors             -      -        14
Advaned Consumer Wiring                  P8S Power Use Personnel                    -      -       525
Housneiring Course                       MS Dept. Personnel                         61     15      884
s System Introduction                    MS Dpt. Personnel                          -      -        11
ENGINEERtNG COURSES:
Distribution Line Staktng                RES, PBS, Consultant Engineers             -      -       a05
POS Line Renovation                      RE8 Local Consultant Engineers             -      -        28
PBS System Design                        RUS, Consultant Inspectors                 -      -        49
P-s SystmO Destgn and Construction       REU, Local Consultant                      -      -       227
Timber Speciaists Orientation            RES Timber Specialists                     -      -         6
OPERATIONS AD0 MAINTNANCE COURSES:
Capacitors and Power Factor Control      RE8, CON and MS Dpt. Personnel             -      -       16S
CON Accounting                           RE and CON Dept. PRrsonnel                 -      -        47
Distribution Syste  Introduction         POS        nd AQM(FIN),(GS),(MS)           48     1S       S1
Driver Skills Training                   REB Drvers                                 -      -        64
OCR/Regulator Maintenance, Repair        Operations and maintenance Personnel      -       -        S8
PBS System Operation and Maintenance    RED AE, PBS AGM(COM) and LB                 -      -       141
Single Phase Meter Maintenance, Repa r  meter Specialists                           -      -        81
Single Phase o btsr Testing              POS CO8M Personnel                         -      -       161
Substation Introduction                  COm Personnel                              -      -        77
Transport Maintnance                     REB I POS Personnel                        10      5      204
Tractor and Truck OAM                    Equipment Operators, Supervisors           -      -        s
Wireloe  Operation and Maintenance       POS COUM Personnel                         -      -       185
PBS LINESMN COURSES:
PBS Lineman's Tra inng, Part I           PBS Linemn                                8S7     28      725
PBS Linman's Training, P rt II           PUS Linemen                               147     16      468
PBS Linesmn'o Training, P rt III         PBS Lineman                                -      -       122
PBS Not Line Maint nance Cours            8S Lineen                                876      8        8
TOTAL CENTRALLY ADMINISTE' - COUSE TRAINING                                       1,148    487   18,726
Conferenco, Workshop., Foru, etc.        PBS General managers                       -      -       18O
AM(MS                                     -      -        67
ACQ (F                                    -      -        89
AGM(COM)                                  21     8T       87
Contractor Flrms                          -      -       114
REB Engineers, Consultents                869     8      8SO
PBS Staff for Accounting Manual           -      -        97
TOTAL RN  C4UNERENCES, ETC.                                                         6o      70      824



-48-                                ANN     2.9
Page 3 of 3
-AmINEES---
OKIE OF cOU=E                               ,H Crse                  Clel    4/89-  To
Periodo  f/9 f   It
Fleld Training Proram  ArranSg  by RE Training 1lerstorat:
PM Genr   m       re                     -      - 
PMS Bard M or                                     
EU En wr an    S AGCOM)                  -      -       1
am Staff                                 -      - 
AOl (OS)                             -      -        22
A  (s)                                   -        -      23
AOMFDIN) and Finno Saf                   81      2      150
CoraOtr Lime                             -      -       124
El.ctrell  and IS Staff                 20    1S        76
Polytschnic Stud                         -      -        10
S Linemen                                -      -        18
TOTAL FIELD TRAN  BY RENO                                                         109    97      626
TOTAL RU-CUIICTBD IRAIN                                                         1,815   604  16,176
PB5..t 7 T   CONCUCTID MB ?R   TRAININ DRECTOATEs
P-Condue  Linemen S"el Part I:          (Linemn *ho passed the RO eam)           89             517
PUS-Conducted Houewlring Courete        (Eloctrieoins qualified by RM)            6           2,476
Sourmo: RED/NRECA



TI"R UAL  mRVICATMN PiEC
Omnlztlon Chart of Patt l idyat SJlItee
(L" than 30,000 C.enoetlonn)
I     l_rs  I
Po     of Dl  truon|
I  rol vn"O
AG  wrnl S*rv"1            A S  Conrctlon               AC  inw               A0t Etonse *
a nd Mal nnosm                                 .         Wr    S1rla
_    l sotaticz                                           Billingl VW
Col lactio
_    SInot                             _  ~~~~~~Pewr Uz
*dJorw      |           q  Stono Typing
_  Ibter  l   -|               l       9  ~~~comsozpuln



HI. JML .iC1RPlCATMN PROJECT
Oraamlzatlon Chart of Pal II eldft Samitlee
(8,0oo  to 50,000 Connctions)
Dosrd of Diror
LW                            _
ConsInt  I
Genera I Managr
Steno Typis
AM  Gneral Servi           ACM Construction             AC  lnnmn               ACM EngInelring            ACM Extenion *nd
*nd Iint nrnom                                        and Stores                    r Servics
_  tbin*n nco                                   Right of Way           _      lIer
and Operalslon                 _                _Procurement and                 Education
_aA&lni tr t  Bl l l Ing   nd  Cloerning
0 r ~~~~~~~~~~~Ptr s
ConCulr
Mbterlnl    |                                 -i                                    amProcure t *nd  Sr
Lnnd Stores 1         Typin   |                  !  tWehousing
-[ lSoeoe Pool   g  {Cl-ric l  j                          {   ~~~~~~ComplantsH
,   ,                                  4  lS~~~~~~~~~~~ouse Wirin g°
t lh*er Reading |                !                             Xx lR~~0
0,l



-51-                                     ANNEX 2.11
------------------------------------------------------------------___-__
-I~     - -- - - - - - - -- - - - - - - -- - - - - - - -- - - - - - -                     -- -
_- ae    a         e a a   e a e e e a a      e I IV  8 e U   * e e    e V  s U  e I 91     I
,~j j4 e a w : fi~ a s s a  a a : : a a 3 w a a a a a a  a : # a a  
&    Vi,   a a t ;2 a  ,  aa in ,e, sS;l ausna 8l g :S ,a;-e8s5     a a                     * aim
I -                                        -----------------------
j1h  jG  S        a    u Z            Sa |    a S    a  at  a 8a        a a.  mat gS|      a       a
i   J           a   a   a   a a a a ae 2 S a a 8 il   3    aS         11t     1             tt
u    X      - --- --    - --  -  --  --  -  --  -  --  - --   - --  -  --------_--__________
~~il            g g           23;  S  8s        3    1    s                Si f S S t;eS e ReI    S   |
1        _  __ - _____________________H____ ______H________________            - --- ----------
I>  16    8 8    8! 8     1  I  8888!91SI  8*   38. a3          | 98    U 88 S3f SW    1  
£A!  s  as  ! fa r a n a a _ e e * 4 4 a d a n a a ff _ a o a ff _ _ _ _ _ 
£ !n :8         8 I s: £ 3t ; w sa s  1 :8 q e 3 Sl 3 3 3 3 : 3     8  : 2 3 3; 8!a
Ji9- qs   0 4 6 0  0 0 0 0      U_      e   H    e0  HO      >:  e   .4   H   H   H  H E .   ff00ff9#>$  
i  ai  a 8    a t     S U    Z w S a aw | # a8 1n z U ,e aj 8 a      8 3     8, E 8 ; X e
-  U *  ti   H H H H H H. H. H. UtJ    S 5  tf  a U      n. H H  H a 84 H f H H U U  8 5n 
$                 ma 8          fn"nf     a    nu ul e   aw n     a ffa n  ff n  a                ff  ff
---------------------------------------------------------------------
| sil  :I    § A    8i   ii     I !8 i~ 8         *i i   0 I   i      -§ 8   Ii o     11181  i§
-§--!-1-       t  g I         i v   s       sI ti A-.4-R     iiA 4 6______6§j}2
PRI 4        i                                                        I n 4  1!!!§    § i  Z   .! . . .
.= "4.4 ..      6 -   4.-.    ....  .4 4                                  4aa a .i4  4.4  4.4.  -



-52-
ANNEI 3.1
Page 1 of 2
TuM   Ruu.L   CuIncUOu PROJUCT
IUBL LS        CIOI BOARD
Proiect Details
The design of the proposed Project is based on a model PBS spread
over an area of 1,500 square km. Quantities of material designed for a
model PBS have been used for the Project. Vhen the Project starts, the new
areas will be surveyed and actual bills of material will be prepared. In
order to start the Project, 25Z of material included in Tranche One will be
procured without preparing the detailed survey and design. The subsequent
procurements will be based on detailed survey and design and will include
any adjustment in quantities of material required to be made out of first
procurement.
Lines
1.       It is estimated that the proposed Project would consist of about
70 km of 33 kV and 5,965 km of 11 kV three phase and single phase primary
lines. The 33 kV lines would be for taking supply from existing BPDB
system. All lines would be on wooden poles. In addition there would be
about 4,590 km of low voltage secondary lines (including about 1,575 km of
underbuilt LV lines).
2.       The main physical features of the lines are summarized below.
3.       Primary Lines
km
(a)  33 kV 4/o ACSR conductor                                              70
(b)  1116.35 kV, 4/o ACSR conductor and 1lo ACSR neutral wire           1,530
(c)  11/6.35 kV, 1/o ACSR conductor and t3 ACSR neutral wire              575
(d)  11/6.35 kV, 13 ACSR conductor and 13 ACSR neutral wire             1,905
(e)  6.35 kV, 110 ACSR conductor and #3 ACSR neutral wire                 300
(f)  6.35 kV, 1 ACSR conductor and 13 ACSR neutral wire                 1,655
Sub Total        6,035
4.      Secondary Lines
(g)  3-phase, 4-wire 13 ACSR conductor and 13 ACSR neutral wire           165
(h)  1-phase wire 13 ACSR conductor and t3 ACSR neutral wire            1,680
(i)  1-phase insulated conductor 13 Duplex                                930
(j)  3-phase insulated conductor 13 quadruplex                            240
(k)  underbuilt lines with 13 ACSR                                      1.575
(702 single phase 301 three phase)
Sub Total 1/     3,015
1/      Excluding the underbuilt lines.



-53-
ANNEX 3.31
Page 2 of 2
Substations
5.       There will be 18 substations, each substation consisting of the
following equipments
Description                                    Per Substation
(a) 33122 kW, single phase, 1,667 kVA power
transformer                                                4 Nos.
(b) automatic voltage regulator, 700 amperes at
6.35 kV, 467 kVA capacity, single phase                    3 Nos.
(c) automatic circuit recloser
(i) three phase, 15 kV, 6000 A interrupting
capacity, 100 A continuous rating
200 A minimum trip                                 2 Nos.
(ii)  single phase recloser, 70 A load, 140 A trip,
4000 A interrupting capacity                       6 Nos.
(d) 34.5 kV class outdoor potential transformer
33 kV/240 volt stepdown operation, 50 HZ                   2 Nos.
Ce) wound type current transformer to be installed
on 33 kV busbar for metering purpose ratio
150-30015A                                                 2 Nos.
(f) 6350/240 volt 5 kVA single phase conventional
station service transformer                                1 No.
(g)  metering cabinet including all meters                      1 No.
Consumer Connections
6.       It is estimated that the infrastructure would enable the following
connections to be given to the consumerst
Year                 1993      1994     1995     1996      1997      1998      1999
Connectionss
Residential         12,220   21,946   39,413   70,784   127,098   128,369   129,653
Commercial           3,016    4,919    8,023   13,085    21,341    21,661    21,986
Irrigation           1,128    1,687    2,523    3,773       5,642     5,642     5,642
Industrial             576       861    1,287    1,925      2,879     2,879     2,879
TOTALs Cumulative   16,940   29,413   51,246   89,567   156,960   158,551   160,160



-54-                                        ANNEX 3.1
Page 1 of 4
Third Rural Eletrlficalo Proj
Table 801. II PD
Detaileld Cost Table
Take
B.e. Coata
1381   1992   1908   1904   1095   1038   10t0  Totl
I. INVESTMT COSTS
A. Line Materiale
1nsul.PItting   Hardare    7.0   23.7   21.5   84.9   20.5   15.4    5.0  189.7
Bare Condutor              1s.8   62.0   59.1   76.5  6U.1   38.0   12.2  306.9
Insulated Conductor        5.6   19.1   21.$   21.0   21.8   12.8    4.5  112.1
Pin Insulator               0.4    1.4    1.    2g1      1.6    0.0    0.3    6.2
Sueapenlon Insult.ro        0.0    2.1    2.8    8.1    2.3    1.4    0.5   12.3
Spool Inulator.             0.1    0.4    0.4    0.6    0.4    0.2    0.1    2.2
Conductor Accoorbes       0.9    3.2    3.5    4.7    8.5    2.1    0.7   18.?
our & Oroundia Wire         1.2    8.9    4.4    5.0    4.4    2.6    0.9   28.2
Connecter                   1.2    4.2    4.7    6.1    4.7    2.7    1.0   24.6
Oldetributton Transorer.   11.2   21.0   42.5  t5.9   42.5   24.6    6.9  223.5
Sectioaslasn Devices        3.1   10.7   11.9   15.7   11.9    0.9    2.5   62.9
Oil Cirit woelo..rs         1.2    4.2    4.7    8.2    4.7    2.7    1.0   24.0
LT Capaectors              0.9    8.0    3.3    4.4    8.3    1.0    0.7   17.5
:o:aing Cable              0.4    1.4    1.6    2.1    1.6    0.9    0.3    0.4
Stret Light Equipment      0.5    1.3    2.0    2.0    2.0    1.2    0.4   10.5
Single Phaa Metr.           3.0   10.3   11.5   15.1   11.5    6.0    2.4   00.4
There Phase metre           1.9    6.5    7.8    7.4    7.8    4.2    1.5   16.3
Spar..                     0.4    1.3    1.5    1.9    1.5    0.6    0.3    7.7
50 ft Treated Wood Poles   0.0    0.1    0.1    0.1    0.1    0.1    0.0    0.0
45 ft Treated Wood poloe   0.2    0.5    0.6    0.6    0.0    0.8    0.1    3.1
40 ft Trted Wood Poles      1.0    8.6    4.0    5.2    4.0    2.3    0.0   20.9
35 ft Treted Wood Poles    0.6    2.2   26.9   84.0   25.0   15.0    5.5  180.2
30 It Trted Wood Pole.     6.4   21.9   24.5   S2.2   24.5   14.2    5.2  121.9
25 *t Treted Wood Pole     2.8    7.6    3.7   11.5    8.7    5.0    1.0   45.8
Tr"ted Wood X-Am           0.9    8.2    8.0    4.7    8.6    2.1    0.7   13.7
Treated Aach.& Stab. Log   2.2    7.0    6.5   11.2    6.5    4.9    1.0   44.7
Sub-Total                   75.0  255.0  215.0  372.8  285.0  165.0   60.0  1497.9
B. Subtation Materials
88/11kV Poer Transformer    2.0    6.8    7.0   10.0    7.0    4.4    1.0   80.3
Auto Voltg R"ulator.       0.9    2.9    8.8    4.8    8.3    1.9    0.7   17.2
3-ph Auo Circuit Recloe     1.6    5.8    5.0    7.6    5.9    8.4    1.8   81.3
84.6kV Potential Transeo   0.6    1.9    2.1    2.7    2.1    1.2    0.4   10.9
0.8/.24kV-5kVA Serv.Trteo    0.8    1.1    1.2    1.0    1.2    0.?    0.2    0.3
Metering Cabinet u Meter   0.2    0.6    0.7    0.0    0.7    0.4    0.2    8.6
Misc. Material             3.1   10.6   11.9   15.0   11.9    0.9    2.5   62.5
Spare Per"                 0.2    0.5    0.0    0.8    0.6    0.8    0.1    8.1
Sub-Toal                    6.7   29.7   8.2   48.7   88.2   19.2    7.0  174.9
C. Support C_omditie.
Line Toole                  4.0    9.9    9.9    0.6    1.0    0.0    0.0   82.6
Test Instrunt.             0.9    1.6    1.8    1.2    0.3    0.0    0.0    0.0
Misc. Equip_mt             0.0    1.1    1.1    0.6    0.2    0.0    0.0    8.6
Vehicle. p)                0.7    1.4    1.4    1.0    0.2    0.0    0.0    4.0
Vohile. (ick-up)            0.6    1.1    1.1    0.0    0.2    0.0    0.0    8.6
Hydraulic Crane             1.4    2.9    2.0    1.9    0.5    0.0    0.0    0.6
PF Correction Equipmet      1.6    3.8    3.3    2.2    0.0    0.0    0.0   11.0
Co_nnleation Equip_mt       1.5    8.1    3.1    2.1    0.5    0.0    0.0   10.8
Sub-Total                   12.3   24.6   24.0   16.4    4.1    0.0    0.0   62.1
0. Lino Construction            0.0   10.0   15.0   20.0   20.0   20.0   15.0  100.0
E. Substation Contruction       0.0    1.0    1.6    2.1.   2.1    9.1    1.0   10.5
f. Conweltat Servie.           12.1   14.6   14.0   14.6   14.0   14.t   12.1   91.1
4. Genral Plant                 0.0    5.9    8.3   11.7   11.7   11.7    0.6   59.?
M. REB 0/11 A Other 0 pease.
REI Owerheede               1.4    4.3    5.7    5.7    4.8    4.3    2.0   21.0
SE Office                   0.7    2.1    2.9    2.0    2.1    2.1    1.4   14.8
PBS Deelomet                0.2    0.7    0.7    0.7    0.0    0.0    0.0    2.4
Training                   0.0    0.5    0.0    0.0    0.5    0.4    0.0    2.5
PBS Opratig Expenses       0.0    1.2    1.0    2.4    2.4    2.4    1.6   11.9
Comp_n.tor B1 eyst.T/0    0.0    0.0   14.9   20.8   14.0    3.9    0.0   59.5
a        - - - - --  - -~~ - - -
Sub-Totl                    2.4    6.6   21.    88.1   24.2   16.1    0.1  119.2
Total INVESTWENT COSTS           110.   3409.7  400.4   14.5  804.9  250.7  110.5 2140.3



-55-                                        ANNEX 3.1
Page 2 of 4
SANOLAmS
Third Rural Eletbrifluteon Project
Table 302. PBS EXTENS100/1NTESTIFICATION
Detailed Coat Tablo
Take
sees Ceot
1991   1992   19CJ   1994  19o    1996   1997  TotaI
I. INVESTMENT COSTS
A. Line Materiels
Insul.fittinga& Hardware    4.4   14.9   10.7   22.0   10.7    9.7    8.5   8?.9
Bare Conductor              9.6   82.7   86.0   48.1   86.0   21.2    7.7  192.5
Insulated Conductor         8.5   12.0   18.4   17.0   18.4    7.6    2.6   70.8
PIn Insulator               0.8    0.9    1.0    1.8    1.0    0.6    0.2    6.2
Suspenslon Insulators       0.4    1.8    1.5    1.9    1.5    0.9    0.8    7.6
Spool Insulators            0.1    0.2    0.8    0.4    0.8    0.2    0.1    1.4
Conductor Acceaeories       0.6    2.0    2.2    2.9    2.2    1.8    0.6   11.7
Guy A Grounding WIre        0.7    2.5    2.8    8.7    2.8    1.0    0.6   14.6
Conneatoer                  0.8    2.6    2.9    8.9    2.9    1.7    0.6   15.5
Distribution Transformrs    7.0   28.9   26.?   85.2   26.7   15.5    6.6  140.7
Sectionaliiang Devics       2.0    6.7    7.5    9.9    7.5    4.3    1.6   89.6
OlI Crecuit Recloes         0.8    2.7    8.0    8.9    8.0    1.7    0.0   16.6
LT Capacitors               0.6    1.9    2.1    2.7    2.1    1.2    0.4   11.0
Me4teing Cable              0.8    0.9    1.0    1.8    1.0    0.6    0.2   65.
Street Light Equipment      0.8    1.1    1.8    1.6    1.8    0.7    0.8    6.e
Single Phase Metrs          1.9    6.5    7.2    9.5    7.2    4.2    1.5  38.0
Three Phase  eters          1.2    4.1    4.0    6.0    4.0    2.7    1.0   24.2
Spares                      0.2    0.8    0.9    1.2    0.9    0.5    0.2    4.6
60 ft Tretod Wood Poles     0.0    0.1    0.1    0.1    0.1    0.0    0.0    0.4
45 ft Treated Wood poles    0.1    0.8    0.4    0.5    0.4    0.2    0.1    2.0
40 ft Troated Wood Poles    0.?    2.2    2.5    8.8    2.5    1.4    0.5   18.2
85 ft Treted Wood Poles     4.S   14.6   10.8   21.4   16.8    9.4    8.4   85.7
80 ft Treated Wood Poles    4.1   1S 8   16.4   20.8   15.4    8.9    8.2   61.1
25 ft Treated Wood Poles    1.4    4.9    5.6    7.2    6.5    8.2    1.2   26.8
Treated Wood X-Are          0.6    2.0    2.2    2.9    2.2    1.8    0.5   11.
Treted Aneh.& Stab. Leg     1.4    4.6    5.8    7.0    5.8    8.1    1.1   28.1
Sub-Total                   47.2  16O.S  179.4  286.0  179.4  108.0   87.8  944.1
S. Substation Materials
88/llkV Poer Transformer    1.1    8.0    4.0    5.8    4.0    2.8    0.9   21.8
Auto Voltage Regulators     0.5    1.6    1.7    2.8    1.7    1.0    0.4    9.2
8-ph Auto Circuit Reloe    0.0    2.6    8.2    4.2    8.2    1.6    0.7   16.7
84.5kV Potential Transfo    0.8    1.0    1.1    1.6    1.1    0.6    0.2    5.9
6.S/.24kV-SkVA Serv.Trafo    0.2    0.     0 0.6    0.6    0.0    0.4    0.1    8.8
Metering Cabinet k  Meter   0.1    0.8    0.4    0.5    0.4    0.2    0.1    2.0
Misc. Material              1.7    6.7    6.8     .8    6.8        .7    1.8   38.4
Spare Pert                  0.1    0.8    0.8    0.4    0.8    0.2    0.1    1.6
Sub-Total                    4.6   1.6.   17.7   28.8   17.7   10.8    8.7   98.3
C. Support Ceoioditie
Line Tools                  1.4    2.8    2.6    1.9    0.5    0.0    0.0    9.8
Test Instrumente            0.8    0.5    0.5    0.8    0.1    0.0    0.0    1.7
mistc. Equipment            0.2    0.8    0.8    0.2    0.1    0.0    0.0    1.1
Vehicles  p)                0.2    0.4    0.4    0.8    0.1    0.0    0.0    1.4
Veh IceOs (tpc-up)          0.2    0.8    0.8    0.2    0.1    0.0    0.0    1.1
Hydraulic Crone             0.4    0.6    0.6    0.5    0.1    0.0    0.0    2.7
PF Correction Equipment     0.5    0.9    0.9    0.6    0.2    0.0    0.0    8.1
Comunication Equipment      0.4    0.9    0.9    0.6    0.1    0.0    0.0    2.9
Sub-Total                    8.5    7.0    7.0    4.7    1.2    0.0    0.0   28.8
D. Lino Constructlon             0.0    6.S    9.4   12.6   12.6   12.0    9.4   68.0
E. Substation Construction       0.0    0.7    1.1    1.5    1.5    1.6    1.1    7.5
f. Consultant Servies            5.4    6.2    0.2    6.2    6.2    6.2    6.2   54.4
G. RED O/H & Other Expenes
RED Ovorbade                1.2    8.6    4.8    4.8    8.6    8.6    2.4   24.1
SE Office                   0.6    1.9    2.6    2.6    1.9    1.9    1.8   12.6
Training                    0.0    0.6    0.9    0.9    0.3    0.4    0.0    8.6
Compens.for GM  eyet.T/O    0.0    8.7   12.1    6.7    5.2    0.0    0.0   84.6
Sub-Total                    1.6   14.9   20.4   17.0   11.5    5.9    8.7   76.2
Total INVESTMENT COSTS            62.6  218.   248.2  808.2  282.0  142.8   68.9  1260.7
Total                           62.6  218.5  248.2  808.2  282.0  142.8   68.0 1260.7



-56-                                          ANNEX 3.1
Page 3 of 4
BAIADESH
Third Rural Electrifleatito Projec6
Table 803. RNO Central Faecllt es
Detailed Coot Table
Take
1991   102   1998  1904   195  90-97 Total
I. INVESTMENT COSTS
A. FuncClonel Buildings
H"A  Complex (10000 sqi)     0.0  87.8  42.7  16.0  10.7    0.0  106.7
Training Complex(lOOO qm)    0.6   1.8   1.6   0.0   0.0    0.0    4.1
Main Workshop (1000 sq)      0.6   1.8   1.6   0.0   0.0   0.0    4.1
Warehouse (0soq.)            0.9   2.7   2.4   0.0   0.0   0.0    6.1
Sub-Total                     2.1  48.7  48.8  16.0  10.7    0.0  120.9
S. Resdential Buildings
C-Typ 2 unite 140 uq ea   0.0    0.6   0.?    0.2   0.2   0.0    1.6
d-Typ 6 unite 10eqm ea    0.0    1.3   1.5   0.6    0.4    0.0   8.7
E-typ  12 unite 96 sq ea    0.0    2.8   2.6   1.0   0.?   0.0    6.5
F-type 32 unite 67 sq  so    0.0   4.2   4.?    1.8    1.2   0.0   11.9
Training Hostel (400 sqm)    0.3   1.0   0.9   0.0   0.0   0.0    2.3
Sub-Tote I                    0.8   0.3  10.4   8.6   2.4   0.0  26.0
C. Other Constructlon Works
Opo St ck Yard (4000 q)    0.0   0.4   0.4   0.2   0.1   0.0    1.1
S  1 Steak Yard (ISOOpsa)   0.0   0.2   0.2   0.1   0.1   0.0    0.5
Utilities                    0.0   4.5    5.2    1.9    1.8   0.0   12.9
Sub-Total                     0.0   6.1    5.8   2.2    1.5   0.0   14.5
D. Equipment                      0.0   2.8   9.2   9.2    2.8   0.0   22.9
E. hesign A Superviston           4.6    4.6   8.0    1.8   1.1   0.0   16.2
F. Land(80 acrs)
Lend Acquisition            45.8  45.3   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   90.7
Lend Rogistr. A Develop.   18.8   13.3   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   26.?
Sub-Total                    S8.?   58.7   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0  117.4
Total INVESTMi ET COSTS            65.?  123.7  7B.7  82.8  17.0    0.0  816.9
mu=              mu mu mu _          u..  -
Total                            65.?  123.7   MT.7  82.8   17.9   0.0  816.9
- Values scaled by 1000000.0  8,5,1000  18:68



-57                                         ARMEX 3.2
Page 4 of 4
THIRD MA  EECTRCAT    PECT
Technical A681stance Advisor SXtafin
[Auu  1991 -      5seateer 136)
A.    TECHIICAL ASSISTANCE
1991    1o     1998   194    19        19    Tol   Estimated
Advisor Position             Months Mentim  Moths Month  Monhs Months Months Amount of
5      12      12      12      12      9              '000two8
Tom Lr                                <- d2
mangeIb t Advisor                     <--                                          >   2
REB Flnance Advisr                                                                      2
POS Finance Advisor                                                                    at--   62
P1l Finance Advisor                   C                                                42
Membr Sorvice  Advisor                <-                                               62
Member Services Advisor                      <_>                                       41
PMS Operation Maintenae Advisor                                                        S > t0
PS Operation Maintenance Advisor             C     -)                                  41
Institutlonal Training Advisor                                          a-
Technical Training Advisor           <>                                                41
Engineering Advisor                   <- -->         02
Distribution Enginer                                  < -  >41
Substatlio  Constructlon Advlsor                          <2
Construction Advloor                         -                                          a
Constructlon Advisor                 <                                     >8
Short Term Advisle                     12      20      20      2       29    22      10
Total Man Months                       92    221    221    221    162    94    1,011          12,640
D.    IRU^NO
s0 TraInes (12/year)                                                                 G00
TOTAL BASE COST
Short Tere Advlsors include:
Rate Specialists: Meter Specialist:s Wood Produc Specialists: Public Relatios Advisor:
Audido-isual Programs Specialists:  ngement Consultant Specialists: Financial Audit
Specialists: Trane_ision Engin er: Distribution Engineer: System Analysis and Design Enginer
Procurement Speciallsts: Automati Dat Processing SpeciallsO .



BANLD ESH
Third Rural Electrtflcatlon ProJect
Zaln.msrttion and Construction Schedul.
lo           199          1992        1998          1994         1995          19           1
1Il          TR2          TR      TR4
In.r'natlonal Tenderin                  - -- -                           
131          1R2          12          TR4
hliv.r7 of mterials
P3$ Lino Design                                   -        -
Lan Acqutsltlo and R_
Headquarters Costructon                                                              -            -
Line end Substation
C oest uetlon                                         -    ----------                                         -----------
Membership Drive-
Consumer Connecion
TR = Trncwhe corresponding to about 26X of equlpmt and material



-59-                                               ANNEX 3.3
Page 2 of 2
DM10 -PA aOIMIPiMATIVI MM
P,etmtptI1i  *w a:
'IIAAS.1Ima   is   ilqqo. III   IMsO IV            MAL
LtS Am  ts-4W                                      16           19            19/4          194/
LOT-A LD  OTMATZL                                     9.00          S."0         7.60          8.00         11.70
pM a FXTTS me    H
Dau  emc,
WATOW -.
PIN DWA.LAI
SFi41 DLRB
SW      N D    VDLS
LOT-I SpiT                                             50           6.70         8.10          4.90         22.20
DISTRiUJTI IW6ftSOYA
OIL CIW.   .FlS#L
LT CAPAIT
-EOt   CAKE
11 Pf SE-
5S
LOT-C WU     UCT                                      4.30          8.00         4.e0          5.40         19.60
so Fr. 1TE WOM POLO
45 Ff. 1USTW WOW POLEB
40 Fr. 1R6TW WtOL 0
81 FT. 1TAT0 WOO POLO
10 Fr. WAYD Wm Pot
2 Fr. WOO WOW POL
TRATW WMO X-
WOOW AN0 NC STA9112M LOO
W. 6"-O*, 2-'
LtT-OU SMATI@M TAS                                    S.70          2.70         2. 10         0.60          6.10
I/11I PO   TWM6R4
AVU"ITIC VOLTA  R1AlIAT
S-PHASE FuMnTc CtlXT   fibS
14.5 KV OT OOi _OTWTIA 156
S="240 V-S WA STAtYi SIICE tROf.
ETWDvi SMUT UNuSDCA Wm
NIsc. NUJIM VATUIAL
SPCE PAlSE
LO-I SUPORET Ci?IOTm                                  1.00          1.30         0.60                        2.90
LWZ TOOLS
UFIE  S                                                                          -
V540. (PIOC.4P)
HNIUALIC CRt
cS6iCATiS 2IRUtW
Total A.S.C.0                                        60.80        25.60         21.40         16.00         84-40



-60.                            ANNEX 3.4
THIRD RRAL sldCTRXP?CATIOM PROJECT
Disbursement Profile
Cumulative Disbursement    Cumulative Disbursement
(Project)                    (Project)
Fiscal Year                        (USS Mlllon)                      (1)
1990/91:  December 31, 1990
June 30, 1991                   2.3                          2
1991192:  December 31, 1991               4.6
June 30, 1991                  13.2                         13
1992/93:  December 31. 1992              21.8
June 30, 1993                  32.0                         30
1993/94:  December 31, 1993              42.2
June 30, 1994                  54.6                         52
1994/95:  December 31. 1994              67.0
June 30, 1995                  76.9                         73
1995196:  December 31, 1995              86.8
June 30, 1996                  93.0                         89
1996/97:  December 31, 1996              99.2
June 30. 1997                 102.0                         97
1997/98:  December 31. 1997             103.5
June 30, 1998                 105.0                        100
100.
so
40
20
SO  19 9       4  6  6
FY
- FM,, melee.   * US  dkeL
_ POW



BANGLADESH
..........
RURAL ELECTRIfICATION f(OARD
...........................
ACTUAL AND FORECAST tNCOME STATEMENTS
(In Tk. aittion)
Fiscal Year ending                                                                                                                                               ,-..-....
June 30                              1978   1979   1960   1981   1982   1983   1984   1985   1966   1987   1968    1989    1990    1991    1992    1993    1994    1995
..................                    -------   ------------------- audited -- .--------------------------I   (proa)  test.)   t--------- projections -----------t
Revenues
Interest from PaSs                    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    4.2   59.4   68.4    94.3   219.6   215.2   243.6   255.3   250.8   246.3
Other Revenues                        0.1    1.1    1.7    1.0    2.7    9.3    2.3    4.1    2.2    4.1    4.5          5.4      5.6     5.8      5.9     6.1     6.3      6.S
Total Revenues                        0.1    1.4    2.2    2.3    2.7    9.3    2.3    4.1    6.4   63.5   72.9    99.7   225.2   221.0   249.S   261.4   257.1   2S2.8
Expenses
Pay & Attowance                       0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    6.3    5.5    5.9    7.4   12.8   14.6   17.4    18.5    22.1    26.6    31.9    38.3    4S.9    55.1
Transportation                        0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    3.3    1.8    2.9    3.1    3.2    4.0    4.0          5.4     6.2      7.2      8.3     9.5    10.9    12.6      ON
Rent                                  0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    3.1    2.6    2.8    3.9    3.3    3.1    3.5          5.0      5.5     6.1      6.7     7.4     8.1      8.9
Depreciation                          0.0    1.2    1.8    1.3    2.4    2.5    2.5    3.1    2.9    3.4    4.4          5.1      9.2    10.8    12.7    14.7    26.4    28.8
Other Misc. Expenses                  0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0   65.8    4.0    3.9    5.6    7.0    7.3    7.9          9.8    10.8    11.9    13.1    14.4    15.8    17.4
....     .... .   ....   .... .   ....   .... .   ....   .... .   ....   .... .   ....  .... .    ----  .... .    ....  .... .    ....  ----..... ........ ..... ..... .. ........  ... 
Total Expenses                        7.3   36.5  122.0  105.1   80.9 ?6.3   17.9   23.1   29.2   32.4   37.2    43.9    54.0    62.5    72.6    84.2   107.2   122.9
operating Income                     -7.2  -35.2 -119.8 -102.9  -78.2   -7.0  -15.6  -19.0  -22.8   31.1   35.7    55.9   171.3   158.4   176.9   177.2   149.9   129.9
interest paid to G.O.S.               0.0    0.2    1.7    4.3    5.8    8.7   15.4   29.4   38.8   34.1   61.4    93.5    95.4    93.6    89.7    85.8    81.9    78.1
Add: Interest during Grace Pd.        0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0          0.0    13.7    28.1    44.7    63.2    76.8    83.6
Less: Interest during Constr.         0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0          0.0    59.4    28.1    43.8    37.9    39.6    45.9
Total tnterest Expenses               0.0    0.2    1.7    4.3    5.8    8.7   15.4   29.4   38.8   34.1   61.4    93.5    49.7    93.6    90.6   111.2   119.2   115.8
Prior Pd's Adjustment                 0.0    0.0    0.9    2.0    3.3  312.7  -13.9    0.7    0.1   22.0    0.4          0.7     0.0      0.0     0.0      0.0     0.0      0.0
...   . ..  ..   . ..  --   - --  ..    .. .   ..      .. .   ..      .. .     ...     .. .     ...     .. . ...  ....
Net Income                           -7.2  -35.4 -120.6 -105.2  -80.8  297.0  -44.9  -47.8  -61.4   18.9  -25.3   -37.0   121.6    64.8    66.3    66.0    30.7    14.2
Administrative cost and interest                                                         t2.0   10.2    1.0    1.3       1.3      0.4     0.?     0.6      0.7     0.8      0.8
as a X of revenues
...



BAtJGLADf S1
RURAL ELECTRIF:ICATION4 BOARD
ACIUAL MMO FORECAST SOURCES ANO APPLICATIONS 0Of FUNDS STATENENTS
...... ..... ...... ..... ...... ..... ...... ..... ...... .....(in   Tk.   miltion)
Fiscal Year ending                                                                                                                                     -------
jurwe 30                           1978  1979   1980   1981   1982   1983   1984   1985   1986  1987  1988   1989    1990   1991    1992    199    1994   199
.........   -.                 I-----------------audited.-----------------I                                (prov)    test.]  C    .-----projections  .------
Internat Sources
Operating Income                   -7.2  -35.2 -119.8 -102.9  -78.2  -7.0  -#5.6  -19.0  -22.8  31.1  35.7   55.9  171.3  158.4  176.9  177.2  149.9  129.9
Depreciation                        0.0    1.2    1.8   1.3   2.4    2.0   0.0   2.1    2.7   3.6   3.7    4.6           9.2   10.8   12.7   14.7   26.4   28.8
Tot'i Internal Sources             -7.2  -34.0 -118.0 -101.5  -75.8  -5.0  -15.6  -16.9  -20.1  34.7  39.4   6k1. 5   180.5   169.2  189.6  191.9  176.3  158.8
Pr...r Year's Adjustment            0.0    0.0    0.9   2.0    3.3  312.7  -13.9   0.7   0.1  22.0   0.4    0.7          0.0     0.0      0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0
External Sources
Foreign~ G-ants                     0.0    0.0  24.7  306.5  86.9  126.8   0.0   2.8   0.0   0.0  27.3  -27.3            0.0     0.0      0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0
GMS Contribution                   26.0  75.9  167.3  155.0  170.0  189.3  233.6  214.9  385.1  417.9  331.6  391.9  635.Z  975.2  1042.5  1027.3  750.7  803.1
Captiata Gains                      0.0   0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0  31.6  20.3  23.1  143.0  46.9   41.1   30.6   33.6   37.0   40.7   44.8   49.3
Foreign Borrowing                   7.0  21.6  211.4    0.0    0.0  182.9  316.5 4028.6  791.0  996.0  805.2  713.3  2000.0  1946.3  2419.6  2432.4  1067.0  584.4
Sale of Assets                      0.0    0.0   0.0    0.0  117.5  211.8 1236.2  65.0  109.7 546.7 1206.7  1275.4  510.9   1rZ.3  3941.5  2030.1    0.0    0.0
Repayment recd, from PSSs           0.0    0.0   0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   50.1  297.0  297.0  297.0  297.0  297.0  297.0
Def. & other tiabitiies             0.0    0.0   0.0    3.7    2.7    2.0  44.7  -45.2  56.4   8.1  65.3  *85.7    9.3   11.1   13.3   15.9   19.0   22.8
...  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Totat Sources                      25.8  63.5  286.2  365.5  304.6 100. 1833.1 1270.1 1345.4 2168.3 2522.8  2420.0  3677.3  3633.0  796.3  6098.5  2431.7  1999.0
Apptications
Pro-po*s,e-d p,roject               0.0   0.0    0.0   0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0    0.0    0.0          0.0  108.9  598.7  925.3  1197.4  1143.0
Other Cap. investment               7.6  23.8  48.3  178.4  294.1  678.1  516.2  477.6  356.4  315.0  975.0  1289.1  2611.9  2936.2  3087.5  2619.9  674.3  278.1
Transfer of Stores to PSS assets    0.0   0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0    0.0  3003.7    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0
Capitatised interest                0.0   0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0    0.0   59.4   28.1   43.8   37.9   39.6   45.9
Total Investment Program            7.6  23.8  48.3  178.4  294.1  678.1  516.2  477.6  356.4  315.0  975.0  1289.1  5675.0  3073.1  3730.0  3583.1  1911.3  1467.0
Loans to Pess                       0.0   0.0    0.0   0.0  137.7  '17.4 1241.9  76.7  126.2 565.2 1217.0  809.8  941.4  205.2  4011.9  2126.8  109.4  125.1
SpeciaL fund & Deposit              8.8   2.7    1.0  -5.2    7.2    7.2  -4.5  41.2  16.8   0.1  18.5   30.4   18.6   21.4   24.6   28.3   32.6   37.4
Loan to R.E.B. EspI.                0.0    0.0    0.0   0.0   0.1    0.0   0.0   1.1   0.5   1.8   1.3    2.0            0.3     0.4     0.4    0.4    0.4    0.4
Change of Store In transit          0.0    0.0   0.0    1.8  -0.6    0.9  -2.1  233.1   4.5  -98.8  59.5   78.9  -227.2          0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0
Insurance and other CLaimS          0.0   0.0    0.0   0.0    0.0    0.0   5.9   5.3   2.1   4.2  29.9  -18.9            1.4     1.5     1.6    1.6    1.7    1.8
Debt Service
Amwortization                       0.0    0 0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   77.3  102.2  194.0  194.0  194.0  194.0  194.0
Interest Payment                   0.0   0.2    1.7   4.3    5.8   8.7  15.4  29.4  38.8  34.1  61.4   93.5   49.7   93.6   90.6  111.2  119.2  115.8
Total Debt Service                  0.0    0.2    1.7   4.3    5.8    8.7  15.4  29.4  38.8  34.1  61.4  170.8  151.9  287.6  284.7  305.2  313.2  309.8
Change in Working Capital
Change in Cash                      7.8  -0.9  -3.7   3.8  24.6   -2.8  55.0  -57.4  16.9  38.4  48.0    4.6  -123.1             1.8    2.0    2.4    2.8    3.3
Chin Work. Cap. other than Cash    1.6  37.8  238.9  182.6 -164.2  M1.0   5.3 463.0  783.2 1308.3  112.3   53.3 -2761.2   42.0  -69.9   50.7   60.3   54.1
Net Change in Work. Cap.            9.5  36.8  235.2  186.4 -13Y.6  108.1  60.3 405.5  800.1 1346.7  160.3   57.9 -288.2   43.8  -67.8   53.1   63.1   57.4  0
.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.
Debt Service Coverage Ratio                                                         -0.6  -0.5    1.7   0.6    0.7    3.1        1.6    1.7    1.6    1.5    1.5  o
(including repayment from PBSS-



AGADE SN
RURAL ELECTRIFICATION BOARD
ACTUAL AND FORECAST BALANCE SHEETS
..................................                   ~~(in   Tk.  millionl)
As an June 30                      1978   1979   1980   1981   1982   1983   1984   1985   1986   1987   1968    1969    1990    1991    1992    1993    1994    1995
........                    ------------------audited                     ..----------------I  (provi  test.]   I------projections -.......)
Assets
Fixed Assets
Gross Fixed Assets                  5.7  12.8  17.0  23.0   24.9   34.3  53.4  143P.3  191.7  90.5   94.5   113.6   132.2   155.8   181.7  210.3  618.8  653.3
Less :Ace. Depreciation             0.0    1.2    3.0    4.3    6.7    8.8    8.8   10.9  13.6   17.2   20.9   25.6   34.8   45.6    58.3    73.0   99.3  128.2
Net Fixed Assets                    5.7  11.6  14.0   18.7  18.1   25.5   44.6  138.4  178.1   73.3  73.6   88.0    97.4   i10.2  123.5  137.3  519.5  525.1
Work-in-Progress                    1.8  18.5  62.7  235.0  409.7  866.6  127.5  444.2  648.5  517.9  282.3  276.9  5422.4  8299.6  8062.2  9586.? 11089.4 '12522.0
Loans to PBS                        0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0  137.7  355.1 1597.0 1673.6 1799.8 2365.0 3582.0  4341.7  4986.1  4894.3  8609.1 10438.9 10251.2 10079.3
Special Fund & Other Deposits       8.8   11.5  12.4    7.2   14.4   21.6  17.1  58.3  75.1   7..2  93.7  124.1  142.7  164.1   188.7  217.0  249.6  287.0
Current Assets
Cash mncI. working fund             7.8    9.1    5.2    9.1   33.8  31.0  86.1  29.4  45.9  84.5  132.5  137.3   14.3   16.1    18.1    20.6   23.4   26.8
Working Capital loans to PUSs       0.0    0.0   11.5  53.1   20.5  13.5  10.8   4.4    4.5    5.2    4.6          8.0     8.1     8.3      8.5     8.6     8.8    9.0
Advance to Euptoyees                0.0    0.2    1.5    0.7    0.6    1.0    1.3    1.3    0.9    1.1    1.5      2.4     2.6     2.8      3.1     3.4     3.8     4.2
Stores                              0.0  15.0  238.7  395.8  251.9  339.4  293.4  806.0 1565.6 2894.0 2950.1  2994.6  218.1  243.1   154.5  184.3  221.6  250.3
Receivables from P8Ss               1.7  22.9  35.1   23.4  46.4  78.5  129.3  101.3  134.6  115.0  155.5  180.9  199.0  218.9  240.7  264.8  291.3  320.4
Misc. Current Assets                0.0    2.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    1.0   3.2    1.2    3.6    0.3       0.3     0.3     0.3      0.3     0.3     0.3    0.3
Total Current Assets                9.6   49.3  291.9  482.0  353.1  463.5  521.8  945.8 1752.7 3103.5 3244.6  3323.4  442.4  489.5   425.3  482.1   549.2  610.9
Loan to REB employees               0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.1    0.1    0.1    1.2    1.7   3.5    4.8       6.9     7.2     7.6      7.9     8.3     8.8     9.2 ?
Stores in transit                   0.0    0.0    0.0    1.8    1.2    2.1    0.0  233.1  237.6  138.8  198.4  277.2   50.0   50.0   50.0   50.0   50.0   50.0
Insurance and other Ctaims          0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    5.9  11.2  13.3   17.6  47.4   28.5    29.9   31.4   33.0   34.6   36.3   38.2
TOTAL ASSETS                       25.9  90.9  381.0  744.6  934.3 1734.5 2314.0 3505.9 4706.9 6294.9 7526.7  8466.6 11178.0 14046.7 17499.7 20955.0 22754.0 24121.6
Equity & Liabilities
Equity
Foreign Grant                       0.0    0.0  24.7  331.1  418.1  544.9  544.9  18.6  18.6   0.0  27.3           0.0     0.0     0.0     0.0     0.0      0.0     0.0
GOB Contribution                   26.0  101.9  269.2  424.2  594.2  783.5 1017.0 1231.9 1617.0 2035.0 2366.6  2758.5  3393.6  4368.8  5411.4  6438.7  7189.4  7992.5
Capital Gain                        0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0   31.6  51.8   74.9  217.9  264.8  305.9   336.5  370.1   407.2  447.9  492.7  541.9
Retained Earnings                  -7.2  -42.6 -163.2 -268.4 -349.2  -52.2  -97.1 -1448 -206.3 -187.3 -212.6  -249.6  -128.0  -63.2   23.2   89.2   119.9  134.0
Totat Equity                       18.8  59.3  130.6  486.9  663.0 1276.1 1496.4 1157.5 1504.3 2065.5 2446.1  2814.8  3602.1  4675.8  5841.7 6975.7  7801.9 866.4
Long Term Debt                      7.0  28.6  240.0  240.0  240.0  422.9  739.4 2297.1 3088.1 4102.? 4907.8  5543.8  7455.3  9235.7 11506.0 13807.6 14757.4 15231.3
Other long term liabilities         0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    1.0    1.5    2.4    2.9    5.5    8.5   11.5   15.5    19.4   24.3    30.4   38.0    47.4   59.3
Current Liabilities
Accounts Payable                    0.1    3.0    0.6    0.0    0.5    0.0    0.2  19.4   21.9  19.2    0.0   14.0    15.0   16.0    17.2   18.4   19.6   21.0
Security Deposits                   0.0    0.0    9.5   10.1   12.4   15.5  18.7  23.9  28.2  34.8   33.9   39.9   41.9   44.0   46.2   48.5   50.9   53.5
Misc . current liabilities          0.0    0.1    0.2    4.0   11.9   11.6    6.3    0.2    0.3    0.4    1.3      2.2     2.4     2.7      2.9     3.2     3.5     3.9 ,0
Total Current Liab.                 0.1    3.0  10.4   14.1   24.9   27.1   25.1   43.5  50.3  54.4   35.2   56.1   59.3   62.7   66.3   70.1   74.1    ? 4w
Deferred Liabilities                0.0    0.0    0.0    3.7    5.3    6.8  50.6   4.9  58.7  63.8  126.1   36.4    41.9   48.1    55.4   63.7   73.2   84:2
Total Equity & Liabilities         25.9  90.9  381.0  744.6  934.3 1734.5 2314.0 3505.9 4706.9 6294.9 7526.7  8466.6 11178.0 14046.7 17499.7 2095.0 22754.0 24121.? 0
w



-64-
ANNEX 4.2
Page 1 of 2
BANGLADESH
THIRD RURAL ELECTRIFIC&TION PROJECT
Rural Electrification Board
Assumptions Used in the Financial Projections
1.   Onlending Terms
GOB Loans to REBt
Maturity         t 33 years including a 6 year grace period.
Interest Rates   s 0.75Z p.a. during the grace period and 21 p.a.
thereafter.
REB Loans to PBSs:
Maturity         : 30 years including a grace period of 5 years.
Interest Rates   : 0.752 during the grace period and 32 p.a.
during the repayment period.
In both cases, interest during the grace period is capitalized and
added to the loan principal.
Income Statement
2.   Interest from PBSs    : As per onlending terms.
3.   Other Revenues         s Assumed to grow at 32 p.a.
Expenses
4.   Pay and Allowances    s Assumed to increase at 202 p.a.
5.   Transportation         : Assumed to grow at 15 p.a.
6.   Rent                   s Assumed to grow at 102 p.a.
7.   Depreciation           : Straight line depreciation is followed. The
depreciation rates ate 2.52 for the new office
complex and 7.5Z for the other assets.
8.   Other Miscellaneous
Expenses              : Assumed to grow at 10  p.a.
9.   Interest ExDenses      a As per onlending terms.



-65-                             ANNEX 4.2
Page 2 of 2
Sources and A#Mlications of Fund
10.  GOB Contribution       s Following the current policy, all local costs
of RE program as required are assumed to be
funded by GOB equity contributions.
11.  GOB Loans to REB       s Following the current policy, financing
provided by external donors to cover the
foreign exchange costs of the RE program will
be onlent to RIB as loans.
12.  Investment Program    s Includes the proposed IDA project and other
projects under implementation or identified
for he Phase IV of the RE program.
Balance Sheet
13.  Minimum Cash           s Three months of cash operating expenses.
14. Workint Capital Loans
To PBSs               s Assumed to increase at 22 p.a.
15.  Stores                 s Assumed to reduce from a level equal to 5Z of
the capital work-in-progress for the RE
program in FY89 to 21 in FY91 and maintain at
that level thereafter.
16.  Receivables from PBSs s Assumed to grow at 1O0 p.a.
17.  Security Deposits      s Represent security deposits from contractors
and are assumed to increase at 51 p.a.



Project PBSs- Projected Incom Statements
-----------------_-----------------_----
( in current Tk million)
1994     1995      1996     1997      1998     1999     2000      2001     2002      2003
lectriceity Purchase()ih)                       14540    24054    37976    59054    91261   103137   111189   116678   120910   124610
Electricity Salee(Muh)                          10905    19243    31520    50196    79397    89729    96734   101510   105191   108411
System Loss(%)                                      251      20X       171      152      131       132      13X       13S      13S       13S
Aversge Bulk Purchase Tarriff(TkKwth)             1.74     1.88      2.03     2.19     2.37      2.56     2.74      2.93     3.13      3.35
Average Retail Tariff(Tk/Kvh)                     3.73     4.07      4.44     4.84     5.25      5.75     6.13      6.54     6.97      7.44
Operating Revenuest
ElectrieLty Sales                               40.67    78.41   140.10   242.74   416.93   516.06   593.45   664.05   733.62   806.45
Other Operating Revenues                          1.22     2.35      4.20     7.28    12.51    15.48    17.80    19.92    22.01    24.19
Interest Earned                                  0.00      1.17     3.35      7.87    14.95    30.41    32.99    35.80    42.14    52.12
total Operating Revenues                        41.89    81.93   147.65   257.89   444.39   561.94   644.25   719.77   797.77   882.77
Operating Expensest
Electriclty Purchase                            25.32    45.24    77.14   129.55   216.21   263.90   304.42   341.81   379.00   417.94
Distribution                                      3.18     5.09     8.13    13.02    21.82    23.58    25.49    27.54    29.77    32.17
Customer Service                                 1.41      2.62     4.88      9.12    17.09    18.47    19.96    21.57    23.32    25.20
Administration                                    3.53     6.55    12.19    22.79    42.72    46.17    49.90    53.94    58.30    63.01
Depreciation                                    13.90    25.28    45.64    67.08    83.45    90.97    94.36    95.54    96.80    98.14
Total Operst=nb Expenses                        47.34    84.77   147.98   241.55   381.29   443.09   494.12   540.40   587.18   636.46
Operating Income befoce iaterest                -5.45    -2.84    -0.12    16.35    63.10   118.85   150.12   179.37   210.59   246.31
Long Term Debt Interest                           3.13     5.71    10.33    15.24    19.03    81.81    81.45    77.99    74.53    71.07
Interest on Short Term Borroving                 0.75      1.65    2.025    1.275      0.15         0        0         0        0         0
net Operating Income                            -9.33   -10.21   -12.68    -0.16    43.92    37.04    68.67   101.38   136.06   175.24
GM8 Subsidy                                      5.45      4.01      3.68     0.00     0.00      0.00     0.00      0.00     0.00      0.00
NET Inceme                                      (3.88)   (6.20)   (9.01)   (0.16)   43.92    37.04    68.67   101.38   136.06   175.24
Operating Ratio(%)       *                         113      103       100       94       86        79       77        75        74       72
Is8



Project PBSs- Projected Funds Flow Statements
-----------------------.--.--_------_---
(in Current Tk millon)
1994     1995      1996     1997      1998     1999     2000      2001     2002      2003
Sotrces of Funds                               ------   ------   ------   ------   ------   ------   ------   ------   ------   ------
Net Income Before OOB Subsidy                    (9.33)  (10.21)  (12.68)   (O.L6;   43.92    37.04    68.67   101.38   136.06   175.24
Interest on LTD                                  3.13      5.71    10.33    15.24    19.03    81.81    81.45    77.99    74.53    71.07
Deprecletion                                    11.90    25.28    45.64    67.08    83.45    90.97    94.36    95.54    96.80    98.14
Total Internal Cash Ceneration                   7.70    20.79    43.29    82.15   146.40   209.82   244.48   274.91   307.39   344.45
Long-Texm Borrowing                            344.50   616.34   653.56   506.38   244.68   101.58        0.00      0.00     0.00      0.00
Government Subsidy                               5.45      4.01      3.68     0.00     0.00      0.00     0.00      0.00     0.00      0.00
Membership Subscriptions                         0.14      0.12      0.23     0.42     0.80      0.14      0.15     0.16     0.17      0.19
Total Sources                                  357.80   641.26   700.75   588.95   391.88   311.54   244.63   275.07   307.56   344.63
Applications of Fund
-____________________
Purcheas  of FLxed Assets                      341.38   610.63   643.23   491.14   225.65   101.58    35.56    37.78    40.10    42.57
Debt Service:
Interest                                         3.13      5.71    10.33    15.24    19.03    81.81    81.43    77.9"    74.53    71.07
Repayment of Prlnclpal                           0.00      0.00     0.00      0.00     0.00   111.30   115.36   115.36   115.16   115.36
Allocation to Replacement Reserve                 4.17    11.00    25.90    39.42    44.68    11.28        5.08     1.78     1.89      2.01
lntrease in working Capital:
Cash                                             5.40      5.38     6.30    11.70    87.52       8.93    20.45    80.80    906.95   136.93
son-cash                                         3.72      8.54    14.98    31.46    14.99    -3.36   -13.27   -18.64   -21.27   -23.30
Subtotal                                         9.12    13.92    21.29    43.15   102.52        5.57     7.17    *2.16    75.67   113.62
Total Applicatins                              357.80   641.24   700.75   588.95   391.88   311.54   244.63   273.07   307.56   344.63
LTD Sertlce Coverage$
Before Allocation to Replacement Fund                                                            1.09     1.24      1.42     1.62      1.85
After Allocation to Replemnmat Fund                                                              1.03      1.22     1.41     1.61      1.84
Self-li aening Ratio(X)                                    -1.9     -2.4      -3.5     -7.3      -0.1     60.7      ".5      ".4       9.4
iNl
O0.



Project PBSs- Projected Balance Sheets
(in Current Tk million)
1994     1995      1996     1997      1998     19"      2000      2001     2002      2003
Assets
Gross Fixed Asets in Servlce                    417.0    758.4  1,369.1  2,012.3  2,503.4  2,729.1  2,830.7  2,866.2  2,904.0  2,944.1
Less Cui-dated Depreciation                      13.9      39.2     84.8    151.9    235.3    326.3    420.7    516.2    613.0    711.1
Net FL=ed Asaets In Servlce                     403.1    719.2   1284.2   1860.4   2268.1   2402.8   2410.0   2350.0   2291.0   2233.0
Capital Work-in Progress                        341.4    610.6    643.2    491.1    225.7    101.6        35.6      37.8     40.1      42.6
Total Flied Assets                              ;4;.5  1,329.9  1,927.5  2,351.5  2,493.7  2,504.3  2,445.5  2,387.8  2,331.1  2,275.5
Replacemset Reserve                                4.2     15.2      41.1     80.5    125.2    136.5    141.5    143.3    145.2    147.2
Current Assets
Cash                                           S.4      10.8     17.1      28.8    116.3    125.2    145.7    206.5    303.4    440.3
Accounts Recelvable                           10.0      19.3     34.5      59.9    102.8    127.2    146.3    163.7    180.9    198.9
Stores                                        10.4      19.0     34.2      50.3     62.6      68.2     70.8      71.7     72.6      73.6
Other Current Assets                           1.0       1.9      3.4       5.0      6.3       6.8      7.1       7.2      7.3       7.4
Tntal Current Assets                             26.9      51.0     89.3    144.0    287.9    327.5    369.9    449.0    564.2    720.2
Total Assets                                    775.6  1,396.0  2,057.8  2,576.0  2,906.9  2,968.3  2,956.9  2,980.1  3,040.5  3,142.9
Equity
SubscrLptions                                     0.1       0.3      0.5       0.9      1.7       1.8      2 0       2.2      2.3       2.5                              t
Retained Earnings                               -3.88   -10.07   -19.08   -19.24    24.67    61.72   130.39   231.76   367.82   543.06                                   0b
Total Equity                                    -3.74    -9.81   -18.59   -18.33    26.38    63.56   132.38   233.92   370.15   545.58                                   t
Long-Term Debt                                  761.6  1,377.9  2,031.5  2,537.8  2,782.5  2,657.4  2,542.1  2,426.7  2,311.3  2,196.0
Current Liabilities
Accounts payable                               4.1       7.3     12.6      21.5     36.7      43.4     49.3      54.8     60.5      66.4
Consumer Advance   Deposits                    3.7       8.6     17.3      33.0     61.2      88.6    117.8    149.3    183.1    219.6
Short-Term Debt                               10.0      12.0     15.0       2.0      0.0       0.0      0.0       0.0      0.0       0.0
Current Portlon of LTD                          0.0       0.0      0.0       0.0      0.0    115.4    115.4    115.4    115.4    115.4
Total Current Liabilities                        17.8      27.9     44.9      56.5     98.0    247.3    282.5    319.5    359.0    401.3
Total Equity and Liabilitieas                   775.6  1,396.0  2,057.8  2,576.0  2,906.9  2,968.3  2,956.9  2,980.1  3,040.5  3,142.9
Current Ratio                                     1.5       1.8      2.0       2.5      2.9       1.3      1.3       1.4      1.6       1.8
Debt                                                                                                                  91       86        80
/EquLty                                                                                                            9       14       20
go 
w



-69-                              ANNEX 4.4
Page 1 of 2
BANGLADESH
THIRD RURAL ELECTRIFICATION PROJECT
New Prolect PBs9
Assumptions Used in the Financial Projections
1.   Price Escalation
Domestic Inflation:
FY90                      81
FY91 onwards              71
International Inflations
FY90                     O0
FY91                      2.32
FY92-95                   4.91
FY96                      4.3Z
FY97-2003                 3.71
2.   BPDB's Bulk Supply Tariff.  Assumed to increase at 11 above local
inflation for FY90-99 and follow local inflation thereafter.
3.   PBS,' Average Retail Tariffs Assumed to increase at 21 above the
increase in BPDB's bulk supply tariff for FY91-99 and follow local
inflation thereafter.
4.   Electricity Saless As per demand forecast given in Annex 5.1
5.   System Loss:
FY94                           25S
FY95                           202
PY96                           171
FY97                           151
FY98 onwards                   131
6.   Operating Expenses Other Than Power Purchases  The following expenses
are based on the statistical data of the existing PBSs for FY90 and are
escalated as per local inflation:
Distribution Expenses          Tk 2,000 per km of lines
Consumer Service               Tk 100/consumer
Administration                 Tk 250/consumer



-70-                               ANNEX 4.4
Page 2 of 2
7.   Depreciations  Equal to 3.3? of fixed assets in service.
8.   Minimum Cashs  Two months of cash operating expenses.
9.   Storess  2.5  of fixed assets in service.
10. Accounts Receivable: 90 days of electricity sales.
11. Accounts Payable: 45 days of cash operating expenses
12. Membership Subscription: Tk 10 per consumer
13. Consumer Deposits: Tk 120 for each residential/commercial consumer and
Tk 5,000 for each irrigation consumer.
14. Replacement Reserves Is assumed to gradually build up and maintain a
level equal to 5 of fixed assets in use in FY98 and onwards.



-71-                                             ANNEX 5.1
Page 1 of 3
BANGLADESH
THIRD RURAL ELECTRIFICATION PROJECT
Table It DETAILED ANALYSIS OF THE PAST DEMAND
<----------------------------~~~* act  Wl --. - - - - -- - - - - -- - - ----  >   
FISCAL YEARS                           1982     1983     1984     1985     1986     1987    I988      1989
NUMBER of CONNECTIONS
RESIDENTIAL         1709?   56383    81973   119384   150167   210713   256223   314993
COMOERCIAL           2531     9S57    15270    24279    33538    42190    48933    56173
IRIGATION             321    2454      3844     5780     6848    8177    10753    14337
INDUSTRIES            402     1189     1971    2891      4432     5711    6629      7681
OT1ms                 269      684      823     1487     1941     2517    2770      2937
TOTAL               20620    70267   103881   153821   196926  269308   325308   396121
YEARLY GROWTH RAse of CONNECTONS      131.13   240.82    47.82    48.12    28.02    36.82    20.8S    21.82
TOTAL REB SALES                         MUR      mm        A MWH   WI       mW       Mb8      MWg       W
RESIDENTIAL          4279    11363    21863    34874    44786    58650    78928    93403
COMUORCIAL            126     1917    4885      9625    13939    17278    21751    25521
ItRIGATION           3243    10666    19707   26320    29492    37937    51577    91826
INDUSTRIES           5224    20417    40966    71211    93696   117956   141026   160054
OTHES                 164      222      355      597      943     1081     1338     1281
GRAND TOTAL  B                  13036        44585    87776   142627   182856   232902   294620   372085
YEARLY C GROWT RATE                            242.02    96.92    62.52    28.22    27.42    26.52    26.32
RED PURcHaSES                  GWU              64.0   107.0   173.0   238.3   309.0   364.2   463.0
RE3 SALES                      CW               44.6    87.8   142.6   182.9   232.9   294.6   372.1
RED LOSSES                     CW               19.4    19.2    30.4    55.4        76.1    69.6    90.9
LOSS RATIO vs PURCHASES                        30.342   17.97X l7.5-Z  23.262   24.631  19.102   19.64X
LOSS RATIO vs SALES                            43.552   21.902   21.302   30.31S   32.672   23.622   24.43X
REB PEZA DEMAND                    <--------------------------estimates      -----------. -
Ps"           18       19983    1984     1983     1986     1987     1988     1989
RESIDENTIAL              20.02  IW               6.2    12.0    19.1    24.5    32.1    43.2    51.2
COIOURCIAL               10.02  lU               0.5      1.3      2.6      3.8      4.7      6.0      7.0
IcrATION                  1.02  *                0.9      1.6      2.2      2.5      3.2      4.3      7.7
NDUSTES                   4.02  Ml               2.2      4.5      7.8     10.3    12.9    15.5    17.5
OTHERS                   10.02  lE               0.1      0.1      0.2      0.3      0.3      0.4      0,4
TOTAL DEIMAD 11          98.ox  NV     1.05     10.2    20.1    32.8    42.5    54.8    71.3    86.1
LOSSES               N                2.2      2.2      3.5      6.4      9.0      8.4     10.5
2 Vs sa1es                    21.8X    11.0X    10.62    15.22    16.32    11.82    12.22
X vs purcases                 17.92     9.92     9.62    13.22    14.02    10.62    10.92
PEAK DEID ("a)                  NW              12.5    22.3    36.3    49.0    63.8    79.8    96.7
Diversity factor ------>>>    89.12
IRRIGATION IMPACT         5.02  NW               5.6      9.4    12.5    14.6    18.9    24.7    44.2
POSSIUg PEA  DDtWJlD            NW              18.0    31.7    48.8    63.6    82.7   104.5   140.8
8ISTORICAL MON CO-INCIDENTAL PEAK DE4AND    - ------>>>   158.0
1/. Assumiag a cO-icidental factor          Mlnim- loa4 factor (Vs non-coaincidetal peak)             33.52
of 0.n8 and a peak ratio of 1.05         Mlnimum 1oa  factor (Vs estimated possible peak)         37.S5
SHARE of CONSUMPTION CATEGORY wI.i
RESIDENTIAI.         32.SX    2S.52    24.92    24.52    24.52    25.22    26.82    25.12
COMERCIAL             1 02     4.32     5.62     6.72     7.62     7.42     7.42     6.92
IRRIGATOIO           24.9:    23.92    22.52    18.52    16.12    16.32    17.52    24.72
INDU3TRIES           40.12    45.8S    46.72    49.92    51.22    50.62    47.92    43.02
OTlilS                1.32     0.52     0.42     0.42     0.52     0.52     0.52     0.32
SAR  of CONLSCTIONS CATEOY WISE
RESIDETvIAL          82.92    80.21    78.92    77.62    76.32    78.22    78.82    79.52
COIORIA              12.32    13.62    14.72    15.8S    17.02    15.72   15.02    14.22
tRRICATION            1.62     3.52     3.72     3.82     3.52     3.0X     3.32     3.62
nwsutES               1.92     1.72     1.92     1.9X     2.32     2.12     2.02     1.92
OERS                  1.32     1.02     0.82     1.02     1.02     0.92     0.92     0.72



-72-
ANNEX 5.1
Page 2 of 3
Table 2: CONSUMPTION FORECAST FOR RE PROGRAM
CONSUIPTIOU FORECAST FOR RE PROGRAM
<3rd FYP>|<.               4th FYP               > --t--------------5th FYP------
F:SCAL YEAAS                            1990 |l1991    1992    1993    1994    1995        1996    1997    1998    1999    200o
NL"43ER of CONNECTIONS
RESIDENTIAL        377800   447500  324700  610200  704800  809400   925000 1052700 1193700 1349300 1520900
O0MMERCIAL          6i900    71900   80300   89100   98300  108000   118300  129100  140600  152800  165700
IRRIGTIOr           17400    20800   24700   29100   34100   39800    46200   53400   61500   70700   81000
INDUSTRIES           8800    10000   11300   12700   14200   15900    17700   19700   21900   24300   26900
OTHERS               3100      3300    3500    3700    3900    4100      4300    4500    4700    4900    5100
.- - -.- - --   -- - - -*-- -- -- - -- -- -- - -- -- -- - -- -- -- - --  -- -- - -- -- -- - -- ----- ---- ----
TOTAL              471000   553500  644500  744800  855300  971200  1111500 1259400 1422400 1602000 1799600
YEARLY GROWTE RATE of CONNECTIONS       18.92    17.52   16.42   15.62   14.82   14.3X    13.72   13.32   12.9X   12.62   12.32
TOTAL REB SALES                          Gw0      GM5  G0H        GW1    G01       0mm      on      0m   G3 GWH             0cm1
RESIDENTIAL         116.0    139.9   164.3   193.0   224.3   259.2    299.5   342.6   392.3   451.5   521.1
COMKERCIAL           30.1      35.4    41.6    48.4    55.1    62.6      70.3    78.7    87.8    97.8   108.7
IRRIGATION          115.0    144.3   178.5   217.9   262.5   312.1    369.5   435.7   507.5   584.0   664.0
INDUSTRIES          187.3    215.6   246.6   278.4   313.2   351.4    389.9   430.8   475.3   522.9   574.8
OTERS                 1.6       1.8     2.0     2.3     2.9      3.7      4.8     6.2     8.1    10.8    14.4
,- - - --   -- -- - -- -- ----- -- -- --- -- - - --- -- -----  -- -- --- -- -- --- -- -- --- -- -- --- -- -*- --
GRAND TOTAL RED                  450.0    537.0   633.0   740.0   858.0   989.0   1134.0  1294.0  1471.0  1667.0  1885.0
YEAiLY GROYT8 RATE                      20.92    19.32   17.92   16.92   15.92   15.32    24.72   14.12   13.72   13.32   13.02
RU PURCHASES                   C1H    555.6    663.0   772.0   891.6  1021.4  1163.5   1326.3  1304.7  1700.6  1916.1  2164.4
RUB SALES                      GWH    450.0    537.0   633.0   740.0   858.0   989.0   1134.0  1294.0  1471.0  1667.0  1883.0
. -- -- - -    -- -- - -- -- -- --- -- ----- -- -- --- -- -- ---  -- -- --- -- -- --- -- -- --- -- -- --- -- -- ---
RU LOSSES                      011    105.6    126.0   139.0   151.6   163.4   174.5    192.3   210.7   229.6   249.1   281.4
LOSS RATIO vs PURCHASES                19.00X   19.oo0   18.002  17.002  16.00X  15.002   14.50X  14.00X  13.502  13.002  13.002
LOSS RATIO vs SALES                    23.462   23.462  21.9S2  20.4sx  19.052  17.652   16.96,  16.28*  1S.612  14.942  l4.v42
REs PEAK DEMAND                     <3rd FYP> <----------------4th m ---------------- <----------------4th  TP----------------
PEAK          1990     1991    1992    1993    1994    1995       1996    1997    1998    1999    2000
CONJtRBUTION
RESIDENTIAL              20.02  MW      65.6     76.7    90.0   105.8   122.9   142.0    164.1   187.7   215.0   247.4   285.5
COMMERCIAL               10.02  m4       8.2      9.7    11.4    13.3    15.1    17.2    19.3    21.6    24.1    26.8    29.8
IRRIGATION                1.02  KW       9.6     12.0   14.9    18.2    21.9    26.0       30.8    36.3    42.3    48.7   55.3
INDUSTRIES                4.02  38      20.5     23.6    27.0    30.5    34.3    38.5      42.7    47.2    52.1    57.S    63.0
OTHERs                   lO.OX  3Y       0.4      0.5     0.5      0.6     0.8     1.0      1.3      1.7     2.2     5.0     3.9
- -- - --  -; - - ---- ;; - - - - -- - -- -- -- ---  -- -- --- -- -- --- -- -- --- -- -- --- -- -- ---
TOTAL DEMAND 11          98.02  2W    105.3    126.1  148.0   173.2   200.6   231.2    265.7   303.0   345.3   394.2   450.3
LOSSES               MI    12.4       14.8    16.2    17.7    19.1    20.4      22.5    24.7    26.9    29.5    33.6
2 vs sales           11.72    11.7X   11.02   10.22    9.52    8.82       S.52    8.12    7.82    7.x    7.52
2 vs putcbss         10.52    10.52    9.92    9.32    8.72    S.1X       7.sx    7.52    7.22    7-02    7.02
PEAK DEMAND (POD)               1w t1'17.7    140.8  164.3  190.9  219.8  251.6    288.2   327.7   372.3   423.7   483.9
53.922.  53.72   53.6%  53.32   53.12   52.82    52.52   52.42   52.12   51.62   S1.12
IRRICATiON IMPACT         5.02  41    55.1 |  69.1    84.9  103.0   123.3   145.6    171.9  202.0  234.6  269.1  306.0
POSSIBLE PEAK DEKAND           M2    172.8 | 210.0  249.2   293.9   343.0   397.2   460.1   529.7  606.9  692.8  789.9
36.7tL,  36.02   35.42   34.61   34.02   33.42    32.92   32.42   32.0X   31.6X   31.32
11. Assing a co-Incldantal foator            |
of 0.98 and a pCk ratLo of 1.05
SHARE of CONS2ISTIOI CATEGORY VISE
RESIDENTIL           25.82    26.1   26.02   26.12   26.12   26.22    26.42   26.52   26.7X   27.12   27.72
CIClIAL               6.72      6.62    6.62    6.52    6.42    6.32      6.22    6.12    6.02    5.92    5.82
IRRICATION           25.62    26.92   28.22   29.42   30.62   31.62    32.62   33.2X   34.52   35.02   55.32
INDUStRIES           41.62    40.1X   39.0X   37.62   38.5X   35.52    34.42   33.32   32.32   31.42   30.52
OTHERS                O.42%    0.32    0.3x    0.32    0.32    0.4X       0.4X    0.52    0.62    0.62    0.82
SHARE of CONNECTIONS CATEGO    WISE
RESIDENTIAL          80.22    80.82   81.42   81.92  82.42   82.82    83.2X   83.62   8. 92   84.2X   84.: t
OOORCMIL             13.62    13.02   12.52   12.07   1 .52    1.X12    10.62   10.32    9.92    9.52    9.22
I RRICATION           3.2      3.82    3.82    3.92    4.02    4.1X       4.22    4.22    4.32    4.42    4.52
INDUSTRZR             1.92      1.82    1.82    1.72    1.7X    1.62      1.62    1.62    1.52    1.52    1.52
OThERS                0.72      0.62    0.52    0.52    o.5S    0.4X      0.4X    0.42    0.32    0.32    0.32



Table 3: CONSUMPTION FORECAST FOR PROJECT PBSs
1993     1994     1995      1996     1997     198       19       2000     2001      2002     2003    2004    2005    2006    2007
C0ONECTIONS
RESIOEWsTAL          12214    21937    39400    70765   127098   128669   129653   130950   132260   131SS3   134919  136268  137631  119007  140397
COERCIAL              3016     4919     *023    13085    1 .341    21661    21986    22316    22651    22991    23336   23686   24041   24602   24768
IRRIGATION            1128     1687     2523      3773     5642     5642      5642     5642      5642     5642     5642    S642    5642    5642    5642
INDUSTRy               576      861     1287      1925     2879     2879      2879     2879      2879     2879     2879    2679    2879    2879    2879
OTHER                    6        9        13       19       28        28       28        28       28       28        28      28      28       28      28
TOtAL         16940    29413    51246    89s67   156988   158579   160188   161815   163460   165123   166804  168503  170221  171958  173714
coelsuliprtop
RESIDEXIIAL  mmN  2320.7  5023.0   9571.2  17556.9  31838.6  38421.7  43073.0  46681.1  49867.1  52762.0  55805.6 59005.4 62369.3 65905.5 69622.6
CO 4ERCIU.  WA      603.2   1526.7  2851.9  4832.4  8002.0  10548.6  12305.3  13526.9  14640.5  IS828.2  17101.4 18466.2 19928.9 21496.6 23176.7
IRRIGATION   HMO   4512.0   7199.2  11048.8  16748.6  25214.6  26582.1  27509.7  28199.3  28670.2  28956.9  29246.5 29539.0 29834.3 10132.7 30434.0
INDUSTRY     WU   9792.0  16653.0  26132.5  40188.4  60449.0  66294.4  70044.9  72088.6  73149.2  73880.6  74619.5 75365.6 76119.3 76680.5 77649.3
OTHER        m11       2.0      3.7       5.8      8.6     12.7      14.3     15.2     15.5      15.7     15.8     16.0    16.1    16.3    16.5    16.6
TOTAL               mu    17230    30406    49810    7933S5  125517   141861   152948   160511   166343   17144   176789  182392  18S268  194432  200889
PURCRAUStS                        2ts3?    37538    60744    9384   149425   166095   177846   184493   191198   197062   203206  209646  226400  2#*345  230919
LOSS               P1      4307      7132    10934    16249    23908    25034    2489       23984    24856    2561S    26417   27254   28132   29053   30019
LOSS RATIO ws PURCRASES            20.02    19.01    18.0t    17.02    16.01    15.02    14.0    13.02    13.02    13.02    13.02   13.02   13.02   13.02   13.02
LOSS RATIO vs SALES                25.01    23.52    22        20.52    19.02    17.62    16.32    14.92    14.92    14.92    14.92   14.92   14.92   14.92   14.92
PM  DEDAWN                         193      1"9      199       19"6     197       198      I        2000      200t     2002     2003    2004    2005    2006    2007
RESIDENTIAL         20.02  P0      1.27     2.75      5.24     9.62    17.45    21.0s    2s.60    2s.58    27.32    28.91   S3.so   32.33   34.17  3U.11   36.15
CO9IERCIAL          10.02  MM      0.17     0.42     0.78      1.32     2.19     2.89      3.37     3.71      4.01     4.34     4.69    S.06    5.46    S.8       6.35
IRRtGATIO            1.02  111    0.38      0.60     0.92      1.40     2.10     2.22      2.29     2.33     2.39      2.41     2.44    2.46    2.49    2.51    2.54
IUNUSTRY             4.02 O        1.07     1.82     2.89      4.40     6.62     7.27      7.68     7.90     8.02      8.10     8.10    6.26    8.34    9.43    8.51
OTHE                10.02 OS       0.00     0.00     0.00      0.00     0.00     0.08      0.00     0.00      0.00     0.00     0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    o.00
----     - ----   ----- - -- -- - --   -- - - -- - - - --- - - -----   ------ -- ---    ......   - -- ---  - -- ---  - -- ---  - -- ---  - -- ---
TOTAL         98.01  P      2.83     5.48      9.64    16.41    27.80    32.76    36.21    38.75    40.91    42.89    44.97   47.15   69.46   52.88   54.64
LOSS RATIO vs SALES        *       25.02    23.52    22.02    20.35    19.0X    17.6S    26.31    14.92    14.92    14.92    14.92   14.9   1n4.92   1I.9    14-92
LOSS                P0     0.71     1.29      2.12     3.36     5.30      5.78     5.69     5.79      6.11     6.41     6.72    7.05    7.39    7.75    6.13
PEAK DOIAJD. PDs LEVEL    W       3.54      6.77    11.75    19.77    33.10    38.54    42.10    4.4    47.02    49.29    51.68   54.20   54.65   59.64    2.57
LOSS RATIO                 20.02    19.01    18.02    17.02    16.02    15.02    14.02    13.02    13.O2    13-02    13.02   13.02   13.02   13.02   13.02
LOAD rACTOR                       69.52    63.32    59.02    55.22    51.52    49.42    48.21    47.32    46.42    45.62    44.92   64.21   63.52   42.82   *2.12
1RR. IMPACT          4.02 P0      1.84     2.90      4.40     6.59      9.81    10.22    10.45    10.59    10.7?    10.87    10.98   11.09   11.20   11.31   11.43
POSSIBLE PWA  OFSMAND      P0     5.34     9.67    16.15    26.36    42.90    48.76    52.55    55.13    57.79    60.17    62.67   65.29   66.05   70.95   74.00
POSSISLE LOAD FACTOR              45.72    44.32    42.92    41.42    39.82    39.12    38.62    38.22    37.82    37.42    37.02   36.72   36.32   36.02   35.62
0*



-74-                       ANNEX 5.2
Page 1 of 9
BANGLADESH
THIRD RURAL ELECTRIFICATION PROJECT
Economic Internal Rate of Return
1.       As described in Chapter III, the proposed project would comprise
the establishment of four new PBSs, the extensionlintensification of
existing PBSs, plus technical assistance, construction of new headquarter
offices, central training and workshop facilities. It is thus necessary to
demonstrate that not only will the EIRR for the entire project exceed 12?,
the estimated opportunity cost of capital, but in addition that the EIRR
for each separate part of the project, i.e.s (i) the four new PBSs; and
(ii) by the extension of existing PBSs, exceed 12?.
Costs
2.       All financial costs were converted to economic costs by:
(i) expressing the import content at c.i.f. prices in terms of mid-1989
prices; (ii) valuing skilled labor at 0.89 and unskilled labor at 0.7 of
the market wage rates; (iii) using a conversion factor of 0.9 to express
local costs for materials, equipment and services in terms of equivalent
border prices; and (iv) using a standard conversion factor (scf) of 0.89
for local costs such as house wiring and electric motors for irrigation
pumps. The economic cost of electricity supply at the 33 kV bulk supply
points was estimated as the long run marginal cost (LRMC) of generation
increased by 10? to allow for power plants' self-consumption and losses in
the high voltage transmission system. The LXMC excluded costs of extending
the high voltage transmission system since studies showed that the
incremental demand by the proposed project would not change the proposed
transmission investment program. Transmission costs at 33 kV and below
were estimated separately and are included in the investment cost column of
Table 1 of this Annex. The costs referred to as private costs in Table 1
relate particularly to the costs of house wiring and the acquisition of
locally procured electric motors. Operations and maintenance (O&M) costs
were estimated as 5? of cumulative annual investment costs.
Benefits
3.       Benefits in the economic rate of return calculations were
estimated on two bases. First, simply in terms of what consumers actually
pay for electricity (Tk 2.6/kVh) under the PBSs' FY90 tariffs. This is
referred to as the adjusted EIRR since benefits are measured in financial
terms rather than in economic terms. On this basis, the EIRR for the
entire project is 0o, for the four new PBSs it is 3.0?, and for the PBSs to
be extendedlintensified it is 2.2X. These measures of the EIRR say more
about the adequacy of tariffs and their relationship to LRMC than about the
true economic worth of the proposed project. The latter requires benefits
to be measured in economic terms, that is in terms of consumers'
willingness to pay (VTP) for the incremental electricity sales. WTP was
measured, on a conservative basis, as follows: (i) for residential and
commercial



-75-
ANNEX 5.2
Page 2 of 9
consumers it was based on the cost of lighting using either kerosene wick
lamps (yield equivalent of 20 W electric bulb) or pressurized kerosene
lamps (yield equivalent of 60 W electric bulb); and (ii) for industrial and
irrigation consumers it was based on the costs of running diesel plants
using imported high speed diesel oil. Table 1 shows the estimated annual
benefits for the entire project, both in terms of the benefits based on
FY90 tariff rates and the measures of incremental consumer surplus for the
lighting and other loads, while Tables 3 and 5 show the equivalent
estimated benefits for the four new PBSs and the PBSs to be extended,
respectively. The methodology used in the computation of the WTP based
benefit measure is illustrated in Figure 1, and was as follows. First, to
estimate the benefits for those electricity sales which would represent a
substitution of electricity for an alternative fuel, WTP was measured as
indicated in (i) and (ii) above (area OPOAQO in Figure 1). Second, the
incremental electricity sales which are forecast to occur, either as a
response to the availability of electricity (for such uses as televisions,
electric fans and electric cooking), or as a response to the lower price of
electricity vis-a-vis its substitutes, were estimated assuming a linear
demand curve (AC in Figure 1) with a maximum WTP as just described, and a
minimum equal to the FY90 tariff rate. The WTP for these type of benefits,
which relate to a shift in the demand curve from Do to Dn in Figure 1, was
equal to area QOACQn in that figure. For the entire project the discounted
(sales) weighted average WTP was equal to Tk 6.21kWh. Table 1 shows that
on this basis the EIRR for the entire project is 19Z, while Table 3 shows
that the EIRR for the new PBSs is 36.5X and Table 5 shows that the EIRR for
the seven PBSs to be extended is 582. As mentioned in para. 1 above, the
foregoing WTP based measures of EIRR are lower bound measures since, for
example, they assume that consumers' maximum WTP for new product uses of
electricity (e.g., for televisions) is equal to the WTP for electricity to
substitute for kerosene in lighting. Further, the foregoing measures
assume zero benefits for the technical assistance component of the project,
and for the training, warehouse, etc., components.
Sensitivity Analysis
4.       Sensitivity analysis of both the adjusted and VTP based measures
of EIRR are presented in Tables 2 (for the entire project), 4 (for the new
PBSs) and 6 (for the extended PBSs). In each case, the analysis is
presented in terms of the percentage change of a particular parameter
required to yield a specified value of the EIRR. Thus, considering
Table 2, the investment costs for the entire project would have to increase
by 68.52 to make the EIRR fall to 12Z; or, alternatively, total benefits
would have to fall by 222 to bring about the same result. The sensitivity
analysis shows that all base case EIRRs are robust.



ANNEX 5.2
Page 3 of 9
BA ECLADI 83
t?HRD RURAL ELECTRIFICATION PRCJECT
Table 1: EIM FOR TUB PROPOSED PROJECT
Olsbura. Invest.  Supply    OU  PrIvate   BeotIts          Fuel saing   Luba oll   Totsl    Total  Balance  Balance
ProflIo    Cost      Cost    Cost    Costs  from sales   zero.       USD0  Savuams      Cost Benefits    (WtP) (Tartff)
M.Tk     1.Tk    K.Tk      K.Tk         .Tk     X.2k      1.?k    1X.?k     N.Tk       1.Tk     H.5k     M.2k
F1992      4.02  133.8                                                                        133.8       0.0   (133.8)  (133.8)
FY1993    13.02  434.8               6.7                                                      441.5       0.0   (441.5)  (441.5)
FY1994    13.01  434.8      54.0    28.4      17.4      122.8      15.8     28.2      10.0    534.7    176.9   (382.4)  (435.5)
FY1995    22.02  735.8      94.1    50.2      12.3      218.4      27.9     42.2      14.9    890.5    303.4   (630.8)  (726.4)
Fn1996    22.02  735.8    152.3    87.0       16.8      359.5      49.2     63.1      22.3    991.9    494.2   (569.7)  (729.1)
FY1997    16.02  535.2    239.7   123.8       27.4      578.4      86.9     94.4      33.4    926.0    793.0   (248.6)  (509.6)
FY1998     7.02  234.1    374.6   150.5       45.2      926.9    153.8    141.1       49.9    804.5  1,271.8    281.9   (144.8)
FY1999     3.01  100.3    418.4   162.2        0.7    1,028.9    155.4    141.1       49.9    681.7  1,375.4    488.0       18.7
FY2000                     445.9   167.2       0.7    1,094.7    157.1    141.1       49.9    613.8  1,442.9    610.2    114.4
FY2001                     462.5   167.2       0.7    1,139.5    158.8    141.1       49.9    630.4  1,489.4    631.0    116.7
FY2002                     479.3   167.2       0.7    1,196.1    160.5    141.1       49.9    647.2  1,547.7    661.2    114.4
FY2003                     494.0   167.2       0.7    1,205.2    162.2    141.1       49.9    661.9  1,558.5    655.5    112.5
Ff2004                     509.4   167.2       0.7    1,237.9    164.0    141.1       49.9    677.3  1,593.0    668.1    110.5
FY2005                     525.5   167.2       0.7    1,272.0    165.7    141.1       49.9    6"9.4  1,628.8    680.9    108.3
Ff2006                     542.4   167.2       0.7    1,307.4    167.5    141.1       49.9    710.4  1,666.0    694.2    105.9
FY2007                     560.1   167.2       0.7    1,344.3    169.3    141.1       49.9    728.1  1.704.7    707.7    103.4
FY2008                     578.8   167.2       0.7    1,382.8    171.1    141.1       49.9    746.7  1,745.0    721.7    100.6
Ff2009                     598.0   167.2       0.7    1,422.4    173.0    141.1       49.9    766.0  1,786.4    736.0       97.7
Ff2010                     617.9   167.2       0.7    1,463.1    174.9    141.1       49.9    785.8  1,829.0    750.5       94.5
FY2011                     638.4   167.2       0.8    1,504.9    176.7    141.1       49.9    806.4  1,872.7    765.4       91.2
FY2012                     659.6   167.2       0.8    1,548.0    178.6    141.1       49.9    827.6  1,917.7    780.5       87.7
FY2013                     681.5   167.2       0.8    1,592.3    180.S    141.1       49.9    849.5  1,963.9    796.0       83.9
FY2014                     704.2   167.2       0.8    1,657.8    182.5    141.1       49.9    872.2  2,011.4    811.7       79.9
Ff2015                     727.6   167.2       0.8    1,684.7    184.5    141.1       49.9    895.6  2,060.3    827.8       75.7
Ff2016                     751.7   167.2       0.8    1,732.9    186.5    141.1       49.9    919.8  2,110.5    844.1       71.3
FY2017                     776.7   167.2       0.8    1,782.5    188.5    141.1       49.9    944.8  2,162.1    860.8       66.6
FY2018                     802.5   167.2       0.8    1,833.5    190.5    141.1       49.9    970.6  2,215.1    877.8       61.6
Ff2019                     829.2   167.2       0.8    1,886.0    192.6    141.1       49.9    997.2  2,269.6    895.2       56.3
FY2020                     856.7   167.2       0.8    1,940.0    194.6    141.1       49.9  1,024.8  2,325.7    912.9       50.8
FY2021                     885.2   167.2       0.8    1,995.5    196.7    141.1       49.9  1,053.3  2,383.3    930.9       45.0
FY2022                     914.6   167.2       0.9    2,052.6    198.9    141.1       49.9  1,082.7  2,442.5    949.3       38.8
PY2023                     9'5.0   167.2       0.9    2,111.3    201.0    141.1       49.9  1,113.1  2,503.4    968.0       32.3
ECOWONIC INTERNAL RATE of RETURN:    16.92    -2.82



-77-                                                 ANNEX 5.2
Page 4 of 9
BANGLADESH
THIRD RURAL ELECTRIFICATION PROJECT
Table 2: 9B1M AID SESSIT1VITY AMNLYSIS OF RE-I11 PROJECT
Not Present Values
lanvest.   Supply     OSM  Private   Beneflts      Fuel savins  Lube otl    Total    Total  Balance  Balance
Discunt            Cost      Cost    Cost    Costs  frm  sales   xero.       USD0  SavIAIs       Cost Benefits    (MtP) (Tariff)
Rate            H.Tk      K.Tk    M.Tk      M.Tk       M.Tk      H.Tk     M.Tk      M.Tk     K.Tk      H.Tk     M.Tk      H.Tk
0.0X         (3,345) (17.320) (4,622)    (136)    32,482    4,765    3,897    1,379  (25,423)  42,324   17,101   (1,082)
2.02         (3,070) (11,600) (3,237)    (118)    21,855    3,276    2,728          965  (18,024)  28,825   10,800   (1,447)
4.01         (2,825)  (8,017) (2,340)    (103)    15,173    2,323    1,970          697  (13,285)  20,164    6,879   (1,633)
6.02         (2,607)  (5,711) (1,741)       (91)    10,853    1,696    1,465        518  (10,149)  14,532    4,383   (1,712)
8.0X         (2,412)  (4,184) (1,329)       (81)     7,982    1,271    1,117        395   (8,006)  10,766    2,760   (1,726)
10.02         (2,236)  (3,146) (1,039)       (73)     6,022       975      872       309   (6,494)   8,178    1,684   (1,703)
12.02         (2,078)  (2,422)   (829)       (65)     4,689       765      695       246   (5,395)   6,354       960   (1,657)
14.0S         (1,936)  (1,904)   (673)       (59)     3,663       611      564       200   (4,572)   5,037        465   (1,398)
16.02         (1,807)  (1,525)   (556)       (54)     2,939       496      465       164   (3,941)   4,064       123   (1,533)
18.02         (1,690)  (1,242)   (465)       (49)     2,396       4v8      3S8       137   (3,445)   3,330       (115)  (1,465)
20.01         (1,584)  (1,026)   (393)       (45)     1,981       340       328      116   (3,047)   2,766       (282)  (1,398)
22.02         (1,487)    (858)   (337)       (41)     1,658       287      280        99   (2,722)   2,325       (397)  (1,332)
24.0X         (1,398)    (726)   (291)       (37)     1,403       244      241        85   (2,452)   1,974       (477)  (1,268)
26.02         (1.317)    (620)   (253)       (34)     1,199       210      210        74   (2,224)   1,693       (532)  (1,207)
28.0         (1,243)    (534)   (222)       (32)     1,033       182      183        65   (2,030)   1,463       (567)  (1,149)
30.02         (1,174)    (464)   (196)       (29)       897       158      162        57   (1,863)   1,274       (589)  (1,095)
RIME     16.91    -2.82
Sensitivity Analysis
Discount Invest.    OSM Inv.+01M  Supply Connaec-          CGM    Total       WtP  Savings    Total            Discount   Tariff
Rate    Cost    Cost    Costs    Cost    tions Consumption    Cost Benefits Benefits Benefits                   Rate
0.0X  511.32  370.0X   214.62   98.72   -68.22                  67.32   -52.62             -40.22               0.0X      7.62
2.02  351.82  333.6X   171.2Z   93.12   -63.1X                  59.92   -49.42             -37.5X               2.0X    15.12
4.02  243.52  294.02   133.22   85.82   -57.12       -96.12    51.82   -45.32              -34.12               4.02    24.32
6.02  168.12  251.82   100.8S   76.72   -50.22       -85.22    43.22   -40.42              -30.22               6.02    36.02
8.02  114.42  207.62    73.8S   66.02   -42.52       -72.72    34.52   -34.62   -9".12   -25.62                 8.01    49.42
10.02   75.32  162.12    51.42   53.52   -34.02       -58.62    25.92   -28.02   -78.12   -20.62                10.0S    64.62
12.02   46.22  115.82    33.02   39.62   -24.8X       -43.12    17.8X   -20.62   -56.32   -15.12                12.02    81.52
14.0X   24.02   69.02    17.82   24.42   -15.12       -26.42    10.22   -12.72   -33.8S    -9.2X                14.0X    99.82
16.02    6.8X   22.12      5.2X    8.02    -4.92       -8.72      3.12    -4.22   -10.92    -3.02               16.02   119.42
18.02   -6.8X  -24.8X    -5.42   -9.32       5.72       10.02    -3.32     4.82    12.42      3.52              18.02   140.12
20.02  -17.82  -71.62   -14.22  -27.42    16.62        29.52    -9.22    14.22    35.92    10.22                20.02   161.72
22.02  -26.72            -21.82  -46.32    27.92        49.6X   -14.62    24.02    59.62    17.12               22.02   184.02
24.02  -34.1X            -28.32  -65.8X    39.42        70.42   -19.52    34.02    83.62    24.22               24.02   207.02
26.02  -40.42            -33.92  -85.82    51.22        91.82   -23.92    44.32   107.72    31.42               26.02   230.7X
28.02  -45.72            -38.72             63.2X     113.72   -27.92    54.92   132.0X    38.82                28.02   254.82
30.02  -50.22            -43.02             75.52     136.12   -31.62    65.72   156.42    46.3X                30.02   279.52



-78-                                                  ANNEX 5.2
Page 5 of 9
RANOLADBSR
THSRD RURAL ELSCTRIFICATION PROJECT
Table 3: tIRR FOR TOB NW PBSS OF THE PR3P01SD PROJEcT
Disburs. Ihaest. Supply    O4   Private   Recfits           Puel sav1ns  Lube  i11    Total    Total  Blance  Salance
Profile    Cost    Coat    Cost    Costs  from  sales   Kero.         HSD0  Savings       Cost Benefits    (WtP) (Tariff)
M.Tk    M.T.c   M.Tk       M.Tk        K.Tk      ).Tk     M.Tk      M.Tk      M.Tk      M.Tk      M.Tk      M.Tk
FY1992     4.01   70.0                                                                            70.0       0.0    (70.0)   (70.0)
FY1993    13.01  227.5                3.5                                                       231.0        0.0   (231.0)  (231.0)
FY1994    13.01  227.5    34.1    14.9         11.0      122.8      10.0      17.8       6.3    287.5    157.0   (155.1)  (224.9)
FY1995    22.01  385.0    59.5    26.3          6.5      218.4      17.6      26.7       9.4    477.3    272.1   (248.9)  (373.7)
FY1996    22.0X  385.0    96.2    45.5        10.6       359.5      31.0      39.9      14.1    537.3    444.5   (164.7)  (371.4)
FY1997    16.01  280.0   151.3    64.8        17.3       578.4      54.9      59.6      21.1    513.5    713.9       84.8   (250.5)
n11998     7.01  122.5   236.5    78.8        28.6       926.9      97.1      89.1      31.5    466.4  1,144.6    492.9    (49.9)
FY1999     3.01   52.5   240.0    84.9          0.4    1,028.9      98.1      89.1      31.5    377.8  1,247.7    664.1        64.3
FY2000                     281.5    87.5        0.4    1,094.7      99.2      89.1      31.5    369.4  1,314.5    726.2        90.3
FY2001                     292.0    87.5        0.4    1,139.5    100.2       89.1      31.5    379.9  1,360.4    752.6        91.7
;Y2002                     302.6    87.5        0.4    1,196.1    101.3       89.1      31.5    390.5  1,418.0    788.3        90.3
FY2003                     311.8    87.5       0.4    1,205.2    102.4        89.1      31.5    399.8  1,428.2    787.4        89.1
FY2004                     321.5    87.5        0.4    1,237.9    103.5       89.1      31.5    409.5  1,462.1    05.0        87.8
FY2005                     331.7    87.5        0.4    1,272.0    104.6       89.1      31.5    419.7  1,497.2    823.2        86.4
1Y2006                     342.4    87.5       0.5    1,307.4    105.7        89.1      31.5    430.3  1,533.8    842.0        84.9
FY2007                     353.6    87.5        0.5    1,344.3    106.9       89.1      31.5    441.5  1,571.8    861.5        83.3
?Y2008                     365.3    87.5        0.5    1,382.8    108.0       89.1      31.5    453.3  1,611.5    881.6        81.5
1Y2009                     377.4    87.5        0.5    1,422.4    109.2       89.1      31.5    465.4  1,652.2    902.3        79.7
FY2010                     390.0    87.5        0.5    1,463.1    110.4       89.1      31.5    477.9  1,694.1    923.5        77.7
TY2011                     402.9    87.5        0.5    1,504.9    111.6       89.1      31.5    490.9  1,737.1    945.3        75.6
MM2012                     416.3    87.5        0.5    1,548.0    112.8       89.1      31.5    504.3  1,781.4    967.5        73.3
FY2013                     430.1    87.5        0.5    1,592.3    114.0       89.1      31.5    518.1  1,826.9    990.4        71.0
1Y2014                     444.4    87.5       0.5    1,637.8    115.2        89.1      31.5    532.4  ;,873.7  1,013.8        68.5
1Y2015                     459.1    87.5       0.5    1,684.7    116.4        89.1      31.5    547.1  1,921.8  1,037.7        65.8
?Y2016                     474.4    87.5       0.5    1,732.9    117.7        89.1      31.5    562.4  1,971.3  1,062.3        63.0
1Y2017                     490.1    87.5        0.5    1,782.5    119.0       89.1      31.5    578.1  2,022.1  1,087.5        60.0
1Y2018                     506.4    87.5       0.5    1,833.5    120.3        89.1      31.5    594.4  2,074.4  1,113.3        56.9
1Y2019                     523.2    87.5        0.5    1,886.0    121.5       89.1      31.3    611.2  2,128.2  1,139.8        53.5
FY2020                     540.6    87.5       0.5    1,940.0    122.9        89.1      31.5    628.6  2,183.5  1,166.9        50.0
1Y2021                     558.5    87.5        0.5    1,995.5    124.2       89.1      31.5    646.5  2,240.3  1,194.7        46.4
7Y2022                     577.0    87.5       0.5    2,052.6    125.5        89.1      31.5    665.1  2,298.7  1,223.2        42.5
1Y2023                     596.2    87.5       0.5    2,111.3    126.9        89.1      31.5    684.2  2,358.8  1,252.3        38.4
ECOOICC ISTERNAL RATE of RETURN:    34.21          0.81



_79_                                                ANNEX  5.2
Page 6 of 9
BANGLADESH
TSIRD RURAL ELECTRIFICATION PROJECT
table 4: EIRR AND SENSSTIVITY ANALYSISt NEN PBSs
net Present Values
Invest. Supply     04M  Private   Benefits       Fuel savings  Lube oil    Total    Total  Balance  Balance
Discount           Cost    Cost    Cost    Costs  from sales   Kero.        8SD0  Savings      Cost Benefits   (NtO) (Tariff)
Rate            M.Tk    H.Tk    M.Tk       3.Tk       m.Tk      3.Tk     M.Tk      W.7k     H.Tk      M.Tk     H.Tk      M.Tk
10.01         (1,170) (1,975)   (544)       (46)     6,022       616      551       195   (3,734)   7,383    3,649       (710)
12.02         (1,088) (1,519)   (434)       (41)     4,649       483      439       155   (3,082)   5,726    2,644       (722)
15.01           (978) (1,066)   (319)       (36)     3,274       347      323       114   (2,399)   4,058    1,659       (713)
20.02           (829)   (642)   (206)       (28)     1,981       215      207        73   (1,705)   2,477       772      (663)
25.02           (710)   (419)   (142)       (23)     1,296       143      142        50   (1,293)   1,631       337      (601)
30.02           (615)   (290)   (102)       (19)       897       100      102        36   (1,025)   1,135       109      (540)
35.0X           (537)   (210)    (77)       (15)       648        73       76        27     (838)      823       (15)    (484)
40.01           (473)   (157)    (59)       (13)       484        54       58        21     (702)      617       (85)    (435)
45.01           (420)   (120)    (47)       (11)       371        42       46        16     (598)      475      (123)    (392)
50.02            (376)    (95)    (38)       (9)       291        33        37       13      (517)     373      (144)    (354)
55.02           (338)    (76)    (31)        (8)       232        26        30       11      (453)     299      (154)    (322)
60.02           (306)    (62)    (26)        (7)        188       21       25         9      (400)     243      (157)    (293)
ErRR     34.22      0.82
Sensitivity Analysis
Discount Invest.   OH lnv.+O&M Supply Connec-           GW       Total      wtP  Savings    Total            Discount   Tariff
Rate    Cost    Cost   Costs    Cost    tlons Consumption    Cost Beneflts Benefits Benefits                   Rate
10.01  311.81  671.22  212.92  184.82   -68.01       -90.22    97.71   -60.61              -49.42              10.01    42.72
12.02  243.11  609.62  173.82  174.0X   -63.5X       -84.52    85.8X   -56.9X              -46.22              12.01    56.32
15.02  169.52  519.22  127.82  155.72   -56.11       -75.1X    69.12   -50.71              -40.92              15.02    79.0X
20.01   93.22  375.02   74.62  120.32   -42.71       -57.62    45.32   -39.01              -31.22              20.02   121.52
25.02   47.51  238.12   39.62   80.51   -28.42       -38.5X    26.12   -26.02              -20.7X              25.02   168.42
30.0X   17.82  107.02   15.31   37.82   -13.22       -18.02    10.7X   -12.21   -46.01    -9.61                30.01   218.42
35.01   -2.81  -19.81   -2.52   -7.22       2.52       3.51    -1.82      2.32      8.62     1.82              35.02   270.82
40.02  -17.92           -15.92  -54.12    18.9X       25.91   -12.12    17.51    63.51    13.7X                40.02   325.32
45.02  -29.32           -26.41             35.92      49.22   -20.61    33.21   118.71    26.02                45.01   381.52
50.02  -38.32           -34.82             53.42      73.31   -27.82    49.42   174.52    38.51                50.02   439.4X
55.02  -45.4X           -41.7X             71.41      98.11   -34.02    66.22   231.02    51.42                55.02   498.82
60.02  -51.32           -47.41             89.92     123.72   -39.32    83.32   288.12    64.62                60.02   559.62



-80-                                          ANE  5.2
Sage 7 of 9
3ANLAVDESH
T8IRD 204L .:SCTRITICANTICN P1WS0
Table 5, EM  IOR TH1 PAS' 1MISSIO0 OF TSM PROPOSD ECS0
DLsbUra. Invst. Supply    041  Private  Benefits    Puel sawngs Lube *.   Total   Teotl Balance &alanc
Profile   Cost    Coat   Cost   Costs from "1se    ero.    380 SaIVnS         cost Benefits   (VtP) (Tariff)
It.Tk    H.Tk   t.Tk    H.Tk      It.Tk    4.1k    t.Tk    It.Tk    It.Tk    H.Tk    It.Tk    3.Tk
FY1992    4.02  41.2                                                                 41.2     0.0   (41.2)  (41.2)
n199"   13.02 134.0              2.1                                                136.0     0.0  (136.0) (136.0)
Y11994   13.02 134.0    19.9    8.8       6.4     122.8     5.8    10.4      3.7   169.0   142.7   (50.8) (132.5)
FY1995   22.02 226.7    34.7   15.5       3.8     218.4    10.3    15.5      5.5   280.6   249.7   (74.6) (220.2)
FY1996   22.02 226.7    56.1   26.8       6.2     359.5    18.1    23.2      8.2   315.8   409.2    21.5  (218.9)
FY1997   16.OX  164.9    88.3   38.1    10.1      578.4    32.1    34.8    12.3   301.4   657.5   240.4  (147.9)
2119" 9   7.0   72.1   138.0   46.4    16.7       926.9    56.7    52.0    18.4   273.2 1,054.0   595.4   (30.1)
11999    3.01  30.9   240.0   50.0        0.2   1,028.9    57.3    52.0    18.4   S21.1 1,156.6   629.7   (63.0)
nY2000                  164.3   51.5      0.2   1,094.7    57.9    52.0    18.4   216.1 1,223.0   788.0    52.S
F2001                  170.5   51.5      0.2   1,139.5    58.6    52.0    18.4   222.2 1,268.5   818.3    53.1
112002                  176.7   51.5      0.3   1,196.1    59.2    52.0    18.4   228.4 1,325.6   858.0    52.3
112003                  182.1   51.5      0.3   1,205.2    59.8    52.0    18.4   233.9 1,335.4   660.5    51.6
1Y2004                  187.8   51.5      0.3   1,237.9    60.5    52.0    18.4   239.5  1,368.8   881.6    50.9
1Y2005                  193.7   51.5      0.3   1,272.0    61.1    52.0    18.4   245.5  1,403.5   903.6    50.1
1Y2006                  200.0   51.5      0.3   1,307.4    61.8    52.0    18.4   251.7  1,439.6   926.3    49.2
1Y2007                  206.5   51.5      0.3   1,344.3    62.4    52.0    18.4   258.3 1,477.1   950.0    48.3
1Y2008                  213.4   51.5      0.3   1,382.8    63.1    52.0    18.4   265.2 1,516.3   974.6    47.2
2Y2009                  220.5   51.5      0.3   1,422.4    63.8    52.0    18.4   272.3  1,556.5   999.8    46.2
112010                  227.8   51.5      0.3   1,463.1    64.5    52.0    18.4   279.6  1,597.9 1,025.7    45.0
1Y2011                  235.4   51.5      0.3   1,504.9    65.2    52.0    18.4   287.2  1,640.5  1,052.3    43.8
1Y2012                  243.3   51.5      0.3   1,548.0    65.9    52.0    18.4   295.1 1,684.3 1,079.6    42.5
.f2013                  251.3   51.5      0.3   1,592.3    66.6    52.0    18.4   303.2 1,729.3 1,107.7    41.1
112014                  259.7   51.5      0.3   1,637.8    67.3    52.0    18.4   311.5  1,775.5 1,136.5    39.6
1Y2015                  268.4   51.5      0.3   1,684.7    68.0    52.0    18.4   320.2  1,823.1 1,16.0    38.1
1Y2016                  277.3   51.5      0.3   1,732.9    68.8    52.0    18.4   329.1 1,872.1 1,196.4    36.4
112017                  286.5   51.5      0.3   1,782.5    69.5    52.0    18.4   338.3 1,922.4 1,227.6    34.7
TY2018                  296.1   51.5      0.3   1,833.5    70.S    52.0    18.4   347.9 1,974.2  1,259.6    32.9
fY2019                  305.9   51.5      0.3   1,886.0    71.0    52.0    18.4   357.7 2,027.4  1,292.5    31.0
1Y2020                  316.1   51.5      0.3   1,940.0    71.8    52.0    18.4   367.9 2,082.1  1,326.2    28.9
1Y2021                  326.6   51.5      0.3   1,995.3    72.6    52.0    18.4   378.5 2,118.4 1,360.9    26.8
112022                  337.5   51.5      0.3   2,052.6    73.5    52.0    18.4   389.3 2,196.3 1,396.5    24.5
1Y2023                  348.7   51.5      0.3   2,111.3    74.1    52.0    18.4   400.6 2,235.8  1,433.0    22.1
E0UmOC SIITE31L RATE of RSt= I   55.52    0.02



-81-                                          ANNEX 5.2
Page 8 of 9
BANCLADESH
T3z RURAL ElCTRIFICATION PROJE
Table 6: EIR AND SENSIUIVM  ANALYSIS% PBS8' flmnsI0
Net Preseat Values
Invest.  Supply   O0t Private   Renefits    Fuel savias Lube oil   Total   Total Balance Balance
Discount          Cost    Cost   Cost   Costs frnm sales Xero.          S   Swvins    Cost Beneflts    MPt?) (Tariff)
Rate           1t.k    I.tk   M.Tk    M.Tk         V.Tk    )tSk    M.Tk    I.tk    M.Tk    M.Tk    1.Tk    M.Tk
20.02          (488)   (398)  (121)    (16)    1,981        126      121      43  (1l023)  2,270    1,247    (416)
24.02          (431)   (283)   (90)    (14)    1.403         90       89       31    (817)  1.614       797    (381)
28.0S          (383)   (209)   (68)    (12)    1,033         67       68      24    (672)  12191       520    (347)
32.02          (342)   (159)   (53)    (10)        784       51       5S      19    (565)    906       342    (316)
36.02          (308)   (124)   (43)       (9)      610       40       42      15    (483)    706       223    (288)
40.02          (279)    (98)   (35)       (7)      484       32       34      12    (419)    562       143    (263)
44.02          (253)    (79)   (29)       (7)      391       26       28      10    (368)    454        86    (241)
48.02          (231)    (65)   (24)       (6)       320      21       23       8    (326)    372        47    (222)
52.02          (212)    (54)   (20)       (5)      265       17       20       7    (291)    309        18    (204)
56.02          (195)    (45)   (17)       (4)      223       15       17       6    (262)    260         (2)   (189)
60.02          (180)    (38)   (15)       (4)       188      12       14       5    (237)    220        (17)   (175)
64.02          (167)    (33)   (13)       (4)       161      11       12       4    (216)    18e       (28)   (163)
68.02          (155)    (28)   (11)       (3)      139        9       11       4    (198)    162        (36)   (152)
72.02          (145)    (24)   (10)       (3)      120        8        9       3    (182)    141       (41)   (142)
76.02          (136)    (21)    (9)       (3)       105       7        8       3    (168)    123       (45)   (133)
80.02          (127)    (19)    (8)       (2)       92        6        7       3     (156)    108       (48)   (125)
BlM     55.52     0.0O
SensitLvity Analysis
Dlscount Invest.  Ott Iav.0&K Supply Con4es-         amE   Total       U?? Sayings   Total          Discomt  Tariff
Rate   Cost   Cost   Costs   Coat   tins Consumption   Cost bnefits Benefits Benfits                  Rate
20.02  255.62 1028.72  204.72  313.3X  -67.2X    -78.82  121.8S  -62.9Z             -54.92            20.02  130.32
24.02  185.02 890.42  S53.2  281.82  -60.52       -71.1X   97.62  -56.82            -49.42            24.02  168.52
28.02  135.82  761.12   115.22  249.02  -53.5X    -63.12   77.42  -50.32            -43.62            28.02  208.72
32.02  99.8X  638.9X    86.32  215.32  -46.32    -54.7X    60.52  -43.62            -37.72            32.02  250.32
36.02  72.52 $22.02    63.62  180.62  -38.92    -45.92    46.2X  -36.6X             -31.62            36.02  293.22
40.02  51.2X  409.32   45.52  145.12  -31.31    -37.02   34.02  -29.52              -25.41            40.02  337.32
44.02  34.12  300.02    30.6X 108.8X  -23.42    -27.72    23.52  -22.1X             -19.0X            44.02  382.51
48.02  10.12  193.3X    18 22  71.62  -15.42    -18.32   14.32  -14.62  -88.42   -12.52               48.02  428.62
52.02    8.62  89.0X     7.81   33.6X   -7.22     -8.62     6.22    -6.82  -41.12    -5.92            52.0X  475.71
56.02  -1.22  -13.52    -l.12   -5.22    1.12       1.32   -0.92     1.12    6.3X    0.92             56.02X523.82
60.02  -9.5X           -8.8X -44.92      9.62     11.42   -7.22      9.12   54.02    7.8x             60.02  572.71
64.02  -16.72          -15.52  -85.42    18.3X    21.72  -12.92    17.32   101.92   14.81             64.02  622.52
68.0X -22.92           -21.42           27.22      32.22  -18.02    25.2150.22    21.92                68.02  673.22
72.02  -28.42          -26.62           M6.22     42.92  -22.62    34.22  198.92    29.22             72.02  724.62
76.02 -33.32           -31.22           45.42     5.8S  -26.82   42.92  247.9X    36.62                76.02  776.91
80.02  -S7.62          -35.32           54.7      64.82   -30.62   51.7X  297.42   44.12              80.02  830.11



-82-                                   ANNEX 5.2
Page 9 of 9
Figure ls  ESTIZTION OF WILLINGNESS TO PAY
WILLINGNESS TO PAY
Variation of WtP with tme consumption
oe\nd curve
Oemarw curve
A
Con)~~a
YEARLY OLIANr ITY CONSLMEO



-83-
a   .           ,                     *~~~~~~~~~~ANNEX 6.1
BANGLADESH
THIRD RURAL ELECTRIFICATION PROJECT
Selected Documents Available in the Project File
1.   Feasibility Study Report on Area Coverage Rural Electrification
Phase IV.
REBINRECA: June 1988
2.   Financial Policies and Performance of the PBSs prepared by
Coopers and Lybrand Associates for USAID
Volume l: Executive Summary
Volume 2s Main Report
Volume 3: Appendices
Volume 4: Manual for Financial Model, March 1989
3.   Bangladesh Rural Electrification Preliminary Assessment: Draft final
report prepared for USAID by de Lucia and Associates Inc.
September 1989.
4,   REB Annual Reports for 1986187, 1987188, .988189
5.   Background data used for the economic analysis: October 1989.
6.   Project Proforma
ACRE Phase IV-A
Central Facilities, REB: January 1990



89^2!*    t                900                          9V     BANGLADESH           9?
,OS'g\ ~ (\y. -I>>9NDIA                                 THIRD RURAL ELECTRIFICATION PROJECT
;<Jt,4.  't vv    .                                    Area Coverage - Rural Electrification Program
I CFfmi    ;)*  >  's   - | ffi                              ELECTRIFICATION AREAS:
J.4 t/Phae IV - A New PBS Areas(Project)    UpozilaBoundaries
,,/S                ,tjjjf > ,  |||||||||iPhase IV A PBS Extension Areas(Project)                    Zilla8 otries
260                   -- '__ Kue1A (rfDA)                                                                         Division Boundlaries
-26° *                         .                                          Under Constrcton --                                   26°
Phase If  B (IDA) PBS IntensikfitionlProjed)   nerfoa" s
C~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 'Al II  CDASMan;FNIND
2. , g < 4.^ ' X S ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Division Headquarters
%~~% 
X  INDIA  <  r                        Bay     of      Be~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Ntingal C,pf3
206
,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~L~ 'D QoaY.'A  
Arebint:   0  Bengol       Q   lp  2       Bay SOfiE       Benga
| sea - . < -21°    O   20   40 60    OD KaUOM.TETS                   21
K~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
X                                         ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~900           9,1                          92°_?% 



