Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 2129 BD
(Third Rural Electrification Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
and
RURAL ELECTRIFICATION BOARD
Dated June 18, 1990
CREDIT NUMBER 2129 BD
PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated June 18, 1990, between INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
(the Association) and RURAL ELECTRIFICATION BOARD (REB).
WHEREAS (A) by the Development Credit Agreement of even date herewith between 
the People's Republic of Bangladesh (the Borrower) and the Association, the 
Association has agreed to make available to the Borrower an amount in various 
currencies equivalent to seventy nine million six hundred thousand Special Drawing  
Rights (SDR 79,600,000), on the terms and conditions set forth in the Development 
Credit Agreement, but only on condition that REB agree to undertake such obligations 
toward the Association as are set forth in this Agreement;
(B)
by a subsidiary loan agreement to be entered  into between the Borrower 
and REB, the proceeds of the credit provided for under the Development Credit 
Agreement will be made available to REB on the terms and conditions set forth in said 
Subsidiary Loan Agreement; and
Page  2
WHEREAS REB, in consideration of the Association's entering into the Development 
Credit Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed to undertake the obligations set forth 
in this Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the Development Credit Agreement, the Preamble to this Agreement and in the General 
Conditions (as so defined) have the respective meanings therein set forth.
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project
Section 2.01. (a) REB declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project 
as set forth in Schedule 2 to the Development Credit Agreement, and, to this end, 
shall carry out the Project with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with 
appropriate administrative, financial, engineering and public utilities practices, and 
shall provide, or cause to be provided, promptly as needed, the funds,  facilities, 
services and other resources required for the Project.
(b)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section 
and except as the Association and REB shall otherwise agree, REB shall carry out the 
Project in accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in Schedule 2 to this 
Agreement.
Section 2.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, procurement of 
the goods, works and consultants' services required for the Project and to be financed 
out of the proceeds of the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 1 to 
this Agreement.
Section 2.03. REB shall carry out the obligations set forth in Sections 9.03, 
9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07 and 9.08 of the General Conditions (relating to insurance, use 
of goods and services, plans and schedules, records and reports, maintenance and land 
acquisition, respectively) in respect of the Project Agreement.
Section 2.04. REB shall duly perform all its obligations under the Subsidiary 
Loan Agreement. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, REB shall not take or 
concur in any action which would have the effect of amending, abrogating, assigning or 
waiving the Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any provision thereof.
Section 2.05. (a) REB shall, at the request of the Association, exchange views 
with the Association with regard to the progress of the Project, the performance of 
its obligations under this Agreement and under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement, and 
other matters relating to the purposes of the Credit.
(b)
REB shall promptly inform the Association of any condition which 
interferes or threatens to interfere with the progress of the Project, the 
accomplishment of the purposes of the Credit, or the performance by REB of its 
obligations under this Agreement and under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement.
Section 2.06. Before the completion of a given Scheme under the Project, REB 
shall:
(a)
establish a New PPBS or extend the area covered by an Existing PPBS, as 
the case may be, with by-laws satisfactory to the Association, to assume 
responsibility for such Scheme; and
(b)
promptly thereafter, enter into a Sub-loan Agreement with such New or 
Existing PPBS, as the case may be, providing for the transfer of the completed Scheme 
to such PPBS under terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association including: (i) 
a repayment period for the principal representing the cost of such Scheme of 25 years 
after a 5-year grace period; (ii) an interest rate of three-fourths of one percent 
(3/4 of 1%) per annum during the said grace period, capitalized; and (iii) an interest 
rate of three percent (3%) per annum thereafter. Each Sub-loan Agreement shall be 
substantially in the form of a model Sub-loan Agreement satisfactory to the 
Association.
Page  3
Section 2.07. (a) Without limitation to the provisions of Section 2.06 of this 
Agreement, REB undertakes that, unless the Association shall otherwise agree, any 
Sub-loan will be made on terms whereby REB shall obtain, by written agreement or other 
appropriate legal means, rights adequate to protect the interests of the Association 
and of REB, including, in the case of any such Sub-loan and to the extent that it 
shall be appropriate: (i) the right to require each PPBS to operate the Scheme 
transferred to it with due diligence and efficiency and in accordance with sound 
administrative, financial and public utilities standards and to maintain adequate 
records; (ii) the right to require that the goods financed out of the proceeds of the 
Credit be used exclusively in the carrying out of the Project; (iii) the right of the 
Association and of REB to inspect such goods and the sites, works, plants and 
construction included in the Project, the operation thereof, and any relevant records 
and documents; (iv) the right to obtain all such information as the Association or REB 
shall reasonably request relating to the foregoing, to the administration, operations 
and financial condition of each PPBS and the benefits to be derived from the Project; 
and (v) the right of REB to suspend or terminate the right of each PPBS to operate the 
scheme upon failure by such PPBS to perform its obligations under its agreement with 
REB.
(b)
REB shall exercise its rights in relation to each Sub-loan in such manner 
as to (i) protect the interests of the Association and of REB, (ii) comply with its 
obligations under this Agreement and the Subsidiary Loan Agreement, and (iii) achieve 
the purposes of the Project.
ARTICLE III
Management and Operations of REB
Section 3.01. REB shall, and shall cause each PPBS to, carry on its operations 
and conduct its affairs in accordance with sound administrative, financial and public 
utilities practices under the supervision of qualified and experienced management 
assisted by competent staff in adequate numbers.
Section 3.02. REB shall, and shall cause each PPBS to, at all times operate and 
maintain its plant, machinery, equipment and other property, and from time to time, 
promptly as needed, make all necessary repairs and renewals thereof, all in accordance 
with sound engineering, financial and public utilities practices.
Section 3.03. REB shall, and shall cause each PPBS to, take out and maintain 
with responsible insurers, or make other provision satisfactory to the Association 
for, insurance against such risks and in such amounts as shall be consistent with 
appropriate practice.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) REB shall, and shall cause each PPBS to, maintain records and 
accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices its 
operations and financial condition.
(b)
REB shall, and shall cause each PPBS to:
 
(i)
have its records, accounts and financial statements (balance 
sheets, statements of income and expenses and related statements) 
for each fiscal year audited, in accordance with appropriate 
auditing principles consistently applied, by independent auditors 
acceptable to the Association;
(ii)
furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any case 
not later than nine months after the end of each such year, (A) 
certified copies of its financial statements for such year as so 
audited and (B) the report of such audit by said auditors, of such 
scope and in such detail as the Association shall have reasonably 
requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Association such other information concerning said 
records, accounts and financial statements as well as the audit 
thereof, as the Association shall from time to time reasonably 
request.
Page  4
Section 4.02. (a) Except as the Association may otherwise agree, REB shall 
ensure that in any fiscal year:
(i)
its internally generated funds are not less than 1.5 times its 
debt service requirements; and 
(ii)
beginning in fiscal year 1991 its administrative costs and the 
amounts paid by REB as interest and other charges on its debt 
shall not exceed 75% of the aggregate amounts received by REB as 
interest on its loans and investments and as other revenues.
(b)
For the purpose of this Section:
 
(i)
the term "internally generated funds" means gross revenues from 
all sources related to REB's operations, and the repayments 
received on loans by REB, less all expenses incurred on account of 
such operations, including expenses of administration, taxes or 
payments in lieu of taxes, if any, and dividends, but before any 
provision is made for depreciation and interest and other charges 
on debt;
(ii)
the term "debt" means any debt incurred by REB maturing by its 
terms more than one year after the date on which it is originally 
incurred;
(iii)
the term "incurring of debt" includes the assumption and guarantee 
of debt and any renewal, extension or modification of the terms of 
the debt or of the assumption of guarantee thereof;
(iv)
debt shall be deemed to be incurred (A) under a contract, loan 
agreement or other instrument providing for such debt or for the 
modification of its terms of payment, on the date and to the 
extent the amount of the loan is drawn down and outstanding 
pursuant to such contract, agreement or instrument, and (B) under 
a guarantee agreement, on the date the agreement providing for 
such guarantee has been entered into but only to the extent that 
the guaranteed debt is outstanding;
(v)
the term "debt service requirement" means the aggregate amount of 
amortization (including sinking fund payments, if any), interest 
payable and other charges on debt; and
(vi)
whenever in connection with this Section it shall be necessary to 
value in terms of the currency of the Borrower debt payable in 
another currency, such valuation shall be made at the prevailing 
official rate of exchange at which such other currency is, at the 
time of such valuation, obtainable by REB for the purposes of 
servicing such debt or, in the absence of such rate of exchange, 
at a rate acceptable to the Association.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 5.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect on the date upon 
which the Development Credit Agreement becomes effective.
Section 5.02. (a) This Agreement and all obligations of the Association and of 
REB thereunder shall terminate on the earlier of the following two dates:
(i)
the date on which the Development Credit Agreement shall terminate 
in accordance with its terms; or
(ii)
the date 33 years after the date of this Agreement.
 
(b)
If the Development Credit Agreement terminates in accordance with its 
terms before the date specified in paragraph (a) (ii) of this Section, the Association 
shall promptly notify REB of this event.
Section 5.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall continue in full force 
and effect notwithstanding any cancellation or suspension under the General 
Page  5
Conditions.
ARTICLE VI
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 6.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to be given or made 
under this Agreement and any agreement between the parties contemplated by this 
Agreement shall be in writing. Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been 
duly given or made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram, cable, 
telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required or permitted to be given or 
made at such party's address hereinafter specified or at such other address as such 
party shall have designated by notice to the party giving such notice or making such 
request. The addresses so specified are:
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
 
INDEVAS
197688 (TRT)
Washington, D.C.
248423 (RCA)
 64145 (WUI)
 82987 (FTCC)
For REB:
Rural Electrification Board
Road No. 10-A, House No. 26
Dhanmondi R.A.
Dhaka, Bangladesh
Cable address:
Telex:
 
RURELEC
642205 REBD BJ
Dhaka
Section 6.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken, and any document 
required or permitted to be executed, under this Agreement on behalf of REB may be 
taken or executed by the Chairman, REB, or such other person or persons as the 
Chairman shall designate in writing, and REB shall furnish to the Association 
sufficient evidence of the authority and the authenticated specimen signature of each 
such person.
Section 6.03. This Agreement may be executed in several counterparts, each of 
which shall be an original, and all collectively but one instrument.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ Shinji Asanuma
Acting Regional Vice President
Asia
RURAL ELECTRIFICATION BOARD
Page  6
By /s/ A. H. S. Ataul Karim
Authorized Representative
SCHEDULE 1
Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I:
Procurement of Goods and Works
 
Part A:
International Competitive Bidding
 
Except as provided in Part C hereof, goods shall be procured under contracts 
awarded in accordance with procedures consistent with those set forth in Sections I 
and II of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published 
by the Bank in May 1985 (the Guidelines).
Part B:
Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
 
In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures described in Part 
A hereof, goods manufactured in Bangladesh may be granted a margin of preference in 
accordance with, and subject to, the provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the 
Guidelines and paragraphs 1 through 4 of Appendix 2 thereto.
Part C:
Other Procurement Procedures
 
1.
Civil works shall be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of 
competitive bidding, advertised locally, in accordance with procedures satisfactory to 
the Association.
2.
Materials, tools, spares and equipment estimated to cost less than the 
equivalent of $100,000 per contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed the 
equivalent of $1,000,000, may be procured under contracts awarded through limited 
international bidding procedures on the basis of evaluation and comparison of bids 
invited from a list of at least three qualified suppliers eligible under the 
Guidelines and in accordance with the procedures set forth in Sections  I and II of 
the Guidelines (excluding paragraphs 2.8, 2.9, 2.55 and 2.56 thereof).
3.
Materials estimated to cost less than $50,000 per contract, up to an aggregate 
amount not to exceed the equivalent of $1,000,000, may be procured under contracts 
awarded on the basis of competitive bidding, advertised locally, in accordance with 
procedures satisfactory to the Association.
Part D:
Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
 
1.
Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final contracts:
 
(a)
With respect to each contract estimated to cost the equivalent of 
$100,000 or more, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the 
Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for such contract are to be made out of the 
Special Account, such procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed 
copies of the contract required to be furnished to the Association pursuant to said 
paragraph 2 (d) shall be furnished to the Association prior to the making of the first 
payment out of the Special Account in respect of such contract.
(b)
With respect to each contract not governed by the preceding paragraph, 
the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall 
apply. Where payments for such contract are to be made out of the Special Account, 
such procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed copies of the 
contract together with the other information required to be furnished to the 
Association pursuant to said paragraph 3 shall be furnished to the  Association as 
part of the evidence to be furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of Schedule 3 to the 
Development Credit Agreement.
(c)
The provisions of the preceding subparagraph (b) shall not apply to 
contracts on account of which the Association has authorized withdrawals from the 
Credit Account on the basis of statements of expenditures. Such contracts shall be 
retained in accordance with Section 4.01 (a) (ii) of the Development Credit Agreement.
3.
The figure of 15% is hereby specified for purposes of paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 
to the Guidelines.
Section II:
Employment of Consultants
Page  7
In order to assist REB in carrying out Part C.1 of the Project, REB shall employ 
consultants whose qualifications, experience and terms and conditions of employment 
shall be satisfactory to the Association. Such consultants shall be selected in 
accordance with principles and procedures satisfactory to the Association on the basis 
of the "Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the World 
Bank as Executing Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981.
SCHEDULE 2
Implementation Program
1.
REB shall, by July 1 in each year, enter into Performance Agreements with PBSs, 
such agreements to include, inter alia, the following:
(a)
system losses;
 
(b)
accounts receivable;
 
(c)
collection performance;
 
(d)
accounts payable;
 
(e)
debt service coverage;
 
(f)
annual growth of consumers;
 
(g)
annual growth of sales per consumer;
 
(h)
total expenses of providing service per kilowatt hour; and
 
(i)
prepayment of debt service liability.
 
2.
REB shall monitor the PBSs performance against the targets set out in the 
individual Performance Agreements and shall furnish to the Association, not later than 
June 15 in each year, a report on the performance of such PBSs.
3.
To ensure that the power factor does not fall below 0.90, REB shall install 
capacitors on its 11 kV and low voltage systems in accordance with an action plan 
acceptable to the Association, such action plan to be furnished to the Association by 
December 31, 1990.
4.
REB shall complete the closing out of a Scheme not later than six months after 
the date of commercial energization of the relevant PPBS.
5.
REB shall by December 31, 1990, prepare and furnish to the Association an action 
plan, acceptable to the Association, to carry out reforms of its accounting system and 
procedures, and, promptly thereafter, carry out such plan.
6.
REB shall, by December 31, 1990, initiate a program, acceptable to the 
Association, to introduce suitable load management measures for large consumers, 
including time-of-day tariffs.
