Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 2129 BD
(Third Rural Electrification Project)
between
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF BANGLADESH
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated June 18, 1990
CREDIT NUMBER 2129 BD
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated June 18, 1990, between  PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF BANGLADESH (the 
Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association).
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and 
priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested the 
Association to assist in the financing of the Project; 
(B)
the Project will be carried out by the Rural Electrification Board with 
the Borrower's assistance and, as part of such assistance, the Borrower will make 
available to the Rural Electrification Board the proceeds of the Credit as provided in 
this Agreement; and
(C)
by an agreement dated June 5, 1986 (the USAID Agreement), the United 
States Agency for International Development has agreed to make a grant (the USAID 
Grant) to the Borrower; and
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, 
Page  2
to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement and in the Project Agreement of even date herewith between the Association 
and the Rural Electrification Board;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit 
Agreements" of the Association, dated January 1, 1985, with the last sentence of 
Section 3.02 deleted (the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this 
Agreement.
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions have the respective meanings therein set forth and the 
following additional terms have the following meanings:
(a)
"BPDB" means the Bangladesh Power Development Board established and 
operating under the laws of the Borrower;
(b)
"PBS" means a Palli Bidyut Samity, a cooperative organization established 
to operate and manage a rural electrification scheme;
(c)
"PPBS" means a PBS established or to be established to operate and manage 
a rural electrification scheme to be installed, expanded or improved under the 
Project;
(d)
"Energized PBS" means a PBS which is receiving its power supply from 
BPDB;
(e)
"Existing PPBS" means any of the following PPBSs: Bagerhat PBS, Barisal 
PBS, Chittagong PBS-2, Kushtia PBS, Madaripur PBS, Meherpur PBS, Narsingdi PBS, 
Noakhali PBS, Pabna PBS-1, Rangpur PBS-1 and Rangpur PBS-2;
(f)
"New PPBS" means the following PPBS: Comilla, Cox's Bazar, Dinajpur and 
Manikganj;
(g)
"Project Agreement" means the agreement between the Association and REB 
of even date herewith, as the same may be amended from time to time, and such term 
includes all schedules and agreements supplemental to the Project Agreement;
(h)
"Project Area" means the areas for which the New PPBSs are responsible 
and the extended areas for which the Existing PPBSs are responsible;
(i)
"REB" means the Rural Electrification Board established by the Borrower's 
Rural Electrification Board Ordinance, 1977;
(j)
"Scheme" means an area coverage rural electrification scheme;
 
(k)
"Sub-loan" means a loan made, or proposed to be made by REB to a PPBS 
pursuant to Section 2.06 of the Project Agreement;
(l)
"Subsidiary Loan Agreement" means the agreement to be entered into 
between the Borrower and REB pursuant to Section 3.01 (b) of this Agreement, as the 
same may be amended from time to time, and such term includes all schedules to the 
Subsidiary Loan Agreement.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in this Agreement, an amount in various currencies 
equivalent to seventy nine million six hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 
79,600,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the Credit 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for 
expenditures made (or, if the Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of 
the reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed 
Page  3
out of the proceeds of the Credit.
(b)
The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain in 
dollars a special deposit account in Bangladesh Bank (its Central Bank) on terms and 
conditions satisfactory to the Association. Deposits into, and payments out of, the 
Special Account shall be made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 3 to this 
Agreement.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1998 or such later date as the 
Association shall establish. The Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of 
such later date.
Section 2.04. (a)  The Borrower shall pay to the Association a commitment charge 
on the principal amount of the Credit not withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be 
set by the Association as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of 
one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum.
(b)
The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date sixty days after 
the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to the respective dates on which amounts 
shall be withdrawn by the Borrower from the Credit Account or cancelled; and (ii) at 
the rate set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date and at such 
other rates as may be set from time to time
thereafter pursuant to paragraph (a) above. The rate set as of June 30 in each year 
shall be applied from the next date in that year specified in Section 2.06 of this 
Agreement.
(c)
The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as the 
Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of any kind imposed 
by, or in the territory of, the Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this 
Agreement for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such other 
eligible currency or currencies as may from time to time be
designated or selected pursuant to the provisions of that Section.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge at the 
rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of 
the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be payable 
semi-annually on April 15 and October 15 in each year.
Section 2.07. (a) Subject to paragraphs (b) and (c) below, the Borrower shall 
repay the principal amount of the Credit in semi-annual installments payable on each 
April 15 and October 15 commencing October 15, 2000 and ending April 15, 2030. Each 
installment to and including the installment payable on April 15, 2010 shall be one 
percent (1%) of such principal amount, and each
installment thereafter shall be two percent (2%) of such principal amount.
(b)
Whenever (i) the Borrower's gross national product per capita, as 
determined by the Association, shall have exceeded $790 in constant 1985 dollars for 
five consecutive years and (ii) the Bank shall consider the Borrower creditworthy for 
Bank lending, the Association may, subsequent to the review and approval thereof by 
the Executive Directors of the Association and after due  consideration by them of the 
development of the Borrower's economy, modify the terms of repayment of installments 
under paragraph (a) above by requiring the Borrower to repay twice the amount of each 
such installment not yet due until the principal amount of the Credit shall have been 
repaid. If so requested by the Borrower, the Association may revise such modification 
to include, in lieu of some or all of the increase in the amounts of such 
installments, the payment of interest at an annual rate agreed with the Association on 
the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and  outstanding from time to time, 
provided that, in the judgment of the Association, such revision shall not change the 
grant element obtained under the above-mentioned repayment modification.
(c)
If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant to paragraph (b) 
above, the Association determines that the Borrower's economic condition has 
deteriorated significantly, the Association may, if so requested by the Borrower, 
further modify the terms of repayment to conform to the schedule of installments as 
provided in paragraph (a) above.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is hereby specified 
for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Page  4
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end, without any 
limitation or restriction upon any of its other obligations under this Agreement, 
shall cause REB to perform in accordance with the provisions of the Project Agreement 
all the obligations of REB therein set forth, shall take and cause to be taken all 
action, including the provision of funds, facilities, services and other resources, 
necessary or appropriate to enable REB to perform such obligations, and shall not take 
or permit to be taken any action which would prevent or interfere with such 
performance.
(b)
The Borrower shall relend the proceeds of the Credit to REB under a 
subsidiary loan agreement to be entered into between the Borrower and REB under terms 
and conditions which shall have been approved by the Association and which shall 
include the following: (i) a repayment period of 25 years after an 8-year grace 
period, (ii) an interest rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum 
during the grace period, capitalized; (iii) an interest rate of two percent (2%) per 
annum thereafter, and (iv) the foreign exchange risk to be borne by the Borrower.
(c)
The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the Subsidiary Loan 
Agreement in such manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower and the 
Association and to accomplish the purposes of the Credit, and except as the 
Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not assign, amend, abrogate or 
waive the Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any provision thereof.
Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, procurement of 
the goods, works and consultants' services required for the Project and to be financed 
out of the proceeds of the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 1 to 
the Project Agreement.
Section 3.03. The Borrower and the Association hereby agree that the obligations 
set forth in Sections 9.03, 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07 and 9.08 of the General Conditions 
(relating to insurance, use of goods and services, plans and schedules, records and 
reports, maintenance and land acquisition, respectively) shall be carried out by REB 
pursuant to Section 2.03 of the Project Agreement.
ARTICLE IV
Financial and Other Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from 
the Credit Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditures, the Borrower 
shall:
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained in accordance with sound 
accounting practices, records and accounts reflecting such 
expenditures;
(ii)
ensure that all records (contracts, orders, invoices, bills, 
receipts and other documents) evidencing such expenditures are 
retained until at least one year after the Association has 
received the audit report for the fiscal year in which the last 
withdrawal from the Credit Account was made; and 
(iii)
enable the Association's representatives to examine such records.
 
(b)
The Borrower shall:
 
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) (i) of 
this Section and those for the Special Account for each fiscal 
year audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing principles 
consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the 
Association;
(ii)
furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any case 
not later than nine months after the end of each such year the 
report of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such 
detail as the Association shall have reasonably requested, 
including a separate opinion by said auditors as to whether the 
statements of expenditure submitted during such fiscal year, 
Page  5
together with the procedures and internal controls involved in 
their preparation, can be relied upon to support the related 
withdrawals; and
(iii)
furnish to the Association such other information concerning said 
records and accounts and the audit thereof as the Association 
shall from time to time reasonably request.
Section 4.02. The Borrower shall, until completion of the Project, maintain an 
engineering and planning group with representation from its Ministry of Energy and 
Mineral Resources, from BPDB and from REB.
Section 4.03. The Borrower shall take all measures necessary to cause BPDB to 
upgrade selected BPDB substations to ensure timely supply of power to PPBSs.
Section 4.04. The Borrower shall cause BPDB, in accordance with an action plan 
acceptable to the Association, to hand over lines and customers to the relevant PPBSs 
in the Project Area.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Association
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (h) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified:
(a)
REB shall have failed to perform any of its obligations under the Project 
Agreement.
(b)
As a result of events which have occurred after the date of the 
Development Credit Agreement, an extraordinary situation shall have arisen which shall 
make it improbable that REB will be able to perform its obligations under the Project 
Agreement.
(c)
The Rural Electrification Board Ordinance, 1977, of the Borrower shall 
have been amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed or waived so as to affect materially 
and adversely the ability of REB to perform any of its obligations under the Project 
Agreement.
(d)
The Borrower or any other authority having jurisdiction shall have taken 
any action for the dissolution or disestablishment of REB or for the suspension of its 
operations.
(e)
A subsidiary or any other entity shall have been created or acquired or 
taken over by REB, if such creation, acquisition or taking over would materially and 
adversely affect the conduct of REB's business or REB's financial condition or the 
efficiency of REB's management and personnel or the carrying out of the Project.
(f)
(i)
Subject to sub-paragraph (ii) of this paragraph:
 
(A)
The right of the Borrower to withdraw the proceeds of any 
grant or loan made to the Borrower for the financing of the 
Project shall have been suspended, cancelled or terminated 
in whole or in part, pursuant to the terms of the agreement 
providing therefor; or
(B)
any such loan shall have become due and payable prior to the 
agreed maturity thereof.
(ii)
Sub-paragraph (i) of this paragraph shall not apply if the 
Borrower establishes to the satisfaction of the Association that: 
(i) such suspension, cancellation, termination or prematuring is 
not caused by the failure of the Borrower to perform any of its 
obligations under such agreement; and (ii) adequate funds for the 
Project are available to the Borrower from other sources on terms 
and conditions consistent with the obligations of the Borrower 
under this Agreement.
Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (d) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified:
(a)
the event specified in paragraph (a) of Section 5.01 of this Agreement 
Page  6
shall occur and shall continue for a period of sixty days after notice thereof shall 
have been given by the Association to the Borrower;
(b)
the events specified in paragraphs (c), (d) and (e) of Section 5.01 of 
this Agreement shall occur; and
(c)
the event specified in paragraph (f)(i)(B) of Section 5.01 of this 
Agreement shall occur, subject to the proviso of paragraph (f)(ii) of that Section.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to the 
effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 
(b) of the General Conditions:
(a)
the Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been executed on behalf of the Borrower 
and REB;
(b)
the Project Proforma for carrying out the Project has been approved by 
the Borrower;
(c)
REB has entered into Performance Agreements, acceptable to the 
Association, with the Energized PBSs; and
(d)
the transfer of about 1,200 km of BPDB lines and associated BPDB 
customers to the relevant PBSs has been completed in a manner acceptable to the 
Association. 
Section 6.02. The following are specified as additional matters, within the 
meaning of Section 12.02 (b) of the General Conditions, to be included in the opinion 
or opinions to be furnished to the Association:
(a)
that the Project Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified by REB, 
and is legally binding upon REB in accordance with its terms; and
(b)
that the Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified 
by the Borrower and REB and is legally binding upon the Borrower and REB in accordance 
with its terms.
Section 6.03. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is 
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
Section 6.04. The provisions of paragraph (b) of Section 5.02 of this Agreement 
shall cease and determine on the date on which the Development Credit Agreement shall 
terminate or on the date 33 years after the date of this Agreement, whichever shall be 
earlier.
ARTICLE VII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Secretary or the Additional Secretary, or any Joint Secretary, 
Deputy Secretary or Assistant Secretary of the External Resources Division of the 
Ministry of Planning of the Borrower is designated as representative of the Borrower 
for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
External Resources Division
Ministry of Planning
Government of the People's
   Republic of Bangladesh
Dhaka, Bangladesh
Cable address:
Telex:
 
BAHIRSAMPAD
642226 SETU BJ
Page  7
Dhaka
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
 
INDEVAS
197688 (TRT)
Washington, D.C.
248423 (RCA)
 64145 (WUI)
 82987 (FTCC)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF BANGLADESH
By /s/ A. H. S. Ataul Karim
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ Shinji Asanuma
Acting Regional Vice President
Asia
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the amounts of the Credit to each Category 
and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
                     Amount of the
                   Credit Allocated              % of
                     (Expressed in       Expenditures
     Category       SDR Equivalent)      to be Financed
(1)  Civil works          8,700,000      85%
     (including
     erection and
     commissioning)
(2)  Equipment,          60,000,000      100% of foreign
     vehicles and                        expenditures,
     materials                           100% of local
                                         expenditures
                                         (ex-factory
                                         cost) and 70%
                                         of local ex-
                                         penditures for
                                         other items pro-
                                         cured locally
(3)  Consultants'         2,900,000      100%
     services, in-
     cluding inspect-
Page  8
     ion of equipment
     and materials
     under Part C.1
     of the Project
(4)  Unallocated          8,000,000
          TOTAL          79,600,000
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
 
(a)
the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of any 
country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of any country other than that of the Borrower; and
(b)
the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of the 
Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower.
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement.
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objectives of the Project are to substitute power at least cost for imported 
petroleum products and to strengthen REB and PBSs' performance.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Borrower and the Association may agree upon from time to time to 
achieve such objectives:
Part A:
1.
Construction of about 6,050 km of 33-kV and 11-kV three phase and single phase 
primary lines, and about 3,000 km of 400/230 volts secondary lines in the Project 
Area.
2.
Construction of about eighteen 33/11-kV substations of 10 MVA each, and 
upgrading of about six substations in the Project Area.
3.
Rehabilitation of about 850 km of existing 33-kV, 11-kV and low voltage lines 
and distribution substations in the Project Area.
4.
Acquisition of service materials for consumer connections including service 
connections, meters and capacitors required for Part A.1, A.2 and A.3 of the Project.
5.
Acquisition of equipment, vehicles, boats and communication equipment required 
for Part A.1, A.2 and A.3 of the Project.
Part B:
Construction of central facilities for REB including offices, training center, 
workshop and warehouse facilities, and residential buildings, and acquisition of 
related equipment.
Part C:
1.
Provision of technical assistance to REB and the PPBSs for engineering, design, 
construction supervision and commissioning under Parts A and B of the Project.
2.
Provision of technical assistance to REB and the PBSs for Project execution and 
management, strengthening of technical and financial capabilities and training.
*   *   *   *
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 1997.
SCHEDULE 3
Special Account
Page  9
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
 
(a)
the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1), (2) and (3) set 
forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(b)
the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Credit allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories 
in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
(c)
the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equivalent to $2,500,000 
to be withdrawn from the Credit Account and deposited into the Special Account 
pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule.
2.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible 
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.
After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special 
Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Association a request or requests for a deposit or deposits which do not exceed 
the aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such request or 
requests, the Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit 
Account and deposit in the Special Account such amount or amounts as the Borrower 
shall have requested.
(b)
(i)
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the Association requests for deposits into the Special 
Account at such intervals as the Association shall specify.
(ii)
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the Association the documents and other evidence 
required pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment 
or payments in respect of which replenishment is requested. On the 
basis of each such request, the Association shall, on behalf of 
the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit into 
the Special Account such amount as the Borrower shall have 
requested and as shall have been shown by said documents and other 
evidence to have been paid out of the Special Account for eligible 
expenditures.
All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Association from the Credit Account under 
the respective eligible Categories, and in the respective equivalent amounts, as shall 
have been justified by said documents and other evidence.
4.
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the Borrower 
shall, at such time as the Association shall reasonably request, furnish to the 
Association such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made 
exclusively for eligible expenditures.
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Association 
shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account:
(a)
if, at any time, the Association shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Credit Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph 
(a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement; or
(b)
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the eligible 
Categories less the amount of any outstanding special commitment entered into by the 
Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to the 
Project, shall equal the equivalent of $5,000,000 twice the amount of the Authorized 
Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of 
the Credit allocated to the eligible Categories shall follow such procedures as the 
Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be 
made only after and to the extent that the Association shall have been satisfied that 
all such amounts remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such 
notice will be utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures.
Page  10
6.
(a)
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any payment out 
of the Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible 
pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; (ii) was not justified by the evidence 
furnished to the Association, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the 
Association: (A) provide such additional evidence as  the Association may request; or 
(B) deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Association shall so request, refund 
to the Association) an amount equal to the amount of such payment or the portion 
thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the Association shall otherwise agree, no 
further deposit by the Association into the Special Account shall be made until the 
Borrower has provided
such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may be.
(b)
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any amount 
outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for 
eligible expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, 
refund to the Association such outstanding amount.
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund to the 
Association all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.
(d)
Refunds to the Association made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) 
of this Schedule shall be credited to the Credit Account for subsequent withdrawal or 
for cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, 
including the General Conditions.
