Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
. .~ ~ ~ ~ ~ R
Report No. P-4253-BO
REPORT AND RECONMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT
IN AN AMOUNT EQUIVALENT TO SDR 48.4 MILLION
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF BOLIVIA
FOR A
RECONSTRUCTION IMPORT CREDIT PROJECT
April 25, 1986
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its cotents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Bolivian Peso (Sb)      =  US$0.0000005
US$1.00                 =  Sb 2 million
1 million ($b)          = US$0.5
MEASURES AND EQUIVALENTS
1 kilometer (km)            =  0.62 mile
1 meter (a)                 =  3.28 feet (ft)
1 kilogram (kg)             =  2.20 pounds (lb)
1 ton                       =  2,205 pounds
GOVERNMENT FISCAL YEAR
January 1 to December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
BAB     - Bolivian Agriculture Bank
BAMIN   - Bolivian Mining Bank
BISA    - Industrial Development Bank
CAO    - Camara Agricola Oriente
CB      - Central Bank of Bolivia
COMIBOL - Bolivian Mining Corporation
GEOBOL - Geological Survey of Bolivia
ENDE    - Bolivian Power Company
ENFE    - National Railways Corporation
IDB    - Inter-American Development Bank
NEP     - New Economic Policy
RIC    - Reconstruction Import Credit
SBA     - Stand-By Agreement
TGN     - Tesoro General de la Nacion
YPFB    - Bolivian Petroleum Corporation



FOR CYFIA  USE ONLY
BOLIVIA
RECONSTRUCTION IMPORT CREDIT PROJECT
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY
BORROWER:              The Republic of Bolivia.
BENEFICIARIES:         State enterprises; private mining, industrial
and agricultural producers and traders.
AMOUNT:                SDR 48.4 Million (US$55 Million equivalent).
TERMS:                 Standard IDA.
RELENDING TERMS:       (i) State enterprises:  14.5%, 10 years with
3 years of grace; (ii) private sector:
14.5Z, max1mum of 1 year with 3 months of
grace.
PROJECT DESCRIPTION:  In support of the economic stabilization and
structural reform program initiated by the Government
in August 1985, the proposed Reconstruction Import
Credit (RIC) would help reactivate exports by
providing quick disbursing financing for priority
imported equipment, spare parts and other inputs
needed in mining, agriculture, industry, energy,
power and transport. The proposed operation would
help stem the decline in agricultural, mining,
industrial and hydrocarbon production and exports and
facilitate railway and power operations that provide
essential support to the export sectors. Funds for
public enterprises would be onlent to the entities
(i.e. CONIBOL, YPFB, ENFE and ENDE) by the Borrower
(Ministry of Finance) through the Central Bank as its
financial agent. For the private sector portion, the
Central Bank would establish a rediscount facility to
allow qualified financial intermediaries to provide
dollar-denominated subloans to finance: (i) imports
of inputs,-spare parts and equipment of private
miners, industrial and agricultural producers and
traders; and (ii) essential domestic materials
required by industrial exporters. The foreign
exchange risk would be borne by the public
enterprises (unless the Government decides with IDA's
agreement to pass on the Credit proceeds as a capital
contribution in which case the Government bears the
foreign exchange risk) and the private sector
subborrovers.
Thi docunent hasaric d iabuten nd may beuxd by ripents ony in the perfmnce
of their official dutieL Its contents may not odmvise be disclosed without World Bank authodain



- il -
ESTIMATED
DISBURS ENTS:       IDA FY              87         88
(US$ Million)
45         10
RISKS:                The Government is committed to carry out its economic
stabilization and reform program. The program has
been effective in reducing the rate of inflation and
improving the macroeconomic policy framework, but has
been accompanied by an initial severe cut in the
purchasing power of the population at large. The
expected positive response of exports has been
delayed by a severe deterioration in Bolivia's terms
of trade. There is a risk that the Government cannot
keep the program on track and that the benefits of
the proposed Credit would not materialize fully. In
order to sustain the program, the Government must
demonstrate positive effects of economic
reactivation, which will require an increase in
imports above present depressed levels. The proposed
Credit would assist in that effort.
APPRAISAL REPORT:     No Staff Appraisal Report has been prepared for this
Project.
MAP:                  IBRD 16591.



INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT OF SDR 48.4 MILLION TO
THE REPUBLIC OF BOLIVIA
FOR A
RECONSTRUCTION IMPORT CREDIT PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recomnendation on a proposed
Reconstruction Import Credit to the Republic of Bolivia for the equivalent
of SDR 48.4 million (US$55 million equivalent) on standard IDA terms.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.        An Economic Report (No. 5680-BO) was distributed to the Executive
Directors in August 1985. The following discussion is based on that report
and the findings of several missions which visited Bolivia after the
Government adopted its economic stabilization and reform program. Country
data sheets are presented in Anex I.
Background
3.        Over the past century, Bolivia's economy has functioned as a dual
system in which the modern economy extracted resources to finance
accumulation of assets abroad and had few linkages with the non-modern
economy in which the majority of the population lived. The modern economy
was based on mining (originalUy silver, later tin) while the rural
population's main activity was subsistence agriculture. The country's
political life was dominated by the mining and land-owning oligarchy.
4.        Bolivia's defeat in the Chaco War with Paraguay (1935) brought
deep dissatisfaction with the then existing situation and generated
pressures for change. These culminated in the 1952 revolution, led by Mr.
Paz Estenssoro and Mr. Siles Suazo, which sought to put an end to the
colonial structure that had shaped Bolivia's economy, and to deprive the
land-owning and mining oligarchy of its economic base. This objective was
partially achieved. Progress was made in eradicating feudal relations,
distributing the land more equitably, and mitigating obstacles to social
mobility, notably through an impressive effort in primary education.
However, the agrarian reform and the nationalization of the large mines
were followed by falling production and declining GDP throughout the
1950s. During the subsequent decade output increased steadily at an
average annual rate of about 5Z, and real GDP per capita recovered to its
1952 level by 1970.



-2-
5.        The 1970s were a period of apparent prosperity.  The 1973
commodity boom (including oil and gas), together with political stability,
brought GDP and export growth. While public sector investment expanded and
was financed by external borrowing, the private sector remained dormant and
continued to transfer resources abroad. Political considerations and the
expectations of rapid growth of export revenues and public income led to
the execution of many uneconomic and unviable projects, and to the
maintenance of unrealistic pricing, foreign exchange, and mineral taxation
policies. Returns on investment remained low and, after the expected
benefits failed to materialize, the country became burdened with large
repayments of short-term external debt without the capacity to service
them.
6.        The pattern of growth during this period was characterized by a
reinforcement of the role of the state in the economy both through dir-act
participation in productive activities and through increasing inter-
vention. Growth of the directly productive sectors was weaker than that of
the service sector, resulting in a vulnerable economic structure, with
relatively little real economic development. The incentive system was
distorted by extensive controls over prices and the exchange rate, and by
excessive mineral taxation. Furthermore, expansion of private sector
activity was limited by the small domestic market, the weak transport and
communications network, and the lack of management capacity and of a
trained labor force.
Economic Deterioration
7.        The underlying weaknesses of the 1970s growth became apparent
late in the decade as commercial banks changed their perception of the
country's export potential and debt servicing capacity and reduced their
exposure in Bolivia. This decision reduced the inflows of foreign
exchange substantially, and coincided with a fall in oil production, a drop
in the prices of mining exports, and an increase in debt service
requirements. At the same time, Bolivia entered into a period of political
instability.
8.       An economic program aimed at correcting the external imbalance
and at reestablishing normal relations with foreign lenders was laid out in
1979. Its main elements included increasing some prices and tariffs of
public sector services, increases in prices of agricultural goods,
reduction of mining taxes, increases in interest rates, a devaluation, and
the start of negotiations on a debt rescheduling agreement with the
commercial banks. These measures were the basis for a stand-by agreement
with the LMF and a World Bank Structural Adjustment Loan (SAL) in 1980
(para. 81). After initial compliance with IMF targets and with the
tranching conditions of the SAL, the country's economic situation again
deteriorated. The economic program was interrupted by a change in
Government through a military coup in July 1980. Rapid growth of public
sector expenditures (payment of unscheduled salary bonuses, increase in
interest payments on external debt) combined with lower revenues (fall in
mining production, combined with the programmed reduction of taxes on
mining) resulted in a large fiscal deficit. Public investment fell because
of a lack of counterpart funds for externally financed projects, GDP
stagnated, and the balance of payments deteriorated.



-3-
9.        The deterioration of the economy continued to accelerate under
three military governments and in the Siles Administration (1982-85). The
factors contributing most directly to this deterioration were inconsistent,
partial, and control oriented policies which attempted to reactivate the
economy and to improve wages through foreign exchange, price, and financial
controls and nominal wage increases. Because of the failure to take into
account the limitations imposed by the external sector and the disregard
for financial and fiscal constraints, these efforts were counter-
productive. The lack of direction and the inconsistent policies brought
uncertainty which discouraged productive activities, while inflation
accelerated and external debt arrears accumulated. No sustained or
consistent effort was made over this period to stabilize the economy or to
deal with structural problems. The evolution of the major policy areas was
as follows.
10.       (i) Public Sector.  The public sector deficit was the main source
of accelerating inflation; it increased from 9% of GDP in 1980 to 29% in
1984, with the Central Government and municipalities accounting for 82Z of
the total. Large deficits in the preceding years had been financed with
external resources, so that public domestic borrowing could be limited to
an average 2.5% of GDP during the 1970s. As fresh foreign sources of
finance disappeared, the deficit was largely financed by domestic borrowing
--mainly from the Central Bank- and by accumulation of arrears. This
extensive domestic borrowing was the direct result of contraction of
Central Government revenues as those linked to the nominal level of the
exchange rate, mainly import duties and mining exports, declined sharply;
central government tax revenues fell from 9% of GDP in 1980 to 3% in 1984.
In 1983 revenues linked to the exchange rate were only 8% of their 1976
real level. With the acceleration of inflation, delays in tax payments
increasingly eroded revenues and tax administration became more difficult.
On the expenditure side, operations of the key public enterprises
deteriorated steadily, as frequent government changes eroded controls and
support. During 1983-85 the public sector operated without budgets, and
spending was uncontrolled, accommodated by monetary expansion. The major
state enterprises (especially those concerned with mining and petroleum
products COMIBOL and YPFB) were severely affected by the overvaluation of
the exchange rate, their output fell and so did their transfers to the
Central Government. Meanwhile, employment by the Central Government
continued to increase (from 106,008 in 1980 to 143,000 in 1984), adding to
the deficit.
11.       (ii) External Sector.  Management of the external sector was
probably the most deficient aspect of economic policy. Rapid deterioration
of the economy was triggered by the worsening of the balance of payments
situation during 1981-82, after external financing had dried up, and
exports began to decline because of falling production and prices for
minerals and the unfavorable fixed exchange rate. Growing exports of gas
to Argentina did not help compensate for this deterioration, because
Argentina fell behind in its payments for gas, unilaterally withheld
proceeds to service Bolivia's debt to Argentina, and insisted on
significant counter trade in products for which Bolivia had little use.
Imports were curtailed drastically (they fell by 42X in 1982), which led to



-4-
further reductions in domestic production. The Government's response was
to introduce exchange controls, which further penalized legal exports and
distorted the allocation of foreign exchange. With foreign exchange
availability restricted by administrative controls, the exchange rate in
the parallel market depreciated rapidly. By mid-1985 the parallel/official
exchange ratio had increased to 968Z from 173% at the start of 1982. The
exchange rate regime contributed directly to inflarion as its rapid
depreciation translated into domestic price increases and indirectly
through its effects on fiscal revenuea as it affected taxes on
international trade and the revenues of YPFB and COMIBOL. Under these
circumstances, relations with foreign financial institutions could not be
normalized. As a result, foreign exchange flows to the Central Bank from
exports dried up, and their allocation became increasingly arbitrary.
12.       (iii) Monetary Policy.  Monetary policy was dominated by the ne-%;
to finance the public sector deficit. Initially (1980-83) increases in
money supply produced similar rates of inflation but, as monetary expansion
accelerated, velocity increased and the rate of inflation outpaced money
growth. By April 1984 inflation had accelerated to the hyperinflationary
rate of 63% per month and over the following 18 months averaged 47Z. As
the willingness to hold cash balances decreased, monetary emission
increasingly translated into a more than proportional increase in price
levels. The larger increase in prices meant that real cash balances fell
during this period by 60%. Over this period the exchange rate depreciated
continually, real interest rates became increasingly negative, and real
wages deteriorated continuoirsly, with nominal adjustments becoming
progressively ineffective. The monetary base shrank from the equivalent of
US$561 million in 1980 to US$71 million by August 1985. The velocity of
circulation increased over the same period from 15 to 56. Monetary
instruments such as reserve requirements lost all effectiveness to curtail
money growth. Negative real interest rates discouraged savings in the
banking system and resulted in a sharp process of financial
disintermediation.
13.       (iv) Wage Policies.  Salaries in real terms had been falling
since 1978 and in 1982 they were 38% below the 1970 level. Organized labor
pressed hard for improvements and these pressures intensified when
President Siles assumed power in 1982. The Government attempted to meet
the demands but lacked the means to do so. The initial strategy was to
provide bonuses for a variety of reasons (for transport, productivity, vc_.
end, recreation, vacation, patriotism, etc.). Indexation to inflatic was
later attempted, but proved unmanageable when inflation accelerated. With
a few exceptions (workers in the oil sector or who received part of their
salaries in kind), salaries kept falling in real terms, leading to an
increasingly conflict-ridden situation characterized by strikes and other
disruptions of producticn. This contributed to a worsening of the overall
economic situation, acceleration of inflation, and a further decline in
real wages. The living standard of lower income urban groups was worsened
by the negative redist-ibutive effects of the overvalued exchange rate and
negative real interest rates (access to foreign exchange at the official
rate and credit was limited to few groups). Rural incomes suffered
somewhat less as the relative price of foodstuffs increased.



14.       (v) External Debt.  Public sector borrowing of more than a year's
maturity increased from US$172 million in 1974 to US$629 million in 1978,
with debt outstanding in that year reaching $1.7 billion (over 50% of
GDP). After 1978, debt continued to grow, but a large part of the increase
was due to borrowing from Latin American governments and regional
multilateral institutions, as well as conversion of short-term to
medium-term debt and several rescheduling arrangements. By the end of
1984, public medium-term debt had reached US$3.2 billion, about 93Z of GDP,
with 23% of it owed to multilateral institucions, 49Z to bilaterals and 28Z
to private institutions. Debt service obligations increased to the range
of US$600-700 million annually, which was close to 100% of exports. These
rising debt service claims led to a reduction in import capacity, declining
access to new credit for project and trade financing, and a loss of
maneuverability in domestic macro-economic management.
15.       In sum, when President Paz Estenssoro took office on August 1985,
he inherited an economy beset by extraordinarily complex problems. GDP,
exports, and investment had been falling for the fortrth year in a row.
Over 1980-84 GDP had fallen by 16% while GDP per capita had declined by
27%. Sectors most affected by this decline had been manufacturing (34%),
construction (30%) and mining (22%). Inflation was accelerating
uncontrollably (in August 1985 inflation was running at an annualized rate
of 22,256%). Central Administration revenues in 1984 as a share of GDP had
fallen to below 3%, and the deficit was in excess of 20%. The deficit of
the consolidated public sector had reached 29Z of GDP. The official
exchange rate sLjod at $b 67,000 while the parallel rate exceeded $b 1
million/US$. Theze was a substantial accumulation of external debt payments
arrears (US$700 million on public debt, 20% of GDP) and imports were
compressed to less than two-thirds of the average 1979-81 level.
Unemployment stood at 15% and there was a proliferation of marginal
activities (small-scale smuggling, black-market operations, etc.).
Increasing distortions in the formal economy had shifted a growing share of
economic activities to the underground economy, especially in the external
trade area. The situation was exacerbated by the weakness of the public
administration, lack of confidence in government policies, and
deteriorating incomes of the urban poor caused by the price distortions.
Attempts to introduce stabilization measures during the previous
Administration had failed becausc of the weakness of the Government and
strong opposition from the labor movement.
PART II - THE NEW ECONOMIC POLICY
The Economic Program
16.       The new Government adopted a bold and pragmatic stabilization and
structural economic reform program known as the -New Economic Policy- (NEP)
in an effort to check the rapid deterioratior of the economic and social
situation. Measures introduced on August 29, 1985 were designed to
stabilize the economy and to launch structural reforms that would lay the
foundation for the resumption of economic growth. The NEP consists of a
set of coherent economic measures whose design is well-conceived and
comprehensive, aimed at stabilizing the economy and introducing structural
reforLs simultaneously. Measures included in the NEP are:



-6-
(a)  A sharp reduction of the fiscal deficit and elimination of
Central Bank financing of the public sector through monetary
emission. The sharp reduction of the fiscal deficit is being
achieved through elimination of Government subsidies, a drastic
rise in the pricec of hydrocarbons (gasoline prices were
increased by a multiple of ten), public utility tariff increases,
elimination of subsidies to public enterprises, and a restoration
of fiscal revenues. The latter is to be brought about by
ieturning economic activities to formal channels as a consequence
of the unification of the exchange rates.
(b) A managed float of the exchange rate through an auction system
was introduced, which has devalued the peso in nominal terms by
97%.
(c) The phasing out of Certral Bank financing of the Treasury (TGN);
and tightening of controls over public sector revenues and
expenditures by centralizing all accounts in the TGN.
(d) In November 1985, an implementation Decree revising the structure
and levels of public sector salaries was issued. The objectives
are to bring expenditures on wages in line with the financial
capacity of the Central Government and public enterprises, and to
reduce wage inequalities among public sector agencies. The
minimum wage was increased from $b 15 million to $b 30 million
per month (equivalent to about US$15) and is to remain at that
level until May 1986. The Decree also provided for the
consolidation of bonuses into 12 monthly salaries and the
phasing-out of payments in kind through subsidized foodstores
(pulperias), which were a major source of inefficiency in several
public enterprises (pulperias contributed to large financial and
productivity losses because they encouraged excessive growth of
employment, inefficiency and wage distortions). A ceiling on
public sector agencies' expenditures on wages was set at the
nominal amounts spent idi July, 1985 plus an additional 25Z in
nominal terms (the latter much below the subsequent rate of
inflation). Thus, in order to raise wages, an entity must lay
off workers. In December 1985 an Emergency Employment Fund to be
financed through compulsory loans was established. This was a
temporary revenue measure pending the adoption of a comprehensive
tax reform.
(e) A comprehensive tax reform, currently before Congress, has been
designed. The central features are a 10% value added tax, a 10%
income tax (against which the VAT can be deducted), a 1%
transactions tax, and a property tax with rates between I and 5%.
17.       Additional structural reform measures include the following:



-7-
(a)  Freeing prices across the economy (in the financial, goods and
labor markets), and using economic criteria to set those prices
that are inherently not market determined. External trade was
liberalized and import tariffe have been reduced to a flat 10 of
the CIF price plus IO VAT. Previously existing tariffs had
averaged 35Z but with wide range of dispersion.
(b)  The reorganization and decentralization of CONIBOL and YPFB was
initiated, to improve their efficiency.
(c)  The Central Bank and the Finance and Planning Ministries were
instructed to propose monetary and tax reforms consistent with
the new economic policy; elements of the monetary reform have
been formulated, while the iax reform is currently before
Congress.
18.       The overall structural reform effort is aimed at reducing
Government intervention, establishing market prices, and restoring
incentives for private sector activity so as to increase the efficiency of
the Bolivian economy. The program represents a drastic departure from past
policies. It is comprehensive and austere, going beyond, in some aspects,
the recommendations of several international entities which have sought to
help Bolivia resolve its economic crisis. Because the program is
extensive, covering simultaneously stabilization and structural reforms,
there is a varying degree of implementation of individual measures. Some
of them took effect immediately (e.g., devaluation, increase of oil prices,
freeing of prices), others have only set the basis for what constitute long
run structural reform processes (e.g., reorganization of public
enterprises, tax reform, rationalization of public sector tariffs) and some
will have to be revised because, as implementation has proceeded, gaps and
even inconsistencies have surfaced. The team in charge of implementation,
however, is capable and sufficiently flexible to make the required
adjustments according to specific circumstances. The substantive policy
approach, however, has been made repeatedly clear. Individual measures and
the status of implementation are summarized in Table 1.
Initial Results and Economic Program for 1986
19.        Initial results of program implementation were encouraging.
Inflation was reduced from a monthly rate of 60% in August to -2% in
October and 3% in November. Money emission by the Central Bank likewise
showed a dramatic reduction from a 60Z expansion in August to 34% in
September, 16% in October and 0% in November. After the float of the peso
on September 3, the gap between the official and-parallel rates had been
effectively eliminated and the exchange rate stabilized at about
$bl,100,000 to the US$. There was also an improvement in the fiscal
accounts. Revenues of the Treasury increased from 5.5 trillion pesos in
August, to 6.1 in September, 6.3 in October, and 16.7 in November. In the
aggregate, the deficit of the consolidated public sector is estimated to
have been reduced from 29% of GDP in 1984 to 10% in 1985. This improvement
stems in large measure from the surplus generated by the Petroleum Public
Enterprise (YPFB) which generated 6.9% of GDP.



-8-
Page 1 of 2
Table 1: THE NEW ECONOHIC POLICY (DECREE LAW NO. 21060 OF AUGUST 29, 1985)
A. Stabilization Measures                St tus                             Action/C omment
- Exchange rate adjustment.          In place.                  Peso was devalued by 93Z on September 3,
1985.
- Increase in price of               In place.                  Average retail price of liquid
hydrocarbons.                                                 hydrocarbons to be maintalned at US$0.23
per liter.
- Financing ceilings for public      Fiscal program  for        Objective is to reduce need for Central
sector agencies.                   1986 agreed with the       Bank financing of public sector.
DIF.
- Limits on public sector            Salary Decree issued       Expenditures on salaries constrained to
expenditures on salaries.          on November 30, 1985.      July 1985 levels plus 25Z; salaries not
to be increased until May 1986. New
hiring is not permitted.
- Subsidized stores (y10e2ian)       In place.                  Food stores are no longer subsidized.
are eliminated and replaced by
salary equivalent.
- Taxes affecting mineral exports   In place.                   Taxes now affect presumed profits rather
are consolidated and a                                        than gross revenues.  Updating of
flexible bcais for calculation                                presumed production costs have been on
is established.                                               schedule.
- Treasury authorized to issue       In progress.               Objective is to consolidate public sector
credit notes  to pay for                                     accounts and defer cash payments.
floating debt of public sector
agencies.
B. Structural Reform Measures
- Exchange rate adjustment           In place.                  An auction system was established, the
mechanism.                                                    exchange rate responds to market
conditions and is within 5X of the
parallel market.
- Financial market                   In place.                  Active and passive interest rates were
liberalization,                                               freed. operations in foreign exchange and
indexed loans and deposits are
authorized.
- Price of goods and services are   In place.                   Main impact is on agricultural goods
freed,                                                        prices.
- Exceptions are those vhich by
their nature cannot be market
determined:
Urban transport tariffs          In progress.               Main municipalities have reached
to be set by municipalities,                                agreements with transport companies.
Electricity tariffs to be set   To be revised.              ENDE has proposed that tariffs be
by municipalities.                                          regulated, as before 1982, by the
National Directorate of Electricity at
the Ministry of Energy.



-   S ~ ~ ~     ~      ~     ~     ~     ~     9
Page 2 of 2
Table 1: THE NEW ECONOMIC POLICY (DECRE LAW NO. 21060 OF AUGUST 29, 1985)
B.  Structural Reform Measures             Status                         Action/Coent
Electricity tariffs for         To be revised.            Tarlffs vere not to excead the equlvalent
lndustrilal use to be                                     4 1/2 U.S. cents per kilovatt-hour.
negotiated between usere and                              According to EID  a bigher tariff is
supplierm.                                                required. Matter under review.
* Pharmaceutical products and     To be implemented.        Mechanism. being studied.
telephone service to be
regulated by responsible
agencies.
* Iaternational telephone call    Belig reviewed.           Mechanisms being studied.
tariffs not to exceed those
of connecting lines.
* Railway tariffs not to exceed   Being revised.            EW E clalm  that Argentine, Brazillan and
those charged by neighboring                              Chilean railroad copanies are heavily
countries connecting lines,                               subuidized. A study to establish a
rationl tariff system Is underway.
- External trsde is liberalized,    Being lmplemented.        Customs service l being reorganized.
import tariffs reduced to a                                 Total costs to Importers are not to
flat 10 plus 1OZ of prevlous                               exceed 202 of CIF price.
tariff.
- Private labor market is           In place.                 Usges to be set by negotiations between
liberalized, restrictions on                                labor and management.
firing personnel removed,
number of paid holidays reduced
to 10.
- COMIBOL is to be reorganized.     In progress.              Four subsidiaries were to be
established. Completion wlll require
time because of the complexity of task.
TBRD is provlding direct support.
- YPmB Is to be reorganized.        Being revised.            Three subsidiaries were to be
established. Company's role and
structure to be redefined.
- Corporacion Boliviana de          In place.                 Assets have been transferred to regional
Fomento is dissolved,                                       development corporations.
- Transport company (ENTA) is       In place.                 Services have been transferred to
dissolved.                                                  municipalities.
- National Smelting Company         In progress.              Plants under COHISOL until regional
(ENAP) and Sociedad                                         subsidiaries are created.
Complejo/Karachipaupa are
dissolved.
- System of reserving aining        In place.                 Opens large areas for private
areas for the State (fiscal                                 exploration.
reserves) is removed (except
Nutun, North and South Lopez
provinces and 2 km. around
COOIBOL concessions).
- Tax reform.                       In progress.              Comprehenlve tax reform has been
submitted to the Congress.
- Monetary reform.                  In progress               Reform Is under study.



- 10 -
20.       A slip in the management of the program towards the end of the
year resulted in a temporary deterioration in these trends. While the
Central Bank curtailed its financing of the public sector, lack of full
control over public sector agencies led to a substantial accumulation of
domestic arrears. The process of clearing these up coincided with year-end
bonuses to public employees to provide some compensation for the drastic
reduction in real wages, expansion of credit to the agricultural sector,
and credit for military expenditures. This led to a 50X increase in
monetary emission in December. Inflation accelerated again to 16X in
December and 33Z in January and for a short period the rate of exchange in
the parallel market was substantially above $b2 million to the US$.
21.       In part as a response to these developments, President Paz
reshuffled the cabinet on January 22, 1986. The key ministries of Planning
and Finance have been entrusted to two of the main architects of the NEP,
reaffirming the Government's commitment to the program. The new cabinet
has brought the program back on track. Monetary emission and fiscal
expenditures have been controlled effectively, albeit to some extent
through build-up of arrears. As a result, inflation has been zero in
February and March and the exchange rate has stabilized at slightly less
than $2 million to the US$; the spread between the official and parallel
rate is less than 5%. The new cabinet also sent to Congress a tax reform
package which, if adopted, would avert the need for further increases in
petroleum product prices which the Government is considering now in order
to raise fiscal revenues quickly.
22.       On the basis of the original economic program, the Government,
with the assistance of the IMF, has prepared a short-term economic
program. The objectives for 1986 are a sharp reduction of inflation (from
over 8,000% in 1985 to below 85%), and a stabilization of the economy after
an accumulated fall of 18% since 1981. Although initially a modest
economic recovery was expected resulting from the improved price signals
(freeing of prices, realistic exchange rate) and the reduction of economic
disturbances, the adverse evolution of prices for key Bolivian exports
(gas, minerals) and floods that have affected crops in the Altiplano have
reduced the possibilities of achieving growth this year. The key element
of the stabilization program is the reduction of the non-financial public
sector deficit from an estimated 10% of GDP in 1985 to 5.8% in 1986.
Fiscal adjustment is based on the increased revenues of YPFB from the large
real depreciation of the Peso and the indexation of the domestic sales
prices of petroleum products to the US dollar; a very tight wage policy;
and the tax reform measures still to be adopted. This target is consistent
with an annual inflation rate of 80% (28% in the last three quarters).
Central Government current expenditures are programmed to remain constant
in real terms. The current account savings of the consolidated
nonfinancial public sector is expected to improve from -6.2% of GDP in 1985
to 0.4% in 1986, and investment expenditures to increase from 4.3Z of GDP
in 1985 to 7.0% in 1986, largely as a result of drawing on external
financing fcr the execution of on-going projects. Other program targets
include limiting expansion of money and quasi-money to no more than 40% in
1986, from 2,300% in 1985; interest rates are to remain flexible and
positive in real terms; the exchange rate and trade regimes are to remain
liberalized.



- 11 -
23.       The IMF has agreed with the Government on a Letter of Intent and
a policy memorandum for 1986 setting forth the objectives described above.
While some specific measures required to attain the agreed targets are yet
to be adopted by the Bolivlan authorities (tax package, control of public
sector expenditures, updating Central Bank balances and enforcing reserve
regulations, and adjustments in the functioning of the foreign exchange
auction system) it is expected that the Stand-by Agreement (SBA) will be
approved in May 1986.
The Conditions for Success of the New Economic Policy (NEP)
24.       The major requirement for the success of the NEP is the
Government's continued determination to carry it forward, including the
consistent application of exchange rate, monetary, fiscal, and wage
policies. Some of the most difficult measures have already been adopted,
those requiring time are under implementation, and the program's medium
term objective of a market-oriented economy with minimal intervention has
been made explicit. The commitment of the Government to the program has
been confirmed by actions such as issuing the restrictive Salary Decree,
firm handling of a general strike in September, recent cabinet changes,
tentative agreement with the IMF, and the framing of a comprehensive tax
reform. The stabilization program provides a consistent policy framework
to maintain and improve on the relative stability already achieved. The
stringency of the measures, however, is imposing a considerable strain upon
the country's social fabric.
25.       A second critical requirement for the success of the NEP is
external support for the program. After six years of economic decline and
falling incomes the population is impatient and decisive action and more
resources are needed to build upon the reforms now underway. In the short
run, expansion of economic activity is constrained by the need to avoid the
resurgence of hyperinflation. This in turn requires maintenance of the
tight monetary policy contemplated in the program. The only way to allow
for expansion of demand from either the public or private sector, without
triggering inflationary pressures, is through a higher level of imports.
Higher imports would lead to increased production and productivity by
making it possible to restore productive capacity which has deteriorated
from a lack of spare parts, inputs, and materials, and from an inability to
rcplace worn-out equipment. These improvements would, in turn, translate
into improved real wages and increased exports.
26.       Under normal circumstances, the sweeping reforms undertaken in
the past six months would have induced significant improvements in the
balance of payments. However, Bolivia has experienced an extraordinary
collapse of world markets for the two main commodities on which it depends
for over 90% of its export earnings: tin and hydrocarbons. The need for
external resources to allow the required higher ijiLports without increasing
pressures on the exchange rate market and on prices has thus been
exacerbated by these developments. The latter is crucial to regain the
confidence of the private sector and to bring about a reduction of interest
rates, which currently are a constraint to the sector's investment
response. Rapid transfer of external resources to Bolivia can thus help
sustain the economic program in the short-run.



- 12 -
27.       The third condition is the need to strengthen the Government's
administrative capacity to continue program implementation. There is a
serious shortage of capable middle-level managers and technical staff to
carry out the reforms contemplated in the program. The few qualified
managers in the public sector are already fully occupied in mapping
strategies and day-to-day defense of the economic program. Among the areas
that need to be addressed are the monetary program, fiscal budget, tax
reform, debt rescheduling, and the reorganization of public enterprises.
The IMF, IDB, and USAID are providing technical support in these areas.
Bank plans include assistance in the reorganization of COMIBOL and YPFB and
public financial sector reform. Further, the Bank plans to provide
technical support for the evaluation of the public investment program,
currently under preparation.
28.       Finally, the fourth main condition is to achieve a positive
response from the private sector, which must provide a significant part
of the required increases in investment, production and exports. Such a
positive response is likely to depend critically upon the credibility
inspired by the Government program -particularly control of inflation;
maintaining a realistic exchange rate policy; and the availability of the
required credit resources at reasonable costs.
29.       Over the medium term the Government's economic program consists
fundamentally of continuing implementation of the structural reforms
envisaged under the NEP. Chief among these are the tax and currency
reforms, reorganization and streamlining of the public sector,
institutional reforms in the financial sector and liberalization of
external trade. These reforms will establish a macroeconomic framework
conducive to an efficient use of private sector resources and an effective
public sector capable of providing support services. Resuming growth,
however, will require substantial investment resources to develop Bolivia's
human and economic potential. After several years of economic decline,
both the public and private sectors have a very limited capacity to
generate them. To enhance this capacity the Government intends to follow a
strategy whose main elements are the following:
-    Renegotiation of the external debt under concessionary
conditions;
-    Definition of sector strategies and investment priorities
-    Strict screening of public sector investment projects, including
those in execution or about to be executed, and which already
have financing. Resources are to be channeled to projects of
high returns, short maturity periods, and which contribute
directly or indirectly to improving the balance of payments.
-    Effective rationalization of YPFB and COMIBOL given that a large
share of exports depends on them.
-    Programs to develop agricultural export potential, including
transfer of technology, transport, marketing and credit.



- 13 -
-    Promotion to attract direct foreign investment to support
effective use of natural resources, in particular hydrocarbons.
30.       In support of this strategy the Government intends to enlist the
institutional and financial support of the international community.
Institutional support is required to generate the confidence of the private
sector. To that effect the Government intends to complement the more
stable environment already in place with formal participation in such
investment guarantee agencies as MIGA and OPIC. Moreover, the Government
has requested Bank support for organizing a Consultative Group meeting to
be held towards the end of 1986, which would be used as a forum to present
its economic program to the international community and to request
technical and financial support. To this end, the Government is currently
developing the main elements of a medium-term growth strategy and the
corresponding financing requirements.
Balance of Paymente Outlook and External Capital Requirements
31.       Background. Over the 1981-85 period, the trade balance has shown
continuous surpluses as the Bolivians have made drastic cuts in imports so
as to meet external obligations, while the current account has been highly
negative because of the large interest payments on the external debt. In
1986-87, as a result of the drastic elimination of the principal
distortions in the economy, a partial recovery of exports is likely. This
outlook, however, has been affected by the fall in the prices of mineral
exports, particularly that of tin. Gas exports are assumed to be sustained
in line with contracts with Argentina, but because of the fall in oil
prices, increased pressures for lower prices are expected. Non-traditional
exports (mainly agriculture), which fell from US$150 million in 1980 to
US$31 million in 1985, may recover only gradually because international
prices, with the exception of coffee, remain depressed. Demand from
neighboring countries, which were important markets, is also expected to be
below past levels.
32.       Since 1982, registered imports have been sharply curtailed
through controls and a quota system for allocation of foreign exchange.
Consumption good imports fell in 1985 to 55% the 1981 levels, while imports
of inputs and capital goods fell by 40%. These sharp reductions seriously
affected production, including that of the most important public
enterprises (COMIBOL, YPFB, ENFE) because of the lack of spare parts and
imported inputs. The manufacturing sector reduced its output level by 31%
between 1982 and 1984 in large measure for lack of inputs and imported
parts. Investment was affected by the limitations on the purchase of
imported equipment and, according to unofficial estimates, fell to 70% of
its real 1980 level.
33.       Despite tariff reductions and the liberalization of the exchange
rate regime under the NEP, officially recorded imports initially did not
increase significantly (they averaged US$30 million a mouth to the end of
1985) reflecting the depth of the recession and the tight credit
situation. The low import levels are not sustainable for long if
reactivation of the economy is to take place. Rehabilitation of productive
capacity, affected by lack of maintenance and spare parts, will require a
significant increase of imports in 1986.



- 14 -
34.       The 1986 External Accounts.  Estimates for the 1986 external
accounts are suuarized in Table 2.  The financing program  has been
designed to yield enough foreign exchange financing for an absolute minimum
level of imports consistent with no further decline in GDP in 1986. The
main features of the underlying financial package which has been agreed
upon with the IMF are:
(i) exports, taking into account the fall in tin and hydrocarbon
prices and a likely agreement with Argentina on gas prices, are
projected at US$571 million;
(ii) anticipated rescheduling of external debt service (amortization
and interest) is estimated to yield US$344 million while capital
inflows from various official and multilateral sources are
estimated at US$246 million, and private sources at US$108
million (including direct foreign investment and official
transfers);
35.       Imports for 1986 have been estimated at US$609 million, about 3X
in real terms over 1985, but some 32% in real terms below the 1979-81
average. Given the deterioration of the economy, it is difficult to
establish a clear relationship between imports and growth; however, this
level of imports would appear to be consistent with avoiding a further fall
in GDP in 1986. Furthermore, the US$36 million that we expect to
disburse from the proposed Credit during 1986 (which is included in the
US$609 million estimate) is focussed on the critical bottlenecks to the
expansion of production, and thus should lay a foundation for a modest
resumption of growth in 1987.
36.       The attainment of a rescheduling arrangement with commercial and
bilateral creditors that translates into debt relief in 1986 equivalent to
US$344 million is based on an analysis undertaken by the IMF. Current
schedules call for meetings with commercial banks and the Paris Club
respectively in April and May 1986. In conjunction with the expected level
of exports and other capital inflows, this rescheduling package will make
possible the minimum level of imports that will be critical to initiate a
modest recovery process.
37.       The Medium-Term Outlook.  The outlook for Bolivia's external
sector in the medium term remains uncertain. Exports have declined from
US$942 million in 1980 to US$621 million in 1985 as a result of the
persistently overvalued exchange rate; falling international export prices;
economic difficulties in neighboring countries; and social unrest that
affected p.oduction. This year, the volume of exports is expected to
increase by 6%; however, declining prices will result in earnings of only
US$571 million. Beyond 1986, however, possibilities for increased export
volume, particularly of gas, minerals and most important, agricultural
products, are good.
38.       While the policy environment to achieve export growth has
substantially improved, international markets remain weak. The collapse of
the international tin market has serious short-term repercussions but its
impact on the trade balance could be alleviated by closing some of
COMIBOL's mines which lose foreign exchange because of their high operating



- 15 -
Table 2: PROJECTED CAPITAL REQUIREMENTS AND FINANCING, 1986
(In US$ Million)
Capital Requirements                                  718
Exports of goods                                      571
Imports of goods                                      609
Trade Balance                                         -38
Interest on External Debt                            -267
Other factor payments                                -105
Transfers and other net service payments                4
Balance on Current Account                           -406
Amortization                                         -312
- Multilateral                         63
- Bilaterall/                         164
- Commercial Banks                     84
Financing                                              718
Direct Foreign Investment                              25
Use of Reserves                                        20
Other capital flows (net)2/                            83
Resciheduling (estimated)                             344
Capital Inflows                                       246
- World Bank/IDA                       42
-IDB                                   66
- Other Multilateral                   45
- Bilateral                            93
/_ Includes military, suppliers and sources n.e.s.
/2 Including official transfers.
costs. Looking further ahead, there are good possibilities for other
minerals, but response to NEP measures will be quite slow as exploration
efforts have lagged and private miners remain cautious about investing in
development. The main Bolivian export product is natural gas, which is
sold to Argentina at prices above Argentina's alternative costs, through
sales contracts through 1991. Argentina may continue to buy gas
thereafter, but at substantially lower prices. There are indications that
in conjunction with regularizing Bolivia's debt to Argentina, a lower price
may be agreed to in 1986. The present Bolivian government intends to
initiate discussions with Brazil with a view to agreeing on substantial gas
sales but this requires the construction of a long pipeline, and at this
stage prospects remain uncertain.
39.       Agricultural and agroindustrial exports could be multiplied
several times. Bolivia has much unused fertile land, but only one-seventh
of arable land is cultivated and yields per hectare are low. Improved



- 16 -
technology, increased fertilizer use, and changing crop patterns could
significantly increase the value of production. Action is needed on
numerous fronts, notably reducing transport costs, agricultural research
and extension, low cost irrigation projects, credit, and improved
marketing. The export potential is diverse and includes such products as
soybeans, corn, coffee, cacao, wood and beef. Improved external policies
should encourage a relatively rapid response in agriculture but sustained
production increases and significant export diversification will depend on
concerted action to develop the institutional capacity to provide support
and infrastructure investments.
40.       To understand the medium-term prospects of the balance of
payments, some illustrative projections have been made. They are tentative
since, after the disarray through which the Bolivian economy has gone, it
is difficult to assess the likely response of the economy to the new policy
environment. The principal assumptions are as follows:
-    Exports.  Analysis of individual products suggests that, in
response to the improved policies and particularly the new
exchange rate regime, real merchandise export growth could
average about 6%, p.a. between 1985 and 1990. It is assumed that
mineral exports are diversified from tin to other minerals such
as gold, silver and zinc. Gas exports to Argentina are likely to
be maintained until 1991 but with a modest reduction in price.
Rapid increases of agricultural exports are assumed. However,
for many products, the outlook for prices is still fairly weak;
thus nominal growth over the same period is expected to be only
8.1% p.a.
-    Imports.  Imports are based on an average GDP growth rate of 3%
p.a. for 1985-90 (implying a stagnation of per capita consumption
after a 1.2% drop in 1986), a rate that is optimistic if compared
to the recent record but achievable if NEP is sustained.
-    Debt Service Requirements.  Bolivia's mediumrterm external public
debt, including arrears, is projected at be US$3.8 billion at the
end of 1986. Were the country to service this debt fully, annual
payments during 1987-91 would average US$600 million which would
represent some 60% of projected exports.
The balance of payments projections, while tentative, indicate that over
the five years (1986-90), in spite of a projected merchandise export growth
in real terms (6%) higher than that of merchandise imports (4.7%), Bolivia
would be unlikely to generate a resource surplus, although there is a
narrowing of the trade deficit over the period (see Table 3).
41.       The upshot of the preceding analysis is that unless an effort is
made by the international financial community to put together an
extraordinary financial package that will support Bolivian's economic
reforms over the medium term, the likelihood of success is very low. The
principal elements of such package are clear: in addition to: (i)
continuing IMF support for Bolivia's stabilization program, and (ii) IDA



- 17 -
assistance to underpin key structural and sectoral reforms, it will be
necessary to (iii) reconvene the Consultative Group on Boliviafand increase
the flow of concessional aid from donors, and (iv) undertake a major
restructuring of Bolivia's debt. This multi-pronged strategy is currently
being evolved, with an I1F Stand-by Arrangement expected in May 1986, with
the proposed Reconstruction Import Credit aimed at supporting the recovery
process by assuring critical imports, and with a Bank-coordinated
Consultative group on Bolivia planned for late 1986. A restructuring of
Bolivia's outstanding external debt is now being pursued (para. 36).
42.       The details of Bolivia's debt restructuring needs will have to be
worked out over the coming months. The scope and magnitude of the required
restructuring is indicated by the size of the projected current account
deficit. The deficit (Table 3) averages about $400 million per annum over
1987-91 (excluding amortization payments). In comparison, average external
capital inflows over the 1979-83 period were about US$150 million per
annum. This preliminary analysis underlines the need for a major debt
restructuring effort, possibly involving a highly concessional multi-year
rescheduling arrange-ant, extraordinary debt relief, and other similar
measures.
Table 3: BALANCE OF PAYMENTS (1984-91)
(Millions of US$)
1984 1985   1986   1987   1988   1989   1990   1991
Imports of goods
+ NFS                582  672    737    828    939   1070   1219   1305
Export of goods+NFS    812  719    681    763    868    967   1154   1276
Resource balance       230   47    -56    -66    -71   -103    -65    -29
Balance on
current account    -180 -395   -406   -374   -394   -446   -433   -422
Terms of trade
(1984-100)           100   98.6   80.1   75.9   74.9   74.4  75.9   78.0
43.       Without a major debt restructuring effort, a further compression
of imports r-.uld be required, thus prolonging current economic stagnation.
Imports are already at an all-time low and are constraining production
responses, both short- and mediumr-term. Bolivia is well endowed with
natural resources whose development will require investments in



- 18 -
infrastructure, equipment, etc. They require political and economic
stability. The present Government has taken radical measures to achieve
these objectives. They appear to be accepted by the population, tired of
the previous disorder and economic chaos. In order to support the
Government's reform effort and lay the basis for higher growth over the
mediumr-term, the international financial community, including the Bank/IDA,
must implement a coordinated strategy aimed at providing Bolivia with
financial support that will increase the likelihood of success. The
Bank/IDA's growth-oriented strategy is now being worked out and our plans
are outlined in paragraphs 85 and 86 below. Bolivia, for its part, must
continue to implement its policy of stabilization and liberalization of the
economy as expressed in the NEP.
PART III - THE PROJECT
Background
44.       A Bank mission visited Bolivia from September 24 to October 9,
1985 to discuss the Government's economic program and possible Bank Group
support for the reforms launched in August 1985. The discussions led to
the identification of an emergency import financing operation to support
the implementation of the Government's economic program. The proposed
operation was appraised in November-December 1985. During appraisal,
import requirements were reviewed for the sectors most critical for
economic recovery, and priority activities were identified; implementation
arrangements were elaborated and procedures for operation organization,
on-lending, procurement, and disbursement were reviewed. Negotiations were
hield in Washington on April 14-17, 1986 with the Bolivian Delegation headed
by Mr. Javier Nogales, Central Bank President.  There is no separate
appraisal report for the proposed Credit. A Credit Summary is presented at
the front of this report and supplementary data and information are
contained in Anr.ex III.
Objectives
45.       The proposed Credit supports the Government's stabilization and
structural adjustment programs, as outlined in the New Economic Policy
(NEP) described in Part II. Bolivia is currently undergoing a transition
period after having suffered a long history of disastrous economic
management. The proposed operation provides emergency assistance in
support of the stabilization; it should be viewed as the first in a series
of financial and technical assistance efforts needed to rebuild Bolivia's
productive capacity. It is designed to initiate the reactivation of
priority sectors and the rehabilitation of public enterprises which will
play a key role in Bolivia's medium-term development. The Bank Group is
actively helping to put together a medium-term development program for the
Government including rehabilitation plans for the public enterprises which
would receive financing under this operation (paras. 87-88).
46.       Specifically, the proposed Credit is designed to increase
exports taking into account that a central objective of the NEP is export
promotion. NEP measures to achieve this to date include actions to assure



- 19 -
a realistic exchange rate, freeing of prices, reductions in import tariffs
and elimination of trade controls. The Project would provide fairly quick
disbursing financing for priority imported equipment, spare parts and other
inputs needed for the mining, agriculture, industry, energy, power and
transport sectors. Bolivia's export potential is constrained severely by
the lack of imported inputs, particularly intermediate and capital goods
which in 1984 fell to a third of the 1981 level. The proposed Credit would
alleviate this constraint. The proceeds would be used to establish lines
of credit for producers and exporters who would otherwise, because of the
Government's tight fiscal and monetary policy, lack the financing to
purchase imported inputs and spare parts. The proposed Credit also
supports Government efforts to improve the efficiency of the most important
public enterprises through financing their most immediate input
requirements, a first step and an integral part of the rehabilitation
process. The proposed Credit would also serve as a vehicle for an
intensified dialogue with the Government on its rehabilitation and
structural reform programs. A mid-term review of implementation progress
of the NEP and the proposed Credit operation would be held within nine
months after Credit effectiveness, and at such other times as IDA would
request.
Project Description
47.       The Credit proceeds, which would cover only a part of Bolivia's
total import needs (estimated at some 6% in CY 1986), have been allocated
to assure that the most significant production bottlenecks are alleviated.
The proposed financing plan has resulted from a careful analysis of
specific import needs and priorities for short-term recovery. Since the
public enterprises, which account for a significant part of Bolivia's
exports, and the private producers and exporters are short of funds or
local credit to purchase imports, the Credit proceeds would be onlent to
them. An indicative allocation of the Credit proceeds should ensure that
these priority public enterprises receive foreign exchange financing while
meeting as well the priority needs of private sector operations. The
allocation of Credit proceeds also takes into account the availability of
financing from other external sources, particularly for private mining and
industry (for example, IDB's mining and industrial reactivation loans),
although these credit lines are for the most part tied to specific
investment projects and are thus generally slow disbursing. In addition to
financing the import needs of producers for export and, to a lesser extent,
import substitution, the proposed Credit would enhance the ability of the
railway and power companies to support the export effort.



-20 -
48.       The tentative allocation of Credit proceeds by sector is
summarized below:
Tentative Allocation
of IDA Credit Funds
Sector                  Beneficiary                (US$ million equivalent)
Mining         COMIBOL (State Mining Company)                  14.5
Private Miners                                  6.5
21.0
Energy         YPFB (State Petroleum Company)                  11.0
Power          ENDE (State Power Company)                       1.8
Transport      ENFE (State Railway Company)                     4.5
Industry       Manufacturing and Agro-based Industries         4.5
Agriculture    Farmers and Agricultural Traders                 7.2
Unallocated                                                     5.0
TOTAL IDA CREDIT                               55.0
This allocation would be reviewed periodically with a view to ensuring that
funds are availaDle for priority activities but also would be directed to
those sectors that demonstrate the capacity to utilize funds effectively.
Ten percent of Credit proceeds are in the unallocated category to allow for
a control mechanism to reallocate funds to the most efficient priority
sector. Of the total Credit proceeds, approximately 642 would go to public
enterprises and 36Z to private firms or producers. The proposed import
plans for the public enterprises and a list of eligible imported goods for
the private sector, as discussed and agreed upon during negotiations, will
be provided to IDA in a Supplemental Letter to the Development Credit
Agreement. Both the mid-term program review and Credit allocation
mechanisms would, in the event of the Government's failure to sustain the
reform program, allow a reassessment of the operation and recourse to
appropriate IDA remedies including suspension of disbursement.
Detailed Features
49.      Mining Rehabilitation (Annex V). The mining sector has
historically been central to Bolivia's economic and political development
and remains the major source of foreign exchange (some 40% of export
value), tax revenues, and employment. However, decades of poor management
have undermined the sector's productivity, and it faces serious long-term
structural problems, particularly evident in COMIBOL (Corporacion de Minera
de Bolivia), the state-holding company which accounts for 65% of total
mineral production. Privately owned mining operations (24 medium-ascale
concerns accounting for 25Z of production and some 2,000-4,000 small units)
operate more effectively but have been severely affected by recent economic
problems. The collapse of the tin market in 1985 has aggravated an already



- 21 -
serious situation; several Bolivian mines with high production costs will
be forced to close. The crisis has underscored the conclusion that the
mining industry must become much more efficient if it is to be competitive
in the world market.
50.       COMIBOL's problems are the largest and most urgent in the mining
sector, and reforms of COMIBOL are thus a central component of the NEP.
Tin output, CONIBOL's most important product, declined from 19,000 tons in
1979 to 10,500 tons in 1985. COMIBOL's major problems have included
substantial Government interference, frequent management changes resulting
in lack of continuity, heavy centralization, inefficiencies at the
operational level, and inadequate supplies of spare parts and materials.
Strong pressures of the militant labor unions have thwarted past reform
efforts. As a result, COMIBOL's workforce increased from about 26,500 in
1979 to about 27,800 in 1984 despite sharp production declines. COMIBOL's
production costs increased from US$190 million in 1979 to US$303 million in
1984, and unit costs of production for tin jumped from US$3.7/lb in 1980 to
US$7.0/lb in 1984, while sales revenues dropped from US$421 million in 1979
to US$145 million in 1985 due to falling production and metals prices.
COHIBOL's operational results (excluding exchange rate related
profits/losses and royalties) thus deteriorated from a profit of about
US$51 million in 1980 to a loss of US$175 mil]ion in 1985. COMIBOL's
financial situation at the beginning of 1986 had worsened to the point that
wage and salary payments were several months delayed and essential supplies
for operations (such as explosives, chemicals and spare parts) were not
covered. The most immediate issue for COMIBOL is thus the need for
emergency assistance to permit sustained operations.
51.       A simple injection of emergency aid will have no significant or
lasting impact if it does not form part of a comprehensive rehabilitation
program which tackles COMIBOL's structural problems and aims to transform
it into one or several viable enterprises. Issues to be resolved include
reduction of COMIBOL's excessive work force; improving its operational
efficiency by reorganization of facilities, training, and theft prevention;
closing nonprofitable mines (the worst of them immediately); introduction
of decentralization measures; improvements of flows and quality of
financial data; full and effective integration of the recently transferred
smelting facilities; and design of a suitable investment program to achieve
cost reductions and efficiency increases. The NEP includes specific
provisions to achieve these reforms. It envisages COMIBOL's reorganization
into four autonomous companies (which was proposed in a 1981 UNDP financed
study for which the Bank acted as executing agency), including the
integration of all parastatal smelting facilities, and the elimination of
subsidized company stores (pulperias). Following the collapse of world tin
markets in late 1985, the Government has shifted the focus of COMIBOL's
restructuring program to give priority to immediate and short-term measures
over implementation of the decentralization. As additional support to this
important element of the NEP, IDA recently approved a Project Preparation
Facility (PPF) advance to prepare a Rehabilitation Project for COMIBOL, to
design and implement a full rehabilitation program.
52.       Credit proceeds allocated to COMIBOL (US$14.5 million) would
support the first stages of the planned comprehensive rehabilitation and
restructuring program. They would finance COMIBOL's moat immediate



- 22 -
short-term needs for the most efficient mines while the Government, with
technical assistance financed by IDA, maps out the detailed program for
COMIBOL's rehabilitation. The general strategy is to support and
strengthen the efficient mines and to shut down losing operations. In
order to assure progress of the overall restructuring program, (i) the
Government would submit for IDA's review by August 31, 1986, its program
for COMIBOL's manpower reductions and carry out this program by an agreed
upon date; and (ii) the Government would submit for IDA's review, by
August 31, 1986, a schedule for closure of mines and facilities that
are not financially or technically viable and carry out such closing
schedule by a date acceptable to IDA. The Credit would finance direct
imports of supplies (lubricants, cables, bolts, steel plates, tools),
equipment (pumps, crushers/concentrators components, mine loading, drilling
and transport equipment), and spare parts (for concentrators, locomotives
and for mine drilling, loading and transportation equipment) which are
needed to reactivate operations. Assurances were obtained during
negotiations that the Credit proceeds would finance only those mines that
have promising prospects for financial viability (i.e., Huanuni, Bolivar,
Santa Fe (Japo), Quechisla (San Vicente, Tatasi) and such other mines which
may in the future qualify and be acceptable to IDA). COMIBOL's import
plans for spare parts, materials and equipment were discussed and agreed
upon during negotiations. The additional imports would allow COMIBOL to
increase production from the potentially profitable mines (about a third of
all mines) on average by an estimated 10% per year in 1987-88.
53.       The NEP offers attractive incentives to the private miners to
increase productivity and to diversify into new minerals. Most
medium-scale miners have multi-mineral operations and thus their viability
does not rely exclusively on tin production. Also, many miners have
already adopted cost-cutting measures (e.g. reduction/redeployment of
labor) and have reduced tin production from high-cost operations. The
proposed Credit financing of US$6.5 million for private miners would cover
about half of the urgently needed imports identified by the Association of
Medium Miners and the Banco Minero (BAMIN) which, in addition to its
banking operations, is also the major wholesale distributor of inputs to
the small miners. BAMIN is expected to use a maximum of US$2.0 million of
the proposed Credit under this component to import the spare parts,
supplies apid materials, and equipment for resale to small miners. The
projected import needs of the private miners take into account the effects
of the decrease in tin prices on their future operations. The private
miners are expected to import spare parts, materials and equipment largely
similar to those of COMIBOL, using the Credit proceeds which would be
provided as subloans through qualified financial intermediaries.
54.       Energy (Annex VI).  Bolivia is a net energy exporter and relative
to its needs has a large energy resource base. Hydrocarbons contribute
about 22% to GDP and generate about 20% of fiscal (central and local
government) revenues and about 50% of total exports. In 1934 net primary
energy protuction reached 4.4 million tons of oil equivalent (toe), of
which natural gas accounted for 48.2%, crude oil and condensates for 24.7%,
fuelwood for 20.7%, hydropower for 4.1% and agricultural wastes (bagasse)
for 2.3%. Liquid hydrocarbon output peaked in 1973 at 47,400 BD (barrels



- 23 -
per day) and declined to 24,936 BD by 1984 as a result of depletion of
various fields which was not compensated by production from new fields
because of lack of investments. At present about 75Z of the total liquids
are produced from condensate, mostly by stripping gas of its liquid content
at the surface. The dry gas is then sold or reinjected to nmantain
reservoir pressures and for storage. Gas production in 1984 reached 397
MKCFD (million cubic feet per day) and about 130 MKCFD was reinjected. In
1984, the national oil company, Yacimientos Petroliferos Fiscales
Bolivianos (YPFB), produced about 72Z of Bolivi3's oil and 86% of its gas.
5.       A major problem faced by the hydrocarbon sector throughout most
of the 1970s and early 1980s was low internal petroleum prices. In the
case of natural gas and kerosene the prices are even below production costs
and by the end of 1983 were about US$17.60 for the composite barrel at the
official rate (which was overvalued) and only about US$4.40 at the parallel
rate (or about 14X of international prices). Thu pricing situation had
become damaging to the Bolirian economy because it encouraged unofficial
exports of petroleum products (estimated in 1984-85 at between 1,000 and
3,000 BD or 4% and 13% of apparent domestic consumption) and discouraged
energy conservation and fuel substitution measures. It also undermined
YPFB's finqncial position and reduced both the incentive and the funds
available for hydrocarbon exploration which contributed first to a decline
in exploration and then to a fall in reserves and production and the
complete stop of crude oil expo-'ts. All this accelerated the depletion of
a resource that Bolivia might well be compelled to import in the near
future.
56,       Bolivia is also faced with limited markets for natural gas, its
major hydrocarbon output. The export agreement with Argentina which is
Bolivia's most significant foreign market, will expire in 1992 which will
severely reduce YPFB's and Bolivia's export revenues. Likewise, the LPG
exports to Brazil under a 1976 sales agreement ends this year. Growing
domestic demand for LPG in Bolivia and delays in the development of gas
fields pose serious constraints to Bolivia's LPG exports.
57.       With regard to its internal operation, YPFB's inventories of
spare parts are below the critical level needed to operate efficiently.
The inability of YPFB to refurbish installed oil-field equipment or to
purchase spare parts would cause an acceleration in the decline of oil
production. Lack of spare parts has forced YPFB to use worn out parts to
service and maintain equipment. The use of non-standard spares
(manufactured in YPFB's own machine shops because of unavailability due to
obsolescence) and the continued use of obsolete equipment are causing high
operational costs and constrain YPFB's capacity to increase output.
58.       The Government's recent economic measures address to a large
extent the above problems. The exchange rate stabilization and the
increase in oil prices to a level close to international prices would
stimulate production, rationalize consumption, and discourage smuggling.
Likewise, the Government with Bank assistance is reviewing the country's
petroleum legislative and contractual framework in order to eliminate
uncertainties of Government policy towards foreign firms and encourage



- 24 -
joint ventures. Also a PPF advance for a possible Hydrocarbon Development
Project has been approved. The Project would help elaborate a
comprehensive energy sector strategy for Bolivia, taking into account the
possible effects of the declining trend in oil prices, review Bolivia's
hydrocarbon potential and fix priorities for field development, prepare
feasibility studies for oil exploration projects, prepare an action program
for attracting the international petroleum Industry's expanded
participation in Bolivia; and evaluate YPFB's needs for equipment,
materials and services for its rehabilitation and improvement of production
and transport operations. The Government would likewise intensify its
efforts to iaentify new gas export markets in order to generate additional
foreign exchange revenues.
59.       The proposed US$11 million financing under the proposed credit
would facilitate YPFB's rehabilitation. It would be used to purchase spare
parts, equipment (e.g. pumps, compressors, boosters), and materials (e.g.
tubulars, packers), as well as related installation services, to (i)
increase the current production from the various oil fields to allow YPFB
to meet the internal needs for hydrocarbon fuels, while contractors could
export their production; and (ii) ensure continued operation and
maintenance of pipelines, gas processing plants and refineries.
60.       Agriculture (Annex VII).  Bolivia's agriculture sector has
experienced serious reversals during the recent years of economic crisis,
yet offers good prospects for rapid short-term recovery, and still greater
promise for longer term development. Despite steady population increases
and large untapped potential, crop production overall showed a declining
trend from 1975 to 1985. Food import requirements have increased and
agricultural exports declined sharply, from lIZ of total value in 1980 to
about 5% in 1984; 90% of the reduction was accounted for by three products:
sugar, cotton, and timber. A partial recovery in 1984 was due primarily to
unusually favorable climatic conditions; overall, the trends have been
unfavorable and government development efforts (including externally
financed projects) have met little success.
61.      The principal causes for disappointing performance have been
inappropriate government policy interventions (principally low producer
prices, artificially low consumer prices, and controls constraining
agricultural exports) and inadequate support for sector development,
particularly weak producer services (credit, research and extension) and
infrastructure (especially transportation and markets). These structural
problems have been exacerbated in recent years by shortages of production
inputs, the result of foreign exchange shortages and the repercussions of
hyperinflationery pressures, notably the effective collapse of credit
systems. Imports of inputs for agriculture dropped from an average of
about US$70 miLlion a year in the past (considered low in relation to
potential and to levels in neighboring countries) to some US$25 million in
1984.



- 25 -
62.       The Government's reform program is designed to address the
critical constraints to agricultural production, principally by introducing
pricing policies which assure adequate producer incentives. Reductions in
import tariffs should help lower input prices, further enhancing
incentives. If adequate foreign exchange is available for imported inputs,
these policy measures should result in a rapid production response, with
the impact felt from the 1986-87 crop season. Commercial farmers in the
lowlands, who are principally engaged in production for export, are most
likely to respond favorably to the recent policy measures, with the
likelihood of a positive impact on agricultural exports. The Government is
now acting to establish a medium-term strategy for agricultural development
based on rational assessment of agricultural resources and production
prospects in the main agricultural regions. In the short-term the priority
will go to export-oriented, quick yielding initiatives. A key element will
be the improvement of the agricultural credit system; steps are underway to
address this issue. Looking further ahead, the emphasis will be on
diversification of agricultural exports, continued efforts to help poor
farmers in the highlands, and efforts to develop efficient and sustainable
farmer services.
63.       Approximately US$7.2 million of proposed Credit funds would
finance imports of production inputs, spare parts, and equipment. This
allocation would represent more than 10% of the estimated demand for
imported input requirements and 50% of input requirements for the principal
export-generating crops (sugarcane, coffee and cotton, and soybeans).
Provision of these inputs should thus help arrest the declining production
trend, and, specifically, generate increased production of commercial crops
for export because commercial farmers engaged in export crop production are
most likely at present to have the financial resources to purchase inputs.
It is estimated that these inputs would generate at least US$15 million in
production, of which as much as one third could be for export, while the
remaining production would substitute for food imports. Funds would be
onlent through qualified financial intermediaries to private importers of
production inputs according to a list of goods that has been agreed upon
with IDA.
64.       Manufacturing and Agro-based Industry (Annex VIII).  In 1981,
before the current recession, the industrial sector accounted for 14.1Z of
GDP, 10% of employment, and 9.6% of total exports. While a major part of
manufacturing industry produces for the domestic market, agro-industries
(processed and semi-processed products), such as coffee, sugar, meat, wood,
and wood products, are responsible for 75% of non-traditional exports which
also include textiles, chemical and metal alloys, and non-metal products.
As a result of the deteriorating macro-economic situation in 1982-85, the
industrial sector went through a period of rapid deterioration and many
enterprises were forced to stop or slow down production. The sector share
in GDP dropped to 10.5% in 1985 -a decline greater than the rest of the
economy- employment dropped to 8.7Z (1984), and new investment virtually
ceased. Because of the recession and significant exchange rate
distortions, the share of non-traditional exports in total exports fell
drastically to 2.4% in the first half of 1985. Because of the small local
production of intermediate goods, most manufacturing enterprises are
dependent on imported inputs. Such imports decreased from US$220 million
in 1981 to an estimated US$190 million in 1985.



- 26 -
65.       To reactivate the economy and in line with the Government's
objective to increase competition and develop an efficient industrial
sector, industrial incentives are being shifted from new investments to
fuller utilization of installed capacity and to exports of non-traditional
goods which enjoy a comparative advantage and have important linkages with
production and employment in the agricultural sector. Such exports have
the potential to respond quickly to a stabilized economy provided adequate
financing is available. The Ministry of Industry and Trade estimates that
such exports could double from US$30-40 million in 1985 to US$60-80 million
in 1986 and increase to US$100-140 million by 1988.
66.       The immediate import requirements of the export industries are
estimated at about US$40 million. However, since they are largely
dependent on local raw materials, local working capital financing is
needed. At present, commercial bank credit is scarce and very costly.
Banks are charging 16% of 18% per month on local currency loans, and such
loans are not available for more than one to three months. Thus, existing
and potential exporters are facing serious difficulties in finding working
capital on reasonable terms. The US$4.5 million allocation for industry
under the proposed Credit would finance both the imported and local input
requirements of industrial producers. Only qualified industrial exporters
as verified by the financial intermediary and the Central Bank, would have
access to local input financing. The terms and conditions for onlending to
industrial producers to finance imported and locally produced goods are
outlined in para. 74.
67.       Transport (Annex IX). Ten years ago, the National Railway
Company's (ENFE) financial position was sound and the railway was expected
to finance a substantial portion of its investment program. However,
because of events largely beyond its control, ENFE's financial situation
deteriorated rapidly. Operating costs increased, mainly due to the
Government policies of raising both real wages and the number of ENFE's
employees, without similar increases in revenues. In 1980 ENFE had some
6,800 employees; by August 1985, this number had increased to over 7,200.
ENFE is currently preparing an employment reduction study to reduce the
number of employees over the next eighteen months. Assurances were
obtained during negotiations that ENFE would reduce its personnel to a
level of not more than a total of 6,400 by June 30, 1987.  This targetted
personnel reduction program is set forth in covenant in, and a Supplemental
Letter to the Development Credit Agreement.
68.       As inflation accelerated and Bolivia's economic and political
problems deepened over the last ten years, the Government adjusted the
railway tariffs several times. However, these adjustments were primarily
based on political considerations and were not in line with the rapidly
changing cost structure of ENFE and with changing market conditions. The
NEP provides that railway tariffs should not exceed those charged by
neighboring countries' connecting lines. This policy does not take into
account differences that exist betweer the cost and marketing conditions of
ENFE and that of the Argentine, Brazilian and Chilean railways. If the
policy on tariffs is applied, ENFE's losses would increase and the railways
would continue to be a financial liability for the Government. To enable



- 27 -
ENFE to respond more effectively to market demands and to achieve financial
viability in the medium-term, a complete tariff revision, based on
up-to-date cost and marketing conditions, is imperative. ENFE will
undertake a cost and tariff rationalization study with consultant
assistance, financed by the on-going Bank-financed Highway Maintenance
Project (Loan 1587-BO). Assurances were obtained during negotiations that
ENFE would complete a cost and tariff study satisfactory to IDA not later
than December 31, 1986, discuss this study with IDA and propose a plan of
action not later than March 31, 1987, and implement action on cost and
tariff improvement not later than June 30, 1987. In line with the
objective of improving ENFE's financial situation, assurances were also
obtained that ENFE would maintain a ratio of total working expenses to
total operation revenues not higher than 1 for each fiscal year after
December 31, 1986.
69.       Because it has been unable to purchase spare parts and rail
fittings, ENFE faces serious problems in maintaining adequately its
locomotive and rolling stock fleet and rail tracks. ENFE's earnings are in
local currency, but about 80% of its spare parts purchases and interest
bills must be paid in foreign exchange. Rapidly escalating (peso) costs of
spares forced ENFE increasingly to defer maintenance works. ENFE's spare
parts purchases, particularly over the last three years, represented only a
fraction of its requirements. In 1985, when the level of spare stocks
became negligible, make-shift arrangements, including cannibalization of
locomotives, prevailed. Both in 1984 and 1985, ENFE would have needed some
52 locomotives for its operations if it had followed desirable maintenance
practices. In 1984 the railway had an average of 38 locomotives in
operation; in 1985 this was reduced to 33. By the end of the year, the
situation was considered very critical. Without purchases of the most
essential spare parts, the number of working locomotives will be reduced in
1986 by at least four to six and in 1987 by an additional five. With such
reductions in motive power, ENFE would have to forfeit carrying at least
12% of its projected freight traffic. Equally critical, ENFE lacks stocks
needed for normal track maintenance, and particularly for spot line repairs
to replace worn out rails on sharp curves (some track sections have rails
with more than 50 years in service), and the number of derailments is
increasing. The US$4.5 million to be provided under the proposed Credit to
finance ENFE's spare parts and materials would allow operation of 11
locomotives and rolling stocks and at least partially contain derailments.
Efficiency would be improved in both the Western System (which carries
mineral exports to the borders of Chile and Argentina) and the Eastern
System (which transports agricultural products to the borders of Brazil).
70.       Power (Annex X).  Bolivia currently has the lowest per capita
installed capacity and power consumption in South America. Total installed
capacity is about 560 MW (90 watts per capita) and annual power consumption
was about 160 GWh in 1985 (270 RWh power capita), 301 MW (54%) of the
installed capacity is hydroelectric and 261 MW (46%) is thermoelectric, 450
MW is concentrated in focus zones: North (La Paz), Central (Cochabamba and
Oruro), South (Potosi, Uyuni and Sucre) and Oriental (Santa Cruz). The
remaining installed capacity (10 MW) corresponds to isolated regions. The
Empresa Nacional de Electricidad (ENDE), a public utility owns 48% of the



- 28 -
installed capacity. The tremendously low electricity tariffs in the past
years have weakened considerably ENDE's financial viability. Recent
Government reforms, however, provide an opportunity for ENDE to revise its
tariff structure. Assurances were obtained during negotiations that (1)
not later than August 31, 1986 the Government would prepare a proposed
tariff revision and capital improvement program for ENDE, (ii) not later
than October 31, 1986 discuss and agree on these programs with IDA, and
(iii) implement such programs thereafter.
71.       The lack of spare parts to repair, maintain and expand the
facilities of the national power company (ENDE) has caused increasingly
frequent service cutoffs and production losses. Some important mines and
almost all industries, except those in La Paz, depend on power supplied by
ENDE. The US$1.8 million allocated under the proposed Credit, half of
ENDE's estimated immediate import needs, would be used to acquire parts for
the repairs and maintenance works; i.e. US$0.8 million to repair and
maintain the Corani and Santa Isabel Hydroplant, the thermal generation
plants for Santa Cruz and Villamontes Systems and the national transmission
system; and US$1.0 million for transformers, related equipment and related
installation services for the Cochabamba and Santa Cruz substations. The
acquisition of the proposed spare parts would assist in mining and
industrial recovery particularly by improving power service reliability.
In the imediate future, the rehabilitation of ENDE's existing power
facilities is of higher priority than power generation expansion.
Assurances were obtained during negotiations that new power generation
facilities which would increase the national electrical generation capacity
by more than 25 megawatts per facility would not be constructed unless
previously agreed upon with IDA.
Implementation
72.       The Ministry of Finance (MOF) through its Commission for Public
Sector Financial Control (hereafter called Commission) and the Central Bank
(CB) would be responsible for the implementation and administration of the
proposed Credit. The Commission would be responsible for the public
enterprise component, using the CB as its financial agent, while the CB
would be primarily responsible for the private sector component. The
Credit proceeds would be made available to the CB under a subsidiary
agreement between the Borrower and CB. The signing of the subsidiary
agreement would be a condition of Credit effectiveness.
73.       For the public sector portion, the Commission with the CB as its
financial agent, would channel the Credit proceeds up to the amount
allocated a priori to COMIBOL, YPFB, ENFE and ENDE under a financing
agreement with each of these enterprises. The funds onlent to each of
these enterprises would be denominated in dollars and would carry a 14.5%
interest rate (currently the prevailing rate for dollar-denominated loans
with more than 6 months maturity) unless otherwise agreed by IDA.
Repayments would be made in 10 years with three years of grace at the
exchange rate prevailing at the time of payment. If the financial
situation of these enterprises euggests that they would be unable to repay
on these terms, and subject to definition of appropriate financial



- 29 -
restructuring plans, the Government and IDA could, within nine months of
Credit effectiveness, review these enterprises' financial condition,
investment programs and import plans.  On the basis of this review, the
Government could convert the repayment of one or more of these entities
into Government equity if satisfactory to IDA. If this occurs, the
Government would bear the foreign exchange risk. The Commiss.ion would
review the eligibility of the goods to be imported by the public
enterprises based on the import plans satisfactory to IDA. These import
plans were reviewed and agreed upon during negotiations and will be
submitted to IDA in a Supplemental Letter to the Development Credit
Agreement. The CB would be responsible for the financial administration of
the funds transferred to the public enterprises. The signing of at least
one of the financing agreements between the Codmission, the CB and any one
of the public enterprises is a condition of Credit effectiveness.
74.       To oversee the administration of the private sector portion of
the Credit proceeds, the CB would set up a Project Coordinating Committee
composed of a CB Executive Director, the CB General Manager, the CB Finance
Manager and the Vice-President of the Comission. The establishment of
this Conmittee satisfactory to IDA is a condition of Credit effectiveness.
To channel the Credit proceeds to the private sector, the CB would
establish and administer a rediscount facility for eligible financial
intermediaries (Fl's). There are currently about 13 domestic commercial
banks, 7 foreign commercial banks and 6 specialized banks which carry out
co-uercial credit and foreign exchange operations in Bolivia.  CB would
enter into participating agreements with the Fl's and BANIN under terms and
conditions satisfactory to IDA. The signing of at least one of these
participating agreements with any qualified financial intermediary is a
condition of effectiveness. The rediscount facility would allow eligible
financial intermediaries to provide dollar-denominated subloans to finance
(i) the imports of spare parts, supplies and materials and equipment of
private miners, industrial and agricultural producers and traders, and (ii)
locally produced input requirements of qualified industrial exporters.
Repayments would be in pesos adjusted at the rate of exchange prevailing at
the time of payment with a maximum term generally not exceeding one year,
grace period of three months, and an annual interest rate of 14.5% unless
otherwise agreed by IDA. The FI's would retain a 2% spread to cover their
operating expenses and credit risk. CB would retain a fee of 0.5% to cover
its administrative costs. BAMIN, which would import and distribute the
inputs to the small miners, would be subject to the same terms and
conditions as other importers. BAMIN and the subborrowers would bear the
foreign exchange risk.
75.       The FI's would review and approve private importers' requests and
assume the credit risk. The FI's would submit-the request to the CB unit
for approval of the eligibility of goods and beneficiaries and subsequent
authorization to use the rediscount line. Eligible goods for the private
sector would be spare parts, raw materials, supplies and equipment to be
used for productive purposes excluding inter alia, military, para-military,
and luxury consumption goods and the goods listed in Annex IV. The list of
eligible goods for the agriculture sector was reviewed and agreed upon
during negotiations. The aggregate financing to any private beneficiary



- 30 -
for subloans for imported goods would not exceed 10X of total Credit
proceeds allocated to the private sector. Subloans to industrial exporters
for the purchase of locally produced goods would be limited to 75Z of the
cost of such items and to US$500,000 for each exporter in the aggregate.
Disbursements
76.       The proposed Credit is expected to be fully committed 10 months
after the date of Credit effectiveness and fully disbursed by June 1988.
The bulk of disbursements, especially for the public enterprises, is
expected to be within one year of effectiveness. Disbursements for the CIF
cost of eligible imported goods and related installation services would be
made against normal documentation for imported goods. Disbursements for
subloans would be made against evidence of subloan disbursements by
participating FI's as presented to the Central Bank. Disbursements against
Statement of Expenditures (SOE's) whose corresponding documentation would
be retained by the CB would be made for amounts not exceeding US$100,000
equivalent. Disbursements for expenditures above this amount would require
submission of full documentation to IDA. To facilitate disbursements, a
special account would be established in a commercial bank acceptable to
IDA. An amount of JS$10 million of the Credit proceeds would be disbursed
to the special account upon effectiveness of the Credit Agreement. CB
would maintain sub-accounts to reflect the credit allocation for COMIBOL,
YPFB, ENFE and ENDE and the private sector. Reimbursements would not be
permitted for goods imported and paid for before the date of the Credit
Agreement.
Procurement
77.       Procurement under the proposed Credit would be in accordance with
the 'Guidelines for Procurement under World Bank Loans and IDA Credits-.
Public sector purchases of US$1 million and above would be subject to
international competitive bidding (ICB). Public sector purchases below
US$1 million but above US$100,000 would be purchased through limited
international bidding from at least three suppliers from two countries
eligible under the Guidelines. Public sector purchases below US$100,000
would require a comparison of price quotations from at least three
suppliers eligible under the Guidelines. Spare parts and materials for the
public sector, which would be used in especially designed systems and for
equipment already installed and operating '%.sole source and proprietary
goods), may with IDA's approval, be procured on the basis of direct
contracting. Purchases by the private sector importers and purchases of
locally produced goods by exporters would be done through normal commercial
practices which are acceptable to the IDA. Advance contracts for eligible
imports would be allowed after Credit negotiations.
Accounts, Audit and Reports
78.       The CB would maintain records and separate accounts in respect of
the project and have these accounts, the SOE's and the Special Account
audited each fiscal year by auditors acceptable to IDA. These reports



- 31 -
would be furnished to IDA not later than four months after the end of each
fiscal year. Within six months after the Closing Date the Borrower would
prepare and submit to IDA a project completion report following Guidelines
provided by IDA.
Benefits and Risks
79.       The proposed Credit would be an essential element in the external
financing of the Government's economic program. It would enable Bolivia to
import priority spare parts, supplies and equipment in order to strengthen
its export capacity. It would also help the Government in the
implementation of structural and institutional r2forms. While meaningful
quantitative estimates of the benefits cannot be made, it is estimated that
the Credit would have a high leverage. Since it would help remove critical
yet low cost production bottlenecks, the payback period of the Credit in
terms of foreign exchange earnings will be short and the returns high.
80.       The Credit would also demonstrate IDA's support for the
Government's economic program and provide a signal to the financial
community on the need for concessional assistance to Bolivia at this
critical juncture. Furthermore, the Credit would be the basis for a
continuing dialogue with the Government on action programs to mitigate the
structural and institutional constraints that have constrained Bolivia's
economic growth.
81.       The Government is committed to carry out its economic
stabilization and reform program. While the program has been effective in
reducing the rate of inflation, it has also led to an initial severe cut in
the purchasing power of the population at large.  At the same time the
expected positive response of exports has been nullified to a large extent
by a severe deterioration in Bolivia's terms of trade.  There is a risk
that the Government cannot keep the program on track and that the benefits
of the proposed Credit would not fully materialize.  In order to sustain
the program, the Government will have to show soon positive effects of an
economic reactivation which, in turn, will require an increase in imports
above depressed levels. The Government is arranging for an external
financing package that would allow for such an increase commensurate with
modest economic growth.
PART IV - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN BOLIVIA
82.       The Bank Group's first credit to Bolivia was approved in 1964.
Except for a US$23.25 million Gas Pipeline Loan, Bank Group financing was
exclusively on IDA terms until Bolivia started to export small quantities
of natural gas and petroleum in the mid-1970s. In view of promising
prospects for rapid expansion of these products, IDA lending to Bolivia
ceased in 1975. In 1978, however, it became apparent that the expectation
of large petroleum exports, and with it dynamic economic development, would
not materialize. Hence, starting with the Ulla Ulla Rural Development
Project, financed in equal amounts on Bank and IDA terms, Bolivia was



- 32 -
treated as a blend country. The subsequent unstable political situation
and deteriorating economic conditious, however, severely damaged the
country's creditworthiness and frequently disrupted the implementation and
management of existing operations. In consequence, the Bank has approved
no new operations for Bolivia since the June 1980 Structural Adjustment
Loan. To date, the Bank and IDA have approved 28 operations (12 credits,
15 loans and one blend operation) amounting to US$404.1 million, of which
about US$380 million have been fully disbursed. Project Performance Audit
Reports (PPARs) have been prepared for fifteen completed projects.
83.       Bank Group lending to Bolivia has supported the development of
the productive, infrastructure and social sectors. In the agriculture
sector (eight operations totalling to US$48.2 million), the Bank Group has
attempted to help the Government to develop a viable livestock industry,
increase agricultural production, improve living conditions on the
Altiplano and promote the development of the alpaca/llama industry; efforts
to strengthen the Agricultural Bank of Bolivia have met with limited
success. In the power sector, through five operations amounting to US$53.4
million, the Bank Group has been instrumental in modernizing the sector,
expanding electricity supply, improving the quality of service and setting
up a regulatory agency and a public power company, which has been operated
in an efficient and financially sound manner.  In the trans3ortation
sector, Bank Group assistance to the railways (three operations amounting
to US$75.0 million of which US$3.3 million were cancelled) has helped to
improve the railways? quality of management, efficiency of operations and
financial condition; a US$23.3 million loan was made for the construction
of a gas pipeline from the Santa Cruz area to the border with Argentina; a
US$25.0 millio. loan for an aviation development project assisted Bolivia's
efforts to develop hitherto isolated areas by providing safe and efficient
freight and passenger transportation; a US$25.0 million loan for a highway
maintenance project is helping Bolivia protect its investments in
highways. In the mining, industry and hydrocarbon sectors, five operations
amounting to US$51.7 million have aimed at increased exploration and
production as well as improved sectoral coordination. Operations in the
social sector included a US$5.2 million loan and US$9.0 million Credit for
two water supply and sewerage projects which improved services in 70 rural
communities and in the city of Santa Cruz de la Sierra, a US$15 million
loan for an education and vocational training project to improve Bolivia's
primary and vocational training education; and a US$17 million loan for an
urban development project to help improve the living conditions of the
urban poor in the city of La Paz.
84.       The Structural Adjustment Loan (SAL) approved in 1980 was
designed to suprort the Government's stabilization and debt refinancing
program; assist in the formulation and adoption of a more export-oriented
long-term development strategy; and assist in executing a realistic public
investment program. The short-term stabilization program was supported by
a Fund Stand-by approved in February 1980 for SDR 66.4 million (equivalent
to about US$87.2 million). Most elements of this program (e.g. 25% peso
devaluation, increases in interest rates and hydrocarbon product prices,
and major expenditure cuts in the 1980 budget) were already in place by the
time the US$50 million SAL was approved June 1980. However, immediately



- 33 -
thereafter (in July) the political environment deteriorated sharply when
the military overthrew the interim cirilian administration and blocked the
newly elected Gobernment from taking office. Unrest in the mines led to
reduced output, export proceeds, and tax revenues. Some public tariffs
were not increased and the Government made substantial use of Central Bank
credit to finance rising current expenditures, while cutting back severely
on the public investment program. By the end of September the Government
was no longer in compliance with DMF ceilings on net domestic borrowing and
thus became ineligible to draw down the fourth and last tranche of the
Stand-by. The Bank mid-term review mission in August 1980 confirmed that
the Government had complied with the agreed tranche release conditions
under the SAL (notably concerning export competitiveness). With Government
commitments that public sector tariffs would be increased and that
additional funds would be allocated to high priority projects in the
investment program, the Bank released the second tranche in November 1980.
Economic performance, however, continued to deteriorate to the point that
in 1981 the Bank concluded that Bolivia was no longer creditworthy for
further lending. The history of the SAL was reviewed by the LAC Region and
OED (PPAR No. 5155 of June 25, 1984) which concluded that the operation had
been disappointing both in terms of implementation of the program and
impact; the major blame for the failure was placed on frequent government
changes. This experience has been carefully reviewed in preparing this
operation and lessons are reflected in the operation's design (specific
provision for a mid-term program review and allocation of credit proceeds
to specific priority needs of the economy).
85.       Overall, Bank Group lending to Bolivia has supported broadly
based Government efforts to expand and upgrade Bolivia's economic and
social infrastructure. Prior to 1978, the Government had established an
excellent record in providing the required local funds, and in general,
projects were adeo.uately carried out. Since then, however, the execution
of many ongoing projects has been affected adversely by the shortage of
local funds, changes in Government personnel, and periodic suspension of
Bank disbursements. The recent economic reforms and the appointment of
highly qualified project managers by the current Government should help
improve the execution of the remaining ongoing projects (it bears note,
nonetheless, that the existing port.L)lio is small with only US$24 million
undisbursed).
86.       While no new operation has been approved since 1980, the Bank has
provided substantial technical assistance and undertaken much economic and
sector work, focussed on critical impeliz%nts to Bolivia's development.
Much work has focussed on improvements Ln resource management and
particularly investment programming but the proposals have yet to be
implemented. A comprehensive study on COMIBOL was completed in 1981,
including an action program for the rehabilitation of the company, a
priority listing of investment projects, and feasibility studies for quick
return investments. In the broader context of mining development, a
program for the reform of the mining tax was prepared and analyses of the
mining investment law and the fiscal reserves were carried out. Similarly,
a blueprint was prepared for the reorganization of the Agriculture Credit
Bank (BAB) and reform of the agricultural finance system. Studies were



- 34 -
also prepared on pricing and investment issues for agriculture and broaden
studies on constraints and development options for the agriculture,
transport, and energy sectors. A study was also undertaken as a basis for
overhauling public sector auditing and procurement practices some
recommendations of which have been adopted. Finally, Bank staff provided
assistance to set up an orderly debt data collection system and improve
external debt management. Many of the recommendations of these studies and
reports are either in place or have provided the bases for the current
Government's stabilization and structural reform program.
87.       The new economic policy provides a promising basis for resumption
of lending to Bolivia. Since Bolivia is not expected to become
creditworthy for Bank lending in the immediate future, the scale of the
future operational program will be dependent in large measure on the
availability of IDA financing. Assuming that concessional funds are
available, we plan a major effort to support the Government's economic
program and, accordingly, to rebuild our lending portfolio and pipeline,
which has been seriously depleted following the hiatus in lending since
1980. Our assistance program would aim to strike a balance between
policy-based and regular project lending, with a substantial institution
building component. It would be designed to assist the Government to
achieve economic recovery and establish the foundations for future growth.
With Bank staff support, the Government is currently defining a medium-term
development program which will elaborate on macroeconomic and sectoral
policies and present priority investment and financing plans. This will be
presented to a planned meeting of the Bolivian Consultative Group (the last
one was in 1977), tentatively scheduled in October 1986. More
specifically, the objectives of Bank Group lending in the immediate future
would be to: (i) assist in sustaining the implementation of the structural
reform program and other adjustment policies that would restore Bolivia's
economy on the path of growth; (ii) assist in the rehabilitation and
reconstruction of the productive and infrastructure support sectors; (iii)
stimulate mining, agriculture, agro-industrial, and hydrocarbon production
to increase exports and achieve efficient import substitution; and (iv)
assist in the improvement of public sector management and administration to
enable the effective execution of the economic reforms.
88.       Accordingly, the Bank Group's operational program will be
designed to support critical medium term adjustment measures, both through
economic and sector work and individual lending operations. For FY86,
apart from the RIC, IDA is proceeding with a US$12-15 million equivalent
Vuelta Grande gas recyclying project. Subsequently, priority will be
accorded to support for the economic reform program through close
monitoring and technical assistance, with a further policy based operation
tentatively planned for FY88. Both sector work and lending are planned to
support the restructuring of the financial sector. This element of the NEP
remains loosely defined yet actions are essential for recovery of the
mining, manufacturing, and (to a lesser extent) agricultural sectors.
Specific policy measures will include rationalization of interest rates and
a major overhaul of the state-owned banking system. An institutional
development operation is being prepared to help strengthen financial
management and controls; support the development of more efficient systems



- 35 -
of financial intermediation both in the public and private sectors,
streamline the Government's budgetary, tax administration, cash and debt
management systems, and improve the public sector accountability system.
Preparation is underway for reconstruction and rehabilitation programs for
COMIBOL and YPFB which would include institutional and policy reforms to
stimulate increases in mining and hydrocarbons, respectively, and encourage
joint ventures with private sector and foreign investors. This ongoing
program of preperation work is supported by three recently approved project
preparatsn advances (PPFs).  Other possible operations include a follow-up
urban operaLion, projects in the transport and power sectors to redress the
deterioration ill the financial and operating performance of ENFE and ENDE,
and an agricultural credit cum extension project. This tentative lending
program will be reviewed in light of the Government's medium-term recovery
and structural reform program which will be elaborated over the next six
months.
89.       Because of the narrow scope for private investment, IFC became
active in Bolivia only in 1973 through an investment of US$400,000 in a
firm producing cables and plastic products. Two IFC investments since then
have contributed to the establishment of a local market for long-term
securities: an equity participation of up to US$550,000 in Banco
Industrial S.A. (BISA) in conjunction with a Bank loan of US$10.0 million
for the same institution to assist in financing mediumrsized industrial and
mining enterprises, and US$337,500 in Banco Hipotecario Nacional to assist
in the development of mortgage banking. Annex II contains a summary
statement of the status of Bank loans, IDA credits and IFC investments in
Bolivia as of January 31, 1986.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
90.       Special conditions of the Credit are listed in Annex III, Section
III. The conditions of effectiveness are: (i) execution of the Subsidiary
Agreement between the Ministry of Finance, as representative of the
Borrower, and the Central Bank; (ii) execution of a satisfactory financing
agreement between the Ministry of Finance, the Central Bank as its
financial agent, and at least one among COMIBOL, YPFB, ENFE and ENDE; (iii)
execution of a satisfactory participating agreement between the Central
Bank and at least one financial intermediary; and (iv) establishment of the
Project Coordinating Committee in the Central Bank.



- 36 -
PART VI - RECCONEEDATION
91.       I recoumnd that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
Credit.
A. W. Clausen
President
Attachments
April 25, 1986
Washington, D.C.



- 37 -ANII
rp 1of 6
LLLLLa.~~~~~~~L
waoLk     i9i@Lk ssmftL           La. ammua A cas
TOTAL                            1044.4     1098.      1o0.S                 .
AUIOLTURA, L                     3           2lA.4      3                    .A
W       Owls (NW)                     ..          ..       510.0            175.9                   2144.3
COVSITIE 115 COPLTS
(KU-MM  OF OIL QUIVALOU          123.0       143.0      324.0             992.4                  1139.
AM am  YI  12 U TICS
IATbo.aan-uM (TNOUSA            3628.0      432S.0     4034.0
O5M  nPUATION ts OF TOT)          34.0       40.7        43.1              67.7                    47.5
ForuLATIoN IIOJRCTOII
WOMATI   N TA  20OD0 (MILL)                             9.0
STATIOnART IOPULATION (MILL)                           22.0
POPULA    i                                            .1.9
PFR SQ. M.                       3.1         3.9        5.5              "0                      84.7
PM go. 31. A1I. LA              11.4        14.5       19.3              91.1                   146.9
IOWUIATIOU AmR STRUCTRE CZ)
0-14 iS                        41.9        43.7       43A.              3.                      31.2
Li-" in                         54.5       52.8         2.23             57.1                    61.5
65*UmAIM                         3.5         33         3.2               4.2                     7.2
TOTAL                            2.1         2.3        2.1               2.                      1.I
1.1        4.1        3.5               3.                      3.7
IS WIm  RS R CUN luS)             444        4535        43.4              30.9                    23.4
cIDAZI aT (UR TIO5)               22.2        19.5       14.0               8.0                     8.9
GoKS NINODUCTZW  AT               3.2         3.2        1.0               2.0                     1.5
FAMILY PIJIU
ACnm. AEIUL (..                              ..)..                 ..
UsER Ct or HA        n)                      .        . ..  24.0         45.3
xm- or M  yinD M  cAns
(1965-71-100)                     95.0       101.0       70.0             109J                    109.1
M CAPIA SwF.T OF
CAORIE C 0o RUquI MTs)          75.0         3.0       90.0             113.2                   131.3
PamaxS (GRAUm IP  DM            49.0        50.0       57.0               9.O                    "2.
OF IUSE A 5 AM EUL7R            14.0      13.0        18.0       L      34.2                    34.5
mILD (M   1-4) IDATS AM           41.         32.6       21.0               4.8                     4.7
Lin  murE. AZ URT (TVIM)          42.7       45J         51.0              G4.                     67.2
RWAN mm. Rao  CtU laws)          167.0       15.5       12J.0             5.7                      33J
ACCSS TO ILLM 5423 (V5W)
TOL                              ..         33.0       37.0               5.3                    70.2
a                                ..         92.0       69.0              76.5                    4.4
RUL                              ..          2.0       10.0              42                      57.0
ACCUS TO WIERT DIXS4OL
CZ OY FWULATION)
TOTAL                            ..         12.0      1'.0 f             5". '
DRBAN                            ..        25.0        37.0A             73. A5.9
nL                               ..          4.0        4.0 _            25.5                    47.
PWULATIO  FM FISICIAM           3830.0      2020.0        ..             109.7                   1070.
FOe. "a UR         O            4170.0      2390.0        ..              0.2                     7.5
ror. FU NSPAL BID
TOTAL                          570.0       430.0        ..               2.                     328.
BaN                            270.0       250.0        ..              421.0                   201.8
ISIAL                         910.0       2050.0        ..             21.7                    4519.7
ADMUMISN 1O NoItAL                 ..          ..         ..               27.5                    20.0
TOTAL                            ..          ..         4.4J.
1saw                              ..         ..         4.6               ..
NOKAL                            ..          ..         4.3 7j.                                   .
AVUME N0. Or lERSONS/200I
TOUL                              ..         ..
m          ~..                      ..         .                  ..
RU.A                             ..         .....
SOUAL                           22OA,        ..        " 0 12            ..                      .
135                             74.0 tr      ..         .                  ..
UIRAL~                   8. 7       ..         .                  ..
-~ ~ ~ ~ au



-38 -                                        AM= I
T A I . 1  3A                                Page  2  of  6
OLIA             - 1 1 mNDX RI                T S LX
RPICED uluacwzuurm uaau)
MOl9T                    (MOE SEIN  IITTMA)  A
ii~~~k  1970~kRLEOD             MIDDL  tllCOIE          llIDDLEX~S
E3IMAIULb       LAT. AHIICA lb CMARRP
19*o0      1970al. IglTIIA          L   JISC
ADJUSTED EUOLUIET RATIOS
P3114?   TOTAL                    64.0        70.0       86.0               106.7                     101.9
MALE                   79.0        91.0        93.0              106.5                     106.2
VIL1                   50.0        02.0        78.0              104.6                     97.5
S_ODIATl TOTAL                    12.0        24.0        34.0               *4.2                     57.5
lULl                   13.0        26.0        37.0               42.7                      64.9
FIAL                    9.0        20.0        31.0               46.9                     50.0
VOCATIONAL CZ or SECIDAY)           13.7        11.3         ..                13.3                     21.0
PUPIL-TRAoIRE RATIO
PaILaA                            27.0        27.0        23.0               29.9                     25.1
6'COIDAIT                         13.0        14.0         ..                16.7                      19.1
PASSENGER CARSITOUSAND PO0           2.6         4.4         9.0 8             46.0                     54.2
RADIO RECSIV13SII/1100A1D POP       72.7        92.9       575h.              326.3                     170.7
TV R1CEEsM/TIUOUSAID P..                         ..         59.6              112.4                     149.3
IEIPXA   ('DALY GEnAL
INTUUST") CIRXCTIOM
PmR TSIAND POPULATIO               26.6        48.1        46.6               81.1                      97.0
CtIA AIU1AL AIDACR/CATA              ..          ..          5.7 LK             2.4                       2.7
TOTAL LAO  FU  (TN06S)             1195.0     1413.0      1916.0
FEALE CPcUZENT)                   18.6        19.6        22.7               23.6                      36.3
AGRICULTURE (PCUT)                61.0        55.4        49.7 Jd            31.4                      40.6
IUST      (PRCEcT)                1s.1        21.1        24.2  ,            24.3                      23.3
PAATICXPATION RATE (PERCEPT)
TOTAL                             34.9        32.7        31.                33.5                      43.1
MALC                            57.3        53.1        50.1               51.3                      55.1
FINALE                            12.8        12.8        14.1               15.9                     31.4
ECONO-IC DEPEIEICY LATIO             1.3         1.4         1.5                1.3                      0.9
TNME D1S_IIUUD
MCENCIT OF PRIVATE INCOI
RECEIVED B?
NI-ES 5S OF ODUSZOIS                ..        36.0 
:1110      20X 0r EOUSIKD          ..         59.0         .
LO-  ST 20S oF OousiS               ..         4.0
LOVES? 40Z OF MUS11EOLDS            ..        13.0
PaM      TANM. -'OP
MM   asOLOt POVUT? S NCO
LZVEL (USS PE CAPITA)
BAN                                 ..         ..          ..               286.3
RURAL                               ..         ..          ..               185.3
ESTIrMAD RELATIVE POUy INCOrE
LEEL CUSS PER CAPITA)
URMBN                               ..         ..          ..               519.8
SIIAL                              ..          ..          ..               359.7
ESTIMAlM  POP. BCLCV ABSOLUTE
POVETY DICOM LEVEL CE)
0RA                                 ..         ..          .                   ..
RUAL                               ..          ..
MOT AVAIL.AIL
NOT APPLICASLE
N 0 T TS
/a   The group average for each Indicator are populato-weghted azitimtic man.  Covera  of countrie
Aaoos the indicator. depends on avalability of data and is not uniorm.
/b   Unle  otherwite noted. "Date for 1960" refer to an year bet_ne   1959 end 1961; "Dtte for 1970" buc_me
19b9 and 1971; and data for 'Most RecAnt Estiatc" between 1981 and 1963.
Ic   1977; ld 1980; /a 1976; /f 1963; LI 1979; /h PopuLation.
JUNi. 1985



-39 -                                    AN            I
Page 3 of 6
nw!WNm    OF OSOCML W111CATOES
Naw Abhbu    baadawn rs   c mor pumadupi do MeM autlioratad at. should almabo bed .bat tbsy mayw ne bhuISSSioIs4
otmparm  herna db lt of m    dsd bid       d _cncepts me by dut maWcns cI eun hla dlb dat Thw dtas   moseobe ndbl te
dn.odes sialns, lnwends -  _tb lna                   nas nldifemsba. an _rl
Tb. ideum  pumps    (I) dbs mama omy poup ci On  bctl ary and (2) a ceumrmy pomp slb esomw*t hIe u  aw_sue tha ab cout
sremp eofalambs ) (ap for -H4b Irne  O1 Ehpwer" pvum wha *nMiddle le NorhsA        MIS.dM at" Is _cos beamof ir-
medomouaura almmk). In lb Ida  popW data db* ahwns - popm   webed arbmuc mun frera" Idktw ma hee only wam majority
edo abmemin In a promp M dat for tht a9ndest Slin al orewyrp ofcoo_1un   aumg doinndlcam  dependas olb Ovalkabllaof dat and lno uniform
maimaLst bemuws In radtIng ave_* of am idicato  nothe Thbe saw   are nly ueful In cspingte calms ofose indictor t a ldmea
lbs sauy d idbnee roupa
AREA (thousnd sq.km.)                                        Crude Ah Rate (per thewaudj-Number of live births in the year
Teal-Total urface ae comprising land arad inland wats;       per thousand of mid-year population; 1960. 1970. and 1983 data.
1960, 1970 and 1963 data.                                    Crud Deat Rte (per theus_Jd)-Number of deths in thne  ar
*gdabwul-Datintate of agriculural a    usea t temporarily or  per thousand of mid-year population; 1960, 1970. and 1963 data.
pemntly for crop patures. mrket and kitchen pgrns or to      Grehpr.puuis Rahe-Average number ofdaugbters a wmn
ie fallow. 1960, 1970 nd 1982 data.                          wiD bear in her normal reproductive period if she er
present agespecific ferdlity rtes; usually five-year avergs nding
GNP PER CAPITA (USS)-GNP per capita estimtes at current      in 1960, 1970. and 1983.
mark  prics, calculated by -am  converson method as World    numgp PIsuulrg-A CCp ran Axail (Iheasmauds-Annual num-
ank Ada (198 143 buais)  963 data.                           ber of acemptors of birth-control devics under auspices or natonal
ENERGY CONSUMPIMON PER CAPITA-Annual apparent                family plannig P
conwumption of commaerial primary energy (coal and iite.     Farmil Phlu-Vsr, (perentofuw           0 w   -The pCen-
petroeum, natural gas and hydro-, nuclear an geothermal elec-  tag of married wnmen orchild-bearing age who are prccing or
tridty) in kilograms of oil equivalent per capita: 1960,1970, and  whos hubnds are pticing any form ofcontaception. Women
1982 data.                                                   of child-bearing ag are generaly wome aged 15-49, although for
sonme countries conbaceptive usg  is meaured for other age
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS                              groups
Tad 19p83Sun, Md-Ye (lhommaus)-AJ of Juy 1; 1960, 1970.      FOOD AND NUTRMION
and 1IM data.
Lfrie PhpuIatla  (prceto ofIaa)ittoofuba  otoaqbk  fFnl Predwusleur CapIt (1969-71 - FUel-Index of per
ef1 tilt"FR*io Of urban to total     capita annual production of all food commoditieL Production
population; different definition of urbmn areas may affect compar-  excludes animal feed and seed for agrcuture Food commodities
ability ofdata among couti; 1960,1970. and 1983 data.        indude pmry commodities (eg. suprane instd of su)rl
PwpulAu Prtlea                                               which are edible and contain nutrients (cg. coffee and tea ar
Populton i ye  2W1-Tbce projection of population for 2000.   exduded), they compris cereals root crops, puses, oil seds,
made for ach economy sepaately. Starting with information on  vegftbles. frits, nuts. sugarcane and sugar beets, livestock, and
total popuato by age ad s, fertity rt  morulity rate and      ivestock produt Aggrepte production of eh country is based
internuional migation in the base year 19S0, these paameters  on national average producer price weights; 1961-65, 1970. and
were projected at five-year intervals on the basis of generlized  1982 data.
aassupons until the population bme sationary.                  . Cq piv4V&Cdaes (pecet afredrtov,-Comnput-
Stationay popufad5m-Is one in which ae- and a-specific mor-  ed from calorie equivalent of net food supplies availae in country
tality rates have not changed over a long period, whil age-specific  per capia per day. Availabl supplies comprise domtic produc-
fertility rates have simultaneoudy remained at eplacement levd  tion, imports less exports. and changes in stocL Net supplies
(net reproduction ne- 1). in such a populti  the birth rate is    exdude animal feed, seeds for use in agriculue, quantities usd in
constant and equal to the death rate. the age structure is also  food processing, and losses in distribution. Requirments were
constant, and the growth rate is zero. The stationary population  estimated by FAO baed on physiological needs for normal activity
size was esimated on the bas of the projected charcteristics of  and helth considering environmental temperature, body weights.
the popultion in the year 2000. and the rate of decine of fertility  age and sex distribution ofpopulato, and alowing 10 percent for
rae to replcement evel                                       wae at household klvd 1961. 1970 and 1982 data.
Prpulatim Momen-b the tendency for population growth to      Per C      Supply of hotel. (Srwus per Afl-Protein content of
continue beyond the time that replacement-kevl fertility has been  percapita net supply offood per day. Net supply of food is defined
achived. that is. even after thc net reproduction rate has reached  as above. Requiremcnts for all countries estaished by USDA
unity. The momentwm of a popuation in the ycar t is measured as  provide for minimum allowances of 60 grams of total protein per
a ratio of the ultiuate stationary populabtion to the population in  day and 20 gams of aninul and pulse proein, of which 10 grans
the year t, given the asumption that fertility remains at replace-  should be animal protein. Tese standardsare lower than those of
ment leve from year s onward, 1985 data.                     75 grams of total protein and 23 grams of animal protein as an
Populkt. DensIty                                             average for the world, proposed by FAO in the Tbird World Food
her sqJhn-Mid-year populaton per square kilometer (100 htc-  Supply, 1961. 1970 and 1982 data.
tans) of total aa  1960. 1970. and 1983 data.                hr Cabpi Pfrten Sapiy Fm  Aanef and PhLe-Protein supply
hr  An.L agrIcultual had-Computed as above for agricultural  offood derived from animals and pulses in grans perday: 1961-65.
land only. 1960. 1970, nd 1932 dataL                         1970 and 1977 data.
PApate. Age Srruerr (pter  )-Children (0-14 years), wnrk-    CIA& (ae 14) Deart Rate (per t_)-Number ofdeaths of
ing ae (15-64 yes), and reied (65 yeas and over) as prcetage  children aged 1-4 years per thousand children in the same age
of mid-year population; 1960,1970. and 1983 data,            group in a given year For most developing countries data deived
Ripuloiati  Growth RAte (percentr)-tee.l-Annual growth rates of  from life tabes; 1960. 1970 and 1933 data.
total mid-year popuation for 1950-60. 1960-70. and 1970-83.  HEALT
Popation Gwh aB  (ptera-arhsw--Annual growth rates           L*i Expectawy at Jlth  (yea'uj-Nunber of yeas a newborn
of urban population for 1950  1960-70. and 1970483 data,     infant would live if prevailing patterns of mortality for all people



-40                                       AMEX-
Pase 4 of 6
at the time or of its birth wre to stay the same throughout its lIfe:  PupB.echLe, Rado - peinwy, m.d aaowr -Total sudens em
1960, 1970 and i963 dat.                                      rolled in piay  and   ondary levs divided by numbs. of
A        Mwtduy Rot (per eo )-Nwuber or infats who die         teacher In the correponding levL
bfore nahing a  yerr of ae pa thousnd live births in a given
yew, 1960. 1970 and 1983 dat.                                  CONSUMPTION
Ae       Si  EWo (pwea  of Fwh, end  _                           eg.. Cor (per thaed p_edem)-Fhosew  cars coan-
uwdN Nber of people (ttaL         and rurl) with ronable       prise motor cr seati  lm dn eitw pesofs ecdes ambul-
acss to We wawtrsly Conudes tead surfae wate  or               ams, beuars and militay vehicles.
untetd but uncontanunatedwater sucb a tht rrm  protetd        R,D ReCbws (p        _ mt     or rcever
bove ol_  4p  and 5)nitary w        ie) as   rOtaU  of dmer repe-  for radio broats to general public per thousand of populaion.
tive populatons. In an urban area a public fountin or stndpoint  excludes   -licensed receive. in coutries and in year wben
loceted not mce than 2i00       fonm*bouse may be   iderrdon of rdio                    in f    d    for t    y
as being withn reasonab  aces of that house In  lareas          res       ofpadi sits wast effect; adaaor recentyrm
reasonable access would imply that the bouswie or memben of the  not be comparable mace most ctries abished li
household do not have to snd a dproportionae part of the day  TflReca,rs(per e      dp   Isthmi-TV.rceive. forbroadcast
in fetching the f y's water nes                                to per-u public per ouad populatn; eclde unlicense TV
Acon go   s      iVoid (pffce  of                              receivers in counties and in yes when registration of TV mu was
end rvid-Number of people (total, urbn and rural) srved by     inmd. e
ecreta disposal a pentags of their respective populations.         G        k_                    j        S    tha
Excreta dispoul may include the colletion and disposl with or  ae crcltion of daily gnal interest newspapc" deined as a
without treatment, of human acreta and wast-water by water-    periodkcl publication deoted prnmaiy to rcording general news.
borne syuem or the ue of pit pvies and similar instlations.    It is consdered to be daIyw irit apper at las fonwr times a weekL
?opaiatie per P    h   Pe-ftpulation divided by number of prac-  CIWAU Amid Atflisce pgr Capit pr Yw-Based on the
tising phsic nsquslifed from a medical sbool at university levd.  number of tickets so;d during the ycer, including admision to
P.imdee per Nmg Pas.-4iopulation divided by mnuber f           drivoein        and mobie units
praccing male and female gduate nurses assisnt nurses.
prctcal nurs and nurng aulrie                                  L R  FORCE
~.hth. ~. ,.         B   41, ...m.. ---             STol Labo Faoc ('l1amada-Economically active persons, in-
(totaL urban, and rural) divided by their respective number of  studeng ared forces and unemployed but ecluding hou i
hosl beds available in pk and pvatri       vandsadents. et. covering populaion of aD ageL Definitiom in
hopitcs al  reaibiliabeion cenel  Hospiae  are estalvents        rious countrie are not compbk 1960, 1970 and 1963 datL
p_manenty stsflod by at les one physician. Establshmnt prov-   Femuk (p ffcar)-Femal labor fouce as percenta  of total labor
iding principally cusodial cre are not induded. Rul hospital,  forne.
however, incuhde health and medal centes not permanently stffed  Agimin  (perceu-LAbor force in faimig fotay, hutig
by a physician (u by a medical assstan   urse, midw   etc.)    and fisbing as percentage of totl labor forc; 1960, 1970 and 1980
which offer in-patent accommodato and provide a limitd rag     data.
of medical fiite                                                    y (penak-Labor form in mining, cotn,t mamu-
AAvabxas pu   opia Bed-Total number of admiions to or          facturing md eleticity, waterand      s percentag of total labor
disha     from hospitals divided by the number of beds.        force; 1960, 1970 and 1980 datL
HOtip* R (jeeaQ-.t                 m         tion
HOUSING                                                        or activity rates are computed as toL mle, and femae lbor o
A    .rge S3w of  _ tmeAlM (pem    pr                  111u 1,    as percen    of tot, male and fmle population of dil age
..dU.id-A househld consist ofa group of individuak who share   respeci*vr, 1960, 1970, and 1983 data. Thes ae bsd on Wll
Eving quaner  nd their main meals A boauder or lodger may or   prtiipation rates reflecting ag-s  stuctur ofthe popubation, and
may not be included in the household for statsc  purposs       long ie trend. A few etim     are fim national souces.
Apo age Nmcher oJf Prm per Rem-o , when, end ni-               Ee caac Depeadey Rntf-Ratio of population under 15. and
Avge  number of pe.oni per room in all urban, and rural        65 an. over. to the wkiDng age population (thos aged 15-64).
occupied convential dwellings, respcvdy. Dwelng exclude
non-pesuasnent stuctues and unoccupied partL                   INCOME DISBR ITION
Pkrcmrog of Dwetg with Elroerpds-to&4 m am, end rmsf--         Aercentage of Ttal Disposebir Incmm (botk im esi end Ami)-
Conventioupt dwelings with electricity in living quaters as percen-  Accruing to percentile groups of households ranked by totl house
trg of totaL -,ban, and rural dwelings respectively.           bold income.
EDUCATION                                                      POVERTY TARGEr GROUPS
A4aed Eiwel_ Ra  s                                             Toe folowing esinates re very appromate measur  of poverty
PHR1y  sdaol - togal. mk a  fe-GrOsS total. male nd            lvels and sbould be itapreted with considerab  caution.
female enrollment of al age at the primary levd as pacentgs of  EWniwaAhw Jwry lacem Leve (ULSpr caifta) -erk
respect  primy sool-ge populatn. While many COUnrIeS           aid inro-Absolute povrty income level is that income leve
consider prmnary school age to be 6-11 years. others do not. The  below which a minimal nutritionally adequate diet plus essentil
diferencs in country practices in the as and duration of shool  non-food requinrmets is not affordae
ar reflected in the ratios given. For some countres vith universal  Esrmwe. l derote Poe   I e Leed (S per c_pft)- -whe
education gross enrolment may eceed 100 prcent since some       ad aural-Rural relative poverty income level is onethird of
pupils are below or above the country's standard primary-school  average per capita pemonal income of the country. Urban leve i
age-                                                           derived from the rural levd with adjustment for bi8ger cost of
Secawy scool - total. mnoe and femak-Computed as above;    living in urban areas
seondary education requrs at last four years of approved pri-  E.arad htalow  Below Absoite  werty am     Lel (pe-
mary instuco; pravides general  vocatonaL or teacher trining   cear)-    u   d rn-  Percent of population (urban and rural
inuctios for pupils usualy of 12 to 17 years of agc; corespond-  who awe -absolute poor.'
ence cours ar generally exduded.
Vocatal Emrxlhueni (percet of secondary-Vocational institu-              Comparative Analysis and Data Division
tion indcde tehnial industriaL or other programs which operate         Economic Analysis and Projetions Department
dependently or as deparqtu ts of secondary institutions.                               June 196



- 41 -
ANNEX I
Page 5 of 6
Iati:  &.3 (N1ll. 1934)                                       ELIVIA - EOIIIIIC IIIICDhI
m  fr Cipits: M1  410 1194)
Amont                     Annal Iraoth Ibtn 11)               Est.      IrojKctiOl
ldcatur                                  lEll      at a  at
Currmnt Prices)
1914             I90      1991    I        I3      II4    19I5    1917    19DI
UTINI. ACUNIT
Ors luitic Product                             3271             -0.6    -0.3    -6.6    -7.3    -3.1    -2.1
Agriculture 1t                               8K!               1.5    -0.9      4.4   -23.9    17.7       3.2
lIulstry  1/                                  995              *      -3.9    -9.7    -2.2   -13.9    -4.1
Srices 11                                    1367             -2.2      1.8    4.1    -1.5    -1.9    -2.9
C _umirtim                                    S269              -0.2     0.7    -9.0    -7.0    -1.2    -1.          .
Wm ro vn  mts                                   373            -22.7    13.1   -39.5    -7.6   -15.7    48.2         ..
Inputs of Bods an Fl                           592             -21.3    17.0   -35.2    -5.4       9.2      6.4
Exports of bods bnd I                           912             -5.3      2.1    -1.6    -7.0    -7.3   -17.1
on" boastic Savings                             102             -1.9    -4.5    -0.8    -1.6   -10.2    -4.3
Export Price Inde                                            103.1   101.8    97.9    N.9   100.0    95.9    13.2   10.1
lWrt Price Inde                                              109.9   106.7   101.2   101.9   1011.0       7.3   10M.7   13I.
Yas of Trade Indis                                            93.9    95.4    91.7    95.1   100.0    99.1    75.1    75.9
Share of BP at brwket Prics ()                  AvOage  nual Incras  1Z)
1975    199      1995    1990                   197570  1990-5  11590
Bross untic Product                           100.0   100.0   100.0   100.0                        3.1    -4.0       3.0
Agri clte 21                                 1.1    18.3    27.4    29.9                        18.1    -2.3
lIdstry 21                                   29.7    34.6    30.4    28L9                       13.9    -7.2
S,vics 2/                                    53.6    44.4    40.0    39.4                        19.8    -2.3
C-m,Ctki                                       91.2    79.6    79.9    90.0                        4.1    -3.5       2.4
brum  Invents                                  24.4    15.0    17.0    16.7                       -8.5    -4.7       3.3
lprts of Sad ad F0                           26.9    20.1    14.8    17.6                        -4.4    -7.3       4.9
Epts of lboas nd W9                            21.3    25.5    17.8    20.9                        0.2    -7.8       7.3
Gu  asomatic Saving                            19.0    20.4    20.1    15.9                       -2.5    -5.9       6.0
PINLC FIIWICE                                                       k a   I 2   Pof 
1990    1981    1982    1993    4M   1905
legal bvrmit
Carrat llmus                                           13.1   I.3    10.9        6.9      4.9    L67
Curent Expenitures                                     16.5    17.9    21.5    26.0    27.0    14.9
Srelum (4) or ekficit (-I                              -3.4    -2.6   -10.6   -19.1    22.1    -92
Capital Expenditore                                     3.5      4.3     2.9      2.9      2.4     1.5
Overall  eficit (-I                                    -6.9    -7.0   -13.1   -17.5   -24.3    -9.5
Pilic Enlteprises
Corrnt lSrplm  14                                       1.2      2.1     3.0      1.3    -2.5      2.L
Capit  Eliwm                                            3.6      3.2     4.6      3.0      2.6     2.9
Onrall kfcit 1-H                                       -2.2    -0.8    -1.5    -1.5    -4.9    -0.5
_Nn-Fiacial Pilic Setor Oerall Dficit                  -9.0    -7.9   -14.6   -19.0   -29.2   -10.0
OIIE2 IEIEACIIIS
1970-7S  1975-80  1990-   1985-0
ICIR (5 yar)                                            4.0     8.3    -3.1       5.0
1as Naginr  Sain  Rt                                    0.4    -0.2      0.3      0.4
lWt Elasticity                                          1.1    -1.7      1.9      1.6
1/ Factor cost.
21 For 175, at rwket prices for otkr yars, at factor cost.
Merck 31, I196



- 42 -
ANNEX I
Pjp a of 6
NM w rMn,f1 DIEL Maun= u OT
(in millios  Lof L mllam at cr it prien
actuu           lt.                    Prujut.l
1930    1933    1934    1935    16    197   1i    1nv    190
uininVA=n w          rNN
Exports of bob  J   If                     1032.5      2    12.0   7137    813.2   742.7   12   967.2  1154.2
lawt of hd  .d Ws                          7.9   641.1        .3   671.5   737.0   IS    93.3  10            129. 7
Buarco blaIsc                              262.6   211.    229.7    47.2   -U.S    -.3   -71.1  -162.   .%5
Fator Ivila  lEIt                         -23.4 -*L 1 -4           -407  -3724   -323.1  -339.4  -310.1  -33.0
lht trusfs                                   12.7      2    21.3    14.5    2L0    15.7    I43    17.0    17.4
Cvut Iccut hlmc                             -333  -1761  -1M.A  -34.0  -42  -3.7  -394.2  -15  -32
Private Urut Iovwm6t                        40.9              7.0     0.0    2L0    2.        2. 3a.            W3
Official T   rm   hut)                      46.      66.0    16.7    L5        .0   %9.1    tL9   110.2   IILI
Official ILT mu  (nut)                     20.2    5L1   -174.5   449.9   53.3   259.4   34.2   334    311.3
Disburuu.ts                               429.6   507.6   19.1   16L9   246.0   33.1   31L1   42L.   42.2
hpayints                                  181.4   456.5   334.3  -346.   -312.3    76.7    7.       96   169.4
Otihr capital                              -194.3   377.9   401.5  -144.3  -30.       -0.3    4.1   4-1        .3
m    in  un       - * increuas)           -12.L  -320.2  -120.1   -3.1    20.0   4-.2   -21.4   -5.    -29.9
-a LS Cmimime
13      1391    3932    13       1914
Public IILT  nIs                            397.0   394.6   14.3   41L2   24.3
139                                       50.0      0.L     0.L     0.0     0.0
13*                                       16.0     L.0     0.0    0.0       3.0
1th. httilatral                           61.7      7.9   117.4   272   110.3
o nMts                                    1.5   24.0    11.9   202.    143.3
SupLiws                                    7.9    17.2      6.9     0.      2.5
Flncial lmstittions                       13.9   326.5      7.1    17.5      1.5
ktua  Mt utstndiq on M   c. 31, 194
ElEl  ENT                               lidd Only                  Percmnt
13                                       314.4                      9.6
M                                         93.7                      3.3
0th.' hlltil ral                        3M                        12.U
bvar_uts                                 151.1                      4 .7
Iqli.rs                                   67.7                      3.0
Finncil I.titutiu                        723                       21.3
MT A   IEOT Mg    9
1930    191    1912   1933    1911
PMic Iut btstdq nd J        ismi          2227.0  2677.6  2767.3  31H0   325
atnwt o pubic bt                         163.9   171.0  1.  172.3   201.3
pat unt u inlic  bt                       1265   110.3   165.L   109.4   119.4
Total public dat swvics                  290.4   231.3   236.7   2L2    320.7
Public ILi Mt uarric an I of pots           2L3     27.9    31.7    3L1    39.5
bueag  tu  of public det
Iatuust as Z prior yew M                   L6       7.7     6.3  L62        6.5
bortiatim an  priwr wr 11                  666      5.0     4.0     4.0     3.3
1   dt W      qottu a  dirsud 31           239.1   2B1.0   301.9   315.    304.4
1153 as Z IOLT public ut M  31              10.7   I.5    10.9       9.3     9.5
111  Mt ws. asl ILT public dets    31    4.7         6.9    I.        L      Il. 10.9
31  cIduII D.
Nwcb 27, Mi



- 43 -
ANNEX I1
Page 1 of 2
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN BOLIVIA
A. STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS
(As of January 31, 1986)
(Amount less cancellations)
Loan No.  Year    Borrower    Purpose                   Bank     IDA    Undisbursed
Six loans and eleven credits fully disbursed           136.8    73.9
Credits
933       1979    Bolivia     Omasuyoa-Los Andes Rural
Dev.                             3.0         1.5
940       1979    Bolivia     National Mineral
Exploration Fund                7.5          6.0
948       1979    Bolivia     Santa Cruz Water Supply
and Sewerage                     9.0         3.1
S-25      1 X980    Bolivia   Gas & Oil Engineering              16.0
Loans
1211      1976    Bolivia     Rural Development          6.4
1324      1976    Bolivia     Water Supply & Sewerage   5.2                  0.5
1331-5    1976    Bolivia     Small-Scale Mining Div.  11.8
1404      1977    Bolivia     Education & Vocational
Training               12.0                  1.4
1422-5    1977    ENFE        Third Railway             35.0                 -.-
1423      1977    AASANA      Aviation                  25.0                  1.6
1489      1977    Bolivia     Urban Development         17.0                  1.7
1510      1978    Bolivia     Ulla Ulla Development      9.0                  6.0
1587      1978    Bolivia     Highway Maintenance       25.0                 2.3
Total                                        233.1   109.4
of which has been paid                        55.8***  3.8**
Total now outstanding                        227.3   105.6
Amount sold                    .05                     -
of which has been reraid       .05             0.0     -
Total now held by Bank                       227.3   105.6        24.1
** as of September 30, 1985 - not available for December 31, 1985
as of October 31, 1985 - not available for December 31, 1985



- 44 -
ANNEX II
Page 2o-f 2
B . STATEMENT OF IC INVESTMENTS
(As of January 31, 1986)
Fiscal                                                      Amount in US$ million
Year       Obligator               Type of Business        Loan   Equity   Total
1973    Plasmar, S. A.        Cables and Plastic Product   0.3       0.1      0.4
1976    Banco Hipotecarlo
Nacional            Capital Market                         0.3     0.3
1976    Banco Industrial
S. A.               Development Financing                  0.6     0.6
1978    Molino Andino, S.A.  Food and Food Processing        2.3      -       2.3
1981    Cerveceria Boliviana
Nacional S.A.       Food and Food Processing       5.7      -      5.7
Total                         8.3      1.0     9.3
Repaid, cancelled or sold    7.3       0.4     7.7
Held by IFC                   1.0      0.6     1.6
Total undisbursed .



- 45 -
ANNEX III
Page 1 of 2
SUPPLEMENTARY PROJECT DATA SHEET
Section I: Timetable of Key Events
(a)  Date of first presentation to IDA         October 1985
(b)  Date of departure of appraisal mission   November 24, 1985
(c)  Date of completion of Negotiations        April 17, 1986
(d)  Plavned date of effectiveness             August 1986
Section II: Special IDA Implementation Action
None
Section III: Special Conditions
(a) A mid-term review of the implementation progress of the NEP and
the proposed Credit operation would be held within nine months
after effectiveness or at anytime as shall be reasonably
requested by IDA (para. 46);
(b)  Credit financing would be used only in CoMIBOL's viable mines and
the Government would submit for IDA's review a schedule for mine
closures and a manpower reduction program not later than August
31, 1986 and would carry out the same thereafter (para. 52);
(c) ENFE would reduce its personnel to a level of not more than a
total of 6,400 by June 30, 1987 (para. 67);
(d) ENFE would complete a cost and tariff improvement study
satisfactory to IDA not later than December 31, 1986, discuss
this study with IDA and propose a plan of action not later than
March 31, 1987 and implement such action not later June 30, 1987
(para. 68);
(e) ENFE would maintain a ratio of total working expenses to total
operation revenues not higher than I for each fiscal year after
December 31, 1986 (para. 68);
(f) The Government would prepare a program to revise electricity
tariffs and a program to improve the structure of ENDE not later
than August 31, 1986, agree on these programs with IDA not later
than October 31, 1986 and implement such programs thereafter
(para. 70);
(g)  ENDE would not construct new power generation facilities which
would increase the national electrical generation capacity by
more than 25 magawatts per facility unless previously agreed upon
with IDA (para. 71);



- 46 -
ANNEX III
Page 2 of 2
(h) The financial condition, investment and import programs of
COKIBOL, YPFB, ENFE and ENDE would be reviewed by IDA and the
Government within nine months after Credit effectiveness
(para. 73);
(i) Central Bank would establish and maintain through Project
completion a Project Coordinating Comidttee satisfactory to IDA
(para. 74);
(j) Subloans to industrial exporters for the purchase of locally
produced goods would be limited to 75Z of the cost of such items
(para. 75);



- 47 -
ANNEX IV
Page 1 of I
ITEMS TO BE EXCLUDED FROM RIC FINANCING
Group       Sub-group             Description of Items
112              -                Alcoholic beverages
121              -                Tobacco, unmanufactured tobacco refuse
122              -                Tobacco, manufactured
667              -                Pearls, precious and semi-precious
stones, unworked or worked
688              -                Uranium depleted in U235 and thorium, and
their alloys, unwrought or wrought, and
articles therefor, n.e.s.; waste and
scrap of uranium depleted in U235 and of
thorium
718            718.7              Nuclear, reactors, and parts thereof,
n.e.s.
897            897.3              Jewelry of gold, silver or platinum group
metals (except watches and watch cases )
and goldsmiths' or silversmiths' wares
(including set gems)
971.0              Gold, non-monetary (excluding gold ores
and concentrates)



- 48 -
ANNEX V
Page 1 of 5
MINING
Background
1.       The mining sector has historically been central to Bolivia's
economic and political development and remains a major source of foreign
exchange, tax revenues and employment. Since the nationalization of the
major mines in 1952, however, the sector was not managed with the
efficiency needed for sustained development; it attracted too little public
investment and private investment was discouraged by the fear of
nationalization and institutional constraints. COMIBOL (Corporacion de
Minera de Bolivia), the state-holding company created in 1952 to operate
the nationalized mines, accounts for 65% of total mineral production; some
25Z is accounted for by medium-sized privately owned mining operations
(numbering 24 in 1984), and the balance of 1OZ is accounted for by
2,000-4,000 small private operating units.  The performance of all these
public and private producers has been hampered by long-term structural
problems and, more recently, by difficult macro-economic conditions.
2.        The metallurgical sector developed into a relatively complex
industry, consisting of a volatilization plant and smelter for tin and
antimony, a bismuth smelter/refinery, and a lead and silver smelter. In
spite of enormous investments undertaken to create this infrastructure, the
sector did not contribute to economic growth but exacerbated the external
debt problem.
The Tin Crisis
3.       Although Bolivia has not been a member of the International Tin
Council (ITC) since 1982, it has been protected by the cartel's
artificially high tin prices and thus has had no incentives to restructure
its mining industry. The ITC's suspension of tin trading in October 1985,
which led to the fall of the tin prices from US$5.00/lb. to US$3-3.50/lb.
poses extreme difficulties for the survival of Bolivia's tin industry.
Bolivia will in 1986 lose about 10% of export revenues because of the tin
price decline. Several Bolivian mines, including those of COMIBOL which
have a high cost of production, will have to close. The crisis has thus
made it clear that the efficiency of Bolivia's mining industry must improve
in order to be competitive in the world market.
Sector Issues and Constraints
4.        COMIBOL is a prime example of an inefficient public enterprise.
Although it is a large corporati,n, with sales of US$225 million in 1984
and employment of about 28,000, it lacks clearly defined objectives,
principles of organization and management, and lines of authority.
COMIBOL's operations have been adversely affected by direct Government
interference, frequent management changes, and strong political influence



- 49 -
ANNEX V
Page 2 of 5
of militant labor unions. Operations in all of COMIBOL's 21 mines and
smelters sufter from problems such as (i) inadequate development of proven
reserves; (ii) antiquated equipment and poor mining techniques; (iii)
deficiencies in the supply of spare parts and materials; (iv) excessive
surface personnel and inadequate production incentives for those working
underground; and (v) lack of clear regulations on employment and
compensation issues. These problems have been exacerbated in recent years
by the adverse economic environment and labor indiscipline; as a result,
COMIBOL's production of its main product, tin, in 1984 amounted to only
two-thirds of the 1979 level. It is estimated that theft accounted for
some 30% of ores production and probably one-quarter of all materials and
commodities that COMIBOL purchases for its operations. Not surprisingly,
COMIBOL's average tin production costs in US$ exceeded the international
price of tin even before the tin market collapsed.
5.        COMIBOL's surface to underground personnel ratio is excessively
high. Also, overstaffing coupled with inadequate training and career
development has affected the personnel's morale and motivation and thus
indirectly its productivity. Shortages of equipment and spare parts,
decreasing grades and recoveries as well as declining ore reserves have
also resulted in decreasing productivity. Investments in plant, equipment
and exploration were grossly inadequate at an average level of US$3.75
million per annum (1979-84) for an operation of the size of COMIBOL.
6.        From a profit of US$51 million in 1980, COMIBOL registered a loss
of US$145 million in 1984. Its sales dropped from US$353 million in 1980
to US$255 million in 1985, resulting from decreases in price and production
volume of tin, overvalued exchange rate which distorted its revenues,
constant cost increases due to continued growth of the labor force, and the
rising prices of its imported materials and equipment. Due to continuous
losses, COMIBOL's equity was reduced to US$24 million in 1984 resulting in
a long-term debt/equity ratio of 83:17.
7.        Private Medium and Small Mines. The performance of the private
medium and small Ecale mines has suffered from the general deterioration of
the investment climate and inappropriate economic policies. Medium scale
miners represent the most efficient segment of the sector, and are
responsible for about 80% of the Bolivian production (in volume) of
antimony, 50% of tungsten and 40% of zinc while their production share of
tin and lead exceeds 20%. Medium miners have chosen to keep a low profile
for fear of becoming targets of nationalization. They have also been
constrained in their exploration efforts by the fact that previous
governments have withheld as 'fiscal reserves' (areas where concessions are
only granted by special decree) the most promising areas (such as the
Precambrian Shield area in Eastern Bolivia) and discouraged proposals from
both foreign and domestic sources to explore and/or develop already
identified mineral resources, such as the Bolivar Mine (a lead and silver
mine that is the main potential source of supply for the Karachimpampa lead
and silver smelter); or the lithium, potassium and borax deposits of the
Uyuni Salt Flat. The last ten years have seen a number of additional



- 50 -
ANNEX V
Page 3 of 5
difficulties: (i) the profit remittance regime was such that interested
foreign investors risked being unable to pay their shareholders, (ii) since
the early 1980s the widening gap between inflation and devaluation rates
had increasingly squeezed operating margins, (iii) foreign exchange
allocations to medium scale mines were too small to finance import
requirements, leading to chronic shortages of spare parts and other
critical inputs, (iv) finally, intensifying labor strikes since 1982
reduced output.
8.        Small mining operations vary in size from one family and
part-time activities, to enterprises comparable in output and employment to
smaller medium mines, and there are some others which are organized in
cooperatives. Income levels, health and safety standards in small mines
are usually very low. In general, small mine operations use primitive
technology, have low productivity and carry out little exploration.
Business records are poor. Normally, only the richest and most easily
accessible portions of deposits are exploited, often in a way which makes
the later use of more advanced techniques more difficult or impossible.
The major deficiencies of small mines are low level of tecbnology, poor
management and little or no capital. The problem is compounded because
small mines are widely dispersed over Bolivia's difficult geographical
terrain and because they mostly produce tin, for which demand has not been
strong and prices low, and complex minerals which are costly to recover.
In addition, small mines have been suffering from lack of access to credit
and shortages of inputs, mainly because of funding difficulties of the
Banco Minero de Bolivia (BAMIN), which is the main financial institution
providing financial and technical assistance and which also acts as a
distributor/supplier of essential spare parts and inputs for small miners.
9.        Metallurgy.  The metallurgical sector is confronted with a number
of issues. First, the industry has been beset by major and frequent
technical problems owing to the fact that the design of some plants was
based on prototype technology not adapted to Bolivia's high altitude.
Pollution has been another problem. Meanwhile, the operators' initial
equity levels have been too low and financial costs have put a severe
strain on their resources. Most important, capacity build-up in the
metallurgical sector has not been matched by production increases in the
mining sector; as a result, the supply of ore from the mines has lagged
behind metallurgical plants' processing capabilities, creating much excess
capacity.
10.       Other Institutional Constraints.  The institutions serving the
mining and metallurgical industries, and in particular the Ministry of
Mines and Bolivia's Geological Services (GEOBOL), have failed to promote
the industries' development. Lack of qualified staff, high turnover of
ministers, and inadequate budgetary support have prevented the Ministry of
Mines from designing a development strategy or playing a leading role in



- 51 -
ANNEX V
Page 4 of 5
expanding the mining and metallurgical sector. For example, the financing
of investments in metallurgical facilities, and in particular for the
Karachipampa smelter were largely negotiated without the participation of
the Ministry. Confronted with the strong lobbying power of the
better-staffed and organized agencies that were to operate under its
guidance, the Ministry was unable to define or enforce priorities. This
helps to explain why funds were allocated for the construction of the
Karachipampa plant, but not for the mines to supply it or why smelter
capacity was expanded without complementary investments in the mining
sector. The Ministry has also been unable to define policies and
guidelines governing the development of Bolivia's mineral resources by
foreign companies. Several foreign companies have shown interest
collaborating with COMIBOL to develop the Bolivar Mine, the Uyuni Salt Flat
resources.
Government Programs
11.       The Government's economic program includes incentives such as the
rationalization of the exchange rate and interest rates and lowering of
import tariffs which would help stimulate increased production and exports
from the private mines. With regard to COMIBOL, the Government's reform
program calls for the reorganization of COMIBOL into four autonomous
companies; the dissolution of Empresa Nacional de Fundiciones (ENAF) and
Sociedad de Complejo Metalurgico de Karachipampa (SCMK) and the integration
of their activities into the new companies; and the elimination of the
subsidized company stores (pulperias). Because of the considerable adverse
effects of the tin crisis, however, COMIBOL's proposed division into four
companies is now under review. To start the restructuring process, the
Go% ernment created a "Consejo General" (General Council) which will
exercise overall supervision and evaluate the progress of the company.
COMIBOL's reorganization and restructuring will be a difficult and complex
process. The Government's strategy is to strengthen the viable mines and
to close the inefficient ones. The Government recognizes the neel to solve
urgent financial and supply problems and implement all possible measures to
cut costs and increase income. The Bank is providing technical assistance
to the Government in the design and implementation of the strategy, the
corresponding measures and appropriate organization for COMIBOL's
rehabilitation.
Risks and the Future of Mining in Bolivia
12.       Undoubtedly, the Bank's support of COMIBOL entails a high degree
of risk compared to other sectors. While the Government is determined to
reestablish COMIBOL's viability, variouas political, social, economic, and
financial factors could make this endeavor extraordinarily difficult. The
instability of the tin market adds an additional element of risk. However,
COMIBOL plays a key role in Bolivia's economy given its sizeaole
contribution to exports. Also, the economic losses that presently result



- 52 -
ANNEX V
Page S o7f 5
from its inefficient operations cannot be ignored. Hence, the Government
vieve COMIBOL's rehabilitation as of utaost priority. The financing from
the proposed Reform Import Credit, which would assist to keep COMIBOL's
efficent mines in operation, Is a first stop and an integral part of a
long-term rehabilitation process.
13.       A recovery of mineral production, however modest, would be
extremely important for Bolivia's development. Geological data suggest
that Bolivia has sufficient mineral resources to sustain higher output in
the long run than Is currently achieved. To realize this potential,
substantial investments will be needed in exploration and mine
development. The Government plans to institute measures to attract foreign
investors to participate in the development of the sector, to strengthen
key institutions and establish a flexible system for remitting profits
abroad. Joint ventures between government enterprises and private capital
would also be explored, particularly in the case of already identified
projects such as the development of the Bolivar Mine or some gold projects.



- 53 -
ANNEX VI
Pa ge 1 of 3
ENERGY
Background
1.        Resources.  Bolivia Is a net energy exporter and relative to its
needs has a large energy resource base. Hydrocarbons contribute about 22Z
to GDP and generate about 201 of fiscal (central and local governments)
revenues and 50Z of total exports. Proven natural gas reserves in 1985
were about 4.1 trillion cubic feet (TCF), equivalent to over 40 years of
production at the present level. Proven reserves of liquid hydrocarbons
(crude oil and condensates) are limited by comparison, amounting to about
154 rlllFln barrels, equivalent to about 17 years of present production.
Ultimate reserves are likely to be significantly larger, particularly for
natural gas, since nearly all of the national territory has hydrocarbon
potential but has been only partially explored. Bolivia has abundant
hydroelectric potential of which 287 MW have Lten developed. Reserves of
coal and peat are small and their use is limited to localized residential
consumption. Fuelvood resources are considerable with forests covering
about half of the country, but mainly In the scarcely populated tropical
lowlands. There are indications of geothermal energy in the western and
central Cordilleras (although rather distant from consumption centers) and
three initial exploration wells are being drilled with assistance from
Italy and UNDP. There is limited potential for solar energy in the
Altiplano and wind energy in the Chaco, virtually unutllized at present.
2.        The Ministry of Energy and Hydrocarbons supervises the national
oil company Yacinientos Petroliferos Fiscales Bolivianos (YFPB) and the
private operators as well as the power utilities, i.e. the Government-owned
Fmpresa Nacional de Electricidad (ENDE) and the foreign-owned Bolivian
Power Company. MER also is responsible for renewable energy (except for
wood and charcoal which are the responsibility of the Ministry of
Agriculture) and for energy planning.
Production
3.        In 1984 net primary energy production reached 4.4 million tons of
oil equivalent (toe), of which natural gas accounted for 48.2Z, crude oil
and condensate for 24.7X, fuelvood for 20.7%, hydropower for 4.1Z and
agricultural wastes (bagasse) for 2.32. Gross power generation amounted to
1,646 GWh, 72.3% from hydro and 27.7% from thermal.
4.        Liquid hydrocarbon output peaked in 1973 at 47,400 BD (barrel per
day) and declined to 24,936 BD by 1984 as the result of depletion of
various fields wbich was not compensated by production from new fields
because of lack of investments. At present about 75% of the total liquids
are produced from condensate, mostly by stripping gas of its liquid content
at the surface. The dry gas is then sold or reinjected to maintain
reservoir pressures and for storage. Gia production in 1984 reached 397



- 54 -
ANNEX VI
Page 2 of 3
MNCFD (million cubic feet per day) and about 130 MMCFD was reinjected. In
1984, YPFB produced about 72% of Bolivia's ,il and 86% of its gas.
5.       Besides YPFB, two private groups presently produce oil and gas in
Bolivia and a third is exploring: Occidental Petroleum Corporation (US)
and the Tesoro Bolivia Group (consisting of Tesoro Bolivia, Canadian
Superior and Zapata Exploration) sell all their oil and gas output to
YPFB. Shell acquired an exploration permit in 1982 and is exploring the
Beni basin. In 1978 YPFB and the private operators agreed that each supply
half of the total 200 MMCFD of gas exported to Argentina as an incentive
for the private operators to bring on stream the gas flelds of Tita and La
Vertiente, which produce large volumes of gas along with the liquids.
Following interruption of payments for gas delivered to Argentina in 1982
and subsequent foreign exchange shortages, Bolivia began in turn to fall
behind in its payments for 1982 and 1983 gas deliveries from Tesoro and
Occidental. Bolivia made some payments and also permitted the companies to
export condensate and to purchase oil field equipment from Argentina under
the existing bilateral agreement on account ef Bolivia. Tesoro and
Occidental continued to produce and meet commitments for exports and the
domestic market. In December 1985, the Government agreed with the private
operators on a schedule of payments to amortize the overdues for gas
received which at one point had reached a peak of about US$100 million.
6.        Petroleum product imports are small consisting mainly of
lubricants and aviation gasoline.
Demand
7.        Energy consumption is low at 0.4 toe per capita per annum
(Argentina 1.8, Brazil 0.95, Peru 0.6); end-use breakdown is as follows:
residential, commercial and government 54.9%, transport 26.5Z, mining and
manufacturing 19.6%. While Boliviats largest energy resource base is
natural gas, it only amounts for 12% of energy consumption because the
pricing of individual energy forms has until recently discouraged domestic
gas consumption.
8.        The composition of hydrocarbon exports has shifted in the past
ten years from crude oil to natural gas. Exports of crude oil stopped in
1980 and of gasoline and naphtha (mainly to Brazil and Chile) stopped in
early 1983. At present, Argentina is the only external market for
Bolivia's natural gas exports. Gas exports to Argentina in 1984 accounted
for 97Z of Bolivia's natural gas sales revenues. Gas exports to Argentina
(200-220 MMCFD based on a contract that expires in 1992) are made through a
gas pipeline financed with a 1971 Bank loan. Gas export revenues exceeded
original expectations and export prices increased from US$0.28/MCF in 1972
to US$4.23/MCF in 1985. However in 1982 Argentina developed severe foreign
exchange problems and hence Gas del Estado (of Argentina) began to fall
behind on its payments for Bolivian gas. In 1984, the Governments of
Bolivia and Argentina agreed to settle the arrears for the 1982 and 1983
gas deliveries during 1984 through payments both in cash and in kind and
simultaneously to reduce Bolivia's arrears to Argentina on the latter's
past trade and other Government credits.



- 55 -
ANNX VI
age 3 of 3
Sector Issues and Constraints
9.        Internal petroleum prices throughout most of the 1970's and early
1980's were kept low and in the case of natural gas and kerosene even below
production costs and by the end of 1983 were about US$17.60 for the
composite barrel at the official rate (which was overvalued) and only about
US$4.40 at the parallel rate (or about 14Z of international prices). The
pricing situation had become damaging to the Bolivian economy because it
encouraged unofficial exports of petroleum products (estimated in 1984-85
at between 1,000 and 3,000 BD or 4% and 13Z of apparent domestic
consumption) and discouraged energy conservation and fuel substitution
measures.  It also undermined YPFB's financial position and reduced both
the Incentive and the funds available for hydrocarbon exploration which
contributed first to a decline in exploration and then to a fall in
reserves and production and the complete stop of crude oil exports. All
this accelerated the depletion of a resource that Bolivia might well be
compelled to import in the near future.
10.       Bolivia is faced with limited market for natural gas, its major
hydrocarbon output. The export agreement with Argentina will expire in
1992 which would severely reduce YPFB's and Bolivia's export revenues.
Likewise, the LPG exports to Brazil under a 1976 sales agreement ends this
year. Growing domestic demand for LPG in Bolivia and delays in the
development of gas fields pose serious constraints to Bolivia's LPG
exports.
Government Programs
11.       Governmentts recent economic measures address the major
constraints faced by the sector.  The exchange rate stabilization and the
increase in oil prices to a level close to international prices would
stimulate production, rationalize consumption and discourage smuggling.
Likewise, the Government with the assistance of the Bank is reorganizing
YPFB and reviewing the country's petroleum legislative and contractual
framework in order to (i) make the sector more efficient and increase
exploration and production and hence fiscal and export revenues; (ii)
attract additional private companies into Bolivia's oil sector; and (iii)
consolidate YPFB's activities by focusing on appropriate areas of activity
and spin off operations like product marketing and distribution to the.
private sector. The Government would likewise increase its efforts to
identify new gas export markets in order to generate additional foreign
exchange revenues.



- 56 -
ANNEX VII
Page 1 of 4
AGRICULTURE
Background
1.        Agriculture's share in GDP increased from about 16X in 1980 to
more than 19% in 1984, while manufacturing, construction and mining
declined. Agriculture has traditionally employed about 45% of the labor
force and has better prospects for maintaining and even increasing
employment, in the short-term, than the other sectors. Production indices
for 1975 to 1985 indicate a declining trend in crop production and an
increasing trend in livestock production. During the same period
population continued to increase about 2.7Z annually or about 30% in the
aggregate, thus adding to the deficit in food supply, increase in food
imports and decrease in consumption. While livestock production increased,
the take-off rate of beef has dropped from about 13Z to less than IIZ
primarily because the distorted beef prices discouraged producers from
slaughtering livestock. Total agricultural exports, however, have declined
sharply from 11% of the total value in 1980 to about 5% in 1984, with 90%
of the reduction coming from three products-sugar, cotton and timber.
2.        Bolivia's agriculture consists of two distinct economic
subsystems: first the densely populated area of the Altiplano (with poor
soils and climatic conditions for agriculture) and the intermediate vanleys
in the mountains where 75X of the rural population lives. Agricultural
production in the highlands is to a large degree a smallholder subsistence
operation. The majority of the smallholder farmers use traditional
production practices, 'ased on animal draft and manual power, and a minimum
level of inputs. These highland smallholder farmers produce most of the
potatoes consumed in the country and supply an important part of the meat
and vegetables for the urban centers of the highlands.
3.        The second economic sub-system consists mainly of medium and
large scale commercial farmers operating in the lower valleys and lowland
plains with good soils and climatic conditions for rainfed agricultural
production. The lowland farmers use a high level of tractor mechanization
technology and improved agronomic practices. The Department of Santa Cruz
produces a major portion of the nation's food, fiber and oilseed crops:
100% of the rice, sorghum, soybeans and cotton; over 70% of the cassava,
platano/banana, peanuts and beans; and 75X of the country's cattle
population is in the Departments of Beni and Santa Cruz.
Agricultural Land Resources
4.        Two-thirds of the present 1.2 million,hectares used for crop
production suffer from the poor soil and climatic conditions of the
highlands where there is little potential for expanding the cultivated
area, and where obtaining yield increases has proven difficult.
Twenty-five persent of the country's cropland is located in the Department



- 57 -
ANNEX VII
Page 2 of 4
of Santa Cruz close to the city of Santa Cruz. In addition to the more
than 300,000 ha. now being cultivated in the Department of Santa Cruz, it
is estimated that there are an additional two million ha. of class I and II
soils with suitable climatic conditions for rainfed agricultural production
that have yet to be exploited.
5.        However, physical and structural problems have limited
development in the lowlands. Bolivia is a land-locked country making
importation of inputs and exportation of production both difficult and
costly. The vast areas in the lowlands, suitable for intensive
agricultural production, are far from ports for export and isolated from
the internal markets of the principal population centers by rugged terrain,
long distances, and lack of an adequate transport and comunications
system, which makes agricultural products more costly for the consumer and
reduces the return to the farmers. The Beni is a classic example of the
communication problem; with about a million ha. used for grazing, the
Department has more than 501 of the country's cattle population. The Beni
is the main source of supply of quality beef for the urban and mining
centers of the highlands, but this beef must be transported by air,
contributing to the cost of production, distribution, and increasing the
retail price of beef-thus reducing the potential for consumption.
Furthermore, it is uneconomic to transport by air the lower value cost of
beef that would otherwise be purchased by lower income consumers.
Sector Issues and Constraints
6.        Government efforts to develop the agricultural sector have been
quite dispersed and unrelated. The sector lacks a viable development
strategy that would give guidelines on investment priorities and policies
conducive to increased productivity; it has suffered from restrictive price
policies, excessively cumbersome institutional support, and less than
adequate levels of public funding.
7.        Lack of Development Strategy.  A basic strategy issue is the
existence of an unbalanced distribution of human, physical and financial
resources among the agricultural regions of the highlands and lowlands.
Previous Government's efforts to balance the distribution of natural
resources and rural population have been largely unsuccessful.
Government-sponsored directed settlements schemes have been characterized
by poor performance, relatively high cost and high desertion rates.
Generous Government assistance and emphasis on social services has led to
unrealistic expectations; once Government support ceased, settlers often
abandoned their land. A further complication is the fact that some regions
thrive because of the lucrative coca production. Government crop
sustitution programs have largely been unsuccessful.
8.        Development programs in the sector have failed to address the
critical constraints impeding its growth and development i.e., inadequate
research and extension support; the lack of improved seeds; the lack of
feeder roads; and the need to reduce population pressures in the
highlands. The goals and composition of past programs resulted from
uncoordinated activities of government agencies, rural development
corporations, and foreign aid agencies. Since priorities were not



58 -
ANNEX VII
Page 3 of 4
established, limited Government resources were thinly spread across a wide
range of activities. Hence, projects were either not properly started or
were so undefined that they inevitably fell short of targets. Moreover, in
recent years a number of integrated rural development projects designed to
include several components (modern inputs, credit, irrigation, health,
education, etc.) were not efficiently implemented because of the limited
capacity of public sector agencies.
9.        Government Interventions.  Agricultural production has been
influenced by Government interventions, such as: (i) fixing consumer and
producer prices for a wide-range of agricultural products; (ii) controlling
the domestic processing and marketing of agricultural commodities; (iii)
isolating the domestic from the international market though export quotas,
and imposition of numerous bureaucratic requirements which impeded export
trade. Urban consumers, commercial farmers and agro-industries have gained
at the expense of small farmers. Commodities produced in the commercial
sector --beef, milk, sugar- tended to be overpriced while commodities
produced in the small farm sector -coffee, maie, rice, wheat-  tended to
be underpriced.
10.       Low Levels of Use and Supply of Inputs.  Fertilizer consumption
in Bolivia has traditionally been lower than neighboring countries in the
region and has declined further in the past three years. No fertilizer is
produced in the country and pre-mimed and bagged fertilizers are imported
in such low volume that costs are increased substantially. Only a total of
6,640 tons was imported in 1984, an average of 5.0 kg per ha. (1.2 million)
of cropland and even less if the 500,000 ha. of improved pasture is
included.
11.       A similar low level of use and supply also applies to most other
agricultural inputs. Available information indicates that import of those
goods that can be specifically identified for agricultural use, amounted to
only about US$25 million in 1984. The total value of agricultural input
imports in 1984, including miscellaneous items that cannot be
differentiated from other uses and contraband, could be as much as 40%
higher than the official figures. Direct yield increasing inputs (seeds,
fertilizers, chemicals and veterinary medicines) make up about 50% of the
agricultural input imports--US$13 million, an average of only about
US$10 per ha. Likewise, the low level of investments in farm machinery
indicates that a rapid decapitalization of agriculture is occurring that
could be a deterrent to future recovery of the agricultural sector.
12.       Obviously, Lhe supply of inputs has been inadequate, untimely and
costly--the difficult economic conditions have made an already inefficient
system more inefficient, less competitive and more costly. Foreign
exchange to cover letters of credit for imports has not been available in
sufficient amounts at the proper time. Some importers have been forced to
use unofficial financial sources and impcrt in small quantities, which
increase the cost of goods.
13.       Credit System.  The Government has attempted to use credit as a
major agricultural policy tool. Eowever, the agricultural credit system
has suffered from erratic and ad hoc policies, heavy reliance on foreign
assistance, inability to mobilize domestic resources, highly subsidized



- 59 -
ANNEX VII
Page 4 of 4
interest rates, and severe management problems in the public agricultural
credit bank (BAB). BAB charged highly subsidized interest rates which were
too low to cover costs, suffered from high arrears, dating back from the
1970s when the Government transferred delinquent portfolio of coumercial
banks to BAB, and high administrative costs as well as personnel
inefficiency. Being financially insolvent, BAB had to rely heavily on
Government subsidies and foreign assistance.
Government Programs
14.       The new Government is rationalizing the incentives for the sector
including the first dismantling of price and export controls, stabilizing
the exchange rates and freeing interest rates which would reduce the
distortions introduced by subsidized credit and encourage a more efficient
use of resources.
15.       To have a rational view of the future development of the sector,
the Government intends to draw up a clear and more balanced development
strategy based on a rational assessment of agricultural resources and
production prospects in the main agricultural regions. This strategy would
take into account that in the short term a major objective is to improve
the country's precarious balance of payments position. To this end,
agricultural development efforts in the short-term would give priority to
export-oriented, quick yielding production initiatives.  Most promising
would be increased assistance to the lowland areas where production of
cotton, sugar, soybeans, selected cereals, coffee, cocoa and rubber can be
increased and provide additional export revenues or save foreign exchange
through import substitution. An essential element for the enhancement of
agricultural production is the improvement of the agricultural credit
system. The Government with the assistance of the IDB and USAID are
undertaking an analysis of BAB's financial and organizational situation
with a view of reorganizing and restructuring this institution.
16.       In the medium- and long-term the Government would (i) seek to
diversify agriculture exports particularly in view of the declining mineral
and hydrocarbon revenues; (ii) support simple, uncomplicated agricultural
development projects particularly in the Altiplano and Valleys, that would
consider the limited implementing capacity of public sector agencies and
tap more the participation of non-governmental organizations, as well as
participation of farmers' cooperatives, and (iii) seek to correct the
present imbalance in the distribution of human and land resources.
Government programs would focus on consolidating and supporting existing
spontaneous settlements with appropriate service packages rather attempting
to develop more Government-directed settlement programs.



- 60 -
ANNEX VIII
Page 1 of 4
INDUSTRY
Recent Performance
1.        The industrial sector, which in 1981 accounted for 14.1Z of GDP,
decreased its share to about 11.9Z in 1984 and about 10.5Z In 1985, a
decline greater than that of the overall economy.
2.        The incipient Industrial sector in Bolivia haq developed mainly
based on import substitution. In contrast to mining and resource-based
agro-industries, which were oriented toward exports, manufacturiug depends
greatly on imported inputs and has developed mainly to meet consumption
requirements of the domestic market. Such development took place under a
high level of protection through high tariffs and import restrictions.
3.        The deteriorating macro-economic situation which brought about a
severe recession in 1982-1985 had a severe negative impact on the
industrial sector: (i) a tight foreign exchange constraint made it
increasingly difficult to import foreign raw materials, spares and other
inputs; (ii) the overvaluation in the exchange rate and the high
differential between the official and the parallel rates made it much more
profitable to import finished goods (using whatever foreign exchange was
available at the official rate) which would be sold at prices valued at the
parallel rate, rather than import inputs which would have to be processed;
(iii) a significant contraction of the domestic market combined with a
substantial increase of competition from imported goods; (iv) a significant
disincentive to export at the overvalued official rate, inducing exporters
to partiaUly sell their production through unofficial channels at the much
higher parallel rate.
4.        As a result, the sector went through a rapid deterioration, and a
large number of enterprises were forced to stop or slow down production.
The substantial decline in the sector's share of GDP indicated above was
accompanied by: (i) an overall productivity decrease of about 21Z over the
period 1981-1984; (ii) a reduction of private sector investments from about
$30 million in 1981 to about $7.6 million in 1984; (iii) a decrease in
industrial sector employment, as a share of total employment, from 10.0% in
1981 to 8.72 in 1984; (iv) a decrease of the share of industrial/
agro-industrial sector exports (the so called non-traditional exports) in
total exports from 9.6% in 1981 to 3.71 in 1984, and '.o only about 2.41 in
the first semester of 1985.
Sectoral Structure
5.        The industrial sector is predominantly based on the manufacturing
of consumer goods, with a small participation of intermediate and capital
goods industries. Manufacturing of consumer goods represents the largest
share of industrial value added, amounting to 591. Important subsectors



- 61 -
ANNEX VIII
Page 2 of 4
include: food, beverages and tobacco (41% of industrial value added),
chemicals and plastics (26%), textiles and leather (14Z) and non-metallic
minerals (81).
Manufacturing Inputs
6.        Because of the small production of intermediate goods and reduced
availability of a variety of raw materials such as metals, plastics,
artificial fibers and chemicals, most manufacturing enterprises are highly
dependent on imported inputs. Only resource-based production activities,
such as agro-industries, have readily available local inputs. This
dependence makes Bolivian manufacturers highly vulnerable to foreign
exchange shortages and/or import restrictions.
7.        Total imported inputs for the industrial sector (raw materials
and intermediate goods) have been relatively stable, averaging about US$220
million per year during the period 1980-1983. However, due to the
increasing severity of the economic crisis and foreign exchange constraint,
such imports decreased to US$180 million in 1984 and are estimated at
US$190-200 million in 1985.
Exports
8.        Except for agro-industrial based companies, the orientation of
the protected manufacturing sector towards meeting the cons:umption needs
of the domestic market resulted in only a small level of manufacturing
exports.
9.        Of the total non-traditional exports (NTE) --which consist of
agro-indus trial goods and manufactured products- the manufactured exports
share has decreased from 35Z to about 251 over the period 1980-1984. Only
a few companies, such as some relatively modern and more efficient
texiiles, metal-alloys, and small handicrafts firms are competitive enough
to be able to export. In contrast, agro-industrial exports represent the
largest share of NTE, with about 75Z of the total. The main agro-based
exports include processed and semi-processed products such as: coffee,
sugar, meat, wood, ethylic alcohol and Brazil nuts. Because of the
recession and significant exchange rate distortions prevailing in past
years, the proportion of NTE in total exports, has decreased from 9.6% in
1981 to 3.7% in 1984.
New Industrial/Economic Policies
10.       The level of nominal protection of industry has been considerably
decreased by the recent economic measures introduced by the Government in
August 1985. Import duties on most goods have been considerably reduced
and are generally low and uniform. Import restrictions have been also
mostly eliminated. The realistic level of the exchange rate moreover
eliminated previous distortions which resulted in the import of finished
foreign goods at a greatly overvalued official exchange rate.



- 62 -
ANNEX VIII
Page 3 of 4
Price Controls
11.      Most price controls have been now eliminated.  The Government's
stated objective is to eliminate price distortions, allow increased
competition and develop a more efficient industrial sector.
Incentives
12.      Because of the need to reactivate the economy, industrial
incentives are being shifted from promoting new investments to (i)
increasing industrial output through utilization of installed capacity and
(ii) exports of non-traditional goods.
13.        A Non-Traditional Exports (NTE) Promotion Program is being
prepared by the Ministry of Industry and Trade. This program establishes
as sectoral priority, in terms of export reactivation potential, the
agro-industrial based subsector. This subsector's comparative advantages
derives from its use of predominantly local raw-materials, relatively low
capital intensity, rapid response potential to current price/exchange rate
levels and its important linkages with production and employment in the
agricultural sector.
14.       The proposed primary incentive mechanisms of the program to
promote NTE are: (i) the provision of tax/credit (CERTEX) incentives on
exported goods (ranging from 'OX to 28% of their FOB value); (ii) the
simplification of export regulations and bureaucratic requirements; and
(iii) the establishment of an adequate pre-export financing scheme.
One of the main constraints of this program, however, is expected to be the
lack of local credit for the working capital needs of agro-industrial
companies, which have to finance the purchase of local raw materials to be
processed into exportable goods.
Prospects for the Industrial Sector
15.       It is still too early to ascertain fully the impact of the new
policies on the industrial sector. Several of the new policies have still
to be translated into operational regulations. However, as a result of the
new macro-economic environment -primarily a considerably lower inflation
and a more adequate exchange rate- some positive signs are being
perceived, such as an increased level of production for non-traditional
exports. In addition, there exists widespread support by the private
business community.
16.       Nevertheless, there still appears to exist a significant
uncertainty about economic and political developments. This causes a very
cautious approach from companies which, being unable to more clearly
ascertain the future business environment, avoid taking decisions to
reactivate their activities. The medium-term prospects o3f the industrial
sector are thus highly dependent on the continued and sensible
implementation of the new policies. If this happens, it can be expected
that a gradual reactivation of industrial production and exports is likely
to take place.



- 63 -
ANNEX VIII
Page 4 of 4
17.       Exports of non-traditional goods, In particular, have the
potential to respond quickly to a stabilized economic environment.
Assessments made by the Ministry of Industry and Trade and the
Non-Traditional Exporters Association indicate that a substantial increase
of such exports can be achieved, provided adequate financing is available.
These organizations have estimated that NTE could recover from the low
amount achieved in 1985 to reach the level previously achieved in 1980 in
about 3-4 years. Such exports are expected to increase from $30-40 million
in 1985 to $60-80 million in 1986, $80-120 million in 1987 and $100-140
million in 1988.
Import Financing Needs
18.       Because of the long period of recession and contracted markets,
companies have been operating at low capacity levels and most would need
working capital financing to be able to reactivate production and/or
exports. However, because liquidity in the banking system is presently
very low --due to the high reserve requirements (averaging 31% of overall
deposits) and the low level of bank deposits-- commercial credit is very
scarce and costly. Banks are currently charging 18% to 21% per month on
local currency loans and about 18% to 20% per year on short-term foreign
currency loans. Thus, companies are facing serious difficulties in
financing their working capital requirements on reasonable terms. In order
to trigger the recovery of non-traditional exports, adequate financing of
foreign and local costs of exporters' working capital needs would be
required.



-64-
ANNEX IX
Page 1 of 4
TRANSPORT
Background
1.        Bolivia has an area of 1.1 million km2 and with a population of
about 6.3 million, it is the least densely populated country in Latin
America. The populatien is distributed unevenly within the country's three
distinct geographical regions; 52X live in the highlands or 16% of the
country's area, 27X live in the valleys or 20% of the area and only 21X
live in the lowlands which cover 64Z of the country. Because of
topographical barriers and long distances, transportation's normal role of
encouraging overall economic development through interchange of production
among regions is unusually difficult. Low traffic densities further
complicate the provision of adequate transportation.
2.        In Bolivia, historically about 3/4 of the freight traffic is
carried by pipelines, about 16% by road, 7% by rail and the rest (about 2%)
by waterways and air. The state-owned oil company operates over 3,500 km
of pipelines, basically exporting oil through tb- Pacific seaport of Arica
and natural gas to Argentina. The waterways consist of about 1,600 km
river transport system in the eastern and northern part of the country, of
the lake transport limited to Lake Titicaca, providing access to the
Pacific Ocean through the Peruvian lake port of Puno and from there by rail
and road to the seaports of Matarani and Mollendo. Air transport, due to
the topography and low density of the country, is a vital means of
communication. About 30 airports are served by regular flights. The road
system consists of about 41,000 km of which 4% are paved, 22% are gravel
surfaced and 74% are unimproved earthroads.  The most important part of the
network is in the highland and valleys; the lowlands of the eastern and
northern regions are serviced by few low standard roads.
3.        The railways, having about 3,500 kms of meter gauge line, forms
two separate systems. The Western System, built between 1870 and 1920 in
response to the needs of the mining industry, has over 2,100 kms of lines,
carries about 2/3 of the total traffic, links the main towns in the
southwestern area and provides access to ports in Peru and Chile and (via
Villason) to the Argentinian ports. The Eastern System has about 1,400 km
lines built during the 1950s, and consists of two major lines which connect
respectively with the Argentinian and Brazilian railways. At present,
connections between the two systems are via a 600 km journey on the
Argentine railway or via the road between Santa Cruz and Cochabamba (497
km). Except for the transport of petroleum and natural gas, the economy
relies primarily upon the railway system to carry its external trade. For
passengers in the eastern part of the country where the railway is the only
significant mode of surface transport, there is hardly any other
alternative. Also, in the western part, the railway has a very significant
role providing services to lower and middle income passengers; in some
locations this service is a commuter operation, provided to lower income
working class people with no alternative service for getting to work
locations.



- 65 -
ANNEX IX
Page 2 of 4
The Bolivian National Railways (ENFE)
4.        ENFE was founded in 1964 to take over the British-owned Bolivian
Railways' main trunk lines and the Government-owned branch lines of the
Western System. Three years later, the Eastern lines were transferred to
ENFE and In 1974, as part of an agreement with Peru, ENFE took over the
Guaqui-La Paz line. The only railway line in Bolivia which does not belong
to ENFE is 105 kus, from Machacamarca to Uncia, which Is operated by
COMIBOL, the state-owned mining company.
5.        During its first ten years of existence, ENFE went through a
period of consolidation of the various railways into a single enterprise,
and of basic reorganization of management. At the same time the enterprise
was burdened with financial probleme resulting from low tariffs and
inadequate financial support from the Government. In 1970, with UNDP funds
and with the Bank as Executing Agency, technical assistance was provided to
assist in the financial, managerial, operational and technical
rehabilitation of the railways. The consultants retained for the task
defined an action program for improvements and developed a Five-Year
Rehabilitation Investment Plan for 1973-1977. This Plan was supported by
the Bank through the First and Second Railway Projects (Credit 346-BO,
US$8.0 million in 1972, and Loan 1121-BO, US$32.0 million in 1975). The
consultants who assisted in the implementation of these two projects
developed the 1977-1981 Investment Plan which was supported by the Third
Railway Project (Loan 1422-BO, US$35.0 million in 1977).
6.        The first two projects basically focused on workshop
improvements, procurement of various equipment and rolling stock, in
addition to institutional improvements in areas of operation and workshop
managements costing, and management information. The third project
financed the foreign exchange component of the investments contemplated for
1977 and 1978, and it included technical assistance to upgrade the 1967
National Transport Survey, to improve highway maintenance practices through
defining proper maintenance procedures and personnel training, and to
assist ENFE to develop its 1983-1987 investment plan.
7.        Due to the recognition of the railways' priorities and problems
and Bolivia's exceptional degree of commitment toward transforming ENFE
into an efficient, self-financing enterprise (largely achieved by 1977),
the projects were generally successful. Notwithstanding the onset of
economic difficulties in the 1980's, ENFE with high degree of ingenuity,
kept its lines operational. Assessment of the projects' impact is
difficult because of exogenous factors affecting ENFE's performance, but it
is clear that they helped to avoid an even more dramatic downturn in the
railway operations in the 1980s than actually occurred.
Sector Issues and Constraints
8.        Traffic.  About 60X of freight traffic and 70X of passenger
traffic are carried by ENFE's Western System. ENFE's freight traffic
capacity increased steadily between 1977 and 1980 because of new
investments, operational and management improvements and better maintenance



- 66 -
ANNEX IX
Page 3 of 4
practices. Beginning 1981, however, economic and political problems caused
numerous service interruptions in drastic declinEs in freight traffic.
Notwithiitanding poor maintenance, passenger traffic was maintained between
1977 and 1984 because the modest tariff adjustments which were generally
below the domestic inflation made the railway a cheap means of transport.
9.        Operations.  Zurrently, ENFE has 63 locomotives and about 2,200
freight wagons, 173 passenger coaches and 14 rail cars (ferrobuses).
During the last three years the locomotive availability in the Western
System declined from 64X in 1983 to 58Z in 1985 and in the Eastern System
deteriorated from 67% in 1983 to 57% in 1985. Generally, the locomotive
availability, due to lack of spares, 1s well below what would be desirable
(about (80Z)) for ENFE's current operations. The availability of the
freight cars in ENFE's entire system for the qeme reasons, also declined
from 81X in 1983 to 772 in 1985.
10.       One of the biggest current problems of ENFE is its inability to
carry out the necessary maintenance work for the locomotive and rolling
stock fleet primarily because of the lack of spare parts. ENFE's spare
parts purchases during the last three years represented only a fraction of
its requirements, consequently the railway had to defer necessary
maintenance works and/or undertake only partial maintenance works while
spare stock lasted. In 1985, when the level of spare stocks became
negligible, make-shift arrangements, including cannibalization of
locomotives and rolling stock, instead of appropriate maintenance practices
started to prevai'. Both in 1984 and 1985, ENFE would have needed some 52
locomotives for its operations if it were to observe desirable maintenance
practices. In 1984 the railway had an average of 38 locomotives in
operation; in 1985 this was reduced to 33. As of the end of 1985, the
situation is considered to be very critical. Without purchasing the most
necessary spare parts, the number of working locomotives in 1986 would be
reduced by at least an additional four to six and in 1987 by an additional
five. With such reductions in motive power, ENFE would have to forfeit
carrying at least 122 of its projected freight traffic in 1986 and 19% in
1987. In addition, ENFE does not have a stock of rails and rail fittings,
which are needed for normal track maintenance works, specifically for spot
line repairs to replace worn out rails in sharp curves (some track sections
have rails with more than 50 years in services). Currently, ENFE's
operations are being affected by derailments in some of these sections.
11.       Financial Position.  At the end of 1976, ENFE's financial
position was sound and the railway was expected to finance a substantial
portion of its investment program from internal cash generation. Since
then, however, ENFE's financial situation, affected by events mostly
outside its control, deteriorated rapidly. Increases in operating costs,
resulting mainly from the Government policies of raising both real wages
and the number of ENFE's employees, were not accompanied by similar
increases in revenues. While domestic inflation accelerated, there had
been no commensurate increases in tariffs. THe lower-than-anticipated
traffic levels (between 1978-1980 freight traffic was about 15% less than
expected), the results of the increasingly depressed economic activities
and traffic interruptions during the unusually heavy rainy seasons, only



- 67 -
ANNEX IX
Page 4 of 4
aggravated the situation. Since 1977 ENFE had to rely on Government
contributions to meet its total debt amortization and, between 1981-1983,
increasing portiOns Of its interest bill. While ENFE's earnings are mainly
in local currencies, about 80% of its spare parts, purchases and interest
bills had to be paid in dollars. The increasing (peso) cost of the spare
parts has forced ENFE to defer maintenance works at an increasing scale.
Starting 1984, ENFE has been unable to cover its working costs from its
operating revenues. While total operating revenues, compared to 1983
increased by about 3%, the working costs almost doubled. As a result, the
railways' working ratio worsened from 70 in 1983 to 139 in 1984. One of
the basic reasons for ENFE's cost increases was the excessive number of
employees in EWE. In 1980, ENFE had some 6,800 employees; by August 1985,
it had more than 7,200 people on its payroll.
12.       Tariffs.  In 1977, ENFE's freight tariff structure was cost-based
and market-oriented. The tariff encouraged shippers to use the maximum car
load possible and the minimum limits of the rates were set to recover long
run marginal costs. The railway had a program offering incentives to large
volume shippers and the program was being extended to medium-sized shippers
in the export-import business. The average freight revenues per ton-km
exceeded the average marginal costs by 2.5 times. Passenger fares were
generally higher than bus fares; In the Western System, the passenger
revenues covered about 95% of the long run marginal cost, while in the
Eastern System the revenues were about 10% higher than the marginal cost.
The current tariff structure of ENFE has very little, if any, relationship
to the costs of the services offered. During the last 9 years as inflation
accelerated and as the country's economic and political problems deepened,
the railway adjusted tariffs several times. However, these adjustments
were not able to catch up with the rapidly changing cost structure of ENFE
nor the changing market conditions.
Government Programs
14.       The Government reforms announced in August 1985 provided that
railway tariffs should not exceed these charged by neighboring countries'
connecting lines. This measure failed to take into account, however, that
the Argentine, Brazilian and Chilean, tariffs are low because their
respective railroad companies are heavily subsidized. ENFE would thus
continue to suffer losses and be a drain to the Government's coffer. A
complete tariff revision, based on up-to-date cost and marketing
conditions, is imperative to improve the railways' financial condition.
ENFE would undertake this study with consultant assistance to be financed
by an on-going Bank financed Highway Maintenance Project (Ln. 1587-BO).
15.       Likewise, ENFE is currently  preparing an employment reduction
study with a view to reduce the number of employees by about 800 within the
next 18 months. This study is expected to be completed before mid-1986 and
would be forwarded to the Bank for review.



- 68 -
ANNEX x
Page 1 of 2
POWER
Background
1.        Bolivia has currently the lowest per capita installed capacity
and power consumption in South America. Total Installed capacity is about
560 MW (90 watts per capita) and annual power consumption was about 160 GWh
in 1985 (270 RWh power capita), 301 MW (542) of the installed capacity is
hydroelectric and 261 MW (46Z) is thm.-moelectric, 450 MW is concentrated In
focus zones: North (La Paz), Central (Cochabamba and Oruro), South
(Potosi, Uyuni and Sucre) and Oriental (Santa Cruz). The remaining
installed capacity (10 MW) corresponds to isolated regions.
2.        The Ministry of Energy and dydrocarbous formulates energy
policies and regulates the functions of the electric sector through the
Direccion Nacionol de Electricidad (DINE). Empresa Nacional de
Electricidad, S.A. (ENDE), a public utility, is in charge of planning the
expansion of the electric sector and developing, constructing and operating
new generation and transmission facilities. ENDE owns 48X of the installed
capacity. While ENDE is responsible mainly for generation and
transmission power distribution is undertaken by regional companies. The
largest regional company is the Bolivian Power Company (BPC), a private
foreign-owned company responsible for generation and distribution in the La
Paz and Oruro areas. BPC's concession is scheduled to terminate in 1990.
ENDE is a minority shareholder in moet of the other distribution companies.
Sectoral Issues aid Constraints
2.        Bolivia's domestic energy resources are not yet fully known.
Commercial energy resources are estimated at 1,230 million tons of oil
equivalent, which at the present rate of domestic consumption would be
sufficient for the next 400 years. However, this relative abundance
glosses over potentially severe supply constraints, because of the unequal
rate at which resources are currently being exploited. The resource base
includes 18,000 MW of feasible hydro potential (84Z), 6.7 trillion cubic
feet of recoverable gas reserves (14% of resources), and 187 million
barrels of oil (22). The use of gas compared to petroleum is very small,
given the availability of the two resourcesf. Furthermore, Bolivia has
excellent renewable energy. Bolivia also has a geothermal zone, deposits
of uranium in quantities not yet defined and indications of coal and
lignite. What is needed is a well structured program to develop these
resources over time at a minimum cost.
3.        The economically exploitable hydroelectric potential has been
estimated at 18,000 MW with an annual generation of 90,000 GWh, enough to
co%er the growth of electricity demand for another 40 to 50 yea-s.
Numerous studies have been made of some of the rivers, and projects with a



- 69 -
ANNEX X
Page 2 of 2
capacity of some 10,300 MW and generation of 51,000 GWh have been
identified. At present, installed hydroelectric capacity (301 NW)
represents less than 2% of Bolivia's potential.
4.        Electricity consumption grew at an average annual rate of 7.2Z in
the decade of the 70's (from 775 GWh in 1970 to 1565 GWh in 1980).
Howeverp after 1981 when it reached 1677 GWh, it dropped to 1664 GWh in
1984 mainly because of:
(i) lack of price incentives for mine exports and paralysis of mine
operation due to frequent long strikes;
(ii) reduced industrial activities due to lack of foreign exchange to
acquire spare parts and renew equipment; and
(iii) reduced industrial and commarcial activities due to the country's
economic depression.
Government Programs
5.        At present, it is too early  to predict the impact of the
Government's economic measures on electricity consumption. ENDE will
closely follow its development by each sector in order to detect any
changes. Existing generation facilities (560 MW) presently are by and
large sufficient to meet current peak demand (350 MW), and no new
additional capacity seems to be needed before 1989, even assuming a
recovery of demand growth to 5.4% per year. ENDE's efforts should
therefore concentrate on:
(i) developing the institutional framework for improving sector
efficiency;
(ii) defining and preparing the next generation projects needed for
the next decade; and
(iii) optimizing the utilization of presently installed capacity.
6.        The Government is aware that electricity tariffs have to be
improved in order to provide a rate of return on assets in accordance with
the country's economic situation and the financial needs of the
institutions in the sector. Beginning 1986, ENDE will negotiate its
tariffs with its clients directly without intervention of the Government.
The Bank and ENDE are holding continuous discussions in this regard.
7.        In addition to tariff rationalization, the Government is also
studying measures to ensure a unified approach to the expansion program
without consideration of regional interests, and to obtain the integration
of sectoral institutions.



BOLIVIA.
-   Mo- Rood,        R .1.0k.      Chmoa*.- Zo.ne
_ SeooRdoAy Roods 0z.6 0)
_ -  nornn Rool nod, e  oooo   30c  3   ss- 
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~lnw,,~Imtot,onol Hound.re 05       0             00000
e   l                      _         w         _        ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~PERU *   o   _
0.  ~ ~ ~     ~       ~        ~       ~      ~       . -.   4'~~~~~~~~~~~~~~oBOLIVIA-
TIN
2 1 ~~~~~~~~~'~~                                                                 i
0004                                                  PUROTO~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ZT
A-EZ
PARAGUAY
SOUTH AMERICA
R  G                          '0     00E00000 



