CREDIT NUMBER 1703 BO
Development Credit Agreement
(Reconstruction Import Credit Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF BOLIVIA
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated                                1986


﻿CREDIT NUMBER /703 Bo
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated                Z-, 1986, between
REPUBLIC OF BOLIVIA (the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT
ASSOCIATION (the Association).
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the
feasibility and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2
to this Agreement, has requested the Association to assist in the
financing of the Project;
(B) Parts A, B, C and D of the Project will be carried out
by the Borrower, through the Comisid"n de Control Financiero del
Sector Publico of its Ministry of Finance with the assistance of
the Central Bank of the Borrower (Central Bank) as the financial
agent of the Borrower;
(C) Parts E and F of the Project will be carried out by
Central Bank with the Borrower's assistance and, as part of such
assistance, the Borrower shall make available to Central Bank the
portion of the proceeds of the Credit necessary to carry out said
Parts of the Project as provided in this Agreement; and
WHEREAS the Association has agreed on the basis, inter alia,
of the foregoing, to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the
terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement and in the
Project Agreement (hereinafter defined) of even date herewith
between the Association and Central Bank;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Develop-
ment Credit Agreements" of the Association, dated January 1, 1985
(General Conditions), constitute an integral part of this
Agreement with the following modification, namely that, the last
sentence of Section 3.02 is deleted.
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the General Conditions and in the
Preamble to this Agreement have the respective meanings therein
set forth and the following additional terms have the following
meanings:


﻿- 2 -
(a)  "Project Agreement" means the agreement between the
Association and Central Bank of even date herewith, as the same
may be amended from time to time, and such term includes all
schedules and agreements supplemental to the Project Agreement;
(b) "Subsidiary   Agreement" means   the  agreement  to  be
entered into between the Borrower and Central Bank pursuant to
Section 3.01 (b) of this Agreement, as the same may be amended
from time to time, and such term includes all schedules to the
Subsidiary Agreement;
(c) "Special Account" means the account referred to in
Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement;
(d) "COMIBOL" means Corporacion Minera de Bolivia, a mining
enterprise wholly owned by the Borrower and established by
Decreto Supremo No. 3196 of October 2, 1952, of the Borrower, and
the term includes any mining subsidiary thereof;
(e) "ENDE" means Empresa Nacional de Electricidad, S.A., a
power public utility wholly owned by the Borrower and established
by Decreto Supremo No. 05999 of February 9, 1962 and Resolucion
Suprema No. 127462 of February 4, 1965, of the Borrower;
(f) "ENFE" means Empresa Nacional de Ferrocarriles, a rail-
way public utility wholly owned by the Borrower and established
by Decreto Supremo No. 06909 of November 1, 1964 of the Borrower;
(g) "YPFB"    means   Yacimientos   Petrolfferos   Fiscales
Bolivianos, a petroleum company wholly owned by the Borrower and
established by Decreto Ley of December 31, 1936, of the Borrower;
and the term includes any relevant sL-.idiary thereof;
(h) "Public Enterprises" means collectively, COMIBOL, ENDE,
ENFE, and YPFB; and Public Enterprise means any one of the former
entities;
(i) "BAMIN" means Banco Minero de Bolivia, a bank engaged
in financing and trading activities in the mining sector, wholly
owned by the Borrower, and established on July 24, 1936, reorgan-
ized under Decreto Ley No. 9028 of December 15, 1969 and
Resoluci'n Suprema No. 18/500 of September 17, 1976, of the
Borrower;
(j) "Eligible Exporter" means a private individual or
entity, established under the laws of the Borrower, engaged in a


﻿-3-
ctive enterprise, and that Central Bank has qualified as an
exporter in the manufacturing or agricultural-based sectors and
declared eligible to receive Sub-loans under Part F (1) of the
Project;
(k) "Eligible Importer" means any private individual or
entity established under the laws of the Borrower, engaged in a
productive   business   enterprise,  including   distributors   of
imported goods to individuals or entities engaged in productive
business enterprises, and declared eligible by Central Bank to
receive Sub-loans under Part F (2) of the Project;
(1) "Financial Intermediary" means any private banking
institution operating in Bolivia which has entered into, or
proposes to enter into, a Participating Agreement (hereinafter
defined) with Central Bank for purposes of making Sub-loans
(hereinafter   defined)  to   Eligible  Exporters   and  Eligible
Importers;
(m) "Financing Agreement    means any of the agreements to
be entered into by the Borrower, Central Bank (in its capacity as
financial agent of the Borrower) and any of the Public Enter-
prises pursuant to the provisions of Section 3.02 (a) of this
Agreement and Schedule 4 hereto;
(n)  "Participating Agreement" means any of the agreements
to be entered into between Central Bank and BAMIN, and between
Central Bank and any Financial Intermediary, for purposes of
carrying out Parts E and F of the Project, respectively, pursuant
to the provisions of Section 2.03 (a) of the Project Agreement;
(o)  "Sub-loan" means a loan denominated in dollars payable
in national currency (hereinafter defined) made, or proposed to
be made, by a Financial Intermediary to an Eligible Exporter for
purposes of financing the acquisition of locally produced goods
under Part F (1) of the Project, or to an Eligible Importer for
purposes of financing the importE ton of goods under Part F (2)
of the Project;
(p) "SITC" means the United Nations Standard International
Trade Classification, 1974 Revision (SITC, Rev. 2), published in
Commodity Indexes for the Standard International Trade Classifi-
cation, Revised, Statistical Papers, Series M, No. 38/Rev. 2
(1981);


﻿-4-
(q) "New Economic Policy" means the program of economic
reform measures adopted by the Borrower in its Decreto Supremo
No. 21060, issued on August 29, 1985 and the complementary reform
measures adopted thereafter;
(r) "Comision" means the Comision de Control Financiero del
Sector Publico, a unit within the Ministry of Finance of the
Borrower, established by Resolucion Ministerial de Finanzas
No. 22086 of February 20, 1986;
(s) "national currency" means the unit of cuz,ency of the
Borrover; and
(t) "Project Coordinating Committee" means the committee to
be established pursuant to Section 2.08 of the Project Agreement.
ARTICLI II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Bor-
rower, on the terms and conditions set forth or referred to in
the Development Credit Agreement, an amount in various currencies
equivalent to forty-eight million four hundred thousand Special
Drawing Rights (SDR 48,400,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn
from the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended
from time to time by agreement between the Central Bank, on
behalf of the Borrower, and the Association for expenditures made
(or, if the Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of
the reasonable cost of goods and services required for the
Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit.
(b) The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the Project,
open and maintain in dollars a Special Account in a commercial
bank acceptable to the Association, on terms and conditions
satisf.actory to the Association. Deposits into, and payments out
of, the Special Account shall be made in accordance with the
provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1988 or
such later date as the Association shall establish. The Asso-
ciation shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.


﻿-5-
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association
a commitment charge at the rate of one-half of one per cent (1/2
of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit not
withdrawn from time to time. The commitment charge shall accrue
from a date sixty days after the date of the Development Credit
Agreement to the respective dates on which amounts shall be
withdrawn by the Borrower from the Credit Account or shall be
cancelled.
(b) The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places
as the Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without re-
strictions of any kind imposed by, or in the territory of, the
Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this Agreement
for the purposes of Section 4.02 of tte General Conditions or in
such other eligible currency or currencies as may from time to
time be designated or selected pursuant to the provisions of that
Section.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4
of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn
and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall
be payable semi-annually on May 1 and November 1 in each year.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Credit in semi-annual installments payable on each May 1
and November 1 commencing November 1, 1996, and ending May 1,
2036. Each installment to and including the installment payable
on May 1, 2006 shall be one-half of one per cent (1/2 of 1%) of
such principal amount, and each installment thereafter shall be
one s' one-half per cent (1-1/2%) of such principal amount.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America
is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the
General Conditions.
Section 2.09. Central Bank is designated as representative
of the Borrower for the purposes of taking any action required or
permitted to be taken under the provisions of Section 2.02 of
this Agreement and Article V of the General Conditions.


﻿-6-
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to
the objectives of the Project as set fcrth in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement and to this end, without any limitation or restriction
upon any of its other obligations under the Development Credit
Agreement, shall cause Central Bank to perform in accordance with
the provisions of the Project Agreement, all the obligations of
Central Bank therein set forth, shall take, and cause the Public
Enterprises and BAMIN to take, all action to carry out their
obligations under Parts A, B, C, D and E of the Project,
respectively, including the provision of funds, facilities,
services and other resources, necessary or appropriate to enable
each such entity to perform their respective obligations, and
shall not take or permit to be taken any action which would
prevent or interfere with such performance.
(b) The Borrower shall make the appropriate proceeds of the
Credit available to Central Bank to carry out Parts A, B, C and D
of the Project on behalf of the Borrower as the financial agent
of the Borrower, and to carry out Parts E and F of the Project,
under a Subsidiary Agreement to be entered into between the
Borrower and Central Bank, under terms and conditions which shall
have been approved by the Association.
(c) The terms and conditions of the Subsidiary Agreement
shall include, inter alia:
(i) payment of an annual fee by the Borrower to Central
Bank of one-half of one percent (1/2%) per annum on
the amounts: (A) owed to the Borrower and adminis-
tered by Central Bank, by each Public Enterprise
pursuant to the respective Financing Agreement; and
(B) owed to Central Bank under the Project by BAMIN
and the Financial Intermediaries; and
(ii) if, pursuant to Section 4.01 (b) of this Agreement
there is a conversion of Indebtedness (as therein
defined) into Borrower's equity with respect to any
Public Enterprise, then such fee shall be paid on
the amount of Indebtedness so converted, annually
through Project completion.


﻿-7-
(d) The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the Sub-
sidiary Agreement in such manner as to protect the interests of
the Borrower and the Association and to accomplish the purposes
of the Credit, and except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, the Borrower shall not assign, amend, abrogate or waive
the Subsidiary Agreement or any provision thereof.
Section 3.02. (a) The Borrower shall lend, through Central
Bank as its financial agent, the appropriate proceeds of the
Credit to COMIBOL, ENDE, ENFE, and YPFB, for purposes of carrying
out Parts A, B, C and D of the Project, respectively, under
separate Financing Agreements, satisfactory to the Association,
to be entered into by the Borrower, Central Bank (in its capacity
as financial agent of the Borrower) and with each Public Enter-
prise, and which shall include, inter alia, the terms and condi-
tions set forth in Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
(b) The Borrower shall exercise its rights, or shall cause
the Central Bank to exercise its rights, under each of the
Financing Agreements in such a manner as to protect the interests
of the Borrower, Central Bank and the Association, and to accom-
plish the purposes of the Credit, and except as the Association
shall otherwise agree, neither the Borrower, nor Central Bank
shall assign, amend, abrogate or waive any such Financing Agree-
ment or any provision thereof.
Section 3.03. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, procurement of the goods require, for: (i) Parts A through
E of the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the
Credit shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 2 to the
Project Agreement; and (ii) Part F of the Project and to be
financed by means of Sub-loans made from the proceeds of the
Credit shall be governed by Schedule 1 to the Project Agreement.
Section 3.04. The Borrower and the Association hereby agree
that, with respect to the Project, the obligations set forth in
Sections 9.03, 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07 and 9.08 of the General
Conditions (relating to insurance, use of goods and services,
plans and schedules, records and reports, maintenance and land
acquisition, respectively) shall be carried out by Central Bank
pursuant to Section 2.05 of the Project Agreement.
Section 3.05. The Borrower shall: (i) not later than
August 31, 1986, submit to the Association for its review, its
program for COMIBOL personnel reductions; (ii) carry rut the


﻿- 8 -
personnel reduction program by a date acceptable to the Associa-
tion; (iii) not later than August 31, 1986, submit a schedule for
closing mines and facilities owned or operated by COMIBOL that
are not technically or financially operable; and (iv) carry out
such closing schedule on a basis and by a date acceptable to the
Association.
Section 3.06. (a) Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, the Borrower shall cause ENFE to maintain, for each of
ENFE's fiscal years after the fiscal year ending on December 31,
1986, a ratio of total working expenses to total operating
revenues of not higher than 100%.
(b) Before October 1 in each of ENFE's fiscal years through
Project completion, the Borrower shall cause ENFE, on the basis
of forecasts prepared by ENFE and satisfactory to the Associa-
tion, to review whether it would meet the requirements set forth
in paragraph (a) in respect of such year and the next following
fiscal year, and shall furnish to the Association the results of
such review upon its completion.
(c) If any such review shows that ENFE would not meet the
requirements set forth in paragraph (a) for the fiscal year
covered by such review, the Borrower shall, or shall cause ENFE
to, promptly take all necessary measures including, without
limitation, adjustments to the structure or levels of its tariffs
in order to meet such requirements.
(d) For the purposes of this Section:
(i) The   term   "total  working  expenses" means   all
expenses related to operations, including adminis-
tration, adequate maintenance, taxes and payments
in lieu of taxes, but excluding depreciation,
interest and other charges on debt.
(ii) The term "total operating revenues" means revenues
from all sources related to operations.
Section 3.07. The Borrower shall cause ENFE to: (a) not
later than December 31, 1986, complete a study, satisfactory to
the Association, of the ENFE cost and tariff structure; (b) not
later than March 31, 1987, discuss the study with the Association
and, taking into consideration the comments of the Association
and the findings of the study, propose a plan of action, satis-


﻿-9-
factory to the Association, to improve the ENFE cost and
tariff structure; and (c) not later than June 30, 1987, implement
such plan of action.
Section 3.08. The Borrower shall cause ENFE to, by June 30,
1987, achieve the personnel levels provided in the plan submitted
to the Association.
Section 3.09. The Borrower shalp (a) not later than
August 31, 1986, prepare a program to revise the level and
structure of electricity tariffs, taking into account the provi-
sions of the Codigo de Electricidad of 1968 of the Borrower; (b)
not later than October 31, 1986, discuss the program with the
Association and, taking into consideration the comments of the
Association, propose a revised program satisfactory to the
Association; and (c) thereafter implement such program.
Section 3.10. The Borrower shall: (a) not later than
August 31, 1986, prepare a program to improve the capital struc-
ture of ENDE, based on sound financial principles; (b) not later
than October 31, 1986, discuss the program with the Association
and, taking into consideration the comments of the Association,
propose a revised program satisfactory to the Association; and
(c) thereafter implement such program.
Section 3.11. The Borrower shall refrain from constructing,
or initiating the construction of, new power generation facili-
ties which would increase the national electrical generation
capacity by more than 25 megawatts, per facility, unless other-
wise agreed by the Association.
ARTICLE IV
Other Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower and the Association shall
review the financial condition, investment programs and import
plans of each of the Public Enterprises. To that end, the
Borrower shall cause each of the Public Enterprises to provide
all information necessary or appropriate for purposes of con-
ducting such review. Such review shall occur within nine months
after the Effective Date of this Credit, and at all other times
as the Association shall reasonably request.


﻿- 10 -
(b) If, as a result of any review referred to in paragraph
(a) of this Section, the Association determines that the cover-
sion of Indebtedness of any of the Public Enterprises into
Borrower's equity is required, the Borrower shall take, and shall
cause each such Public Enterprise to take, the measures necessary
to effect such conversion.
(c) For purposes of this Section, "Indebtedness" means any
debt, or portion thereof, of each Public Enterprise owed to the
Borrower pursuant to the applicable Financing Agreement.
Section 4.02. (a) The Borrower and the Association shall
review the progress of implementing the New Economic Policy
within nine months after the Effective Date of this Credit, and
at all other times as the Association shall reasonably request.
(b) If, as a result of any review referred to in paragraph
(a) of this Section, it is determined by the Association that
additional actions need to be taken by the Borrower, Central
Bank, BAMIN, or any of the Public Enterprises, the Borrower and
the Association shall agree on the actions to be taken and a
timetable for completing said actions.
(c) The Borrower shall ensure that such actions referred to
in paragraph (b) of this Section shall be carried out in
accordance with the agreed timetable, with due diligence and in a
manner designed to achieve the objectives of this Credit.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Association
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (h) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:
(a) Central Bank shall have failed to perform any of its
obligations under the Project Agreement.
(b) The Borrower and the Association shall have failed to
reach the agreement referred to in Section 4.02 (b) of this
Agreement.
(c) The Borrower has failed, or has failed to cause, the
Central Bank, BAMIN, or any of the Public Enterprises, to carry
out any of the measures referred to in Section 4.01 (b), or any


﻿- 11 -
of the actions in accordance with the timetable referred to in
Section 4.02 (c) of this Agreement.
(d) As a result of events which have occurred after the
date of the Development Credit Agreement, an extraordinary
situation shall have arisen which shall make it improbable that
Central Bank will be able to perform its obligations under the
Project Agreement.
(e) Ley of July 20, 1928, establishing the Central Bank, as
amended by Ley No. 9428 of October 20, 1970 and Decreto Ley 94440
of November 4, 1970 of the Borrower, shall have been amended,
suspended, abrogated, repealed or waived so as to affect
materially and adversely the ability of Central Bank to perform
any of its obligations under the Project Agreement.
(f) The Borrower or any other authority having jurisdiction
shall have taken any action for the dissolution or disestablish-
ment of Central Bank, any of the Public Enterprises or BAMIN, or
for the suspension of their respective operations, provided,
however, that the remedies of Section 6.02 of the General
Conditions may apply, if the Association shall so choose, only to
the amount of the Credit that corresponds to the part of the
Project being carried out by the respective Public Enterprise or
BAMIN.
(g) The Borrower or any other authority having jurisdiction
shall have taken any action for the dissolution or disestablish-
ment of the Comisio'n.
(h) A change shall have been made in any Financing or
Participating Agreement without the Association's consent, or
that a default has occurred under a Financing or Participating
Agreement, provided, however, that the remedies provided for in
Section 6.02 of the General Conditions may apply, if the
Association shall so choose, only to an amount of the Credit that
corresponds to the credit advanced pursuant to such Financing or
Participating Agreement.
Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (d) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:
(a) the event specified in paragraph (a) of Section 5.01 of
this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a period of
sixty days after notice thereof shall have been given by the
Association to the Borrower; and


﻿- 12 -
(b)  the events specified in paragraphs (b), (c), (e), (f),
(g) and (h) of Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall occur.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as addi-
tional conditions to the effectiveness of the Development Credit
Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of the General
Conditions:
(a) the Subsidiary Agreement has been executed on behalf of
the Borrower and Central Bank;
(b) one of the Financing Agreements has been executed by
Central Bank, on behalf of the Borrower, and any one of the
Public Enterprises;
(c) one of the Participating Agreements has been executed
by Central Bank and any one of the Financial Intermediaries; and
(d) the Central Bank has established the Project Coordinat-
ing Committee pursuant to Section 2.08 of the Project Agreement.
Section 6.02. The following are specified as additional
matters, within the meaning of Section 12.02 (b) of the General
Conditions, to be included in the opinion or opinions to be
furnished to the Association:
(a) that the Project Agreement has been executed and duly
authorized or ratified by Central Bank, and is legally binding
upon Central Bank in accordance with its terms;
(b) that the Subsidiary Agreement has been executed and
duly authorized or ratified by the Borrower and Central Bank and
is  legally binding   upon  the  Borrower  and  Central   Bank  ia
accordance with its terms;
(c)  that the Financing Agreement, entered into in      com-
pliance with Section 6.01 (b), has been executed and duly autho-
rized or ratified by the Borrower, Central Bank and the res-
pective Public Enterprise and is legally binding on the Borrower,
Central Bank and said Enterprise in accordance with its terms;
and


﻿- 13 -
(d) that the Participating Agreement, entered into in
compliance with Section 6.01 (c), has been executed and duly
authorized or ratified by Central Bank and the respective
Financial Intermediary and is legally binding on Central Bank and
said Intermediary in accordance with its terms.
Section 6.03. The date of &"f7  4t4'2/Mis hereby specified
for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
Section 6.04. The provisions of paragraphs (a), (b), (c),
(g) and (h) of Section 5.02 of this Agreement shall cease on the
date on which the Development Credit Agreement shall terminate or
on the date 17 years after the date of this Agreement, whichever
shall be the earlier.
ARTICLE VII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. Except as provided in Section 2.09 of this
Agreement, the Minister of Finance of the Borrower is designated
as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section
11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministerio de Finanzas
Comision de Control Financiero
del Sector Publico
Calle Bolivar No. 582
La Paz, Bolivia
Cable address:
MINFIN
La Paz, Bolivia
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America


﻿- 14 -
Cable address:                       Telex:
INDEVAS                            440098 (ITT),
Washington, D.C.                   248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be
signed in their respective names in the District of Columbia,
United States of America, as of the day and year first above
written.
REPUBLIC OF BOLIVIA
By
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By      74   &so(jC*e
Regional Vice President
Latin America and the Caribbean


﻿- 15 -
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.    The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financedL out of the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the
amounts of the Credit to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated            % of
(Expressed in       Expenditures
Category              SDR Equivalent)     to be Financed
(1) Goods for                 12,740,000       100% of foreign
Part A of                                 expenditures
of the
Project
(2) Goods and                  1,590,000       100% of foreign
services for                              expenditures
Part B of the
Project
(3) Goods for                 3,960,000        100% of foreign
Part C of                                 expenditures
the Project
(4) Goods and ser-            9,670,000        100% of foreign
vices for                                 expenditures
Part D of the
Project
(5) Goods for                  1,760,000       100% of foreign
Part E of                                 expenditures
the Project
(6) Sub-loans                  1,760,000       100% of amounts
made under                                disbursed by
Part F (1)                                the Central Bank
of the                                    for Sub-loans
Project                                   made by Financial
Intermediaries


﻿- 16 -
Amount of the
Credit Allocated            % of
(Expressed in        Expenditures
Category              SDR Equivalent)      to be Financed
(7) Sub-loans under            3,960,000        100% of amounts
Part F(2) (a)                              disbursed by
of the Project                             Central Bank for
Sub-loans made
by Financial
Intermediaries
(8) Sub-loans under            2,200,000        100% of amounts
Part F(2)(b)                               disbursed by
of the Project                             Central Bank for
Sub-loans made
by Financial
Intermediaries
(9) Sub-loans under            6,330,000        100% of amounts
Part F(2)(c)                               disbursed by
of the Project                             Central Bank for
Sub-loans made
by Financial
Intermediaries
(10) Unallocated               4,430,000
TOTAL               48,400,000
2.    For the purposes of this Schedule the term "foreign expen-
ditures" means expenditures in the currency of any country other
than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from the
territory of any country other than that of the Borrower.
3.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of:
(a) payments made for expenditures under the Project before
the date of this Agreement;
(b) expenditures for goods included in the following SITC
groups or sub-groups:


﻿- 17 -
Group     Sub-group          Description of Items
112         -               Alcoholic beverages
121         -               Tobacco, unmanufactured
tobacco refuse
122         -               Tobacco, manufactured
667         -               Pearls, precious and semi-
precious stones, unworked or
worked
688         -               Uranium depleted in U235 and
thorium, and their alloys,
unwrought or wrought, and
articles therefor, n.e.s.;
waste and scrap of uranium
depleted in U235 and of thorium
718      718.7              Nuclear reactors, and parts
thereof, n.e.s.
897      897.3              Jewelry of gold, silver or
platinum group metals (except
watches and watch cases) and
goldsmiths' or silversmiths'
wares (including set gems)
971.0            Gold, non-monetary (excluding
gold ores and concentrates)
(c) payments made for expenditures under Parts A, B, C or D
of the Project unless the Association has received satisfactory
evidence that the applicable Financing Agreement has been entered
into, including an acceptable legal opinion of counsel acceptable
to the Association, that such Financing Agreement has been duly
executed and authorized or ratified by the Borrower, Central Bank
and the respective Public Enterprise and is legally binding upon
the Borrower, Central Bank and the respective Public Enterprise,
in accordance with its terms;
(d) payments for expenditures under Part E of the Project
unless the Association has received satisfactory evidence that
the Participating Agreement has been entered into between BAMIN


﻿- 18 -
and the Central Bank, including an acceptable legal opinion of
counsel acceptable to the Association, that such Participating
Agreement has been duly executed and authorized or ratified by
Central Bank and BAMIN, and is legally binding upon the Central
Bank and BAMIN in accordance with its terms;
(e) payments made by the Central Bank on account of a
Sub-loan under Part F of the Project unless the Association has
received satisfactory evidence that a Participating Agreement has
been entered into with the appropriate Financial Intermediary and
that such Sub-loan has financed, in the case of Part F (1) of the
Project, no more than a maximum of 75% of the cost of the locally
produced goods procured, and, in the case of Part F (2) of the
Project, only foreign expenditures for imported goods;
(f) expenditures for goods procured under contracts costing
less than $5,000 equivalent;
(g) expenditures for goods and services supplied under a
contract fi .aced in whole or in part by any national or
international financing institution or agency other than the
Association, or if such institutions or agencies have agreed to
finance such goods and services; and
(h) expenditures for petroleum fuel products, foodstuffs
(other than seeds) and for goods intended for a military or
para-military purpose or for luxury consumption.


﻿- 19 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objectives of the Project are to help reactivate exports
of Bolivia by financing priority imported equipment, spare parts
and other inputs required by the mining, agricultural, indus-
trial, energy, power and transportation sectors of the economy,
and financing locally produced goods required by industrial
exporters.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such
modifications thereof as the Borrower and the Association may
agree upon from time to time to achieve such objectives:
Part A:   A program of imports by COMIBOL that will enable it to
acquire, for purposes of improving the operation of the
following COMIBOL owned mines and facilities: Huanuni,
Bolivar, Santa Fe (Japo), Quechisla (San Vincente,
Tatasi), and such other mines as shall be acceptable to
the Association, supplies such as chemicals, bolts,
steel plates, tools, equipment, such as pump and
crusher,   concentrator   components,  mine   loading,
drilling and transport equipment, and spare parts.
Part B:   A program of imports by ENDE that will enable it to
acquire the necessary spare parts, replacement parts
and materials for the repair and maintenance of the
Corani  and  Santa  Isabel  Hydroplants, the   thermal
generation power plants for Santa Cruz and Villamontes,
the national transmission system, and transformers and
related equipment for the Cochabamba and Santa Cruz
substations, and related installation services.
Part C:   A program of imports by ENFE that will enable it to
acquire spare parts and materials for purposes of
improving the efficiency of ENFE's Western and Eastern
railways systems.
Part D:   A program of imports by YPFB that will enable it to
acquire spare parts, equipment, pumps, compressors,
boosters, chemicals and materials, such as tubulars and
packers,  and   related  installation   services,  for
purposes of improving production of YPFB's oil fields
and ensuring continued operation and maintenance of
YPFB's pipelines and processing plants.


﻿- 20 -
Part E:   A program of imports, including raw materials, supplies
and equipment, but excluding imports for mining explor-
ation, by BAMIN, acting in its capacity of supplier of
goods for private operations in the mining sector, for
resale to private miners and mining enterprises.
Part F:   (1) A program of Sub-loans for private entities or
individuals (Eligible Exporters) engaged in the
manufacturing industries, including agricultural-
based industries, for purposes of financing the
acquisition of locally produced goods that will
enable such entities or individuals to enhance
their exporting capacity.
(2) A program of Sub-loans for private entities or
individuals (Eligible Importers) for purposes of
financing the importation of goods that will
enable such entities to enhance their productive
capacity and who are engaged in:
(a) mining, excluding exploration;
(b) manufacturing industries and agricultural-
based industries; and
(c) agriculture.
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31,
1987.


﻿- 21 -
SCHEDULE 3
Special Account
1.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a) the term "Eligible Categories" means the Categories
set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this
Agreement;
(b) the term "Eligible Expenditures" means expenditures in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for
the Project and in respect of Sub-loans and to be financed out of
the proceeds of the Credit allocated from time to time to the
Eligible Categories in accordance with the provisions of Sche-
dule 1 to this Agreement; and
(c) the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equi-
valent to SDR 8,800,000 to be withdrawn from the Credit Account
and deposited in the Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a)
of this Schedule.
2.   Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, payments
out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for Eligible
Expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.   After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to
it that the Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of
the Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish
the Special Account may be made as follows:
(a) On the basis of a request or requests by the Borrower
for a deposit or deposits which add up to the aggregate amount of
the Authorized Allocation, the Association shall, on behalf of
the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit in the
Special Account such amount or amounts as the Borrower shall have
requested.
(b) The Borrower shall furnish to the Association requests
for replenishment of the Special Account at such intervals as the
Association shall specify. On the basis of such requests, the
Association shall withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit
into the Special Account such amounts as shall be required to
replenish the Special Account with amounts not exceeding the
amount of payments made out of the Special Account for Eligible


﻿- 22 -
Expenditures. All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Asso-
ciation from the Credit Account under the respective Eligible
Categories, and in the respective equivalent amounts, as shall
have been justified by the evidence supporting the request for
such deposit furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule.
4.    For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special
Account for which the Borrower requests replenishment pursuant to
paragraph 3 (b) of this Schedule, the Borrower shall furnish to
the Association, prior to or at the time of such request, such
and other evidence as the Association shall reasonably request,
showing that such payment was made for Eligible Expenditures.
5.   (a) Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this
Schedule, requests for further deposits into the Special Account
may be denied by the Association when either of the following
situations arises:
(i) the Association shall have determined that all
further withdrawals should be made directly by the
Borrower from the Credit Account in accordance
with the provisions of paragraph (a) of Section
2.02 of this Agreement; or
(ii)  the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allo-
cated to the Eligible Categories minus the amount
of any outstanding special commitment entered into
by the Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the
General Conditions with respect to the Project,
shall be equal to the equivalent of twice the
amount of the Authorized Allocation.
(b) Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the
remaining unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the
Eligible   Categories  shall   follow  such   procedures  as   the
Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower. Such further
withdrawals shall be made only after and to the extent that the
Association shall have been satisfied that all such amounts
remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of
such notice have been or will be utilized in making payments for
Eligible Expenditures.
6.   (a)  If the Association shall have determined at any time
that any payment out of the Special Account: (i) was made for any
expenditure or in any amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2


﻿- 23 -
of this Schedule, or (ii) was not justified by the evidence
furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule, the Borrower
shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, deposit into
the Special Account (or, if the Association shall so request,
refund to the Association) an amount equal to the amount of such
payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or justified. No
further deposit by the Association into the Special Account shall
be made until the Borrower has made such deposit or refund.
(b) If the Association shall have determined at any time
that any amount outstanding in the Special Account will not be
required to cover further payments for Eligible Expenditures, the
Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, refund
to the Association such outstanding amount for crediting to the
Credit Account.


﻿- 24-
SCHEDULE 4
Terms and Conditions of Financing Agreements
1.   The Borrower and Central Bank, as the financial agent of the
Borrower, shall enter into a Financing Agreement with each
COMIBOL, ENDE, ENFE, and YPFB, for purposes of carrying out Parts
A, B, C and D of the Project, respectively, that shall provide
the terms and conditions for, and procedures to be followed in,
carrying  out   the  respective  import  plan   of  such  Public
Enterprise.
2.   The procedures to be followed under each Financing Agreement
shall be satisfactory to the Association and shall include, inter
alia:
(i) review and verification of eligibility by the
Comisidn, of proposed expenditures for goods under
the   respective  import  plan   of  each  Public
Enterprise,  and   of   eligibility  of  proposed
expenditures for services under the Project;
(ii) authorization of credit by the Comision;
(iii) notification by the ComisioIn to Central Bank of
authorization of credit, the goods or services to
be procured, that such goods and services are
eligible expenditures under the Project, and the
dollar equivalent of the amount to be paid for
such goods or services; and
(iv) issuance of credit by Central Bank, on behalf of
and as financial agent for, the Borrower to the
Public Enterprise for financing the importation of
eligible goods and services.
3.   The terms and conditions of each of the Financing Agreements
shall be satisfactory to the Association and shall include, inter
alia, provisions that:
(i) such credit received by each Public Enterprise
shall be denominated in dollars and repaid to the
Borrower, through the Central Bank, in national
currency, the rate of exchange to be determined as
of the date each payment is made, such payments to
be made at least semi-annually;


﻿- 25 -
(ii) such credit shall bear a fixed interest rate of
fourteen and one-half percent (14.5%) per annum on
the principal amount withdrawn and outstanding
from time to time, or such other rate and on such
other  terms   as  shall  be  acceptable  to   the
Association;
(iii) such credit shall be repaid over a period of ten
(10) years, including a grace period of up to
three (3) years;
(iv) the list of specific goods to be imported by each
Public Enterprise shall form a part of the Financ-
ing Agreement and may be revised from time to
time, but only upon prior approval by the Associa-
tion, such list constituting the plan of eligible
imported goods;
(v) the Comision, through the Central Bank, shall have
the right, with respect to each Public Enterprise
to:
(a) require the Public Enterprise to carry out
its business with due diligence and effi-
ciency in accordance with sound technical,
financial and managerial standards, and to
maintain adequate records, including separate
records and accounts adequate to reflect,
in accordance with consistently maintained
sound accounting practices, the operations,
resources and expenditures in respect of the
Project;
(b) require that the goods to be financed from
the proceeds of the Credit shall be procured
in accordance with Schedule 2 to the Project
Agreement, and that such goods shall be used
exclusively for the purposes of the Project;
(c) inspect, by itself, or jointly with represen-
tatives of Central Bank and the Association,
if the Association shall so request, the
goods  and   the  installation  services   so
financed, and any relevant records and docu-
ments;


﻿- 26 -
(d) require that the Public Enterprise take out
and maintain with responsible insurers, such
insurance against such risks and in such
amounts as shall be consistent with sound
business practices in order to cover hazards
incident to the acquisition, transportation
and delivery of goods and services (financed
from the proceeds of the Credit) to the place
of   use  or   installation,   any  indemnity
thereunder to be made payable in a currency
freely usable by the Public Enterprise to
replace or repair such goods or services;
(e) obtain all such information as the Associa-
tion, the Central Bank, or the Comision shall
reasonably request regarding the foregoing
administration,   operations   and  financial
condition  of   the  Public  Enterprise, and
the benefits to be derived from the goods and
services financed under the Financing Agree-
ment; and
(f) suspend or terminate the right of the Public
Enterprise to use the proceeds of the Credit
upon failure by the Public Enterprise to
perform its obligations under the Financing
Agreement.


﻿INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true
copy of the original in the archives of the Interna-
tional Development Association.
In witness whereof I have signed this Certifi-
cate and affixed the Seal of the Association
thereunto the          -day of
198 }-.
FOR SECRETARY


