CREDIT NMER 17,03 BO
Project Agreement
(Reconstruction Import Credit Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
and
BANCO CENTRAL DE BOLIVIA
Dated                                1986


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 1703 BO
PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated    aJA-L.4       ."         , 1986, between
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association) and BANCO
CENTRAL DE BOLIVIA (Central Bank).
WHEREAS (A) by the Development Credit Agreement of even date
herewith between Republic of Bolivia (the Borrower) and the Asso-
ciation, the Association has agreed to make available to the Bor-
rower an amount in various currencies equivalent to forty-eight
million    four   hundred   thousand   Special   Drawing    Rights
(SDR 48,400,000), on the terms and conditions set forth in the
Development Credit Agreement, but only on condition that Central
Bank agree to undertake such obligations toward the Association
as are set forth in this Agreement;
(B) by a Subsidiary Loan Agreement to be entered into bet-
ween the Borrower and Central Bank, the proceeds of the credit
provided for under the Development Credit Agreement will be made
available to Central Bank to carry out Parts A, B, C and D of the
Project on behalf of the Borrower, as the financial agent of the
Borrower, and to carry out Parts E and F of the Project, on the
terms and conditions set forth in said Subsidiary Loan Agreement;
and
WHEREAS Central Bank, in consideration of the Association's
entering into the Development Credit Agreement with the Borrower,
has agreed to undertake the obligations set forth in this Agree-
ment;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the Development Credit Agreement, the
Preamble to this Agreement and in the General Conditions (as so
defined) have the respective meanings therein set forth.
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project
Section 2.01. Central Bank declares its commitment to the
objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to the


﻿-2-
Development Credit Agreement and to this end, shall carry out
Parts A, B, C and D of the Project on behalf of the Borrower, as
the financial agent for the Borrower, with the participation of
the Public Enterprises, and shall carry out Parts E and F of the
Project, with the participation of      BAMIN and the Financial
Intermediaries, with due diligence and efficiency and in con-
formity with appropriate administrative and financial practices,
and shall provide, or cause to be provided, promptly as needed,
the funds, facilities, services and other resources required for
the Project.
Section 2.02. (a) Central Bank shall, in its capacity as the
financial agent of the Borrower, enter into Financing Agreements,
satisfactory to the Association, with each of the Public Enter-
prises and the Borrower, in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 4 to the Development Credit Agreement for purposes of
carrying out of Parts A through D of the Project.
(b) Central Bank shall exercise its rights under each of
the Financing Agreements in such manner as to protect the
interests of the Borrower, Central Bank and the Association and
to accomplish the purposes of the Credit, and except as the Asso-
ciation shall otherwise agree, Central Bank shall not assign,
amend, abrogate or waive any Financing Agreement, or any pro-
vision thereof.
Section 2.03. (a) Central Bank shall, for purposes of carry-
ing out Parts E and F of the Project, enter into Participating
Agreements, satisfactory to the Association, with BAMIN and each
Financing Intermediary, respectively, in accordance with the
terms of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
(b) Central Bank shall exercise its rights under each of
the Participating Agreements in such a manner as to protect the
interests of the Borrower, Central Bank and the Association, and
to accomplish the purposes of the Credit, and except as the
Association shall otherwise agree, Central Bank shall not assign,
amend, abrogate or waive any Participating Agreement or any
provision thereof.
Section 2.04. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, Central Bank shall ensure that procurement of the goods
required for: (i) Parts A through E of the Project and to be
financed from the proceeds of the Credit shall be governed by
the provisions of Schedule 2 to this Agreement; and (ii) Part F


﻿-3-
of the Project and to be financed from the proceeds of the Credit
shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 1 to this
Agreement.
Section 2.05. Central Bank shall carry out the obligations
set forth in Sections 9.03, 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07 and 9.08 of
the General Conditions (relating to insurance, use of goods and
services, plans and schedules, records and reports, maintenance
and land acquisition, respectively) in respect of the Project.
Section 2.06. Central Bank shall enter into and duly perform
all its obligations under the Subsidiary Agreement. Except as the
Association shall otherwise agree, Central Bank shall not take,
or concur in, any action which would have the effect of amending,
abrogating, assigning or waiving the Subsidiary Agreement or any
provision thereof.
Section 2.07. (a) Central Bank shall, at the request of the
Association, exchange views with the Association with regard to
the progress of the Project, the performance of its obligations
under this Agreement, the Subsidiary Agreement, the Financing
Agreements and the Participating Agreements, and other matters
relating to the purposes of the Credit.
(b) Central Bank shall promptly inform the Association of
any condition which interferes, or threatens to interfere, with
the progress of the Project, the accomplishment of the purposes
of the Credit, or the performance by Central Bank of its
obligations under this Agreement, the Subsidiary Agreement, the
Financing Agreements and the Participating Agreements.
Section 2.08. Central Bank shall: (a) establish a Project
Coordinating Committee with membership and responsibilities
acceptable to the Association for purposes of coordinating and
supervising the implementation of the Project;
(b) provide   the   Project  Coordinating   Committee  with
adequate personnel, funds, resources and facilities to carry out
its coordinating, supervising, and other responsibilities under
the Project; and
(c) maintain the Project Coordinating Committee through
Project completion.


﻿-4-
Article III
Financial Covenants
Section 3.01. (a) Central Bank shall maintain separate
records and accounts adequate to reflect, in accordance with
consistently maintained sound accounting practices, the opera-
tions, resources and expenditures in respect of each Part of the
Project and shall enable the Association's representatives to
examine such records.
(b) Central Bank shall:
(i) have the accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of
this Section, including the Special Account, for
each fiscal year audited in accordance with
appropriate   auditing   principles   consistently
applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the
Association;
(ii) furnish to the Association, as soon as available
but in any case not later than four months after
the end of each such year: (A) certified copies
of the aforesaid accounts for such year as so
audited, and (B) the report of such audit by said
auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the
Association shall have reasonably requested; and
(iii) furnish to the Association such other information
concerning said accounts as well as the audit
thereof and said records as the Association shall
from time to time reasonably request.
(c) For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals
from the Credit Account were made on the basis of statements of
expenditure, Central Bank shall:
(i) maintain, in accordance with paragraph (a) of this
Section, separate records and accounts reflecting
such expenditures;
(ii) retain, until     at  least  one  year   after  the
Association has received the audit report for the
fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from the
Credit Account was made, all records (contracts,
orders, invoices, bills, receipts and other
documents) evidencing such expenditures;


﻿-5-
(iii) enable,    the  Association's   representatives  to
examine such records; and
(iv) ensure that such separate accounts are included in
the annual audit referred to in paragraph (b) of
this Section and that the report thereof contains,
in respect of such separate accounts, a separate
opinion  by  said  auditors as   to, among other
factors, whether the proceeds of the Credit with-
drawn in respect of such expenditures were used
for the purposes for which they were provided.
ARTICLE IV
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 4.01. This Agreement shall come into force and
effect on the date upon which the Development Credit Agreement
becomes effective.
Section 4.02. (a) This Agreement and all obligations of the
Association and of Central Bank thereunder shall terminate on the
earlier of the following two dates:
(i) the date on which the Development Credit Agreement
shall terminate in accordance with its terms; or
(ii) the date 17 years after the date of this Agree-
ment.
(b) If   the Development Credit Agreement terminates in
accordance with its terms before the date specified in para-
graph (a) (ii) of this Section, the Association shall promptly
notify Central Bank of this event.
Section 4.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall
continue in full force and effect notwithstanding any cancella-
tion or suspension under the General Conditions.
ARTICLE V
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 5.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to
be given or made under this Agreement and any agreement between


﻿-6-
the parties referred to in this Agreement shall be in writing.
Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been duly given or
made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram,
cable, telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required or
permitted to be given or made at such party's address hereinafter
specified or at such other address as such party shall have
designated by notice to the party giving such notice or making
such request. The addresses so specified are:
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                    Telex:
INDEVAS                           440098 (ITT),
Washington, D.C.                  248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)
For Central Bank:
Banco Central
Casilla 3188
La Paz, Bolivia
Telex:
2575 NAVIANA BV
Section 5.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken,
and any document required or permitted to be executed, under this
Agreement on behalf of Central Bank, or by Central Bank on behalf
of the Borrower under the Development Credit Agreement, may be
taken or executed by the President of Central Bank or such other
person or persons as the President of Central Bank shall
designate in writing, and Central Bank shall furnish to the Asso-
ciation sufficient evidence of the authority and the authenti-
cated specimen signature of each such person.
Section 5.03. This Agreement may be executed in several
counterparts, each of which shall be an original, and all
collectively but one instrument.


﻿-7-
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be
signed in their respective names in the District of Columbia,
United States of America, as of the day and year first above
written.
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /S/
Regional Vice President
Latin America and the Caribbean
BANCO CENTRAL DE BOLIVIA
By
Authorized Representative


﻿- 8 -
SCHEDULE 1
Terms and Conditions for Sub-loans
under Part F of the Project
Section I. General Terms and Conditions for all Sub-Loans
I.   Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, each Finan-
cial Intermediary shall obtain, inter alia, in respect of Sub-
loans, the right to:
(a) require the Eligible Exporter or Eligible Importer to
carry out its business with due diligence and efficiency, in
accordance with sound technical, financial and managerial stand-
ards, and to maintain adequate records including separate records
and accounts adequate    to reflect, in accordance with consis-
tently maintained sound accounting practices, the operations,
resources and expenditures in respect of the Project;
(b) require that: (i) the goods to be financed by the
proceeds of the Credit shall be purchased at a reasonable price,
account being taken also of other relevant factors such as time
of delivery and efficiency and reliability of the goods and
availability of maintenance facilities and spare parts therefor;
and (ii) such goods shall be used exclusively for the purposes
for which the Sub-loan was requested;
(c) inspect, by itself, or jointly with representatives of
the Association, if the Association shall so request, the goods
financed under the Sub-loan, and any relevant records and docu-
ments;
(d) require that the Eligible Exporter or Eligible Importer
shall take out and maintain with responsible insurers, such
insurance against such risks and in such amounts as shall be
consistent with sound business practice in order to cover hazards
incident to the acquisition, transportation and delivery of goods
(financed from the proceeds of the Credit) to the place of use or
installation, any indemnity thereunder to be made payable in a
currency freely usable by the Eligible Exporter or Eligible
Importer to replace or repair such goods;
(e) obtain all such information as the Association, Central
Bank or the Borrower shall reasonably request regarding the
foregoing and to the administration, operations and financial


﻿-9-
condition of the Eligible Exporter or Eligible Importer and the
benefits to be derived from the goods financed from the Sub-loan;
and
(f) suspend or terminate the right of the Eligible Exporter
or Eligible Importer to the use of the proceeds of the Credit
upon failure by such Eligible Exporter or Eligible Importer to
perform its obligations under its contract with the Financial
Intermediary.
2.   Sub-loans shall be denominated in dollars and repayable in
national currency, the exchange rate to be determined as of the
date each payment is made.
3.   The Financial Intermediary may charge up to an aggregate of
two percentage points (2%), per annum as additional interest,
commissions, or fees, above the interest rate payable by it to
the Central Bank set forth in Section III, paragraph 1 (a) of
Schedule 3 to this Agreement, to Eligible Exporters and Eligible
Importers. The interest rate charged by the Financial Inter-
mediary on each Sub-loan shall be fixed for the term of the Sub-
loan. Any commissions or fees charged by the Financial Inter-
mediary shall be charged a maximum of one time for each such
Sub-loan and no additional commissions or fees may be charged for
such Sub-loan.
4.   The terms for repayment of Sub-loans shall be a maximum of
one year from the date of purchase of locally produced goods, or
imports, as applicable.
Section II. Specific Terms and Conditions for Sub-loans
under Part F (1) of the Project
1.   The proceeds of Sub-loans shall be used only to finance the
reasonable cost of locally produced goods to be used as inputs in
the operations of the respective Eligible Exporter.
2.   No Sub-loans shall finance more than 75% of the cost of
such locally produced goods.
3.   The maximum Sub-loan, or Sub-loans, under Part F (1) of the
Project, when aggregated together with all other Sub-loans under
the Project, that shall be made to any one Eligible Exporter is
$500,000 equivalent.


﻿- 10 -
Section III. Specific Terms and Conditions for Sub-loans
under Part F (2) of the Project
1.   The proceeds of Sub-loans shall be used only to finance the
importation of eligible goods, including spare parts, supplies
and materials, tools and equipment, but excluding those goods
listed in Schedule 1, paragraph 3 (b), (g) and (h) to the
Development Credit Agreement, to be used as inputs in the
operations of the respective Eligible Importers. With respect to
Sub-loans to Eligible Importers for importation of agricultural
products, the proceeds of Sub-loans shall be used only to finance
goods set forth in the agricultural products plan submitted by
the Borrower, which may be revised from time to time, but only
upon prior approval of the Association.
2.   Sub-loans shall finance only foreign costs of imported goods
procured in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 2 to this
Agreement.
3.   The maximum Sub-loan, or Sub-loans, under Part F (2) of the
Project, when aggregated together with all other Sub-loans under
the Project, that can be made to any one Eligible Importer shall
not exceed ten percent (10%) of the aggregate amounts of the
Credit proceeds allocated under Categories (5) through (9) of the
table set forth in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to the Development
Credit Agreement, as of the time the latest Sub-loan is made, or
such other amount as the Association shall determine from time to
time.


﻿- 11 -
SCHEDULE 2
Procurement under Parts A, B, C,
D and E of the Project
1.   Contracts for the procurement of goods estimated to cost the
equivalent of $1,000,000 or more each shall be awarded through
international competitive bidding in accordance with procedures
consistent with those set forth in Sections I and II of the
"Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits"
published by the Association in May 1985 (the Guidelines),
subject to the following modifications:
(a) Paragraph 2.8 of the Guidelines is deleted and the
following is substituted therefor:
"2.8 Notification and Advertising
The international community should be notified in a
timely manner of the opportunity to bid. This will be done
by advertising invitations to apply for inclusion in a
bidder's invitation list, to apply for prequalification, or
to bid; such advertisements should be placed in at least one
newspaper of general circulation in the Borrower's country
and, in addition, in at least one of the following forms:
(i) a notice in the United Nations publication,
Development Forum, Business Edition; or
(ii) an advertisement in a newspaper, periodical or
technical journal of wide international circula-
tion; or
(iii) a notice to local representatives of countries and
territories referred to in the Guidelines, that
are potential suppliers of the goods required."
(b) The following is added at the end of paragraph 2.21 of
the Guidelines:
"As  a  further  alternative, bidding    documents  may
require the bidder to state the bid price in a single
currency widely used in international trade and specified
in the bidding documents."


﻿- 12 -
(c) Paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the Guidelines are deleted.
2.   Contracts for goods estimated to cost the equivalent of
$100,000 or more, but not to exceed the equivalent of $1,000,000,
may be procured under contracts awarded through limited interna-
tional bidding procedures, on the basis of evaluation and
comparison of bids invited from a list of at least three
qualified suppliers eligible under the Guidelines, from at least
two qualified countries, in accordance with the procedures set
forth  in  Sections  I  and  II  of  the  Guidelines   (excluding
paragraphs 2.8, 2.9, 2.55 and 2.56 thereof).
3.   Contracts for goods estimated to cost the equivalent of less
than $100,000 each, shall be awarded to suppliers of such goods
on the basis of comparison of price quotations from at least
three suppliers eligible under the Guidelines, in accordance with
Section I and Section II, paragraph 3.4 of the Guidelines, or
with procedures acceptable to the Association.
4.   Contracts for goods for which there is a .sole source of
supply, or that are for proprietary goods, may be purchased by
direct contracting with the supplier or manufacturer, in
accordance with procedures acceptable to the Association.
5.   With respect to each contract referred to in paragraphs 1
and 2 of this Schedule, Central Bank shall furnish to the
Association, prior to the submission to the Association of the
first application for withdrawal of funds from the Credit Account
in respect of such contract, two conformed copies of such
contract, together with the analysis of the respective bids and
recommendations for award, a description of the advertising and
tendering procedures followed and such other information as the
Association shall reasonably request.
6.   With respect to each contract referred to in paragraphs 3
and 4 of this Schedule, Central Bank shall furnish to the
Association, prior to the submission to the Association of the
first application for withdrawal of funds from the Credit Account
in respect thereof, such documentation and information as the
Association  may   reasonably  request   to  support  withdrawal
applications in respect of such contract.
7.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs 5 and 6 of this
Schedule, when payments under a contract are to be made out of
the proceeds of the Special Account, the copies of such contract


﻿- 13 -
or the documentation and the information to be furnished to the
Association pursuant to the provisions of paragraphs 5 and 6 of
this Schedule shall be furnished to the Association as part of
the evidence required under paragraph 4 of Schedule 3 to the
Development Credit Agreement.
8.   The provisions of the preceding paragraphs 5, 6 and 7 shall
not apply to contracts on account of which the Association has
authorized withdrawals from the Credit Account on the basis of
statements of expenditure.
9.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs 5 and 6, with
respect to contracts for the procurement of goods by COMIBOL
under Part A of the Project, estimated to cost the equivalent of
$100,000 or more, COMIBOL shall submit to the Association for its
review and comment the first ten of such proposed contracts prior
to the final award thereof. COMIBOL shall, to the extent
practicable, consolidate its procurement of goods financed by the
proceeds of the Credit into contracts estimated to cost the
equivalent of $100,000 or more each.


﻿- 14 -
SCHEDULE 3
Terms and Conditions of Participating Agreements
Section I. Terms Applicable to BAMIN and Financial
Intermediaries.
1.   The Central Bank shall enter into Participating Agreements
with BAMIN, and each Financial Intermediary, for purposes of
carrying out Parts E and F of the Project, respectively, that
shall provide the terms and conditions for, and procedures to be
followed in, carrying out the import plan of BAMIN under Part E
of the Project, the purchase of locally produced goods by
Eligible Exporters under Part F (1) of the Project, and the
importation of goods by Eligible Importers under Part F (2) of
the Project.
2.   The procedures to be followed under each Participating
Agreement shall be satisfactory to the Association, and shall
include, inter alia:
(a) notification to Central Bank by BAMIN and the Financial
Intermediaries of the goods to be procured, the dollar
equivalent of the amount to be paid for such goods, the
name of the purchaser of such goods, and when applic-
able, the amount of the Sub-loan;
(b) review and verification of eligibility by the Central
Bank of proposed expenditures for goods under the
import plan of BAMIN, the locally produced goods to be
procured by each Eligible Exporter, and the importation
of goods by Eligible Importers; and
(c) authorization by Central Bank of: (i) credit to BAMIN
under Part E of the Project; (ii) the making of Sub-
loans by Financial Intermediaries to Eligible Exporters
under Part F (1) of the Project; and (iii) the making
of Sub-loans by Financial Intermediaries to Eligible
Importers under Part F (2) of the Project.
Section II. Terms and Conditions Applicable to the Participating
Agreement with BAMIN
1.   The terms and conditions of the Participating Agreement
between the Central Bank and BAMIN shall be satisfactory to the
Association, and shall include, inter alia:


﻿- 15 -
(a) the credit received by BAMIN from the Central Bank
shall be denominated in dollars and repaid in national
currency, the rate of exchange to be determined as of
the date each payment is made;
(b)  such credit shall bear a fixed interest rate of four-
teen and one-half percent (14.5%) per annum on princi-
pal amounts withdrawn and outstanding from time to
time, or such other rate and on such other terms as
shall be acceptable to the Association; and
(c) such credit shall be repaid within one year from the
date of purchase of imported goods.
2.   The list of specific goods to be imported by BAMIN that
shall form part of the Participating Agreement entered into
between it and the Central Bank, may be revised from time to
time, but only upon prior approval by the Association, such list
constituting the plan of eligible imported goods.
3.   The Central Bank shall not authorize financing of eligible
imported goods by BAMIN under the Project, which exceeds in the
aggregate for all imported goods so financed, the amount alloca-
ted to Category (5) of paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to the Develop-
ment Credit Agreement.
4.   Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, BAMIN
shall:
(a) carry out its business with due diligence and effi-
ciency in accordance with sound financial and managerial
standards and shall maintain adequate records, including separate
records and accounts adequate to reflect, in accordance with
consistently maintained sound accounting practices, its opera-
tions, resources and expenditures in respect of the Project;
(b) ensure that the goods to be financed from the proceeds
of the Credit shall be procured in accordance with Schedule 2 to
this Agreement, and such goods shall be used exclusively for the
purposes of the Project;
(c) permit inspection by Central Bank, by itself, or
jointly with representatives of the Association, if the Associa-
tion shall so request, of the goods financed from the proceeds of
the Credit, and any relevant records and documents;


﻿- 16 -
(d)   take out and maintain with responsible insurers, such
insurance against such risk and in such amounts, as shall be
consistent with sound business practice in order to cover hazards
incident to the acquisition, transportation and delivery of goods
financed from the proceeds of the Credit to the place of use or
installation, any indemnity thereunder to be made payable in a
currency freely usable by BAMIN to replace or repair such goods;
and
(e) provide all such information as the Association,
Central Bank or the Borrower shall reasonably request regarding
the foregoing expenditures and the benefits to be derived from
the imported goods financed under the Project.
5.   Central Bank shall have the right to suspend or terminate
the right of BAMIN to use the proceeds of the Credit upon failure
by BAMIN to perform its obligations under the Participating
Agreement.
Section III. Terms and Conditions Applicable to Participating
Agreements with Financial Intermediaries
1.   The terms and conditions of each Participating Agreement
between the Central Bank and a Financial Intermediary, shall be
satisfactory to the Association, and shall include, inter alia:
(a) credit received by the Financial Intermediaries from
the Central Bank to be used for Sub-loans under Part F of the
Project shall: (i) be denominated in dollars; (ii) be repaid in
national currency, the rate of exchange to be determined as of
the date each payment is made; and (iii) bear a fixed interest
rate of twelve and one-half percent (12.5%) per annum on the
principal amounts withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, or
such other rate and on such other terms as shall be acceptable to
the Association;
(b) Central Bank shall provide credit to the Financial
Intermediary sufficient to cover one hundred percent (100%) of
the amount of each Sub-loan;
(c) the Financial Intermediary shall make all Sub-loans to
be financed by the proceeds of the Credit in accordance with
Schedule 1 to this Agreement;


﻿- 17 -
(d) all Sub-loans under Part F of the Project shall be made
pursuant to written agreements with Sub-borrowers or Eligible
Importers;
(e) each Financial Intermediary shall exercise its rights
with respect to the written agreements referred to in sub-para-
graph (d) above, in such a manner as to: (i) protect the
interests of Central Bank, the Association and the Borrower; (ii)
comply with its obligations under the Participating Agreement;
and 'iii) achieve the purposes of the Project; and
(f) Central Bank shall have the right to suspend the right
to the use of the proceeds of the Loan by the Financial Inter-
mediary upon the failure of said Intermediary to perform any of
its obligations under the Participating Agreement.


﻿INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true
copy of the original in the archives of the Interna-
tional Development Association.
In witness whereof I have signed this Certifi-
cate and affixed the Seal of the Association
thereunto the  I         day of     aa   ,
198
FOR SECRETARY


