 IEG
                                                                                                 Report Number: ICRR14667

                   ICR Review
                   Independent Evaluation Group




        1. Project Data:                                         Date Posted: 06/02/2015

               Country: Argentina
             Project ID: P105288                                                      Appraisal                Actual
         Project Name: Ar Buenos Aires                 Project Costs (US$M):                  361.55                358.13
                         Infrastructure
                         Sustainable
                         Investment
                         Development Project
                         Phase II
  L/C Number:            L7472                          Loan/Credit (US$M):                      270.0               264.10
      Sector Board:      Water                          Cofinancing (US$M):

            Cofinanciers:                              Board Approval Date :                                   08/04/2007
                                                                Closing Date:             02/15/2012           12/31/2013
           Sector(s):       Roads and highways (40%); Sewerage (21%); Water supply (21%); Flood protection (12%);
                            Sub-national government administration (6%)
          Theme(s):         Other urban development (29% - P); Urban services and housing for the poor (29% - P);
                            Improving labor markets (14% - S); Infrastructure services for private sector development
                            (14% - S); Municipal governance and institution building (14% - S)

Prepared by:                Reviewed by:            ICR Review                   Group:
                                                    Coordinator:
Nestor Ntungwanayo          Peter Nigel Freeman     Christopher David           IEGPS1
                                                    Nelson

2. Project Objectives and Components:

a. Objectives:

In 2004, the Provincial Government of Buenos Aires, launched a Sustainable Infrastructure Development Investment
Program in order to rehabilitate key segments of the provincial primary road network, and expand basic sanitation
services and urban drainage systems in areas of high vulnerability. In support of this Program, IBRD approved in
FY05 the first project of an Adaptable Program Loan (APL) program. The second project, approved in FY07 and the
subject of this review, was implemented in parallel with the first and completed. The first project, however, is still
active and completion is scheduled for May 2015, with additional resources having been made available to it in FY12.

The overall purpose of the Bank Program was:

     " to improve the provision of infrastructure services in the Province within a framework of fiscal responsibility as a
     means of supporting the return to a sustainable path of economic growth, to alleviate poverty and increase social
     equity". (Project appraisal documents (PADs) of both the first and second projects on page 11 and page 13
     respectively, and Loan Agreement of the first project, on page 1)

The specific objectives of the first and second projects were not identical. In the first project, the objectives were:

     "(i) to enhance the provision of water and sewerage services for the benefit of low-income people, in particular for
     those people living in highly vulnerable areas; (ii) to improve high priority road segments of the Borrower’s road
     network; (iii) to mitigate urban flooding; and (iv) to support the reactivation of the Borrower’s economy and
     strengthen its regional competitiveness. (Loan Agreement, page 24)".
In the second project (and reviewed here), the objective was articulated more broadly and aimed:

    "to improve the social and environmental welfare of approximately five million people living in the Borrower’s
    territory through the improved provision of transport, water and sanitation, and drainage services" (Loan
    Agreement p. 5). The project objective as stated in the Project Appraisal Document (PAD) is identical (p.13).

The specific objectives of the second project were not revised, but the key associated outcome targets were amended
(see 2.b).

b.Were the project objectives/key associated outcome targets revised during implementation?
Yes
 If yes, did the Board approve the revised objectives/key associated outcome targets?
Yes
 Date of Board Approval: 09/08/2011

c. Components:

The project had six components as detailed below:
1. Provincial Roads (Cost at appraisal was US $159 million, of which US$107 million to be Bank financed . Actual
cost amounted to US $153.85 million): This component aimed to fund the rehabilitation of (i) 10 high priority segments
of the interurban provincial non-concessioned road network, (ii) congested non-concessioned primary paved road in
the Conurbano Bonaerense,and (iii) non-concessioned access roads to ports and communities located near the
primary road network. This component also intended to remove critical road bottlenecks through: (i) widening
provincial routes of the primary non-concessioned paved network within the Conurbano Bonaerense that connect
important industrial zones and ports with production and consumption centers, (ii)carrying out critical road safety
improvements at two selected crossings and intersections; and (iii) implementing a well-designed maintenance
program for the entire provincial non-concessioned road network for 2009-2011.

2. Water and Sanitation (Total appraisal Cost : US$140 million, of which US$110 million to be Bank financed . Actual
cost amounted to US $153.12 million): This component was to fund works and goods aimed at increasing coverage of
basic sanitation services in the Province, with priority to areas with high concentration of low-income families, high
environmental health vulnerability; and where there are planned construction of main supply lines, collectors and
treatment plants.

3. Drainage (Total appraisal Cost US $41 million, of which US$32.4 million to be Bank-financed. Actual cost
amounted to US$48.02 million): This component intended to fund the expansion and optimization of macro-drainage
infrastructure in 1,200 ha of urban and peri-urban areas of the "Conurbano Bonaerense”.

4. Technical Engineering Feasibility , Design, and Benchmarking (Total appraisal cost of US $4.61 million, of which
U$4.38 million to be Bank-financed. Actual cost amounted to US $0.08 million): The component was to fund the
design and development of a strategic framework for provincial infrastructure development. Specifically, the
component would finance services to (i) further define a strategic framework to orient provincial infrastructure
development, including the development of master plans and infrastructure feasibility studies and final engineering
designs; (ii) identify new infrastructure needs and set strategic priorities in order to avoid investment financing
bottlenecks; (iii) undertake studies of potential solutions to traffic congestion in the Conurbano Bonaerense associated
to the expected increase in port activity, particularly the new private terminals of the Puerto Nuevo in the city of
Buenos Aires and Dock Sud in the Province and (iv) implementation of recommendations of the Strategy for Coastal
Erosion Control study.

5. Pre-investment for Competitiveness and Job Creation (Total appraisal cost of US $8.42 million, of which U$8.0
million to be Bank financed . Actual cost amounted to US $0.01 million). The goal of this component was to assist the
Province to (i) identify and study sectors and regions likely to play a key role in provincial development; (ii) design
sector and territorial interventions and policies aimed at improving competitiveness and employment opportunities; (iii)
implement the recommendations of the Strategic Evaluation of the Province, and (iv) implement, on a pilot basis,
selected policy recommendations to promote competitiveness and employment generation. In particular, the
Provincial Government intended to develop adequate institutional capacity for dealing with these proposals with the
participation of all relevant private and public stakeholders.

6. Institutional Capacity Building , for Provincial Infrastructure Service Provision and Oversight (Total Appraisal Cost
US$8.52 million, of which US$8.22 million to be Bank financed . Actual cost amounted to US $3.06 million). This
component aimed to strengthen agencies directly and indirectly involved in the implementation of sub-projects under
each component, consolidate TA programs, support improved information systems, such as the integrated financial
management integrated system, and implement a program of analytical work to monitor budget formulation and
execution and undertake the regular and periodic monitoring of program implementation and impacts.

Revised components : Following financial constraints, oil price shocks and increased costs, the financial envelopes
and the scope of components supporting policy analytical activities were scaled down and allocated to water,
sanitation and drainage infrastructure.
   Project components                       PAD              2011                     2012 Comments
                                            US$        Restructuring          Restructuring
                                          million       US$ million             US$ million
  1. Road Component                       101.10                  101.10            101.10 Road works
                                                                                              reduced
  2. Water and Sanitation                 110.00                  112.90            116.90 WSS works
  Component                                                                                   reduced
  3. Drainage Component                    32.40                   36.70             36.70 No change
  4. Engineering and Technical              4.38                    1.38               0.63 Study
  Studies                                                                                     cancelled
  5. Competitiveness and Job                8.00                    5.00               3.45 Studies
  Creation                                                                                    cancelled
  6. Institutional Capacity                 8.22                    7.02               5.32 Studies
  Building                                                                                    cancelled
  TOTAL                                  264.10                  264.10            264.10



d. Comments on Project Cost, Financing, Borrower Contribution, and Dates:

Cost: This was the second adaptable program loan (APL) to support social infrastructure (roads, water and drainage)
in the city of Buenos Aires, with actual costs amounting to US$358.13 million, provided by IBRD and the borrower in
the proportion of 74% (US$264.10 million), and 26% (US$94.03 million) respectively. Resources earmarked for water
and sanitation, and drainage were exceeded, while disbursements for road rehabilitation were close to budget (97%).
Only about one third of resources originally earmarked for institutional building were used, while those budgeted for
engineering and technical studies, competitiveness and job creation, were not used as planned, and were reallocated
to supplement resources for roads, water and sanitation.

Financing: At appraisal, the project was to be funded by an IBRD APL loan and the borrower in the amount of
US$361.55 million, with US$270,0 million provided by the Bank. Disbursed amounts from the two sources were in the
proportion of 103 % for the borrower appraisal amount, and 98% for the Bank appraisal amount.

Borrower Contribution : The borrower's planned contribution amounted to US$91.5 million, but the disbursed amount
reached US$94.03 million or 103% of budgeted amount.

Dates: The APL was approved on June 28, 2007, and made effective on August 28, 2008. The project was
restructured in September 2011 when key associated outcome targets were changed. The project was closed on
December 31, 2013, 22 and a half months after the initial closing deadline.


3. Relevance of Objectives & Design:

a. Relevance of Objectives:

Original: June 2007- September 2011: Substantial
The project aimed at creating better mechanisms of institutional coordination between (i) the Province and the Federal
Government to harmonize approaches in terms of policies, investments plans, financial provision, and regulatory
issues; (ii) neighboring provinces and the City of Buenos Aires (iii) the provincial municipalities, and (iv) service
providers. To address the above issues, the Province has adopted a comprehensive strategy to: (i) identify and focus
on the most pressing deficits to improve access to basic services and competitiveness in the next four years; (ii)
improve mechanisms for establishing investment priorities and strategic goals, independently of who provides the
service; and (iii) bring a systemic perspective to define the scope of three interventions in each sector based on
identified strategic targets. In view of the above, the project addressed key challenges of the metropolitan city of
Buenos Aires, which was as a priority for the country.
The overall and specific objectives of this Project were consistent with the Country Assistance Strategy (CAS)
approved in June 2006, which sought to reduce the extent and severity of poverty in Argentina by focusing on: (i)
promoting sustained economic growth with equity; (ii) social inclusion; and (iii) improved governance through
strengthening institutions and increasing accountability and transparency. The CAS envisaged infrastructure assets
as one of the building blocks for sustained economic growth. The Program supported by this project, and the project
itself were strongly aligned with these CAS objectives (PAD, p.6).

Revised: September 2011- December 2013: Substantial
In September 2011, key associated outcome targets were amended. Due to price shocks, the scope of some project
activities was revised, as well as outcome targets.

The project objective and sub-objectives did not change, and they remained in line with the country's priorities [see
Country Partnership Strategy, (CPS), p. ii], and the Bank's strategies that overlapped with the project life. The project
objectives were substantially relevant when the project closed in 2013, as the pillars of the FY00-12 CPS were
devoted to sustainable growth with equity, social inclusion and improved governance, as no new CPS was approved
prior to project closure.

b. Relevance of Design:

Original: June 2007- September 2011: Modest
Progress in achieving the triggers that were conditions to be met before moving toward the second project was good,
as 5 out of the 7 triggers developed in the PAD were met. Missed triggers were related to weak fiscal sustainability in
the Federal Government, and not specifically with the Government of Buenos Aires.

The program objective was overreaching and ambitious, and there were no performance indicators to assess whether
the program objectives were achieved. The project PDO was vague when referring to improving the "social and
environmental welfare."The indicators emphasized outputs rather than outcomes. Also, key safeguards issues were
overlooked during the project appraisal. There was inconsistency in the results framework, while the PDO has set an
approximative number of beneficiaries (about 5,000,000) that remained unchanged and was for practical purpose
immeasurable, the outcome indicator numbers were scaled down, but there were no indicators targeting the number
of beneficiaries set out in the PDO.

Revised: September 2011- December 31, 2013: Modest
In September 2011, the key associated outcome targets were changed to better account for the revised project scope
and to facilitate monitoring of progress towards achieving the project development objectives. The goal was to adjust
the outcomes to limited resources, and to revise outcome targets accordingly. Surprisingly, the number of
beneficiaries set in the PDO was not changed, and there were no indicators to track performance for the second
objective (Environmental welfare).

4. Achievement of Objectives (Efficacy):

The specific objectives of this second project approved in FY07 were:

"to improve the social and environmental welfare of approximately five million people living in the Borrower’s territory
through the improved provision of transport, water and sanitation, and drainage services" (Grant Agreement p. 5).

Original

(i) Improve the social welfare of approximately five million people : Modest
Below is an assessment of the progress made in achieving performance indicators set at project approval:

Outcome:
Roads:
  The target of high-traffic average roughness (HT IRI) of 3.0 was missed, as it was 3.60 at project closure
  The average roughness target (AVG IRI) was achieved as it stood at 3.05, below the target of 3.30;

Water Supply and Sanita tion:
  There were no indicators to track reduced waterborne diseases and improved sanitary living conditions.
  It is assumed, however, that improved flood management capacity (measured as flood persistence times) was
    achieved as the February 2014 heavy rains did not result in flooding.
  The new lines provided water connections to 34,698 people against a (PAD) target of 35,000.
  Population with sewerage service lines was 298,368 below the target of 354,158.
    Population with active sewerage service lines reached 112,008 below the target of 161,130.

Outputs
  251 km of roads were rehabilitated, against a (PAD) target of 480 km;
  35 km of roads were widened, against a target of 20 km
  Two road intersections were enhanced against a target of two;
  9,045 water connections against a target of 9,124
  82,508 sewerage lines against a target of 97, 936 lines
  30,974 active sewerage lines against a target of 44,557 lines
  Six agencies benefitted from the project, against a target of seven
  Two economic development sector studies were completed against a target of 18.

The ICR did not report on expected outputs on the following activities: (i) investment designs had to be created to
respond to recommendations of the strategy for coastal erosion control study, (ii) infrastructure master plans with
corresponding feasibility studies and final engineering design were to be completed as part of a strategic framework,
(iii) 75% of key recommendations from the strategic evaluation of the Province were to be implemented, and (iv) all
infrastructure investments financed were to be aligned with the new productive strategy assessed in the provincial
database within the Provincial SIG.

Performance under this objective was mixed: there was some progress in improving infrastructure, but many indicator
targets were not attained. The number of beneficiary persons was not tracked although a number was stated in the
PDO.

(ii) Improve the environmental welfare of approximately five million people : Modest

There were no specific indicators to track project outcome and outputs in a systematic way. However:

Outcome:
Drainage
  There was increased property value and increased economic activity in surrounding neighborhoods.
  No flooding occurred during the heavy February 2014 rains.

Institutional strengthening :
   The Hydraulic and Sanitation Directorate (DIPSOH) utilizes basin-wide approaches utilized in all drainage
      projects; and
   Coastal erosion software was used to guide investment decisions.

Outputs
Drainage:
  Provision of drainage services was achieved through financing the macro-system for the Finochietto Drainage
    System. 672 ha of drainage systems were provided against a target of 1200 ha;
  Development of the manual for Master Plan Designs to improve Infrastructure and Management for Urban
    Drainage; the manual outlined a holistic method for assessing the technical viability of urban drainage works, and
    spurred the development of further measures to strengthen the non-structural aspects of drainage. For instance,
    the Government of the Province of Buenos Aires (GoPBA) passed decrees to strengthen integrated coastal
    planning and to establish a hydraulic plan at the provincial level.
  A series of decrees followed the approval of the Manual, and systematic social and environmental monitoring
    was published on the website of the Sub-Secretary for the coordination of international credit for countries and
    organizations (SCEOCI).

Performance under this objective is assessed as modest, based on the absence of performance indicators to track
progress, and beneficiaries and provision of drainage services below target.

Revised

(i) Improve the social welfare of approximately five million people : Substantial

Outcome:

Roads:
  Traffic increased significantly and the number of roads that fell under the high traffic (HT) category rose ;
  The average roughness for the roads classified as HT improved and the target was restructured. Without the
   Program, the overall roughness of the network (Average International roughness Index- AVG IRI) would have
     reached 5.7;
    The Province of Buenos Aires (PBA) reached a steady-state condition with a maintenance backlog (roads with
     IRI>4) of less than 15 percent and a proportion of roads in poor condition (with IRI>5) of less than 5 percent. As a
     result, vehicle operating costs for the provincial vehicle fleets using the network have been reduced by nearly 15
     percent.

Water Supply and Sanitation :
  The new lines provided water connections to 34,698 people, made available sewerage connections to 298,368
    people and active sewerage connections to 112,200 people,
  The project achieved its W&S outcome with the exception of active sewerage connections, which was missed by
    approximately 16 percent,
  By the close of APL2, the Provincial Directorate for Water and Sewerage (DIPAC) was managing more works
    financed by local sources than external sources.

Institutional strengthening :
   Implementation of axle load control, in 2013, helped reduce the proportion of overloading infractions from 10
      percent at the beginning of the year to 4 percent by the end of the year;
   Improved planning capacity and ability to properly survey using network management systems,
   Increased private sector participation in the management and maintenance of the networks through Performance
      based Road Rehabilitation and Maintenance contracts;
   The DIPAC went from being a 6 person unit to a 35 member directorate during the life span of the project,

Outputs:

    Roads: Rehabilitation of 251.3 km of roads, the widening of 35.20 km of roads and the enhancement of two
     intersections;
    Water and sanitation sector : Construction of 9,045 water supply service lines and 82,508 sewerage service lines
     in poor areas, but the target was not met;
    Institutional strengthening : (i) Regulatory accounting system designed and implemented, (ii) Basic tariff system
     designed and established, and (iii) Software for efficient Water Supply and Sanitation (WSS) network design
     acquired and implemented.

Overall, while the number of beneficiary people was not tracked, performance toward project outcomes was
substantial, especially in boosting the quality of road infrastructure, and the coverage of water supply and sanitation
services.

(ii) Improve the environmental welfare of approximately five million people : Modest

Outcome:

Outcome was not systematically measured. However:

Drainage
  There was increased property value and increased economic activity in surrounding neighborhoods,
  No flooding during heavy February 2014 rains.

Institutional strengthening :
   The Hydraulic and Sanitation Directorate (DIPSOH) utilizes basin-wide approaches utilized in all drainage
      projects;
   Coastal erosion software is now used to guide investment decisions;
   A series of decrees followed the approval of the Manual, and systematic social and environmental monitoring
      was published on the Sub-Secretary for the Coordination of international credit for countries and organizations
      (SCEOCI) website.

Outputs

Drainage:
  Provision of drainage services was achieved through financing the macro-system for the Finochietto Drainage
    System.
  Developed the Manual for the Master Plan Designs to improve Infrastructure and Management for Urban
    Drainage; the Manual outlined a holistic method for assessing the technical viability of urban drainage works, and
    spurred the development of further measures to strengthen the non-structural aspects of drainage. For instance,
    the Government of the Province of Buenos Aires (GoPBA) passed decrees to strengthen integrated coastal
     planning and to establish a hydraulic plan at the provincial level.

Performance under this objective is assessed as modest, because of (i) absence of performance indicators to track
progress, and (ii) lack of outcome framework..


Contribution toward achievement of Program Objective

The Loan Agreement of the 2005 first project, on page 1, and the Project Appraisal Documents of the first and second
projects (page 11 and page 13 respectively) stated that the overall objective of the Bank Program was

" to improve the provision of infrastructure services in the Province within a framework of fiscal responsibility as a
means of supporting the return to a sustainable path of economic growth, to alleviate poverty and increase social
equity".

Progress made towards the program objective is summarized below while noting the caveat that APL1 is still ongoing
and its outcomes are not fully known yet:

    Roads: (i) Traffic picked up significantly and the number of roads that fell under the high traffic (HT) category
     increased, (ii) the average roughness for the roads classified as HT increased and target was restructured.
     Without the Program, the overall roughness of the network (Average International roughness Index- AVG IRI)
     would have reached 5.7, (iii) the Province of Buenos Aires (PBA) reached a steady-state condition with a
     maintenance backlog (roads with IRI>4) of less than 15 percent and a proportion of roads in poor condition (with
     IRI>5) of less than 5 percent. As a result, vehicle operating costs for the provincial vehicle fleets using the
     network have been reduced by nearly 15 percent.

    Water Supply and Sanitation : (i) New lines provided water connections to 34,698 people, made available
     sewerage connections to 298,368 people and active sewerage connections to 112,200 people, (ii) the project
     achieved all outcomes with the exception of active sewerage connections, which was missed by approximately
     16 percent, (iii) By the close of the APL2, the Provincial Directorate for Water and Sewerage (DIPAC) was
     managing more works financed by local sources than external sources.

    Drainage: (i) There was increased property values, and (ii) increased economic activity in surrounding
     neighborhoods, and (iii) no flooding during the heavy February 2014 rains.

    Institutional strengthening : (i) Implementation of the axle load control, in 2013, helped reduce the proportion of
     overloading/infractions from 10 percent at the beginning of the year to 4 percent at the end of the year; (ii)
     improved planning capacity and ability to properly survey network with Network Management Systems; (iii)
     increase of private sector participation in the management and maintenance of the networks through
     Performance based Road Rehabilitation and Maintenance (CREMA) contracts; and (iv) the DIPAC went from
     being a 6 person unit to a 35 member directorate during the lifespan of the project, and before the APL Program,
     the DIPAC only implemented externally funded projects, now it implements more internally funded projects than
     external.

5. Efficiency:

Substantial

Economic efficiency : The economic efficiency assessment was entirely based on the ICR report. Before the approval
of the APL2, an economic evaluation taking into account a sample of the roads that were proposed to be financed
under the project demonstrated an average EIRR of 50.9 percent and a Net Present Value of US$59.4 million. In
2014, a similar evaluation with a representative sample of the works showed that despite the increase in cost the
economic returns remained high with an average EIRR of 110 percent and Net Present Value of US$310,000 per km
at closing. These higher rates of return are explained by many factors including higher traffic volumes and higher user
costs as a result of which higher benefits related to savings in operating costs were accrued.

For water supply and sanitation, the ICR analysis adopted the cost benefit analysis procedure utilized at appraisal.
Benefits were measured as the resources saved from going from septic tanks (with corresponding cleaning costs) to
conventional sewerage connections. For drainage works, benefits were measured as the averted financial loss from
reduced or eliminated flooding risk. In drainage, net benefits reached US$25M, and the works generated returns of 25
percent (higher than expected). In water supply and sanitation, the works yielded net benefits (NPV) of US$42M and
returns of 17 percent (similar to those expected).
Administrative and institutional efficiency : The Project experienced a 14 month lag in effectiveness due to a delay in
the signing of the Guarantee Agreement. There were also other administrative delays caused notably by: (i) lengthy
internal administrative processing to get authorization to launch bidding processes, to have contracts signed, and to
carry out any amendment, and (ii) procurement difficulties related to the Argentinian market. As a result, the project
was closed 22 and a half months after the initial closing deadline.

 a. If available, enter the Economic Rate of Return (ERR)/Financial Rate of Return (FRR) at appraisal and the
    re-estimated value at evaluation :

                                 Rate Available?                           Point Value                        Coverage/Scope*

    Appraisal                        Yes                                      50.9%                                    44%

    ICR estimate                     Yes                                      110%                                     43%
                                         * Refers to percent of total project cost for which ERR/FRR was calculated.



6. Outcome:

Original: June 2007- September 2011: 60% of disbursed amount: Moderately Unsatisfactory :

Relevance of objectives was substantial, and relevance of design was modest. Efficacy was modest for both
objectives. There was mixed progress in infrastructure, provision, which fell short of several of the targets, while a
serious shortcoming was that environmental welfare and the number of beneficiaries were not tracked systematically.

Revised: September 2011- December 2013: 40% of disbursed amount: Moderately Satisfactory

Relevance of objectives was substantial, and relevance of design was modest. Efficacy was substantial for the first
objective, and modest for the second objective. Traffic increased significantly, as well as the number of roads that fell
under the HT category and the average roughness of the roads improved. Water and sewerage connections were
close or on target. Regarding drainage, property values, and economic activity in surrounding neighborhoods
increased and there was no flooding during heavy February 2014 rains. However, environmental welfare was still not
tracked systematically.

Project efficiency was substantial, because the EIRRs for the road investments were high reaching 110 percent and
Net Present Value was US$310,000 per km at closing, (mainly because of higher traffic volumes and higher user
costs as a result of which higher benefits related to savings in operating costs). In water supply and sanitation, and
drainage, net benefits and returns were also substantial.

Overall Outcome Assessment

Applying the harmonized IEG/OPCS formula to assess this restructured project [(0.60*3)+ (0.40*4)= 3.4], the outcome
is rated as Moderately Unsatisfactory .
  a. Outcome Rating: Moderately Unsatisfactory


7. Rationale for Risk to Development Outcome Rating:

The ICR articulated a moderate rating of the risk to development outcome based on progress in road management
and maintenance achieved due to project support, and external financing facilitated by the Direccion Provincial de
Vialidad (DPV). DPV carried out a network-level economic evaluation with the Highway Development management
(HDM-4) model, showing that it has an adequate tool for designing multi-year rehabilitation programs, and has a new
system for the management of routine maintenance. Moreover, the budget allocated to DPV has been in constant
evolution since the 2002 economic crisis, increasing from US$100 million per year to about US$200 million per year in
2012; and the PBA has assigned between 10 and 25 percent of its total budget to the routine maintenance of the
provincial road network over the past five years. Nevertheless, the sustainability of the improvements in the roads
network depends heavily on the ability of the GoPBA to finance the DPV’s list of priority investments. Since the launch
of the APL, the Sub-Secretary for the Coordination of international credit for countries and organizations (SCEOCI)
and the Unit for coordination with multilateral Credit organizations (UCO) have been involved in the design and
implementation of six internationally financed projects, totaling over US$400 million in credit for different sectors.

Regarding water supply and sanitation, sustainability will continue to rely on positive financial projections for the two
operators active in that sector. Both operators improved their financial results. The water utility (ABSA) and the Obras
Sanitarias Mar del Plata-Batan (OSSE) have a sound capital structure with liabilities lower than 20 percent of their
assets, and equities higher than 80 percent. OSSE has tariffs that fully cover its operating cost and partially cover
investment. ABSA has not achieved tariffs that fully cover operating costs, yet it has improved its cost recovery from
56 percent in 2007 to 87 percent in 2012. Despite the internal financial shortcoming of ABSA, the GoPBA has
demonstrated a high level of commitment to supporting this operator by regularly covering its deficits.

Finally, achievements under this project are expected to be strengthened by the initial project which is still ongoing, as
well as other follow-on projects from the Bank and other agencies.

   a. Risk to Development Outcome Rating : Moderate

 8. Assessment of Bank Performance:

 a. Quality at entry:

Project preparation was streamlined by drawing from the existing institutional arrangements of the APL1. For
example, the implementing agencies (Ministry of Economy - ME and Ministry of Infrastructure - MI) incorporated
these new activities into their work program according to their experience with the APL1. Implementation manuals
and procurement processes followed the same guidelines as the APL1. The complementarity between the two
projects also facilitated early implementation progress. As this project was a second phase of an on-going first
phase project, issues or risk analysis and implementation (PIU, financial management and procurement)
arrangements had been taken care by the previous project and were very well covered in the PAD.

However, the PDO was vague and was never revised, and the water supply and sanitation (WSS) PDO-level
outcome indicator went beyond the scope of the project. Sufficient attention was not given to monitoring the
intended "social and environmental welfare" outcomes. There was also inconsistency in the results framework,
while the PDO has set an indicative number of beneficiaries (about 5,000,000) that remained unchanged, the
outcome targets were scaled down, and indicators targeting the number of beneficiaries set in the PDO were
unrealistic. Moreover, while the Bank had experienced staff from the beginning, weaknesses in the capacity of the
Government of the Province of Buenos Aires in respect of safeguard technical capacity were not identified. This
matter was eventually attended to following the recommendations of the MTR. In addition, a case of involuntary
resettlement prompted in part a level one restructuring.

   Quality-at-Entry Rating:                        Moderately Unsatisfactory

 b. Quality of supervision:

During the first eight months of project implementation, US$15 million was disbursed and approximately US$188
million was committed. Actual and committed expenditures represented approximately 50% of the loan. This
dialogue, established during the APL1, facilitated in setting the technical standards of road works and the
introduction of the CREMA. In addition, during the implementation of the APL1, the Bank team created an updated
databank for the cost of road works that played a key role in adopting more realistic official budget estimates for
works under the APL2.

The Bank team adapted the project to steady increases in construction costs but did not address the vague
objectives or significant weaknesses in outcome monitoring through the opportunity created at restructuring. The
Bank team also synchronized indicators for the APL2 and the APL1, enabling a better approach for the overall
impact of the APL Program.

On the positive side, the environmental and social specialists were effective in developing the capacity of the PBA
to systematically monitor safeguards, environmental and social impacts. Procurement support from the Bank
varied from specialist to specialist, but the borrower would have benefited from more hands-on support and
clearer communication in this field.

The rating of the quality of entry dimension is moderately unsatisfactory, while that of the quality of supervision is
moderately satisfactory. In such circumstances the overall rating for Bank performance depends on the outcome
rating, and, since this is negative, the overall Bank performance is moderately unsatisfactory.
   Quality of Supervision Rating :                Moderately Satisfactory

   Overall Bank Performance Rating :              Moderately Unsatisfactory


 9. Assessment of Borrower Performance:

 a. Government Performance:

The ICR reported that the participation of the Ministers of Economy and Infrastructure during several Bank’s
supervision meetings underscored Government's commitment and ownership to the project. The ICR reported that
the Under-Secretariat for the Coordination of International Credit from Countries and Organizations oversaw
project coordination despite financial and environmental challenges prevailing in the country. Strong coordination
within the Ministry of infrastructure and the Ministry of Economy helped to instill discipline in the many entities
involved in project execution

Despite the financial challenges posed by inflation and increased construction costs, the GoPBA always
succeeded to provide its financial contribution, enabling the project to move toward its development objectives.
Moreover, the ICR reported that the GoPBA plans to finance the few activities not completed in the project’s
lifetime with its own funds, further demonstrating the Government determination to foster project achievements.

The Project experienced a 14 month lag in effectiveness due to a delay in the signing of the Guarantee
Agreement. The Government stopped a road procurement which was suspected that there was a collusion
between the suppliers and the Bank team thought that the Government was right in doing so. The question for
this specific case is why the Government did not stop this transaction early on to avoid the cancellation of scarce
resources? The Bank declared misprocurement for the specific transaction, and related resources were cut from
the project budget envelope.

   Government Performance Rating                               Moderately Satisfactory

 b. Implementing Agency Performance:

Project implementation was under the coordination of the Unit for Coordination with Multilateral Credit
Organizations (UCO) located in the Ministry of Economy, which also performed the project financial management
activities, comprising budgeting, accounting and reporting. Funded activities were executed by the Provincial
Road Agency (DPV), the Provincial Directorate for Water and Sanitation (DIPAC), and the Provincial Directorate
for Hydraulic and Sanitation (DIPSOH). The agencies streamlined and systematized procurement processes
during implementation. Delays experienced during implementation were largely due to lengthy internal processes,
and the progress made enabled the project to close with full disbursement.

Overall, implementing agencies were ready for implementation and performed well, especially because they were
instrumental in launching an initial project of the same program. Most internal challenges were administrative in
nature, including (i) lengthy internal administrative processing to get authorization to launch bidding processes, to
have contracts signed, and to carry out any amendment, and (ii) procurement difficulties related to the Argentinian
market. As a result, the project was closed 22 months and half after the initial closing deadline.

   Implementing Agency Performance Rating :                    Moderately Satisfactory

   Overall Borrower Performance Rating :                       Moderately Satisfactory



10. M&E Design, Implementation, & Utilization:

a. M&E Design:

A Monitoring Indicator System was developed for this Project with target indicators. Baseline values and indicators
were established based on surveys conducted as part of the APL1. Bank supervisory missions evaluated progress
towards achievement of agreed target indicators. Indicators were refined after the mid-term project implementation
review.
However, the initial PDO-level indicator for roads (decreased international roughness index-IRI) directly measured the
impact of rehabilitating the roads and was appropriate. The original PDO-level indicators related to water supply and
sanitation services, and to the drainage works were inadequate and had to be dropped during implementation. But the
major weakness of the M&E design was that it lost sight of one important feature of the PDO, which was the need to
put specific emphasis on the five million people that were to benefit from social and environmental welfare promoted
by the project. All PDO indicators should have aimed to contribute to make sure that the number targeted in the PDO
statement will be reached at project closure.

The ten intermediate indicators were realistic as a means to measure the project’s key outputs. But "social and
environmental welfare" outcomes should have been better defined and monitored.

b. M&E Implementation:

The project coordinating units of the Borrower collected data on the indicators and informed the Bank of progress
achieved through semester progress reports and during missions. Overall, the straightforward nature of the indicators
facilitated calculation and collection of data. The indicator on active sewerage connections proved more difficult to
accurately monitor due to limited ground monitoring capacity to track active connections. The Bank missions also
involved many field visits, which served to confirm the general reach of the activities and their respective indicators.

c. M&E Utilization:

The ICR did not report on how the data and information collected on project implementation were used to enhance
project management and performance. Instead the ICR provided information on how the project supported three
initiatives to incorporate in the use of M&E indicators in the investment analysis process. While this initiative was
positive for future country operations, it was outside the expected role of M&E utilization in the context of this project.

M&E Quality Rating: Modest




11. Other Issues

a. Safeguards:

 The APL2 was ranked as a Category B project. The ICR reported on page 8 that safeguard policies for the APL2
were handled on the basis of the safeguard framework established during the preparation of the first APL. The Project
team had conducted an analysis of lessons learnt during implementation of APLI on this matter and to document
whether the agreed framework would need any changes. The report concluded that the approach adopted under
APL1 for the safeguard framework was valid. Consequently, together with OP 4.01 on Environmental Assessment,
OP 7.50 on Projects in International Waters and OP 4.11 on Physical Cultural Resources were triggered.

The ICR reported also on page 11 an isolated case of involuntary resettlement that arose during project
implementation, and that the PBA handled it in compliance with OP 4.12. Following the MTR recommendations, the
PBA improved its technical capacity in order to reach the Bank’s socio-environmental requirements in projects
planning, implementation and supervision and specialized staff were appointed to oversee that social and
environmental procedures were being implemented. Finally, the PBA consolidated the capacity of the sub-executing
agencies through the implementation of several training workshops.

b. Fiduciary Compliance:

Procurement: The ICR reported (page 11) that contracting for the project was most of the time lengthier, because
Argentina has several restrictions to purchase goods produced abroad. The most significant procurement challenge
was a mis-procurement of a US$5.9 million bid to a roads work contract in 2009 and the subsequent cancellation of
funds. The PBA rejected all bids for the works contract in a move to discourage inflated prices in the construction
industry. The Bank objected to the rejection, and this led to the cancellation of project funds. IEG believes that a
closer supervision of the above procurement transaction would have helped to save these resources and fund more
activities to support progress toward outcome.

Financial management : The project accounts were reviewed by external oversight of the Provincial Court of Accounts,
which delivered unqualified audit opinions on the Project’s basic financial statements, statement of expenses and the
designated account. Bank’s financial specialists reviewed the audit reports and found them acceptable.
c. Unintended Impacts (positive or negative):


d. Other:



12. Ratings:                               ICR                   IEG Review                  Reason for
                                                                                      Disagreement/Comments
                      Outcome: Satisfactory                 Moderately          Given that the "social and
                                                            Unsatisfactory      environmental welfare" outcomes were
                                                                                not properly measured, and that the
                                                                                project was restructured when 60% of
                                                                                the amount was disbursed rather than
                                                                                earlier, explains this rating. See Section
                                                                                6 above.
          Risk to Development Moderate                      Moderate
                     Outcome:

            Bank Performance: Satisfactory                  Moderately          The objectives statement was not
                                                            Unsatisfactory      well-defined and insufficient attention
                                                                                was given to monitoring the intended
                                                                                outcomes. See Section 8a above.
       Borrower Performance : Satisfactory                  Moderately          The Borrower failed to uncover a flawed
                                                            Satisfactory        procurement transaction in time, and
                                                                                lost substantial resources.
                Quality of ICR:                             Satisfactory

NOTES:
- When insufficient information is provided by the Bank
  for IEG to arrive at a clear rating, IEG will downgrade
  the relevant ratings as warranted beginning July 1,
  2006.
- The "Reason for Disagreement/Comments" column
  could cross-reference other sections of the ICR
  Review, as appropriate.

13. Lessons:

IEG agrees with two lessons identified by the ICR from this operation as follows:

(i) Good selection of project implementation arrangements can strategically foster institutional strengthening : As a
result of the APL, the PBA consolidated a unit dedicated to implementing projects with credit from international
organizations that had sufficient capacity to coordinate other ministries and institutions within the Province (such as
the MI). In the ten years since the launch of the APL Program, the SCEOCI has become integrated in the operating
structure of the GoPBA, going from unit status to agency status to becoming a sub-secretariat. The establishment
of a sub-secretariat with significant experience implementing projects with foreign credit has had a multiplier effect,
facilitating the GoPBA’s capture of international credit from other organizations

(ii) Working at the provincial level facilitates implementation . The APL Program benefited from
directly engaging the PBA to design and implement the Program’s activities. This design decision
helped provide a direct channel and build provincial capacity to work with international organizations,
build a close working relationship with the counterpart

14. Assessment Recommended?                  Yes      No

Why?     To verify the ratings and document lessons learned.
15. Comments on Quality of ICR:


On balance, the ICR quality is rated satisfactory. The ICR team provided a big picture context to the project, as well
as considerable detail on the project design, implementation, outputs and outcomes. The ICR carried out an economic
and financial analysis of the project impact, and linked it to the requirements of a sustainable infrastructure program
for the city, and to the macro-fiscal framework of the country.

However, important aspects of the project implementation were not explored thoroughly: (i) the project went through a
level one restructuring (change in key associated outcome targets), and in this case, a split assessment was
warranted, but not conducted, (ii) while there were advantages in having two complementary projects (APL1 and
APL2 implemented in parallel), automatically the issue of attribution is raised, and the ICR team did not discuss this
matter in depth. The ICR did not make an effort to align outputs and outcomes with the two operations APL1 and
APL2, (see Annex 2 of the ICR), and the ICR did not report on how the data and information collected on project
implementation were used to enhance project management and performance. It is not clear to what extent, at the
outcome level, the ICR was able to avoid double counting of benefits from the two projects.
 a.Quality of ICR Rating : Satisfactory
