D _tocunt of
The World Bank
FOR OFfCjL USE Ofty
Repot NM 11496
PROJECT COM%lETI011 PEPORT
POWE I
(LOAN 2212-ZIII)
DECJER 28, 1992
MICROPICHE COPY
Report No.: 11496 ZIM   Type: (PCR-
Title: POWER I (LN. 2212-ZIM)
Author: MAUPRIVE Z, M.
Ext. :31709 Room:T9069 Dept.:OEDD3
Indus;try and Energy Operations Divjsj0r
Soutber Af riea 3Department
frica Legiona_ Office
OfrsidaldtfIs cntets 1nt 'ot Ohriebe dsc -r'p"sbYf g        the peIf
.~~~~~~~~~~~~~''u Wol .  .._.  .,



PROJECr COMPLE!'ION REPORT
ZEMBABWE
POWER I
(Lan 2212-ZIM)
Currency Equivaleits
US$1.00                         =           Z$2.4
Z$1.00                          -           US$0.4
$1.00                                       100 Zimbabwe cents (Zi)
ACRONYMS AND ABBREVIATIONS
CAPC -    Central Africa Power Corporation
ERR  -    Economic Rate of Return
ESC   -    Electricity Supply Commission
IFC   -    International Fmance Corporation
PCR   -    Project Completion Report
UDI  -    Unilateral Declaration of Independence
ZESA -    Zimbabwe Electricity Supply Authority
FSCAL YEAR
Ju 1 - June 30



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
THE WORLD BANK
Washlngo, D.C. 20433
U.SA
Office of the Directorv-eeral
operations Evaluation
December 28, 1992
MEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT:   Project Completion Report on Zimbabwe
Power I Pro1ect (Loan 2212-ZIM)
Attached is a copy of the report entitled "Project Completion Report
on Zimbabwe - Power I Project (Loan 2212-ZIM)" prepared by the Africa Regional
Office with Part II contributed by the Borrower.
This project assisted the Zimbabwe power sector during the first
years of the country's independence. In the course of its implementation, a
restructuring of the main power utility took place involving the integration of
the municipal utilities. The operation achieved its physical objectives, the
installation of a 600 MW extension of a coal-fired steam power plant and of
associated transmission facilities. Training and management assistance through
a foreign utility was only partly successful because of conflicts between the
expatriate assistance team and the local staff.   A tariff study led to a
restructuring of the rates. However, tariff levels remained below those required
to meet the Bank's revenue covenant. All in all, the project outcome rates as
satisfectory. Sustainability hinges on financial policy reform and appropriate
autonomy for the Zimbabwe Electricity Supply Authority.
The Project Completion Report provides an accurate and informative
account of project implementation. OED will audit this project, the first Bank
power project in the country after a 25-year hiatus.
This doctmnt has a restricted distribution and may be uswd by recipients only in the performance of
their off iciL duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without Iword Bank authorization.



FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
ZIMBABWE
PROJECr COMPLETION RUEPORT
POWER I
aI&mfZI
TABIE OF CX}
Page No.
Preface ....................................                                 i
Evaluation Sunmary ..............           ...................... ii
L   PROJECr REVIEW FROM THE BANK'S PERSPECTIVE.                             1
A     ProjectIdentity. 
B. Background                              .1
C.  Project Objectives and Desciption .2
D.   Project Concept, Desigt and
Organization.                                                 3
E   mplementation of Hwangeg  I .
F.    Implementation of Additional
Project Components.                                           6
G. Prqect Results.                                                    7
HL Project Sustainbflity .10
L Bank Performance .11
J. Borrower Performance .             1
K. Project Relationship .12
L   Performance of the Consultants .12
M. Project Documentation and Data .13
IL  PROJECr REVEW FROM BORROWERS                             ... 14
Cotnnents on Part I ...................................              14
Batks Performance .................................... 14
l     s   Performance ...................................  15
Technical Environment ...................................    15
Project Implementation ...................................    16
Iessons Learned ...................................                  17
IIL   STAIISTICALINFORMATION .............................. 18
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
ZIMBABWE
POWER I
This is the Project Completion Report (PCR) for the Power I Proiect in
Zimbabwe, for which Loan 2212-ZIM in the amount of US$105 million equivalent was
approved on December 7, 1982. The loan was closed on June 30, 1990, three years behind
schedule. It was fully disbursed and the last iiisbursement was on January 11, 1991.
The PCR was prepared by the Industry and Energy Operations Division,
Southern Africa Department (Preface, Evaluation Summary, Parts I and III), and the
Borrower (Part II).
Preparation of this PCR was started during the Bank's final supervision mission of
the project in 1990, and is based, inter alia on the Staff Appraisal Report; the Loan,
Guarantee, and Project Agreements; supervision reports; correspondence between the Bank
and the Borrower, and internal Bank memoranda.



PROJECr COMPLETION REPORT
ZIMBABWE
POWER I
'L- 221&ZIM
EVALUATION SNMMARY
The Project and Its Objectv
1.    The Power I loan was the first Bank energy loan to Zimbabwe after Independence in
1980. The loan was to the Electricity Supply Commission (ESC), which was later incorporated
into a national power utility, the Zimbabwe Electricity Supply Authority (ZESA). Its main
objectives were to: (a) increase power supply to the interconnected Zimbabwe/Zambia power
grid to matth demand growth projected at 7% per year, (b) train indigencis power utility
staff, and (c) introduce appropriate energy prices.
2.    To meet these objectves, Power I: (a) expanded the Hwange coal-fired thermal power
station by the addition of a 440MW Stage I generating plant (b) reinforced the station's
connection to the Zimbabwe grid, (c) financed electricity tariff and energy pricing studies; and
(d) constucted tining facilities for the ESC and finced traing for its engineering staff
and operations support
3. Following the establishment of ZESA in 1985, the uncommitted loan balance resulting
from savings in the project's foreign exchange cost was used to meet newly-evident investment
priorities in the power subsector related to the project's original objectives. These were mainly
rehabilitation of the power distribution system and critical spares and equipment upgrades for
the Hwange I Power Station.
Imlemenation
4.    The first unit of Hwange II was commissioned in August 1986, eight months behind
schedule. This modest delay was due to inadequate management and coordination of the many
contractors and to government bureaucracy. In US Dollars, Hwange U's cost was 25% below
the original estimate; in Zimbabwe Dollars it was 65% above. MTis was due mainly to a sharp
devaluation of the Zimbabwe Dollar during implementation. ESCs inexperience in large-scale
project management and the reorganization and Africanization of the power subsetor
contnrbuted to inadequate supervision by the Borrower.
S. Implementation of the project's transmission, distribution, training, operations support
and studies components was largely satisfactory, although most components experienced some
delay, primarily due to the Borrower's limited implementation capacity.
Prject Resuls
6.    Power demand grew more slowly than forecast, so Hwange H was buflt two years
earlier than required and displaced lower-cost imported hydro power for this period. Howver,
due to below-average rains throughout the 1980s and early 1990s, Hwange UI has proved to be



in
the next least-cost hnvestment in generatig capacity. On average, the station has not achievedl
its target output of 5500 GWh/year and availablitity of at least 80%, output having averaged
about 4900 GWhVear and avilability about 75% for the past four yeas Mhis s due to a
combination of design weaknesses, inadequate ancillary plant capacity and operator ersw
These problems are being reduced through an on-going upgade program and continued staff
traiing under Power IL Neverthelss, the project's estimated ex-post economic rate of return
of 13.1% is slightly above the appraisal estimate of 12.2%, due to savings in the power
investment program.
7.    The Borfwer's institutional capability has been augmented by the project's training
and operations support components. However, these benefits have been reduced by
Government salary controls, which have reduced staff retention, and its insistence on rapid
Africanization of the power subsector, which eliminated operations support prematurely. The
studies component has not rationalized energy prices because of Government's unill
to fully pass on cost increases to consumers
LAsn Lint
IbThe following lessons emerge for the technical aspects of similar projects:
(a)   Costsaving short-cuts in initial design and spares provision, motivated in part
by foreign exchange scarcity, have reduced Hwanges performance. Basic design
standards and spares provision for large, complex projects of this type should
not be compromised in order to minimize initial cost.
(b) Errors were made in materials selection for the fuel feed system due to
indequate knowledge of coal characteristics on the part of the Engineer and
Borrower. Overall, station technology was unduly complicated for a country
with limited project management and power station operator skills. Care must
be taken to select technologies that are appropriate to the operating conditions
of the country and the capability of the implementing agent. Sufficient
technical expertise must be provided to design the layout and equipment so
that the plant wilt operate reliably in local conditions.
(c)   A relatively inexperienced implementing agent, subject to political pressure to
minimize reliance on expatriate assistance, was incapable of adequately
supervising the Engineer for such a complex project or operating the plant
reliably after its completion. The Bank should carefully assess the Borowers
supervision and operations capability for complex projects and insist on
adequate expatriate assistance where necessary. It should also supervise
complex projects more intensively than was the case with Power I, particularly
during the initial stages.
9.    On the policy aspects, the project illustrates once again that financial conditionality is
not an effective means of achieving covenanted financial performance if tariffs are set by a
Government that is motivated more by short-term political considerations than the Borrower's
long-term commercial viability. The recommendations of pricing studies are also less licely to
be implemented when such studies are completed late in the project cycle when the Bank's
policy leverage is proportionately weaker.



PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
ZMBABWE
POWER I
a :B 221
PART k PROJECT REVIEW FROM TE BANKSP
A  P,oect Idemtity
Name                      Power I Project
Loan Number   :           2212-ZIM
RVP                       Africa
Countty                   Zimbabwe
Sector                    Energy
Subsector      :          Electric Power
B  Backgound
1.   Zimbabwes industrial, agricultural and mining sectors are among the most highly
developed in southern Africa (excadding South Africa). In consequence, Zimbabwe is one of the
sub-region's largest consumers of energy, about 15% of which is supplied in the form of
electricity. The Government's main objectives in the energy sector are to facilitate economic and
social development by meeting energy demand reliably and at minimum cost. To this end, it has
sought to develop the considerable ydro-electric potential of the Zambezi river, which it shares
with Zambia, and the power potential of its large-scale coal deposits.
2.   By 1980, following 10 years during which electricity consumption grew by an average of
9o per year, demand was approaching the 987 MW capacity of the interconnected Zimbabwean
generating system and projected import availability from Zambia. Consultants retained by the
Government to determine the least cost power development program forecast that Zimbabwean
demand would increase by an average of 7% per year and Zambian demand by about 4% per
year through the 198Ds. Based on these forecasts, they recommended a generation development
sequence for Zimbabwe consisting of completion of the 480MW Stage I of the Hwange coal-fired
thermal power station by 1983, construction of which had begun in 1973 and was suspended in
1975, followed by construction of a 440MW Hwange II station, for commissioning by 1986 This
recommended development sequence was accepted by the Government and the Bank and formed
the basis for planning the Power I project.
3.   Power I was the sixth in a series of Bank lending operations for development of the
interconnected power systems of Zambia and Zimbabwe. The fint operation in 1952 financed
urban electrification in what was then Southern Rhodesia. The second, third, fourth and fifth
cofinanced construction of the binational Kariba hydroelectric complex on the Zambezi rnver,
consisting of 666 MW on the Zimbabwean side and 600 MW on the Zambian side, and extension
of the interconnected bulk transmission system. Through this series of projects, the Bank was
able to facilitate development of the ZambezPs hydro-electric potential and promote least-cost
expansion and improved operation of the power systems servmng the two countries By helping
to provide adequate, reliable and relatively low cost supplies of power, this lending program



-2-
contributed materially to the economic development of Zambia and Zimbabwe and to
improvement in the living standard of the people of both countries.
4     Implementation of the Power I Project coincided with a major restructring of the power
industy in Zimbabwe. Until 1985, a binational company, the Central Africa Power Corporation
(CAPC) owned and operated the Kariba hydroelectric complex on the Zambezi, the major source
of g-neration for the interconnected Zambia/Zimbabwe power system, and the high voltage
transmission network in both countries. ITe Electricity Supply Commission 'SSC), a publicly-
owned utility, operated the thermal generating stations in Zimbabwe and was responsible for
power distnbution outside the four cities of Bulawayo, Harare, Mature and Gweru, within wbich
distribution was handled by the city administrations. In 1985, the Zimbabwe electricity Supply
Authority (ZESA) was established, initially with the same facilities and responsibilities as the
ESC, including the just-completed Hwange I Power Station and implementation of the Power I
projecL In 1986 and 1987, ZESA progressively took over responsibility for CAPCs generation
and transmission facilities in Zimbabwe and for power distibution throughout the oountry.
C  Project Objectiv  and Description
5.   The main objecves of the Power I Project were to: (a) inc,ease power generating
capacity to match forecast demand; (b) strengthen the capability and performance of the
institutions responsible for power supply-, and (c) increas domestic resource mobiliation in the
energy sector and promote economic pricing of energy.
6    As originally designed, it consisted of the following components
(a) expansion of Hwange Power Station by the addition of two ; 20MW generating units
and associated boilers, pipeworkd etc.;
(b) construction of 350 km of 330kV power transmission line and associated switchgear
to reinforce the connection of the power station to the Zimbabwe grid;
(c) engineering consultants' services for the preparation of bid documents, bid evaluation
and construction supervision;
(d) electricity tarff and energy pricing studies; and
(e) training facilities, training courses and technical assistance for the power companies
7.    Due to a sharp appreciation of the US dollar during implementation and the sourcing of
more procurement in Zimbabwe than initially plamed, the actual US dollar cost of the project
as originally defined was about US$100 million less than the appraisal forecast and its cost in
Zimbabwe do!lars about Z$140 milion more. At the request of the borrwer, the Bank added
the following related components to utilize the resulting uncommitted portion of the IBRID oan:
(a) spare parts, overhaul and upgrade services for Hwange Power Station and purchase
of a power station training simulator; and
(b) distnbution materials and vehicles.



-3
D. Projec C e  Depg and  r
8.    Decisions on the scope and timing of the project's major physical components - extension
of Hwange Power Station and construction of related transmission facilities - were based on
power load forecasts for Zambia and Zimbabwe and a least cost Zimbabwe power system
expasion program prepared by the Government's power planning consultants and accepted by
both the Government and the Bank  Consequently, there was a clear understanding of the
project's rationale and objectivem on the part of the Government, the Bank and the Borrower,
the Electricity Supply Commission.
9.   Tne consultants' report had concluded that, based on a forecast of just under 7% per
annum demand growth on the interconnected power system during the 1980s, the system would
be short of capacity by July, 1985. From an analysis of the economic cost of altemative
generation project sequences, including a thorough review of import options, extnsions to the
Kanrba South and Kaniba North Power Stations were determined to be the next least-cost
additions to system generating capacity. However, these projects could not be commissioned
before 1987 at the earlest It was concluded that an extension to the coal-fired Hwange I Power
Station (Hwange II) was the only candidate generation scheme that could possibly be completed
by the target in-service date of mid-1985. Hwange II was therefore recommended to the
Government for immediate implementation and selected as the main component of the project.
10. It was decided to employ an engineering consultant to manage detailed preparation and
mplementation of the generation and transmission component of the project, based on
experience with previous generation projects in Zimbabwe and the region. Mmis was fully
understood and accepted by the parties concemed. The scope and content of the training and
technical assistance component was based on a review by the Bank of the staff complements and
skills of the power companies relative to their task of operating and planning the power system
and also appears to have been weil understood and accpted.
11. The desigp of Hwange II was simplified and its technical risk reduced by the fact that it
was to be an extension of the Hwange I Power Station which, at the time of project preparation,
was already at an advanced stage of construction. The adjacent Wankie Colliery was in a position
to suppl the additional coal required by Hwange II from its existing open pit operation (the
draglne was parally financed by IPC). Much of this coal would have been dumped as waste in
order to reach higher quality cooking coal at the bottom of the seam had there not been a market
for additional lower-quality coal at Hwange II. Ihe economic cost of the additional coal was
therefore ver low and its use reduced spontaneous combustion in the opencast mine. The water
supply facilities consructed for Hwange I were judged to have sufficient capacity to meet the
needs of Hwange I, which avoided construction of new water supply facilities. Reflecting
advances in coal-fired power station technology since the design of Hwange I in the 1960s,
Hwange I would feature larger 200-220MW units, with a consequent gain in thermal efficiency.
12. Some decisions were made on the station's design which have negatively affected its
performance. For example, as a cost-saving measure, it was decided to utilize the Hwange I
cooling towers for cooling Hwange n also. Experience has shown that the capacity of those
towers is not sufficient for the two stations, with the result that some equipment is not cooled to
design temperatureL Hwange H also utilizes the coal handing facity built for Hwange L
Although its capacity is adequate for both stations, the facility is of outdated design and poor
quality and is subject to breakdown. Most seriously, two coal mMs, each capable of supplying



60% of the boiler fuel requirement at capacity, were installed on each boiler. These have proved
unreVlXble, due partly to the abrasive quality of the coal, and frequent outages have been
experienced. With only 60% of required milling capacity available when one mill is out, the
outage of one mill has forced the bailer and hence the turbine it serves to be derated to a
maximum of 60% of capacity. This has substantially reduced station output and could have been
avoided at relatively modest cost by installation of a third milH per boiler. The water treatment
plant has proved incapable of adequately removing silica from the feed water, leading to build-up
of damaging silica deposits, reduced cooling efficiency and increased maintenance. Contrary to
usual practice, it was decided to install only a single station transformer, again to save cost.
Consequently, the station has no stand-by electricity supply for start-up purposes in the event of
Nilure of this one unit. These and other compromises in design, made primarily for cost-saving
reasons, have reduced both the availability and operational performance of the station. They
ilustrate the risk of introducing new and relatively complex power generation technology into a
resource-constrained environment such as Zinbabwe.
13.  With the benefit of hindsight, it is evident that the power demand forecasts over-estimated
future demand growth by a considerable margin.  Demand on the interconnected
Zimbabwe/Zambia power system during the period 1980-85 in fact grew at an averagu rate of just
over 2% per annum, compared to the nearly 79o per annum forecast. The prmary cause of this
substantial over-estimation of demand was the use of what proved to be very optimistic
assumptions for economic growth in Zambia and Zimbabwe. Contrary to the consultant's forecast
of continued expansion, copper production in Zambia, and hence power consumption in the
dominant mining industry, declined over the 1980-85 period. Due to falling copper exports and
simultaneous world recession, the Zambian economy and hence power consumption stagnated.
In 1981, the Zimbabwean economy, and hence power demand, expanded rapidly following
independence and the lifting of sanctions. However, in 1982 the international recession and a
three-yar drought hit the Zimbabwean economy. Zimbabwe's real GDP declined in 1982 and
1983 and stagnated in 1984 and 1985, compared to the consultant's forecast of 5% annual growth
on average through the 1980s.
14.  Due to the optimistic demand forecast, the Hwange II station was commissioned at a time
when Zambia had about 300MW of surplus low-cost hydropower avaflable for export to
Zimbabwe. The commissioning of Hwange II in 1986 was thus about two years premature.
15. While the timing of the Hwange scheme was not optimal, its selection as the next
generation project on the interconnected system was correct, although not for the reason that
originally led to that decision. Hwange It was orginally selected on the grounds that it was the
only large-scale candidate generation plant that could be in service by the time of the forecast
power capacity shortfall in mid-1985. Planning studies concluded that a sequence of generation
investments consistng of the Kaniba North and South Extensions followed by Hwange I was the
least-cost means of satisfying demaA, but the Kariba extensions could not be in service before
1987, which would leave a substantial capacity shortfal.
16.  However, since 1980, the Zambezi river basin has experienced a period of unusually low
rainfall, which has reduced the average river flow and hence the volume of water available in
Lake Kariba for power generation. As a result, the assumed average long-term annual firm
energy capability of the Kanba complex has been reduced substantially from about 10,000GWh
to about 8,500GWh, which in turn has reduced the potential output and economic benefit of the
Kaniba North and South Bank Extension projects. These projects are now viewed solely as



- 5 ft
potential sources of reserve and very limited peaking capacity, not as potential sources of firm
energy. In this limited role, their construction during the 1980s would not have been consistent
with least-cost expansion of the ZambialZimbabwe power system.
Implementation aof Hwange EI
17. By the time of appraisal, most aspects of the detailed design of the Hwange II scheme had
been completed, construction of Hwange I was underwa, and contracts had bee.n awarded for
the Hwange E boilers, turbo-generators and high-pressure pipework (to be funded by suppliers'
credits). This made feasible a relatively short project implementation period of four years, with
target commissioning dates of December 1985 for Unit 1 and March 1986 for Unit 2.
1& Unit 1 was actually commissioned in August 1986 and Unit 2 in Dccember 1986, eight
months behind the appraisal target. Four factors contributed significantly to the delay (a) the
borrower's unfamiliarity with the Bank's procurement and disbursement procedures, which caused
some delays in procurement of both services and equipment, particularly at the early stages of the
project; (b) inadequate coordination between the supervising engineer and the civil works
contractor, which caused some key dates on the critical path to be missed; (c) unclear and slow
work permit regulations for expatriate contract staff; and (d) difficulties in arfanging transport
of heavy plant to the site, which resulted in late delivery.
19.  As this was the first Bank project to be implemented by the borrower, limited
understanding of the Bank's complex procurement procedures and consequent delays in
procurement were not unexpected. The tight implementation timetable, and the borrower's
preference for using contractors already working on Hwange I for similar work on Hwange II,
were both an incentive to short-circut the Bank's rigorous procurement procedures. The
resulting delays principally affected contract awards for the cH works and erection of the station
stucture. Although the resulting hold-up in contract award was, in the case of one erection
contract, over six months, the net impact of procurement delays on project completion was
relatively minor, totalling only about 1-2 months.
20. Inadequate schedule coordination between the supervising engineer and the civil works
contractor led to the contractor initially being denied adequate site access, which disrupted the
start of the civil works program. At its peak in 1985, the resulting slippage amounted to about
one year, although some of that time was later made up. The problem of unclear and slow work
permit regulations for expatriate staff contributed to the problem by slowing mobilization of the
supervising engineer's project team. The limited project management experience of the
implementing agency meant that its oversight of the supersing engineer was less than adequ te.
Perhaps because only one supervision mission was mounted dunng the first year of project
implementation, the Bank was also slow to identify and hence to address the problem.
21.  Arrival of the large stators and transformers at the site was about six months behind
schedule. Their transport was originally planned to be by road trailer from a South African port
via Botswana. The planned route was surveyed and found to be feasible. However, due to an
unrelated politim.J problema, the Government of Botswana refused to grant the necessaw permit.
After a period of ultimately fruitless negotiation, an alternative route direct from South Africa
to Zimbabwe was surveyed and utilized. The resulting delay in delivery of the equipment did not
however materially affect project completion because of delas in other project components



- 6 -
22.  Apart from the problems noted above, implementation of the Hwange II scheme - the
project's major component - was largely satisfactory. The relatively modest eight month
completion delay was not excsive for a large-scale project of this type involving a new borrower,
particularly when account is taken of the fact that the borrower was simultaneously embroiled in
a major reorganization. Due to the slower-than-forecast growth in power demand, the delay did
not result in a shortage of power and hence imposed no significant economic cost on Zimbabwe.
23.   Measured in United States Dollars, the foreign exchange cost of Hwange I was US$180.5
million, its local cost US$99.1 million and its total cost US$279.6 million. These actual US$ costs
were substantially below the appraisal estimates of US$233.4 million foreign, US$140.8 local and
US$374.2 totaL Sharp appreciation of the U.S. dollar against both a basket of world currencies
and the Zimbabwe dollar during the implementation period was the primary cause of the
substantial US dollar cost savings, which were equivalent to 25% of the original cost estimate.
However, expressed in Zimbabwe dollars, Hwange's actual cost of Z$424.5 million was 65% above
the appraisal forecast, due largely to greater-than-forecast devaluation of the Zimbabwe dollar,
particularly against the strong US dollar, to delays in construction and to inadequate cost control
These major deviations of actual from forecast costs illustrate dramatically the scope for error in
and hence the uncertainty of cost estimation in a single currency on a major multi-year project
at a time of exchange rate instability such as the mid-1980s.
F. mlmettn of Additoa Project Components
24.  The establishment in 1985 of the national power utility, ZESA, made it feasible to review
for the first time the investment needs of the power system as a whole. At the same time, the
Bank's understanding of the power system was being considerably enhanced through
implementation of the Hwange II project. The combination of these two parallel processes led
to the identification by ZESA and the Bank of two additional areas of the power system in need
of priority investment that had not been evident during the rapid preparation of this prqect.
These were Hwange Stage I, which needed upgrading and improved spares provision, and the
distribution system, investment in which had been cut back by the Municipal Electricity
Departments pending their reorganization into ZESA. With respect to Hwange I, the station was
experiencing a number of operating problems as a result of cost savings and limited technical
options available during constrction. The most serious of these concerned the coal mills, the
poor performance of which was substantially reducing generation. Another problem area was the
ash dam, which posed an enviroinental and safety rik  In addition, ZESA was persistently
unable to obtain from the Govermnent sufficient foreign exchange to finance major overhauls of
the Hwange plant or to establish an adequate inventory of critical spares. In the area of
distribution investment, knowledge of the pending establishment of ZESA had prompted the
municipalities to economize on investment in the power distribution system. Consequently, 7!-SA
was faced with a bacldog of thousands of requests for connection or additional supply and with
a severe shortage of materials and operational vehicles.
25. In combination, the shortage of foreign exchange for investment in these critfcal areas of
the power system was seen by ZESA and the Bank as likely to seriously threaten achievment
of the objectives of the Power I project. It was therefore decided to allocate the unused portion
of the Power I loan after completion of Hwange I, about US$25 million in total, to finance: (a)
selective upgrade projects at Hwange I power station; (b) major overhauls at Hwange during the
1987-89 period-, (c) the purchase of critical spares for the Hwange I boilers, generators and
turbines; and (d) distribution materials and vehicles It was simultaneously decided to extend the



- 7 -
loan closing date, initially by one yea to June 1988 and finaly by a total of three years to June
1990, to complete procurement of the additional items.
26.  Procurement of these additional items began in 1988 and was completed in 1990, about
one year behind the original schedule. Tbis schedule was, in retrospect, unrealistic in view of the
large number of items to be procured, the smaU size and limited experience of ZESA's
procurement staff and their relative unfamiliarity with the Bank's procurement procedures for
goods and with the technical specifications of some of the specialist equipment being purchased.
Problems were encountered with the procurement of veicles due to misunderstanding of and
conflict between the Government's and the Bank's vehicle procurement regulations. Ihe
Government regulations mandated that vehicles be procured from local assemblers, which
conflicted with the Bank's reqairement for procurement to be on a least-cost basis by
international tender, with 15% preference to local suppliers provided the local content exceeded
20% of the sales price. ZESA's initial evaluation of tenders followed the Govemment procedure
and consequently was rejected by the Bank. MTe tenders were then re-evaluated using the Bank's
guidelines. With the benefit of 15% preference, local assemblers were found to be the least
evaluated cost source of standard small vehicles and international bidders of the specialist
vehicles Contract award on the basis of the revised evaluation was then agreed between the
Government and the Banlk
G. Project Resub
27. The project actieved its primary objective of increasing power generation capacity in
Zimbabwe by completing the 440MW Hwange Stage I Power Station in late 1986. Although the
station was completed about 8 months behind schedule, slower than forecast growth in Zambian
power demand allowed Zimbabwe to continue importing sufficient power from Zambia during
1986 to fully satisfy its demand until the station was complete. In fact Zambia still had
considerable surplus hydro power avaflable for export to Zimbabwe when the station was
commssioned, which generation from Hwange II effectively displaced. On strict least-cost
development of the interconnected power system, Hwange I was therefore completed earlier
than required due to overestimation of the growth in Zimbabwean and Zambian power demand
during the 1980s. Given the low economic cost of power station coal, which must be removed to
access higher-quality cooking coal, and the consequent low marginal economic cost of generation
at Hwange, the least-cost strategy for Zimbabwe, once the station was complete, was to substitute
Hwange II generation for imports. Part of the economic cost of the station's premature
construction was therefore borne by Zambia through the resulting reduction in its exports of
surplus hydro power to Zimbabwe. The principal economic cost to Zimbabwe was the benefit
foregone from the potential alternative uses of the resources used to construct Hwange II earlier
than necessary.
28. The performance of Hwange II was relatively poor in FY87/88, when its availability
averaged 60%, compared to a target of at least 80%. Performance improved substantially in the
two following years, when availability averaged 80%. Growing operator famfliarity with the plant,
elimination of some teething problems and improved spares and equipment provision funded
under the project accounted for the bulk of the improvement. The station's moderate
performance and unexpectedly high operating and maintenance costs suggest that, in preparing
the project, the difficulties of operating a complex and relatively unfamiliar generation technology
in a location far distant from sources of expert services and spares and in a situation of foreign
exchange scarcity were underestimated. Performance was also affected by reliance on multiple



- 8 -
sources of finance, which led to compromises on specifications and to installation of equipment
from a large number of different suppliers that was not always fully compatible.
29. The project's second objective was to help address the manpower requirements of the
power sector, principally through the construction and partial equipment of the Harare National
Electricity Training Center, foreign training of power engineers and the provision of expatriate
engineers for operation of the Hwange plant. The provision of expatriate engineers to assist in
initial operation of the Hwange plant was undoubtedly necessar, in view of the plant's technical
complexity and the unfamiliarity of the borrowers engineering staff with some aspects of the
technology. Howeer, the benefits of this operations support, in terms of plant performance,
operator training and the establishment of sound procedures and good documentation were not
up to expectations. This was partly due to the inadequate technical and industrial relations skills
of some members of the operations support team. The industrial relations problems were
exacerbated by resentment on the part of the Zimbabwean engineers, some of whom were
unwiling to take orders from expatriate advisers and perceived that their opportunities for
promotion were lessened by the advisers' presence. Rapid turnover of some of the advisory staff
also lessened their effectiveness. The decision of ZESA in 1990 to terminate all operations
support earlier than had been planned was partally justified by these problems, but nevertheless
was a risky move, as the national station engineering staff; on average, were still relatively
inexperienced. The decision may have contributed to some of the station's subsequent technical
problems and is currently being reconsidered by ZESA management.
30.  The Harare Training Center was completed in 1987, about two years behind schedule
By 1990, its student intake was up to 270 per year, somewhat below capacity but about double
the number of power engineering staff in formal training in the mid-1980s. In the same year, 85
engineers received training from the expatriate experts funded under the project. In terms of
increasing the number of trainees, the project broadly achieved its manpower objectives.
However, the power sector remains short of skilled personnel, particularly in engineering and
accounting. A major cause of this has been government control of parastatal salaries, which has
kept salaries in ZESA below those of comparable jobs in the private sector and resulted in a high
rate of turnover of experienced staff. The project did not explicitly recognize or address this
problem of uncompetitive salaries. Had it attempted to do so, the probability of success would
have been low because it applied to the whole parastatal sector and was therefore unlikely to be
solved by a single sector operation. It is now being addressed under the SAL, which provides
both greater leverage and a more appropriate framework for tackling such broad issues of
government policy.
31. The project's third objective was to improve energy resource mobilization and economic
use through the rationalization of energy prices, based on an energy pricing study. A high-quality
pricing study was completed in early 1986 and extensively debated in Zimbabwe. Implementation
of its electricity tariff remmendations was complicated and delayed by the major reorganization
of the power sector that occurred durng the 1984-87 perod and resulted in the establshment
of ZESA. A national power taiff was finally introduced in 1988, which rectified the most serious
structural deficiencies in the previous tariffs. However, on political grounos, the tariffs of the
largest consumers were not fuMly adjusted to cover ZESA's financial costs. In 1989, ZESA was
not allowed a tariff increase, and the government delayed implementation of the tariff increases
requested by ZESA in both 1990 and 1991. This policy of tariff restraint prevented ZESA from
achieving the project's 30% investment self-financing target, amended to 40% under the Power



II project in 1989. The actual self-financing ratios achieved were zero in FY88 and FY90 and
18% in FY89. In 1990, taiffs were about 30%o below an updated estimate of economic cost.
32. The study found gasoline prices to be above economic cost, assuming a shadow foreign
exchange rate of up to 100%, but diesel oil and kerosene prices to be below economic cost even
at a lower shadow rate of 50o. It recommended that diesel prices be raised to full import parity
at a shadow rate of 100% and that kerosene prices be raised to the financial cost of supply.
*These recommendations have not been implemented. On coal prices, the study recommended
changing the pricing of power station coal from a fixed price per tonne basis to a two-part
formula: an agreed minimum quantity on a take-or-pay basis and additional quantities on a per-
tonne basis. This recommendation has been implemented. The project therefore did not fully
achieve its objective of rationalizing all energy prices. This was due to a combination of the
politically sensitivity of the required changes and the relatively weak leverage of the Bank on the
Government, which was not the borrower. The lessons are that pricing should be addressed
earlier in the project cycle, preferably before implementation, and that a project loan is not an
effective vehicle for achieving policy changes in a whole sector.
33.  The project's fourth objective was to improve the organization and planning of the power
sector. By supporting the establishment of ZESA and of a Corporate Planning Unit within
ZESA, it has achieved this objective. ZESA has developed considerable generation and
transmission planning capability and now effectively coordinates planning of the power sector.
34.  The objecives of the project were expanded during implementation to include financing
major maintenance and improving the operating performance of Hwange Power Station and
selective reinforcement and extension of the power distribution system. While the perod of
analysis is short, availability data for Hwange over the past four fiscal years (Table 1) suggest
some improvement has been achieved, particularly if allowance is made for the fact that one
generator was out of service for much of FY90 due to a transformer failure. ZESA was also able
to expand and modernize its distribution maintenance fleet with the vehicle funds provided under
the project and to undertake some modest investments to rehabilitate parts of the ageing
underground urban distribution systems and to marginally extend the systems. The vehic.le and
undergrouLrJ cable investments have contributed to the maintenance of a relatively high level of
distribution system reliability and the extension investments have helped to alleviate a small
portion of the backlog of requests for new power supply. The project therefore appears to have
achieved its supplementary objectives.
Table 1: Availability of Hwange Power Station
(Percentages)
FY88    FY89    FY90       FY91
71.9     82.1     72.3     87.8
35.  The economic rate of return estimated at appraisal was 12.2%. Using a similar
methodology, the rate of return on completion is estimated to be 13.1%. Relative to the
appraisal estimates, actual electricity demand growt, and consequently investment in the power



- 10 -
system over the 1981-91 period, have both been substantially below forecast. However, in terms
of their impact on the ERR, the deviations from forecast of the costs and benefits have in effect
roughly canceled each other out, leaving the ERR close to the appraisal estimate.
IL PojeSt
36.  The below-target performance of Hwange Power Station, inadequate provision of foreign
exchange for consumables and spares, and the possibility of continued government restraint on
power tariffs and parastatal salaries raise questions about the sustainability of the project
ZESA's financial performance has been consistently inadequate, due largely to govement delay
of or reduction in tariff increases. This has left ZESA persistently short of operating and capital
investment resources. In the context of preparing the SAL, agreement was reached with the
government that parastatals will in future be allowed to operate on commercial lines. It has been
agreed that a diagnosis of ZESA's performance and means to improve it will be done during 1992
at the latest, and that a more 'hands off' system of govermment oversight wiUl be implemented.
If carried through fully, these changes promise to give ZESA considerably greater freedom to
charge appropriate tariffs and to offer competitive salaries, and should thereby adeviate at least
some of its persistent cash flow and staffing problems.
37.   The performance of Hwange Power Station has shown signs of improvement over the
1987-91 period. This has been due in large part to the devotion of about US$25 million of IBRD
funds from the Power I and Power II projects to major maintenance, spare parts and
consumables, selective upgrade of problem equipment, such as the coal mills, and timely provision
of supplier's services. These funds have effectively substituted for inadequate government
allocations of foreign exchange to ZESA. For the future, Hwange will need regular inputs of
foreign exchange for maintance spares, consumables and an equipment upgrade program
costing at least US$20 million over the next five years alone. On average, these required foreign
exchange inputs will be in the range of US$10-15 million per year in 1990 prices Unless the
structural adjustment program is both sustained and successful, there is a risk that ZESA will not
be able to obtain this quantity of foreign exchange from the central bank and wil not be
permitted to continue funding the expenditures with IBRD borrowing. In that event, Hwange
would be unlikely to achieve its target performance.
38.  Operator performance and the retention of skilled engineers and experenced technicians
at Hwange poses additional threats to a sustained improvement in the station's performance.
There is currently a shortage of qualified and experienced thermal power station engineers on
ZESA's staff and particularly at Hwange. This is due to a combination of rapid growth in
generation engineering staff needs during the 1980s, the phasing out of expatriate engineers in
1990, and to relatively unattractive salares due to government wage control With funding from
Power II, ZESA has taken the constructive step of concluding service contracts with the suppliers
of major equipment at Hwange, which should compensate to some degree for the loss of
expatriate engineers. It is also expanding its engineering training programs. An essential further
step is salaiy improvement, which will require the government to eliminate its de facto wage
control. Ihis must be a component of the operations agreement that the government has
indicated it will negotiate with ZESA as part of the Structural Adjustment Program.



- IL -
L Bank Perfiomanoe
39.  Bank participation in the project was critical to completion of the financing plan for
Hwange II and thus to construction of the station close to the orginal schedule. Considering that
this was the first IBRD power loan to Zimbabwe after a lonr hiatus in lending due to UDI, and
that the borrower was unfamiliar with Bank procedures, Bank implementation performance
appears to have been largely satisfactory. Some delays in procurement due to the bofrower not
following Bank procedure might have been lessened by more intensive supervision and detailed
briefing on procurement procedures at the early stages of the project. More intensive supervision
at the site might also have helped to identify and rectify some of the problems with coordination
of the civil and electrmechanical work that emerged during the construction phase.
40. Hwange II was already committed and part of the financing arranged before the Bank
became actively involved in the project. Consequently there was little incentive or opportunity
for the Bank to question at this late stage the demand forecasts for Zambia and Zimbabwe,
which subsequently were to prove extremely optimistic and on which the timing of Hwange II was
based. Relative to historc trends, and in the immediate aftermath of independence, the forecast
demand growth for Zimbabwe presumably seemed relatively conservative - 7% per year,
compared with 9% per year during the 1970s So even a more critical review would probably not
have led the Bank to reject the forecast.
41.  The inaccwacy in the cost estimate also appears to have been an unavoidable error, as it
was due to large currency fluctuations that were extremely difficult to predict. The substantial
foreign cost saving in US Dollars that resulted worked in Zimbabwe's fivor by leaving a large
surplus in the IBRD loan which the government, ZESA and the Bank were able to agree to use
for statutory overhauls, critical spares and selective upgrading at Hwange and for priority
investments in the distribution system, which were essential to maintain adequate'and reliable
power supply and hence for achievement of the project's objectives. These additional
expenditures on Hwange proved particularly beneficial during the lengthy interruption in Zambian
imports that occurred in 1989 and 1990, due to a major fire at the Kafue Gorge Power Station,
when Hwange was required to operate at maximum attainable capacity over an extended period.
They are doing so again in the 1990s with reduced hydro generation due to the drought.
J. Borrower Performam
42. Design oversight was a responsibility that the borrower was unfortunately not well
equipped to execute in view of its lack of experience with the design and operation of large-scale
thermal power stations. Thus its input to the design was less active and informed than was
necessary.
43. The borrower's performance on project implementation appears to have been relatively
good, particularly as Hwange I was under construction simultaneously with Hwange II and the
power subsector was undergoing a fundamental reorganization durng the latter stages of the
projecL All the detailed work of supervising Hwange I was of course performed by consultants,
which left the borrower responsible for consultant oversight and liaison with the financiers.
44.  Delays in obtaining work permits for expatrate staff and in customs clearance were the
result of cumbersome government regulations, not inefficiency on the part of the borrower.
Delays in the transport of heavy plant to the site were due partly to poor relations between the



- 12 -
Governments of Zimbabwe and Botswana, through whose territory the plant was originally to be
shipped.
45.  A review of the Hwange I's operational performance over the 1987-91 period suggests
that the borrower's performance in operating the station has not been fully satisfactory.
However, the assessment must take account the complexity of the task and the environment in
which it has been performed. The Hwange station's target annual output was S50OGWh. The
maximum output achieved to date was 5100GWh in FY91. Some of the performance shortfall
has been due to the design problems and foreign exchange shortages mentioned above, which
were out of the borrower's control. The performance of the expatriate operations support
engineers in the areas of maintenance documentation, operations planning and staff training was
also below expectations. Some of the shortfall has however been due to avoidable operator
errors by ZESA staff, such as those that caused serious damage to a generator transformer, to
delays in identifying and dealing with technical problems, and to inadequate maintenance, which
are ultimately the responsibility of the borrower.
46. The principal lesson to be learned is that projects involving technologies as complex as
Hwange II are difficult to implement successfully in an environment such as Zimbabwe, where
local experience with the technologies is limited, foreign exchange is scarce and often tied, which
leads to technical compromises in design and delays in problem solving, and where support
services are geographically distant. While the operations support component was designed to
overcome the borrower's operational inexperience, it was not fully successful in this regard.
K. Project Relationship
47. Bank-Borrower cooperation in project implementation was generally satisfactory,
particularly when account is taken of its complexity and the newness of the relationship.
Procurement delays might have been reduced by an early and more thorough briefing of the
borrower on the Bankes procurement procedures, which has since been done.
48   Bank cooperation with the government was less successful. Agreement could not be
reached to implement the recommendations of the energy pricing study fuUly and in a timely
manner. The Government did not sanction power tarff increases sufficient for ZESA to satisfy
the project's financial conditionality. Nearly nine years after the target date, the Ministry of
Energy still does not have a capable power system planner on its staff. However in contrast, the
government did move relatively quickly and effectively, with the Bank's help to reorganize the
power sector and to establish a national power utility, which has contributed to improved sectoral
organization and planning.
L  Perfrmance of the Consltant
49. While the performance of the Engineering Consultant was judged to be satisfactory in
many respects, the borrower commented that project monitoring and progress reporting were not
as thorough as it wished, which meant that complete and up-to-date cost reports and projections
were not available on a timely basis. Change orders and contractors' claims were also not ahlays
dealt with expeditiously. Cooperation and communication between the consultant and the civil
works contractor was not judged to be fully satisfactory and to be the cause of some delay in
completion of the civil works. These issues were addressed during project supervision.



_ 13 -
50. In view of the heavy reliance on tied funding, the scope for design amendments and for
supplementary expenditure at the initiative of the consultant was very limited, so it is not
reasonable to hold the consultant responsible for the station's design weaknesses. On the other
hand, it is not evident that the consultant identified and pressed for action on the design
weaknesses that have subsequently affected station performance, such as the inadequate capacity
of the coal mlls and cooling system and poor design of the coal milling plant.
*           51.   Allowing for the station's design problems, the limited financial means to correct them,
political pressures to promote newly-trained station staff prematurely, and the shortage of slalled
local staff, the performance of the operations support consultant responsible for station
*           management until Pcember 1990 is judged to have been satisfactory overall. However, the
consultant's performance was criticized by the Borrower in several areas, particularly the quality
of training provided, employee relations and the adequacy of maintenance documentation. While
these criticisms may be justified, the Borrower may have contributed to them through
insufficiently close supervision, acquiescence to early promotions and other worker demands, and
through delayed payment for some of the services.
K  Project Dcmenat  and Data
52.  The provisions of the Loan Agreement covered most of the major sectoral policy issues
and areas of borrower performance relevant to project implementation, such as the achievement
of adequate financial performance, employment of sufficient qualified staff, use of appropriate
xperts, etc. Monitormg of the financial cvenants and enforcement of the related action
timetable were hampered first by the lack of separate accounts for the Municipal Electricity
Departments and then by the reorganization of the power subsector that occurred mid-way
through project implementation. A unified accounting system had to be developed for the new
utility, which was a demanding and time consuming activity for ZESA's financial staff. It caused
considerable delay in the production of financial reports and in asset revaluation, which limited
the Bank's ability to monitor ZESAIs financial situation. This in turn delayed efforts to correct
ZESA's inadequate financial performance during the last four years of project implementation.
53.  The inability of the borrower to retain qualified staff, due primariy to Government control
over salaries, was not addressed effectively through the loan conditionality. General language in
the Loan Agreement calling for the utility to employ adequate numbers of qualified staff was not
of itself sufficient to alter public sector-wide Government policy. This continued problem
reduced both the effectiveness of project implementation and the scale of project benefits.
*           S4.  The Staff Appraisal Report provided a satisfactory framework for guiding implementation
of the project as originally defined. The components added later following the completic- of
Hwange II were agreed and costed jointly by the borrower and the Bank and defined in a side
letter to the original legal documents
55.  The data required for preparation of the PCR were available from the borrower.
However, considerable effort was required by the last supervsion mission to prepare the final cost
estimate due to the borrower's inadequate cost recording system. In future projects, cost
recording systems need to be more carefully set up and closely monitored.



- 14 -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
ZD.BABWE
POWER I
,La 2212-IND)
PART IL PROJECT REVIEW FROM BORROWER'S PERSPECIVE
Comments an Part I
56.  Pra. 16: Annual firm energy Erom the Kariba Complex was reduced to 6000 GWh with
effect from August 1990 due to lower Kanba Lake leveL It is reliably learnt that this will be
further reduced to 5000 GWh from August 1992 to July 1993 because of the poor rains.
57.  P.a. 23: The increase in the project cost could also be attributed to the delays in
construction and the less than adequate provisions in agreements entered into between ZESA
and the contractor, which led to abnormal increases in costs.
5&    Para 31: ZESA has negotiated with Wankie Cofliezy a new coal pricing formula which
has two main components, a fixed monthly cost and a variable direct cost on a per ton basis. This
formula, which came into effect in July 1991, ensures that the Colliery's fixed costs are covered
and offers an incentive to ZESA not to order coal quantities below a certain minimum
Bank's Performance
59.  The performance of World Bank in managng the Power I Project was satisfactory overaL
'The time taken to approve contracts and for processing of applications for withdrawals and
special commitments was consistent throughout the duration of the loa-
60.  The processing of disbursement applications was only delayed where applications were
inaccurately completed or lacked proper supporting documentation. The Bank was quick to point
out such inadequacies for ZESA to rectify.
61.   The Bank was very responsive to queries on the status of applications submitted to it.
This was quite helpful in keeping suppliers informed about the status of their payments.
62 The Bank was cooperative in ensuring that the unutilized loan balance of US$40 milion
was not forfeited when the loan expired in June 1988. The Bank agreed to six monthly
etensions of the loan until the final drawing in January 1991. These extensions enabled
payments to be made to suppliers despite delays in placing orders or delays in delivery by
suppliems. At one stage, the World Bank even agreed to effect disbursements agaimst bankers
guarantees provided by suppliers so that all the loan monies could be utilized within the validity
period of the loan. As a result, ZESA was able to purchase vital spares for Hwange Power
Station, vehicles for opera ons, distnbution material and communications equipment.



- 15 -
63.  To meet the high demand for electricity in Zimbabwe, the Zimbabwe Govnment
apprved the construction of Hwange Power Station Stage I in 1972. This was the fist thermal
power station to be built in Zimbabwe since the mid 19SOs.
64.  Ihe station was built in two stages The construction of Stage I commenced in 1973, was
suspended in 1975 and resumed in 1980. Consequently, Stage I represents technologies of the
late 1960s. In contrast, Stage II, which received Government appnl in 1982, icpot more
modem design practices. Stage It consists of 2 x 220 MW units which were commissioned in
1986.
65.  hbe commissioning of the two units made the country self sufficient in electrical energy.
Imports from Zambia were then suspended, but subsequently resumed in November 1987, for
economic reasons. It was now posslble to economicaily dispatch the system without compromising
the reliability and security.of the system.
66.  In 1987, a shap deterioration in the performance of Hwange Power Station was noted.
Three independent teams of consultants were commissioned to carry out technical audits. These
revealed a consistent set of inhbiting factors to performance, including design shortfal,
particularly with respect to inadequate capacity of ancillary plant components and systems like
the cooling water system and the station electical supplies; unsatisfactory plant layout for access,
In-service inspections and maintenance; improper materials selection in relation to the available
coal quality; inadequate technical and managerial skills; cumbersome institutional procedures for
the acquisition of essential resources; an inadequate technological base int he country to support
the technologies in use at the station; and the persistent chronic shortage of imported spare parts
and chemicals.
Techni E-
67.  It must be noted that the Hwange Project was the first major project for both ZESA and
the post independence Govermment. Within ZESA, which was in the process of transformation
to comply with the new order, certain organizational changes had to be implemented and this
obviously had some repercussions on the project. The electricity industry restructuring exercise
midway through the Project also introduced new ideas and methods which obviously affected
some of the established in-house systems and procedures. Put differently, it is true that the
Project was affected by the continued changes of ZESA in-house project staff
6&   To aid the ZESA staff in the Construction Division, in-house technical support staff were
employed from overseas utilities, notably from Electricity Supply Board, Ireland, from October
1983. They worked on the construction and commisioning of the Hwange Stage 2 project with
an equal number of Zimbabwean understudies.
69.  During the design and erection of Stage 2, approximately 30 ZESA engineers, divided into
three groups, spent six months on a training and plant familiarization course with the Central
Electricity Generating Board in Britain and a subsequent six months with the main consultants
for the project, at their offices in Newcastle-Upon-Tyne. Part of this latter six months was spent



- 16 _
giving the post graduate engineers a grounding in the elements of power station design and
project management work A number of ZESA staff were also trained in project financial
management.
70. During plant commissioning at Hwange, a group of four ZESA station commissioning
engineers worked under station management and alongside the consultant's commissioning stafE
Two ZESA engineers from the Construction Ditision worked on site during this period on
erecion and progress monitoring work with the consultant's stafE
71. The net result of this training, and working alongside the main consultant's staff and staff
from oveseas utilities in all aspects of power statuon design, erection, commissioning and project
management has resulted in a major technology transfer to the ZESA staff which will be of
benefit to ZESA and to Zimbabwe even if some of these trained staff leave ZESA. The project
also provided valuable experience for local contracting firms both in their works and on site.
Project Implementation
72.  There were delays i commencement of the construction program due to revisions in the
seismic design. The premise for early design was that, when Lake Kariba's level stabilized, seismic
activity would not be sustained. This did not happen and critical sections of the Stage 2 works
had to be re-designed to the higher loading.
73.  The construction program was tight with not enough float for interface between end of
erection and commencement of commissioning activities. The programmed date of commissioning
of the first Stage 2 unit was in March 1985, when construction only started in 1982.
74.  There was delay in delivery of turbo-set stations due to lack of suitable road transporter
and problems in organizing a route for these heavy loads.
75.  Ihe turbine house crane was erected in time but commissioning was delayed due to late
commissioning of the crane rails associated with the superstructure delays. In addition, clearance
with ZESA's insurance company and contractors insurance delayed the lifting of new plant over
Stage I plant.
76.  The switch-gear and cabling contract became critical in meeting the requirements of
commissioning the auxiliary plant of the turbo-set contract. In particular, Boiler Feed Pumps
were required to carry out the acid wash of the boiler and first firing thereoo The cold function
tests on the boiler auxiliaries and burner management were all relatively late.
77.  The units were originally designated as 2X200 MW, but on receipt of bids, Ansado stated
that the turbo sets on offer were capable of 220MW. The consultant checked the capacity of the
boilers and found that, with some modifications to the boiler auxiliary plant, the units could be
uprated. This plan was adopted.
78   During comnmissioning of Unit 5, the HP cylinder developed serious steam leaks at about
217 MW. Investigation and repair took three months. At this time, it also transpired that the
turbo sets would not meet the maximum capacity rating of 220 MW. The contractor was then
given access to Unit 6 to carry out modifications to the impulse nozzles before the unit was boxed
up. These modifications should have been done in the works before the turbines were delivered.



- 17 -
Similar work was done on Unit 5. During the modification to uprate the turbines to 220MW, it
was discovered that the inner .P. casings had cracks. These were ground off and the guarantees
were extended up to 1992.
Lgssons Leanwd
79. Unavoidable delays were introduced by the seismic code change, but all other delays could
have been avoided by:
- Better planning and design works.
*- lmely award of contracts to avoid access problems.
Better coordination of the work of various contractors.
- Better transport arrangement for the heavy loads.
- Better construction programming of the switchgear and cabling contracts
to meet the conmmissioning programs of the main boiler and turboset contracts
- Better contract pricing strategy to limit escalation in project costs. A firm CIF
price is preferred.
80.   The project involved over 50 contractors and subcontractors and a total of 15 loans in 8
wrrencies. In cost terms this was usefui, in that it introduced international competitiveness, but
it required exceptional project management sklls from both the consultant and the client.
However, to some extent, the avaflable skills were inadequate and ZESA did not adequately
supervise the consultant. The addition of in-house technical support staff from overseas utdlities
did somewhat alleviate the situation.
81.   The bsence of qualified and experienced ZESA staff at the initial design stage of the
project and during the manufacture, erection, and commissioning stages curtailed technology
transfer. This led to operation and maintenance difficulties.
82. At commissioning, the project had some serious design shortfalls and it is necessary to
carry out follow-on work to strengthen plant performance and reliability. Th is partly as a result
of cost cutting measures, liUmited involvement of the client in the design stage and inadequate
supervision of the contractors by the consultant. It is therefore vety important for a client to be
actively involved in all the stages of designing and implementing a major project such as this one.
83.   Though ZESA instituted monthly progress meetings from early 1983 to identify the roles
and responsibilities during implementation, site labor records were only included from August
1985, a delay which could have been avoided.
84.   Developing countries need to provide adequate resources to support the technology of
the projects they embark on. Critical evaluation of the technology so imported in the context of
available resources is also important.
85.   Fnancing institutions should be encouraged to finance post commissioning resource
requirements in the form of operational and maintenance support.



- 18 -
PROJEC COMPLETION REPORT
ZIMBABWE
POWER I
>anm 212.ZIM)
PART EL STATISTICAL INFORMATION
1. Rdated Bank Lams
LoanjKcdit                 Year of
Tie        P              Appwval   Sab             comments
Power I     Transmission    1988      70% dis-    Physical implementation
and distri-               bursed and  ccessfuL Continued problems
bution                    neaing     with inadequate tariffs and staff
extension                 completion  retention.
sector man-              in mid-
power develop-            1992
ment, upgrading
of generation
facilities
2. Project Tmetabl
Date           Date           Date
Bem                             Ped             Revied        AcS
Identification
Executive Project Summary           10-80           -             10-07-80
Preparation                          11-80           -              11-24-80
Appraisal Mission                     8-81           11i-81         11-09-81
Loan/Credit Negotiations              8-82           -             08-02-82
Board Approval                       12-7-82         -              12-07-82
Loan/Credit Signature                02-83           -             02.09-83
Loan/Credit Effectiveness            06-83           07-83          07-07-83
Loan/Credit Closing                  06-87           10-87, 3-88     06-90
11-89
Loan/Credit Completion               12-87           10-87, 03-88    06-90
11-89
Note: The delays in loan closing and project completion resulted from the decision late in the
original project cycle to extend its scope. This required: (a) agreement on the extended scope
components and procurement methods; (b) preparation of tender documents, bid evaluation and
contracts; and (c) manufacture, shipment, and installation of the additional components In



- 19 -
combination, these processes extnded the project completion date by 2% yers ZESAXs skil
shortages, initial unfamiliariwith the Bank's procurement procedures and some inconsitencies
between the Bank's ptocedures and those of the Government Tender Board, especially
concerning vehicle procurement, delayed the process of tendering and contract award. The
learning experience has facilitated the implementation of the Power II Project.
3. Cumulative Estlmate and Actual Disbursement
*                    (US$ 000)
Year         1983  1984  1985  1986  1987  1988  1989  1990  1991
Apprais       16.0  203   54.0  14.7
Estimate
Actual               11.2  132   10.0  13.5  9.0   10.7  36.6  1.0
Actualas%            55%   24%   68%
of Esdmate
Date of Fmal
Disbumsement January 11, 1991



- 2o -
4. Project Implementation
Appraisal
Indicators                              Estimate                         Actual
Generation
Contract awards/civil works           November 1982                    December 1982
Construction starts                   December 1982                    Jamay 1983
Erection starts                       September 1983                   September 1983
Commissioning of 1st unit             End December 1985                August 1986
Commissioning of 2nd unit             End March 1986                   December 1986
Transmission Line
Iavitation to bid                     October 1982                     August 1982
Bid evaluation                        January 1983                     November 1982
Contract awards                       February 1983                    February 1983
Completion of the 330-kV
transmission line                   November 1985                     December 1985
Studies
Completion of energy
pricing study                       June 30, 1984                     January 1986
Training & Technical Assnce
Completion of taining school          December 31, 1984                June 1987



5. Project Costs and Flnowing
(USS mittion)
A. Project Costs
FIRST POWER PROJECT
Sory of Cost Estlnte
Description                            Originsl Cost Estftte                                     Actuml Cost Estfmlt
Pilion USS                 Million ZMS                    itllion US$                 Uiltion Zi
L        F        T        L        F         T         L         F         T         L         f         T
1. Civit Sorks              29.2      6.9      36.1     20.1      4.8      24.9      3T.3       5.9      43.2      56.3       8.5      64.8
2. oitlers, Turbo
generators, piping       21.9      97.5    119.4     15.1     67.3      82.4      21.3     101.6     122.9      32.0      152.9    184.8
3. Other mech4nical
pLant                     7.8      17.1     24.9      5.4     11.8      17.2       2.0      13.2       15.3      3.0       19.9     22.9
4. Other electrical
ptant                     6.9      14.6    21.5       4.8     10.0      14.8       4.3      15.4      19.7       6.5       23.1     29.S
5. Transmission
line                     26.0     28.4    54.4       17.9     19.6      37.5      14.8       6.7      23.5      22.3       11.8     34.0
6. Engineering               6.6      10.8     17.4      4.6      7.4      12.0       4.0      11.5       1S.S      6.3       17.3     23.5
7. Technical                 3.6      10.9     14.5      2.5      7.5      10.0      15.2      24.2      39.5      25.3       39.6     64.8
Assistance and T
6. Studies                   0.3       1.5      1.8      0.2      1.0       1.2       0.0       0.0       0.0        0.0       0.0      0.0
Sub Total            102.3    187.7   290.0    70.6    129.4    200.0         99.1     180.5    279.6    151.5   M2.9    24.S
9. Contfgencies
Physicat                  6.9      11.6     18.5      4.7      8.0      12.T       0.0       0.0        0.0       0.0       0.0      0.0
Price                    31.6      34.1     65.7     21.8     23.5      45.3       0.0       0.0       0.0        0.0       0.0      0.0
Sub Total            38.5      45.7    84.2      26.5     31.5      58.0       0.0       0.0       0.0        0.0       0.0      0.0
TOTAL COST           140.8   233.4   374.2    97.1    160.9    258.0          99.1     180.5    279.6       151.5   M2.9    424.5
10. Nwange Spares            0.0       0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0       0.0      16.8      23.0      39.8       37.4      51.0     88.4
11. Distribution             0.0       0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0       0.0       2.3      13.S       1S.8       5.2      17.3     22.5
12. Vehicles                 0.0       0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0       0.0       1.1       3.9       s.7       3.8        8.8     12.6
13. Train Si.uator           0.0       0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0       0.0       0.4       1.0        1.4       0.9       2.2      3.0
TOTAL                 0.0       0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0       0.0      21.2      41.3      62.6       47.2      79.2    126.5
CtAND TOTAL          140.8   233.4   374.2    97.1    160.9    258.0    120.3    221.9    342.2    198.7    352.2    550.9
*.      .                                                                       4 



-22 -
B. Project Fhancng1
So,ure                              Planned        %       Final     %
Loan Aggrenent           (US$'OOO)
1BRDJIDA Expenditure Categories     105,000        23      105,000    23
Co-Financing Institutions            40,400         9      21,000     4
Other External Sources              182,800        40      195,960    46
Domestic                            130,200        28      104,920    25
TOTAL                             458,400        100    426,880   100
1 Including interest during construction
6. Project Results
A. Direct Benefits
FY 87                     FY 90
AppraW       Acual        Appras       Actual
Sales (GWH)                   10,681        8,181       12,964       8,852
Max. Demand (MW)               1,880        1,342        2,278       1,538
Hwange Generation (GWH)        5,500        3,442        5,500       4,102
Average Tariff (Zc/kWh)         4.5           4.8          5.3        5.7
Comments:
Sales and system maximum demand did nt increase as rapidly as forecasL This was
primarily the result of ecoitomic growth being much lower than fDrecast due to a combination of
world recession, drought, and inappropriate government policies. Generaion by Hwange Power
Station was also substantially less than forecast in FY87 and FY90. In FY87, this was primarily
due to delayed completion of the Hwange Stage ll facility. In FY90, it was primarily due to
operating problems and equipment failure, particularly the loss of one generation transformer for
most of the year, due to operator error. Average ariffs inraed slightly more rapidly tan
forecast, due mainly to faster-than-projected devaluation of the Zimbabwe dollar, which inreased
debt service costs.



- 23 -
B. Economic Impact
Appraia                  Actual
EAnmate            (At lhnal Development)
*           Rate of Rdurn                     12.2%                       13.1%
Underlying Assumptions:
1. All costs are expressed in 1982 constant prices.
2.  Capital costs consist of the 1982-93 power investent program. Due to slower-han-forecast
demand growth and revision of the least cost development program, the esdmated actual
investment program is substtally smaller and has radically different composition from the
appraisal estimate.
3. Ihe period of analysis was 39 year in the appraisal estimate and 35 years in the actual
esimate.
4. In the appraisal estimate, costs of local unskilled labor, local street and cement and coal were
shadow priced. No inputs were shadow priced in the actual estmate.
5.  The appraisal estmate included residual values for generation investments subquent to
Hwange I and I. As no new generation facilities actually were or will be built between
Hwange H and the end of the investment program period (1993), no residual values were
included in the actual esdmated benefits stream.
Comments:
Actual benefits and costs are estimaed to be substnty less than the appraisal esmates due
to the over-estimation of demand and hence of the required investment program. The similar
proportionate down-sizing of both the benefit and cost streams resulted in an estimated acu
economic rate of return very close to the appraisal esimate.



- 24 -
C. Studies
Studies               Purpoe        Sat                 Impact
Energy Pricing      ntoduce energy  Completed    Cal:   co     ed two tier pricing
prices that would            of power coal intoduced.
encourage use of
enegy with lowest
economic cost                Electrici:  National tariff introduced
10188 with lower cost recovery from
large consumers than recomded.
Zeboumi    Reommended increases in
diesel and kerosene prices not
imlmne.



- 25 -
7. Statwb of CW4ennt
Loan                      Covenant                      Status of Covenmnts/Compliance
3.02(a)        ESC  shall contf"  to  mptloy             yes.
engineering consultants for
*                             preparation of bid documents,
evaluation of bids nd supervision of
construction.                                _-
3.02(b)        ESC shall employ appropriat experts    Yes, untit Rasnge operations
to provice technical assistance to       support terminated in December
mover sector utilities.                   1990.
3.03           ESC shall appoint a project               Yes.
coordinator for construction.
5.02           ESC shall have its accounts audited       No. Accounts have genorally
and furnish certified financial          been aubmitted 2-4 months late.
statements to the Bank not later then
six months after the end of each
fiscal year.                                _
5.04(a)        ESC shall provide adequate assistance    No. Comptiance In rYK and
to the Guarantor in meeting its          FY8, but not in later years.
obligation to produce ftAds from
internal sources to contribute toward
average capital expenditures of 30S
In FY84 AND 502 IN fy85 and 301,
thereafter.
505(b)        ESC shall not incur any debt if the       No.  Compliance only in FY84
total debt incurred and outstanding      and FY5.
is greater than one and one-half
times the capital and surplus of the
ESC.
Guarantee Aareement ___
3.01           The Governrent shall, by June 30,         Vot fulty.  Study cowpleted
1984, complete an energy pricing         1/86. NMet recommendations not
study and upon receipt of Bank's         implemented.
comments, shall iplement the
recommendation by July 1. 1985.                         _
4.02           The Governrent shall maintain and         Power planming adviser
strengthen the power sector platning    appointed 11/85 through 11/8?.
unit and shall eploy advisors to         No successor appointed.
___________   assist the unit by June 30  1983.
4.06           The Government shll take or cause to   No. Goverrment ha
be taken all measures required for        consistently held tarifff below
*                            the Power Sector Utilities to provide   the level necsary for ZESA to
funds from  internl sources to            emplty with the financial
contribute toward average capital         covenants.
expenditures an amount equal to 30X
In  Y64 and 501 in 1985  nd 30X
thefeafter.   _
4.07(b)        Te GovernIent shall ensure that the    No.
Power Sector Utility does not incur
any debt if the total debt incurred
and outstandin is greater than one
and one half times the capital nd
surplus of the Power Sector
Utilities.
4.08           The Government shall ensur  that the    Broadly less. Najor priority
Power Sector Utilities are provided       inveStments have been funded.
with funds required for carrying out    Foreign  xchange for operations
the development program.                 has been in ad ate.



- 26 -
8. Us of 8W  ginak  e
$to" inp.ft - st                                                  - *             =    =_-
1ea              - _98   1983- 1-984  -~   e91  *ss' ''J.L  196   ,m   19s   1991   1992
Presaration     40.6  20.3
AoDraisat         =   47.4    .5    -       -      -     -      -     -      -
Negatatiera=    4.6  22.1
Supervisfan                  31.5   20.7  16.2  15.6   6.4   5.3  23.S   4.8
PCR, _; _ _ _ _ _ _ __1.4 1.6
B. Supervlsion Mision
Days
Number of                                         (All People
Year               Persons            Specialization                  Combined)
1983                 2             1 Engineer                            20
1 Finanancial Analyst
1984                 2             1 Enconomist                          10
1 Financial Analyst                  20
1985                 1             Power Engineer                        10
2             Power Enginee                        10
Financa Analyst
4             Power Engineer                       is
Fimancial Analyst
Econmist
Traing Specit
1986                 3             Power Engin                           1
Fmancial Analyst
Economist
1987                 2             Power Enginee w
Disbursement Office
1988                 1             Economist                             S
S             Energy Ecnomis  (2)                  20
Financial Analyst
Power Engies (2)
1989                 2             Energy Economist                      10
Power Economist



