Document of
The World Bank                         iN
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 3884-ZIM
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
ZIMBABWE
POWER PROJECT
November 16, 1982
Energy Division
Eastern Africa Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



ZIMBABWE
POWER PROJECT
CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
US$ 1.00                             = Zimbabwe dollar (Z$ 0.69)
Z$ 1.00                             = US$ 1.45
Z$ 1.00                             = 100 Zimbabwe cents (Z cts)
Z$ 100                              = US$ 145
Z$ 1,000,000                        = US$ 1,450,000
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 boe                                = barrel of oil equivalent
I meter (m)                          = 3.28 feet
1 square meter (m2)                  = 10.75 square feet
1 square kilometer (km2)             = 0.386 square miles
1 tonne (t)                          = 1,000 kilograms
1 kilovolt (kV)                      = 1,000 volts
I kilowatt (kW)                      = 1,000 watts
1 kilowatt hour (kWh)                = 1,000 watt hours
1 megawatt (MW)                      = 1,000 kilowatts
I gigawatt hour (GWh)                = 1 million kilowatt hours
I calorie (cal)                      = .00397 British thermal units (Btu)
1 kilo calorie (kcal)                = 3.97 Btu
kcal/kg                              = kilocalorie per kilogram
1 liter                              = 1.057 quarts
1 megavolt ampere (MVA)              = 1,000 kilovolt amperes
1 tonne of oil equivalent (toe)    = 10,500,000 kcal
t.p.a.                               = tonne per annum
Hz                                   = cycle per second
GLOSSARY AND ABBREVIATIONS
BMED           - Bulawayo Municipal Electicity Department
CAPC           - Central African Power Corporation
CIDA           - Canadian International Development Agency
CPC             - Copperbelt Power Company
EIB             - European Investment Bank
ESC             - Electricity Supply Commission
GMED           - Gweru (formerly Gwelo) Municipal
Electricity Department
J



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
HAP       - Higher Authority for Power
HMED      - Harare (formerly Salisbury) Municipal
Electricity Department
HCC       - Hwange Colliery Company Limited (formerly Wankie Coliery
Company Limited -WCC)
KNBC      - Kariba North Bank Company
M&M       - Merz and McLellan, Engineering Consultants, U.K.
MIED      - Ministry of Industry and Energy Development
MMED      - Mutare (formerly Umtali) Municipal Electricity
Department
RSA       - Republic of South Africa
SABLE     - Sable Fertilizer Company Limited
SIDA      - Swedish International Development Agency
UDI       - Unilateral Declaration of Independence
ZESCO     - Zambia Electricity Supply Corporation Limited
ZISCO     - Zimbabwe Iron and Steel Corporation Limited
Fiscal Year of the Government, CAPC, ESC, HMED and BMED
July 1 - June 30
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission consisting of
Messrs. J. M. Sneddon and A. Ceyhan. Messrs. A. Alberti and P. Ofosu-Amaah
provided training and legal assistance, and Mr. R. Sheehan gave overall
guidance. The mission visited Zimbabwe in November 1981.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of 1
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.






ZIMBABWE
POWER PROJECT
Table of Contents
I.   THE ENERGY SECTOR
Energy Resources ......................                                1
Hydroelectricity.                                                      1
Coal.                                                                  1
Fuelwood.                                                              2
Solar Energy.                                                         2
Wind Energy.                                                           3
Petroleum.                                                             3
Energy Balance.                                                        3
Organization.                                                          4
Pricing.                                                               5
Petroleum                            .5
Electricity                           .5
Coal    .5
Pricing Study.                                                        6
II.  THE POWER SUBSECTOR
General.                                                               7
Electricity Council.                                                   7
Central African Power Corporation.                                    7
Higher Authority for Power.                                           9
Electricity Supply Commission.                                        9
Municipal Electricity Departments .10
Sector Reorganization .10
Existing Facilities .10
Access to Service and Electrification of Rural Areas .11
Manpower and Training .12
Development of Sector Training Policy and Institutions .12
Urgent Manpower Needs .13
Previous Bank Participation .13
III. THE BORROWER
Organization and Management .14
Accounting and Audit .14
Insurance and Taxes .15
Existing Facilities .15



- ii -
IV. DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM AND THE PROJECT
Demand  and Market ............................................ 16
Development Program .......................................... 18
Project Objectives ........................................... 19
Project Description .......................................... 20
Cost Estimates ............................................... 21
Financing  Plan ............................................... 23
Interest During  Construction ................................. 24
Engineering,  Consultants'  Services  & Project  Implementation. .24
Procurement .................................................. 25
Disbursements ................................................ 26
Project  Monitoring  and Evaluation ............................ 26
Environment .................................................. 26
Risk ......................................................... 27
V.     FINANCIAL  ANALYSIS
Financial  Interdependence .................................... 28
Past  Financial  Results  and  Current Position .................. 28
Electricity  Supply  Commission ................................ 28
Central African  Power  Corporation ............................ 29
HMED and BMED .........................................                                  31
Sector Financing  Plan ........................................ 31
Tariffs .........................................                                 32
Future Operations ....................................... 33
Rates  of Return ......................................... 34
Liquidity .........................................                                34
Debt .........................................                                    34
ESC's  Financing  Plan .........................................   34
ESC's  Debt .........................................                              36
Sector Financial Organization ................................ 36
Revaluation  of  Assets ........................................ 36
VI. PROGRAM AND PROJECT JUSTIFICATION
Need  for Project ............................................. 37
Least  Cost Development  Program ............................... 37
Internal Rate  of Return ...................................... 38
Long Range  Marginal  Costs .................................... 39
VII.  AGREEMENTS REACHED  AND  RECOMMENDATION ........................ 40



LIST OF ANNEXES
ANNEX 1.1   Coal Resources and Hwange Colliery
1.2   Energy Supply/Demand Balance - 1980
2.1   Organization Chart of the Power Sector
2.2   Statistical Data - Generation and Supply by CAPC to
Zimbabwe and Zambia
2.3   Statistical Data - Bulk Supply and Sales in Zimbabwe
2.4   Installed Capacity
2.5   Manpower and Training
3.1   Organization Chart of the ESC
4.1   Load Forecast for Zimbabwe
4.2   Forecast Balances of Capacity and Energy - Zambia and Zimbabwe
4.3   Installed, Firm Capacity and Maximum Demand of
Zimbabwe System
4.4   Construction Expenditure - FY82-91
4.5   Description of Hwange II Power Station
4.6   Estimate of Coal Consumption at Hwange I, II and
III Power Stations
4.7   Project Cost Estimate
4.8   Implementation Schedule
4.9   Disbursement Schedule
4.10 Project Monitoring Guidelines
5.1   CAPC Historic Income Statements, Funds Flow Statements and
Balance Sheets, FY79-81
5.2   ESC Historic Income Statements, Funds Flow Statements and
Balance Sheets, FY79-81
5.3   Sector Forecast Income Statements, Funds Flow Statements and
Balance Sheets, FY82-91
5.4   ESC Forecast Income Statements, Funds Flow Statements and
Balance Sheets, FY82-91
5.5   Assumptions in Financial Forecasts, FY82-91
6.1   Least Cost Solutions at Discount Rates of 6% and 10%
6.2   Basis for Calculation of Internal Rate of Return
7.1   Selected Documents and Data Available in the Project File.
Map IBRD 15381R1 Zimbabwe Power System Development as of June 30, 1981






1. THE ENERGY SECTOR
Energy Resources
1.01      The principal indigenous sources of energy in Zimbabwe are
hydropower, coal and wood fuel. All petroleum products are currently
imported and geological information on the country indicates that the
discovery of petroleum is unlikely. Ethanol, which is produced from sugar,
is blended with gasoline.  Some potential exists for the development of
solar and wind energy.
Hydroelectricity
1.02      The Zambezi, which forms Zimbabwe's northern border with Zambia,
is the only river whose hydroelectric potential has currently been
defined. Additional potential within the country is estimated to be small
as most of the rivers have low flows and no large storage sites.  The Sabi
river in the east has some hydro possibilities but they have not been
investigated.  The Limpopo river, which forms the border with the Republic
of South Africa (RSA) in the south, may also have some potential but need
to be studied.
1.03      The Zambezi's hydro sites were studied first because the
river clearly offers the largest hydro-potential in the country. The
Kariba Hydro Complex 1/ was the first large site to be developed and has
been operating since 1960. A much smaller station was also developed
at Victoria Falls, beginning in the early fifties. The estimated power
potential of the Zambezi River on the border between Zimbabwe and Zambia
totals on average, about 37,000 GWh annually (9.3 million toe) 2/ of which
10,600 GWh (2.7 million toe) has already been exploited at Kariba and
Victoria Falls, is expected to be fully exploited by the year 2010, based
on current load forecasts. The power potential is shared equally with
Zambia. Zimbabwe's share is therefore 18,500 GWh (4.7 million toe).
Coal 3/
1.04      Zimbabwe has large coal reserves and has traditionally used them
well. Resources in 24 coalfields are estimated at 29 billion tonnes in
situ of which only about 2.2 billion tonnes, or 7.5 % of the total, can be
classified as proven recoverable reserves. The only productive coal mine
in Zimbabwe is the Hwange Colliery (formerly Wankie Colliery - the site of
the proposed project), which produces about 3.2 million tonnes of coal
annually. The average seam thickness at Hwange is 7 to 10 m of which the
bottom 2 to 5 m comprises coking coal with high volatile elements, the only
1/ Partially financed by the Bank.
2/ Tonnes of oil equivalent.
3/  Additional information is contained in Annex 1.1 and IBRD Report
No.3765-ZIM, June 1982 - "Zimbabwe: Issues and Options in the Energy
Sector".



- 2 -
portion of the seam that is currently mined.  In the strip mines, thermal
coal above the coking coal is stripped, dumped as waste, intermixed with
the overburden and the high pyrite content causes about 2 million tonnes to
be lost by spontaneous combustion each year.
1.05      Coal supplies about 32% or the largest proportion of Zimbabwe's
energy requirements (para.1.13) mainly for steelmaking, smelting, power
generation, railways and other industrial uses. Power generation will be
the biggest coal consumer averaging about 2 million tonnes annually, when
the Hwange I (480 MW), II (440 MW) and III (400 MW) power stations (para.
4.06) which will burn the thermal coal presently dumped as waste, are
developed. The possibility of exporting coal exists but transport
constraints on the railways and coal handling restrictions at the ports of
Maputo and Beira in Mozambique render coal exports a long term prospect.
Fuelwood
1.06      Wood is the most important source of energy for both rural and
urban households but wood resources have been depleted both in several of
the urban and the old, densely populated rural settlements. To combat the
depletion the Government encourages afforestation based on communal and
commercial woodlots. Wood is expected to remain the principal energy source
in the rural areas for at least the next 20 years as during this period a
significant shift to alternative sources of energy is not expected.
Fuelwood supplies about 28% or the second largest share of Zimbabwe's total
energy demand with consumption estimated at about 6.4 million m3 (1978) in
total, of which about 4.7 million m3 or 73% were used in rural households,
1.0 million m3 or 16% in urban households and 0.7 million m3 or 11% in
agriculture.
1.07      Zimbabwe's natural vegetation is predominately dry woodland and
savannah. Productivity of wood is low with only about 73 m /ha being
recovered from woodlands on a once only cut basis which compares with 600
m3/ha from other forests in Africa (Uganda, Zaire, Ghana, etc). The
woodlands therefore represent a fragile resource base for woodfuel and
improved methods of using woodfuel more economically are being explored,
particularly a changeover to charcoal which is not traditional in Zimbabwe
and any change is therefore likely to take a long time.
Solar Energy
1.08      The potential for using solar energy is large as most parts of
the country receive over 2,800 sunshine hours per annum and the annual mean
daily radiation is estimated between 470 and 510 cal/cm2, a high figure
compared to other countries. Government interest in solar energy has
resulted in the commercial manufacture of solar water heaters which have
been evaluated at the University of Zimbabwe, and installed in some of the
Government hostels, houses and clinics.   Solar preheaters have also been
developed and used successfully for curing tobacco but solar energy has
limited commercial prospects in Zimbabwe and is not expected to affect the
energy demand and mix significantly during the next decade.



-3-
Wind Energy
1.09      South-easterly winds blowing across the lowveld onto the central
plateau (the highveld) offer wind energy potential. The Meteorological
Department's records show fairly good availability along the highveld
(areas surrounding Bulawayo, Que Que, Gatooma, etc.), where high wind
speeds occur from July through October. Windmills have been used on remote
farms for pumping water in the past.   Expanded use of windpumps for
borehole water appears feasible and the Government proposes to promote
their use.
Petroleum
1.10      Current petroleum needs are met by rail and road imports through
the Republic of South Africa (RSA), a situation that has existed since 1966
when the Feruka refinery at Mutare and the pipeline from Beira to the
refinery were shut down due to the blockade of crude oil supplies following
the Smith regime's Unilateral Declaration of Independence (UDI). During
the latter years of the war which followed, petroleum imports fell at an
average annual rate of 2.9%, mainly due to rationing and petroleum products
supplied only 11.5% of energy requirements in 1980, a small proportion
when compared with other countries.
1.11      Consumption of liquid fuels comprises liquified petroleum gas,
gasoline, aviation kerosene, illuminating kerosene and diesel oil which are
all imported through RSA.  No fuel oil is used in the country.  Ethanol,
about 40 million liters of which are produced locally from the distillation
and dehydration of fermented sugar cane juice and molasses, is blended with
petrol in the proportion of 15:85 of ethanol and gasoline respectively.
Government reopened the Beira - Mutare pipeline in 1982 to lower the cost
of imports and to reduce reliance on transit through RSA.
1.12      The Government is proposing to undertake a study with Bank
assistance to identify Zimbabwe's options for the supply of petroleum
products and enable the Government to consider future energy projects in an
effort to minimize the cost of petroleum.
Energy Balance
1.13      The large commercial agriculture and industrial sectors make
Zimbabwe a relatively high energy consuming country (about 5.28 barrels of
oil equivalent (boe) per capita in 1980)4/; total energy consumption
amounted to 5,874 thousand toe. Indigenous sources (coal, wood, hydropower
and ethanol) satisfy most of the energy demand. Nevertheless, 23% of
energy was imported in 1980, of which 11.5% was electricity and 11.5%
petroleum products at a cost of 22.6% of export earnings.
1.14      Zimbabwe must make efficient use of local energy resources.  The
first step taken by the Government was to reopen the oil pipeline from
Beira to Mutare to transport refined products until a decision is reached
on whether to rehabilitate the existing refinery.  Transport costs via RSA
4/ Tanzania 0.28, Zaire 0.18.



- 4 -
will be saved.  As a follow up to the Bank Energy Assessment Mission,
the potential impact of the energy conservation on the industrial
electricity demand was studied during an energy audit and a potential
saving of 70 MW by generation from waste heat and byproducts was
identified, however preliminary investigations show that most of these
savings would not be economically justified. Nevertherless, the amount of
energy to be recovered from waste heat and byproducts is significant and it
is recommended that the Government continues feasibility studies on this
issue (para. 4.02).   Details of the energy balance for FY80 are given in
Annex 1.2.
Organization
1.15      The organization of the energy sector is fragmented.  The
electric power subsector is controlled by the Ministry of Industry and
Energy Development (MIED) and comprises the publicly owned Central African
Power Corporation (CAPC) 5/, the Electricity Supply Commission (ESC) and
the electricity departments of the cities of Harare(formerly Salisbury)
Bulawayo, Mutare (formerly Umtali) and Gweru (formerly Gwelo). Because of
their overall responsibilities for planning and control of coal, the
Ministries of Economic Planning and Development and of Mining also have an
interest in the power subsector. Major private companies engaged in the
exploration of coal include Shell, Rio Tinto, Goldfields, and
Anglo-American but only Anglo-American has so far developed any area
(Hwange coalfield).   Exploration licences are granted for three years and
then lapse if development does not occur. In the petroleum subsector,
pricing and distribution policies are administered by the Ministry of Trade
and Commerce and the Zimbabwe Oil Procurement Consortium (ZOPC) 6/, while
imports and marketing are handled by five private marketing companies. The
Industrial Development Corporation is responsible for fostering the
development of alternative liquid fuels (ethanol and methanol) by
undertaking feasibility studies, and giving assistance to potential private
investors. The administrative responsibilities for fuelwood are unclear
and are spread over a number of agencies.
1.16      The uncoordinated administration of the power subsector has
caused problems in planning and project implementation but the individual
organizations supply electricity efficiently and operate well under the
existing structure (see paras.2.01-2.12). However, overall sector planning
is lacking and the central planning unit for the subsector needs to be
strengthened (para. 2.15).  The administration of other subsectors requires
improved coordination among the various ministries, and the concentration
of energy sector policy responsibility in a strengthened MIED.
5/ Owned jointly with the Government of Zambia.
6/  ZOPC consists of Shell, B.P., Caltex, Total and Mobil.



-5-
Pricing
1.17      Petroleum: Government pricing policy is to reflect import costs
fully.  This has generally been the case.  However, since mid-1981
petroleum product prices have been below import cost because the Government
has been depleting a stabilisation fund inherited from the UDI period.
Prices are expected to fully reflect import cost when the fund is fully
taken. The recent reopening of the Beira pipeline will reduce the cost of
transport and assist in bringing stability to product prices. Petrol and
diesel oil price stability is also important to avoid distortion in
petroleum product demand.
1.18      Electricity:  Power tariffs are low in Zimbabwe because they are
mainly based on the historical asset and debt servicing needs of Kariba
which was constructed in the late fifties and early sixties. The average
retail selling price per kWh at end FY81 was Zcts 1.67 (UScts 2.42) the
lowest level in Eastern Africa. A surcharge of 20% was imposed on
January 1, 1981, to help fund the local costs of the Hwange I project and
additional increases are required to approach the economic cost of power
and generate the local funds needed to finance the large sector development
program that is in prospect (paras. 4.06-4.11 and 5.13). Demand would be
affected by only about 5% by a doubling of existing tariff levels.  The
structure and level of the tariffs encourages power-intensive industries,
such as the production of ammonia by electrolysis of water which is
probably an uneconomic use of electric power.  Feasibility studies in
future ought to use the marginal price as the cost of electricity in the
economic evaluation of any project (paras.1.20 and 5.19).
1.19      Coal:  Coal and coke prices are regulated under the Coal Price
Agreement signed by the Government and Hwange Colliery Company Limited
(HCC), on September 1, 1975, which will expire on August 31, 1995. Prices
are set to permit the Company a 12.5% return on historical capital
employed 7/ and an additional 5% on export sales.  The rates of return
allowed are probably inadequate to encourage investment in the sector and
Government may need to reconsider coal pricing policies for industry and
the power stations (para. 5.18) following the pricing study.
1.20      The thermal coal to be used to fuel the Hwange I (under
construction) and Hwange II (proposed project) power stations is currently
discarded and lost (para. 1.04). The economic price of the thermal coal
could therefore be only the cost of transport from the mine to the power
station (about Z cts 60 (US cts 87) per tonne at 1981 price levels).
However, in anticipation of substantial sales of thermal coal, the Hwange
Colliery Company (para. 1.04) has invested about Z$132 (US$191) million
partly financed by IFC (para. 4.14) to change mining methods and save
operating costs of about Z$ 4 (US$5.8) million annually. A portion of the
investment may be recoverable from sales of thermal coal. The Government
and HCC review internal coal prices in Zimbabwe annually and have agreed a
7/ Capital employed is defined as net book value of fixed assets and
inventories.



- 6 -
price of Z$ 9.64 (US$13.98) per tonne for thermal coal for 1982 and
substantial increases are anticipated to include cost recovery of the new
investment for 1983 and subsequent years. Uncertainty exists regarding the
opportunity cost of thermal and other types of coal in Zimbabwe, the
allocation of costs among them and whether opportunity pricing would permit
Government to capture some economic rent from coal. In these
circumstances, Government agreed during negotiations to maintain the price
of steam coal for the Hwange Power Station at Z$ 9.64 (US$13.98)/tonne in
real terms pending the recommendations on coal pricing that will arise from
the Energy Pricing Study.
Pricing Study
1.21      A comprehensive study of energy prices is required to assist
Government in devising national energy policies and plans to make the
optimal economic use of the country's energy resources. During
negotiations the Government's agreement was obtained to commission an
energy pricing study covering petroleum, coal, electricity and woodfuel.
Provision for the necessary consulting services is included in the proposed
project (para. 4.13). The consultants would be required inter alia, to
investigate the least economic cost of providing energy for various
end-uses and recommend price/tariff structures for each source. The terms
of reference for this study were given to Government during negotiations
and their comments are awaited. The study would lead to energy prices
appropriately adjusted to encourage use of energy with the lowest economic
cost in industry, mines, agriculture, commerce and households.
Government's agreement was also obtained during negotiations that the study
would be completed by June 30, 1984 and to implement agreed recommendations
by July 1, 1985.



- 7 -
II. THE POWER SUBSECTOR
General
2.01      The power subsector is controlled by MIED (para. 1.15) and
comprises the Electricity Council, the publicly-owned Central African Power
Corporation (CAPC), the Hligher Authority for Power (HAP), the Electricity
Supply Commission (ESC) and the electricity departments of the cities of
Harare (HMED), Bulawayo (BMED), Mutare (MMED) and Gweru (GMED). The
Ministries of Economic Planning and Development, and Mining also have an
interest in the sector because of their respective roles in overall
planning and in the mining of coal.  The sector organization chart is shown
in Annex 2.1.
Electricity Council
2.02      The Electricity Council was created under the Electricity Act
(Chapter 282, 1956) by the Government of the Federation of Rhodesia and
Nyasaland. It operates at present on the basis of the Act, as amended in
1979, and has a minimum of three and a maximum of five members appointed by
the Minister responsible for industry and energy development. Not more
than half the members may come from the public service and members of the
legislature are disqualified from appointment as members of the Council.
2.03      The responsibilities of the Council are to advise the Minister on
matters related to the generation and supply of electricity in Zimbabwe
including tariffs and licenses.  The Council has performed a useful role
and operates effectively.
Central African Power Corporation (CAPC)
2.04      CAPC was established by an Order-in-Council of the United Kingdom
dated December 20, 1963, and derives its powers from this Order and from
identical legislation enacted in the then Territory of Northern Rhodesia
and the then Colony of Southern Rhodesia. CAPC, now owned jointly with the
Government of Zambia, is a modern public utility with a high degree of
autonomy with powers to establish bulk power tariffs in Zimbabwe. It owns
and operates the Kariba Complex including the dam, the Kariba South
Station, the 330-KV high voltage transmission network in both countries,
but does not own the Kariba North Bank Station which was commissioned in
May 1976 and is owned by the Kariba North Bank Corporation (KNBC), a
Zambian corporation. 8/ CAPC is empowered inter alia to direct the
8/ The North Bank station (600 MW) is owned by KNBC a company formed as a
result of the complicated arrangements which were entered into in 1970,
since it was not feasible (in view of UDI) for CAPC to borrow from
multilateral lending agencies to finance the construction of the
plant.  CAPC was however appointed agent for the construction of the
station which is leased to CAPC and is managed as part of the
interconnected system.  CAPC made a loan to KNBC to cover all the local
costs and the rent it pays on the lease covers the entire debt service
of KNBC to the Bank, as well as administrative costs of KMBC.



- 8 -
operation of other publicly-owned generating stations connected to the CAPC
transmission system in the two countries to ensure that available
generating capacity is efficiently utilized.  CAPC's governing body is the
Higher Authority for Power (HAP) whose functions are described in paras.
2.08 and 2.09.
2.05      CAPC operates the bulk power grid in both countries from a
control station located at Sherwood in Zimbabwe. 9/ The Sherwood Center
in addition to the Kariba Complex, also determines the operational
parameters and controls:
(i) in Zimbabwe, the generation from the Umniati, Harare and Bulawayo
power stations, owned and operated by ESC 10/, HMED and BMED,
respectively;
(ii)  in Zambia, the generation from the thermal power stations owned
and operated by the Copperbelt Power Company (CPC), and the Kafue
and Victoria Falls hydroelectric stations, owned and operated by
the Zambia Electricity Supply Corporation (ZESCO);
(iii) the importation of power from Zambia to Zimbabwe; and
(iv)  the exchange of power between Zambia and Zaire.
2.06      In Zimbabwe, the costs of operation of all thermal power stations
(Umniati, Harare and Bulawayo coal-fired power stations) are reimbursed by
CAPC which then sells, at wholesale, the electricity generated from Kariba
(Zimbabwe's share), the Zimbabwe thermal plants and imported from Zambia,
to ESC, HMED, and BMED. During FY81, CAPC supplied 7,147 GWh to these
customers in Zimbabwe (Annex 2.2).
2.07      In the past CAPC had operated in Zambia under similar agreements
to those which exist in Zimbabwe.  But as of July 1, 1977, the two
Governments, pursuant to a Memorandum of Understanding, agreed to modify
the operating and financial procedures for CAPC. The essence of this
agreement was that: Zambia and Zimbabwe shared equally the available
generating output from the Kariba Complex; the Zambian Electricity Supply
Corporation (ZESCO) was made responsible for bulk sales of electricity in
Zambia with CAPC charging ZESCO all costs attributable to Zambia; and CAPC
continued to receive revenue from sales in Zimbabwe. These procedures were
supplemented by a new interim inter-governmental agreement entered into
between the two countries which became effective from July 1, 1980, and
covered the period to June 30, 1981. In the absence of any new agreement,
the terms of that agreement are still applicable.
9/  Zambia has built a control center in Lusaka which was put into service
in 1981 and is operated as a satellite of the Sherwood Center.
Eventually, the Lusaka Center will control the operation of the plants
and the grid in Zambia.
10/ ESC also owns Mutare (16.5 MW) and Shabani (27.5 MW) coal-fired thermal
power stations which have been shut down since August 1980, except for
caretaker staff.



-9-
lligher Authority for Power (HAP)
2.08       Because CAPC operates in two separate territories the
Order-in-Council establishing CAPC also established the Higher Authority
for Power (HAP) to safeguard the interests of each territory and to direct
CAPC on matters of policy. HAP consists of four members, two of whom are
Ministers of the Government of Zambia and two Ministers of the Government
of Zimbabwe.  Any decision by HAP must be unanimous.  The two Governments
have agreed on certain general policies to be followed in connection with
electricity supply in their territories and in connection with CAPC in an
Inter-Governmental Agreement signed on November 25, 1963. This agreement
provides for arbitration in case of deadlock in HAP.
2.09      HAP did not have formal meetings during the period when the
Government of then Southern Rhodesia unilaterally declared independence,
although technical discussions were held in Malawi from time to time.
However, in February 1982 HAP had its first meeting since the
re-establishment of the legal government in Zimbabwe in 1979. At that
meeting, HAP decided to establish a panel of experts, consisting of
representatives of both countries to undertake a review of the current and
future status of CAPC.  It is expected that the Bank will be invited to
appoint an observer to the panel.
Electricity Supply Commission (ESC)
2.10      The Electricity Supply Commission, the proposed borrower,
(Chapter III), was established as a government-owned utility under the
Electricity Supply Act but operates at present on the basis of the
Electricity Act of 1956, as amended.  In accordance with the provisions of
the Act, the functions and duties of ESC unless otherwise directed by the
Minister in consultation with CAPC, are to investigate and construct new or
additional facilities for the supply of electricity and for the
coordination and cooperation of existing plants throughout Zimbabwe, and to
generate, acquire and supply electricity. ESC has progressively taken over
many small utilities both private and municipal, a process which
accelerated following completion of the Kariba hydro-scheme in 1960,
enabling ESC to offer cheaper electricity than the small utilities could
produce themselves from small diesel and steam plants. However, ESC's
present licensed area for distribution of electricity excludes areas under
the jurisdiction of or within the licensed areas of the cities of Bulawayo,
Harare, Mutare and Gweru, but it supplies bulk power to the latter two
municipalities. During FY81, ESC sold 4,896 GWh to 51,660 customers
including sales to the cities of Mutare and Gweru which then distributed
the electricity to retail customers in their areas (Annex 2.3).
Municipal Electricity Departments
2.11      The Harare (HMED) and Bulawayo (BMED) Municipal Electricity
Departments purchase all their energy from CAPC and are responsible for the
distribution of electricity in metropolitan Harare and Bulawayo,including
areas outside the municipal boundaries that are included in the franchise
areas. The departments are headed by the respective City Electrical
Engineers who report to the City Councils through committees. During FY81,
HMED distributed 1,244 GWh to about 73,000 consumers and BMED distributed
659 GWh to about 45,000 consumers.



- 10 -
2.12      Mutare and Gweru municipal systems are of little significance
when related to the sector as a whole.  Both together purchased only 276
GWh from ESC during FY81.
Sector Reorganization
2.13      The Government recognises that the power sector requires
reorganization so that the large power development program
(paras. 4.06-4.11) can be planned and managed in a coordinated manner.The
resources required to meet the costs of the development program could also
be gathered in a more equitable manner (para. 5.31) if only one utility
exists rather than five, including two that are geared to the parochial
interests of the two largest cities in the country.
2.14      The Government is at present in the process of reviewing options
for the reorganization of the power sector, in particular, the future role
of CAPC. Any decisions in this regard will depend on the decisions made by
HAP after the work of the panel *of experts is completed (para. 2.09).
2.15      Although reorganization of the sector is desirable, the utilities
operate efficiently and MIED coordinates policy among them. Planning,
however, is not coordinated, and a sector planning capability does not
exist either in the Ministry or in the utilities with undue reliance being
placed on consultants. A sector planning division has been established in
MIED and during negotiations the Government agreed to strengthen the unit
by appointing an experienced power sector planner by December 31, 1982.
The unit would be responsible for generation and transmission planning down
to 132 kV,including coordination of hydro generation planning with
CAPC. The power utilities would be responsible for planning transmission
and distribution below this level but the proposed unit would coordinate
such planning. The Canadian International Development Agency (CIDA) has
offered to assist in strengthening the division and provide any expatriate
manpower that may be required.
Existing Facilities
2.16      The total effective installed capacity in Zimbabwe was 1,051 MW
in FY81, of which 633 MW was hydro (60%) and the remaining 418 MW thermal
(40%) (Annex 2.4). Although the effective installed hydro capacity was only
60% of the total, most of the energy generation was hydro-based; 93% was
hydro and only 7% was thermal in FY81. The only hydroelectric power
station is the Kariba South Station with an installed capacity of 666
MW. 11/ In addition to the Zimbabwe coal-fired stations at Umniati (120
MW), iHarare (135 MW), Bulawayo (120 MW), with total effective rating of 354
MW, there are small power stations of a total effective capacity of 64 MW
at mines and sugar estates burning coal or bagasse. The small plants
account for only about 5% of installed capacity,and generated about 4% of
total energy in FY81.
11/ Zimbabwe's half share of the installed capacity of the Kariba hydro
complex is 633 MW.



- 11 -
2.17      The thermal power stations in Zimbabwe contain a large number of
small units, many of which are  more that 20 years old (Annex 2.4)  and the
publicly owned plants have their installed capacity of 375 14W derated to
354 MW. Overall, these plants have operated for a moderate number of hours
relative to age, but with a large number of starts and stops, which induce
high thermal stress and are conducive to corrosion. They are therefore
scheduled to be phased out at the end of their 35 year lives.
2.18      For several years, the importation of electricity from Zambia has
been a major element in the power and energy balance of Zimbabwe and is
expected to remain so for at least the next ten years.  Based on the
definition of each country's entitlement from the Kariba Complex in the
July 1, 1977 agreement, (para. 2.07) of 5,000 GWh, CAPC calculates that
during FY81, Zimbabwe imported from Zambia 2,320 GWh or 31% of total
requirements. The maximum power imported during the year was 517 MW.12/
2.19      The transmission network in Zimbabwe consists of overhead
transmission lines and substations operated at 330, 132, 88 and 66 kV
which interconnect all main load centers. 330 kV has been in
use as the main transmission voltage since Kariba was first commissioned in
1960. The 330 kV network is predominantly radial in configuration with a
"backbone" crossing the country north to south and has proven to be a
stable system. Voltage and reactive power control are facilitated by the
presence of thermal power stations within the grid; and energization
conditions are satisfactory. Details of the transmission network as it
will appear at the end of 1986 when the proposed project is complete, are
given in Map IBRD 15381R1.
2.20      The operating performance of the system is good.  From July 1976
to June 1981 ten major faults occurred, only two of which lasted more than
an hour, and were the result of sabotage of transmission towers during the
war. Transmission and distribution losses are about 3.8% and 5.5%,
respectively.
Access to Service and Electrification of Rural Areas
2.21      Only 180,000 customers have electricity, as priority has been
given to all consumers who could pay the connection fees which effectively
resulted in industrial and urban electrification. Approximately 14% of
households are connected to the system, a small number compared to the size
of the grid,due to past budget restrictions. High-density housing areas
are now given priority, followed by missions, schools and other rural
points in areas affected by the war.  It is expected that connections from
the grid to urban low income, high density households would help reduce the
pressure on urban fuelwood demand. To encourage domestic electrification,
ESC established a revolving fund to allow local authorities to lend for
house-wiring in high density townships, but funds are now available from
other sources and the need for the ESC revolving fund has diminished.
12/ A small area of the country in the vicinity of Beitbridge is provided
with electricity imported from RSA, but the amount imported is less
than 0.2% of the country's total requirements.



- 12 -
2.22      The rural population has virtually no access to electricity.
Government is preparing a rural electrification program aimed at connecting
"growth points" to the system.  They will form the nuclei of future towns
servicing the surrounding rural areas. The rural population is widely
scattered mainly in separate family settlements and electrification of all
rural houses will be a medium-to-long term objective, however, the energy
pricing study (para. 1.21) will evaluate the comparative economic cost of
providing rural houses with the energy they require.
Manpower and Training
2.23      Zimbabwe's power infrastructure is well developed compared to
other countries in East Africa but the sector is extremely vulnerable
because of the exodus of expatriates and the lack of trained African
manpower at all levels. CAPC, ESC, HMED and BMED have among them a
shortage of 355 skilled staff out of a total of 5,700 people employed or
about 50% of the total professional and skilled manpower, yet CAPC has no
formal training program, only ESC has a long standing training officer, and
although BMED has recently hired one, HMED has none. All organizations
have so far relied mainly on expatriate engineers. The University of
Zimbabwe graduated 7 engineers in 1981, will graduate 12 in 1982 and 36 in
1983, in the civil, electrical and mechanical branches. African engineers,
estimated to be 100 to 300 in number, who graduated outside the country and
returned since the war, have faced difficulty in obtaining jobs from
potential employers on the grounds of lack of experience (para. 2.26 and
Annex 2.5).
Development of Sector Training Policy and Institutions
2.24      The power sector urgently needs to organize training in a
rational and efficient way. A training center is required for the whole
sector and each utility will need an experienced full-time officer heading
a unit to meet the specific training requirements of each utility.  An
effort should be made to train inexperienced African engineers and to
upgrade promising experienced personnel through comprehensive training
programs for all categories of staff.
2.25      MIED is aware of the urgent need for training and accepts that a
national training center should be established to serve the sector. An
Electricite de France 13/ team visited Zimbabwe in late January 1982 and
is preparing a project proposal for training which will be reviewed in the
Bank before it is initiated. MIED agrees with the Bank proposal that the
center be constructed and operated by ESC as the premier utility in the
sector.
13/ Electricite de France has a well developed training system for utility
personnel and has helped more than 40 countries to establish training
schools.



- 13 -
Urgent Manpower Needs
2.26      Skilled manpower vacancies in ESC, HMED, BMED and CAPC (Zimbabwe)
which totalled 355 in late 1981, have not yet been filled although a
recruitment mission to India and Pakistan is expected to leave Zimbabwe in
the near future. Shortage of manpower with adequate qualifications and
experience has been recognized by the Zimbabwean Government and the Bank to
be a serious constraint in the operations and development of the power
sector. Therefore, as a condition of effectiveness of the proposed loan,
the Guarantor and the Borrower will prepare and submit a plan acceptable to
the Bank for meeting the power sector's manpower needs. The plan will
include inter alia:
(a)  an assessment of total manpower requirements and the means of
meeting the estimated manpower shortages, existing and expected
to occur over the next three years (FY83 - FY85) showing how the
staff will be obtained and the source of any foreign funding
required;
(b)  either signed or committed contracts for the expatriate personnel
required to operate Hwange I Power Station from April 1983
(estimated at about 65 staff who should already have been in
place) and an indication of how the contracts will be funded; and
(c)  the training and other steps necessary to obtain the staff
required to man Hwange II Power Station, the sources from which
they will be obtained, including training abroad and in Zimbabwe
and the sources of any foreign funds required to allow the plan
to De achieved.
Previous Bank Participation
2.27      The Bank has made several loans in the regional power subsector
to the Government (Southern Rhodesia) in 1952, US$28.0 million equivalent
urban electrification extension; to CAPC in 1956, US$80.0 million
equivalent (Loan 145-RN) and in 1964, US$7.7 million (Loan 392-RNS), for
the Kariba Hydroelectric project and extensions to the CAPC transmission
system in Zambia, respectively; and to KNBC in 1970, US$40 million
equivalent (Loan 701-ZA) and in 1974 a supplemental loan of US$42 million
equivalent (Loan 701-ZAI) to assist in financing the construction of the
Kariba North Bank power station for which CAPC acted as KNBC's agents.
2.28      The first three projects for which the loans were made were
completed before the establishment of the Operations Evaluation Department
and completion reports were not prepared. Implementation was good. A
completion report for Loans 701-ZA and 701-ZAl was produced in July, 1982
and is in process of being audited. The environment now prevailing in
Zimbabwe and the surrounding countries particularly regarding transport
routes, is different from the environment that prevailed then and the
implementation progress achieved is no guide to the course that the
proposed project may follow as greater difficulties may be encountered.



- 14 -
III. THE BORROWER
Organization and Management
3.01      The Borrower would be the Electricity Supply Commission (ESC), a
Government parastatal which is the executing agency for both Hwange I and
II Power Stations. Under the Electricity Act (Chapter 282) of 1956, ESC is
organised and functions as a modern public utility with a considerable
degree of autonomy. The Commission (Board) consists of the General Manager
and five other members appointed by the responsible Minister, currently the
Minister for Industry and Energy Development. ESC is charged with the
operation and construction of such power generation, transmission and
distribution   installations as may be required by the Zimbabwe power grid,
excluding the CAPC hydro power stations and transmission system.
Operations throughout ESC's franchise area are controlled by 42 district
offices under managers who report to area managers for the Central and
Southern, Eastern, Northern and Western Areas, respectively. The
Organization Chart is given at Annex 3.1.
3.02      ESC is well operated and managed under competent staff, the
majority of whom have been with the Commission for many years. ESC uses
consultants for the engineering design of transmission lines above 132 kV;
for 132 kV and below, engineering and design are carried out by ESC staff.
Construction is carried out by contractors for the larger lines and by
force account for the smaller. Prior to the Hwange I project in 1980, ESC
had little recent experience of generation planning and construction and
therefore relies heavily on consultants for planning and supervision of the
major works such as Hwange I and II projects. ESC management realises that
improvement in financial planning and forecasting is needed to embrace the
entire sector in future. The management has agreed to make these
improvements and during negotiations the Government agreed to provide ESC
with the necessary authority to carry out this exercise.
3.03      As an element of the eventual reorganization of the sector
(para. 2.13) there may be a need for a planning and construction department
in ESC to complement the sector planning unit in MIED (para. 2.15). This
subject will be considered during Government's review of the sector's
organization.
3.04      ESC's manpower and training needs are fully discussed in Chapter
II (paras. 2.23 and Annex 2.5).
Accounting and Audit
3.05      Accounting records are efficiently maintained by well qualified
and experienced staff. Periodic reports and the annual accounts are
produced on time and are of high quality .
3.06      ESC's auditors are the Zimbabwe office of the international
accounting firm, Deloitte, Haskins and Sells, who have certified the
accounts without qualification for many years. The auditors are acceptable
to the Bank. Audited annual statements of account would be sent to the
bank within six months of the end of the financial year.



- 15 -
Insurance and Taxes
3.07      ESC maintains insurance coverage on all assets, stores and
inventories and on vehicles as well as for liability to third parties in
accordance with normal practice in power utilities, including boiler
explosion insurance for the generating stations. The insurance cover is
reviewed periodically to assure continuing adequacy and is satisfactory.
ESC does not pay income or corporation tax but is liable for customs duties
on imported materials and equipment.  However, exemption from customs
duties has been granted by Government for the Hwange I & II Projects.
Existing Facilities
3.08      ESC purchases all power requirements, the majority from CAPC.
During FY81, total purchases of 5,144 GWh were made up of 5,132 GWh from
CAPC, 10 GWh from RSA, 1 GWh from Zambia and 1 GWh from sugar estates to
supply isolated areas around the plantations.
3.09      Only Umniati power station with 120 MW installed capacity was in
service in FY81. It is owned and operated by ESC and for which all costs
are paid by CAPC as the purchase price of the electricity produced.  During
FY81 only 34 GWh were generated, the low figure being due to the fact that
the station is old and is used only for peaking.  The station was closed in
September 1981 because of lack of manpower.
3.10      By the end of FY81, the aggregate length of ESC's transmission
and distribution lines was about 30,931 kms, made up as follows:
Voltage                    Length in Kms
330 kV                           697
132 kV                           887
88 kV                         1,445
66 kV                           132
33 kV                         5,223
11 kV and lower              22,547
30,931



- 16 -
IV. DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM AND THE PROJECT
Demand and Market
4.01      Zimbabwe's electricity consumption growth of 9% on average
annually over the past ten years, from 3,080 GWh in FY71 to 7,147 GWh in
FY81 (920 kWh per capita) 14/, was remarkable, particularly as during the
period the economy stagnated following the world recession in 1975/76 and
the war and sanctions reduced growth after FY75. This increase was
encouraged by low electricity tariffs which remained in real terms at the
1960 level and were substantially based on the historial costs of the
Kariba complex. In FY78 demand decreased by 5% and in FY79 growth was only
1%, but the end of the war and the lifting of sanctions led to a high
growth rate of 11% for FY80. Exceptional weather, technical failure at
smelters and strikes caused reduction of the irrigation and mining loads
for FY81 when growth was 4%. Capacity demand increased by an annual
average of 8% over the ten year period, or from 509 MW, for FY71 to 1084
MW, in FY81, consequently the load factor which was 69% in FY71 improved to
75% by FY81. The high load factor reflected the drop in the real price of
electricity compared to generation from captive plants that encouraged
large mining and industrial consumers to convert to the public power grid
to the extent that industrial and mining sectors consumed 71% of electric
energy in FY81 and the largest four industrial consumers 15/ were
responsible for over 45% of this figure or about 32% of total consumption.
4.02      Zimbabwe's demand is characteristic of a predominantly industrial
load, with morning and late evening peaks. The largest single industrial
consumer is Sable Chemicals which produces fertilizer from electrolysis of
water. The plant, which was built in 1969 when Kariba power was cheap and
plentiful, consumed 882 GWh in FY81 (or 13% of the total Zimbabwe
consumption) and had a maximum demand of about 110 MW. The plant also
produces oxygen which is piped to the Zimbabwe Iron and Steel Company
(ZISCO) for use in its oxygen furnaces. Preliminary indications are that
increases in electricity tariffs (para. 5.16) could put the industry in a
position where it is threatened with price competition from abroad which
would cause the plant to shut down or require the Government to subsidize
operations. The Zimbabwe authorities have stated that an increase in the
electricity tariffs by 100% would not jeopardize the industry.  However, it
is recommended that a cost-benefit analysis of the long-term prospects for
the Sable electrolytic hydrogen plant and an economic assessment of the
conservation potential by cogeneration (para. 1.14) should be carried out
by the Government.
14/ Comparable per capita consumption of electric energy in other
countries is: Kenya 90 kWh, Mauritius 573 KWh, Madagascar 91 kWh,
Ethiopia 22 kWh, Sudan 50 kWh, Botswana 450 kWh.
15/ Sable Chemicals (fertilizers), ZISCO (steel), Zimbabwe Alloys and
Rhomet (ferro-chrome).



- 17 -
4.03      The Government commissioned consultants 16/ early in 1981, to
carry out a detailed study to determine the least cost power sector
development program over the next 20 years including the possibility of
obtaining power from Zambia, Mozambique and Zaire. The report was
completed in late 1981 and the recommended development program (para. 4.06)
which was accepted by the Government in November of that year, is based on
the development of the Zambezi hydroelectric potential and is in reality
the development program for the interconnected system of Zimbabwe and
Zambia (except for the Lower Kafue Scheme in Zambia) (paras. 2.05 and
4.06).
4.04      The load forecast on which the power development plan was based,
was the result of two separate forecasts prepared by the consultants.  The
first was based on a market survey, and an evaluation of past statistics of
electricity sales.  The second was based on a macro-economic analysis of
electricity consumption related to sectoral economic activity. The price
elasticity of the electric energy demand was also considered and found to
be low. In both analyses, the industrial, mining, agricultural, commercial
and domestic sectors were separately studied. Acceptable correlation was
obtained between the two forecasts and the average was adopted as the most
likely sales forecast.  The load forecast (Annex 4.1), which was reviewed
during appraisal, showed the average rate of growth to be about 7% annually
from FY82 to FY91 and about 6% for the period from FY92 to FY2000, giving
an annual average growth rate of 6.6% p.a. for the next 18 years. Maximum
demand in Zimbabwe is estimated to increase from 1,182 MW in FY82 following
recovery from the abnormally low growth in FY81, to 3,730 MW in FY2000.
The energy requirement would increase from 8,184 GWh in FY82 to 25,774 GWh
in FY2000. Given the country's development level, the relatively large
power base and the small population served with electricity, the growth
rates are considered acceptable.
4.05      As the availability of power import from Zambia is one of the
most important factors in the least cost development plan, a load forecast
for Zambia based on an analysis of past consumption, was also prepared.
This forecast showed an average annual rate of growth of about 4% for the
period from FY80 to FY88 and about 5% for the period FY89 to FY2000, giving
an average growth rate of 4.5% p.a. for the next 18 years. Maximum demand
in Zambia is expected to increase from 846 MW in FY82 to 1,870 MW in
FY2000, while energy required is forecast to increase from 6,193 GWh in
FY82 to 13,693 GWh in FY2000. The forecast is considered satisfactory.
The maximum demand and the energy required in the Zimbabwe-Zambia
interconnected system are thus expected to increase from 2,196 MW in FY82
to 6,067 MW in FY2000, and from 14,377 GWh in FY82 to 39,467 GWh in FY2000;
an increase averaging 5.8% per year over the next 18 years.
16/ Merz and McLellan (M&M) UK engineering consultants, in association
with Sir Alexander Gibb and Partners, UK civil engineering
consultants, and Coopers and Lybrand, UK economic consultants.



- 18 -
Development Program
4.06      The least cost generation and transmission development program,
which was determined by economic comparison of four alternatives (para.
6.05) assuming agreement is reached with Zambia on the development of
Kariba extensions, and construction of joint projects at the Batoka and
Mupata sites on the Zambezi River and of the transmission and distribution
facilities is summarized as follows:
Zimbabwe Power Development Program
Installed
Capacity   Commissioning
Plant                                                 MW           Year
Hwange I (Thermal Coal)                             480           FY83/84 a/
Hwange II (Thermal Coal)                            440           FY86
Kariba South and North Hydro Extensions              600          FY87/88
Hwange III (Thermal Coal)                           400           FY89
Batoka Dam and South Bank Power Station             800           FY91
Batoka North Bank Power Station                     800           FY94
Mupata Gorge Dam and South Bank Power Station    600              FY96
Mupata North Bank Power Station                     600           FY98
Sengwa (Thermal Coal)                               600           FY2000
a/ The first unit of Hwange I will be operational in March 1983 and the
other units will be commissioned in June, August and December 1983.
4.07      Forecast demand and generation capacities for Zimbabwe and Zambia
which are given in Annex 4.2 show that: i) Zimbabwe will continue to import
power and energy available from Zambia for the next ten years; ii) Zambia
will require additional plant in 1994 when the Batoka North Bank station to
be commissioned in that year will be able to absorb Zambia's demand growth
until 2000 as well as providing power to Zimbabwe. The reserve margins
assumed for Zambia (all hydroelectric power stations) and Zimbabwe are 13%
and 15%, respectively. Installed capacity, firm capacity and maximum
demand of the Zimbabwe system are shown in Annex 4.3.
4.08      The development of the main transmission system  was also studied
by Merz and McLellan (M & M). Extension of the transmission system at 330
kV and 500 kV, in particular for Hwange II and III, was examined. It was
found that 330 kV will be technically satisfactory and economically cheaper
as the system transmission voltage until FY91. The strengthening of the
330 kV transmission system until FY91 includes the extension of the 330 kV
transformer capacity by 1,290 MVA and erection of 135 MVAR of reactive
compensation equipment.
4.09      The distribution networks which also include 132 kV power lines
and substations, will be expanded by ESC, IIED and BMED according to 3-year
programs prepared by each utility and coordinated by MIED.



- 19 -
4.10     The cost of the first ten year slice of the generation,
transmission and distribution development program is estimated at current
prices to be about Z$4.0 (US$5.8) billion, including interest during
construction (Annex 4.4). The breakdown of these costs into generation,
transmission and distribution is summarized as follows:
Construction Costs - FY82-91
(Z$ and US$ millions)
Z_            USs
Generation and Transmission a/               2,569         3,725
Strengthening of the Transmission System    170              246
Distribution                                   602           873
Subtotal                          3,341         4,844
Interest During Construction                   651           944
Total                             3,992         5,788
a/ Transmission lines to connect the power stations to the grid are
included in the cost of each project.
4.11      The Government has authorized the implementation of Hwange II and
Kariba South Eytension Projects and associated 330 kV transmission lines,
in addition to Hwange I which is under construction. The Zimbabwe
Government is seeking the agreement of HAP to the Kariba South Extension.
All the projects in the investment program, except for Hwange I and II,
including extensions at Kariba, need to be further optimized with regard to
installed capacity, load growth, economic ranking and technical
considerations prior to a decision being taken to implement construction.
The optimization studies would also cover the comparative economics of
extending the power stations on each bank at Kariba or building one large
station on the Zimbabwean or Zambian bank of the river. During negotiations
the Government agreed to review the specific plans for expanding the Kariba
hydroelectric complex particularly whether two stations of 300 MW each is
the optimum solution.
Project Objectives
4.12      The objectives of the proposed project are:
(a) to increase generation capacity to meet the power demand through
1986;
(b) to address, through technical assistance and provision for
training, the short and long term manpower requirements of the
sector;



- 20 -
(c) to improve resource mobilization and the economic use of energy
by adjustment and rationalization of energy prices following an
energy pricing study; and
(d) to improve the organization of the power sector by strengthening
the established central planning unit and reallocation of sector
responsibilities among the utilities.
Project Description
4.13            The description of the proposed project is as follows:
(a)  construction of two generating units of 220 MW each as the
first extension to the Hwange Power Station comprising
boilers, turbo-generators and high pressure pipework, civil
works and other mechanical and electrical plant;
(b)  construction of about 350 km of 330 kV power transmission
line and associated switchgear, to reinforce the connection
of the power station to the Zimbabwe grid;
(c)  provision of engineering consultants' services for the
preparation of bid documents and evaluation of bids,
excluding those for the packages for which orders have
already been placed, and construction supervision;
(d)  electricity tariff structure and energy pricing studies; and
(e)  training and technical assistance to assist in meeting the
sector manpower needs.
4.14      The proposed power plant (Annex 4.5) will be located adjacent to
the existing Hwange coal mine as an extension to Hwange I power station
which is under construction. The thermal coal stripped from above the
coking coal and now dumped as waste will be used as fuel.   The site, which
lies some 6 km west of Hwange town and 8 km from Thomson junction on the
Bulawayo Victoria Falls mainline railway, is easily accessible by rail and
road. The Hwange II extension will consist of two 220-MW steam
turbo-generator units, two pulverized coal-fired boilers each having a
capacity of 714 tons of steam per hour, a chimney serving both units, plant
auxiliaries, extensions to the 330-kV switchyard, and storage facilities
for coal. Coal will be supplied to the power station by HCC over two
conveyor belts to be commissioned in 1982 for a distance of 3.8 km (Annex
1.1). Proven reserves at Hwange are about 109.5 million tonnes of steam
coal which are ample for the 35-year life of Hwange I, II and III plants
(Annex 4.6). HCC is consolidating open pit operations with a 3.9 million
tonnes per year open cast mining project including an electric dragline and
associated equipment for a total estimated cost of US$191 million, partly
financed by IFC 17/. The project will furnish coal for the power stations
17/ IFC Investment Number 552; IFC Staff Appraisal Report No. IFC/T-343,
-   January 7, 1981.



- 21 -
(para. 1.20), replace coal from other open cast sources for sale
essentially to HCC's existing customers and reduce operating costs. Supply
of coal to the Hwange I power station has already begun in order to
establish adequate stocks. The increased supply for Hwange II will be
available in 1985. The electric dragline is programmed to start operation
in 1983. The supply of coal is determined by agreement between HCC,
Government and ESC (paras. 1.20 and 5.19). Cooling and make-up water will
be supplied from the Zambezi through the existing pipeline, which has a
maximum capacity of 95,700 m3 per day of which 73,800 m3 per day, is
reserved for the power station.   At the power station end of the pipeline,
four 68,000 m3 reservoirs (total 272,000 m3) will be constructed on an
adjacent hill.
4.15      A 330-kV single circuit power transmission line from Hwange to
Sherwood about 350 km long is required to reinforce the two 330 kV lines
that connect the Hwange I station to the Zimbabwe grid. With the
commissioning of Hwange II, the capacity of the Hwange Power Stations will
be 920 MW and two 330-kV transmission lines will be able to carry this
capacity when one line is out of service.
4.16      The training and technical assistance component, estimated 18/
at about Z$10.0 (US$14.5) million will 19/ comprise:
(a)  construction of a national training center under ESC's training
organization, equipmer,t (including a simulator of a pulverized
coal power station), 66 man-months of specialists' services
(preferably instructors with engineering experience) to assist in
the establishment of the center, and scholarships to meet
travel, fees and living allowances abroad (about 90 man-months)
for 15 technician-instructors who will be appointed to the
center;
(b)  training personnel needed for the proposed project
(5 engineers and 4 technicians - 6 months each);
(c)  six months' training for six training officers (three from ESC,
one each from CAPC, HMED and BMED);
(d)  technical assistance to provide a minimum of twenty five
experienced expatriate engineers for 24 months each, needed
immediately for the operation of the Hwange I power plant; and
(e)  training about 60 Zimbabwe engineers and technicians (6 months
each) who will serve ESC, and also in CAPC, HMED and BMED.
Cost Estimates
4.17      The estimated project cost, without interest during construction,
is Z$ 258.0 (US$374.2) million of which about 62% or Z$ 160.9 (US$ 233.4)
million is foreign exchange costs.  The total financing requirement,
18/ Mission estimate at base cost.
19/ Contingent on the amount of finance for training and technical
assistance available from other aid agencies (para. 2.25).



- 22 -
including interest during construction and the front end fee on the Bank
Loan, is estimated at Z$316.1 (US$458.4) million. The cost estimates
(Annex 4.7) are summarized below:
SLIAARY OF PRaJECT COST ESTIMATE
(Z$ 1.0 = US$1.45)
Local  Foreign  Total  Local  Foreign  Total
*    Z$ millio    n-   -US$ million-
Project Components
1. Civil Works                     20.1      4.8    24.9   29.2      6.9    36.1
2. Boilers Turbine-Generators &
High Pressure Pipework a/     15.1    67.3    82.4   21.9    97.5   119.4
3. other Mecanical Plant b/         5.4    11.8    17.2    7.8    17.1    24.9
4. Other Electrical Plant c/        4.8    10.0    14.8    6.9    14.6    21.5
5. Transmission                    17.9    19.6    37.5    26.0   28.4    54.4
6. FEgineering & Site Supervision   4.6      7.4    12.0    6.6    10.8    17.4
7. Trainirg & Technical Assistance    2.5    7.5    10.0    3.6    10.9    14.5
8. Studies                          0.2      1.0     1.2    0.3      1.5     1.8
BASE 0OSTS                      70.6   129.4   200.0  102.3   187.7   290.0
Contingencies
9. Physical Contingency             4.7      8.0    12.7    6.9    11.6    18.5
10. Price Contingency              21.8    23.5    45.3   31.6    34.1    65.7
Total Contingencies             26.5    31.5    58.0   38.5    45.7    84.2
PROXJECT TOTAL COST             97.1   160.9   258.0  140.8   233.4   374.2
11. Interest During Construction(IDC)
- Bank                            -     16.3    16.3      -     23.6    23.6
- Other                         12.0    28.7    40.7   17.4    41.6    59.0
12. Front-end Fee on Bank Loan       -       1.1     1.1     -       1.6     1.6
TUtAL F1NCIG REQU              109.1   207.0   316.1  158.2   300.2   458.4
a/ Terders have already been received and contracts arded by ESC for all items in 2.
b/ Coal, ash and dust handling, vacuum cleaning, ventilation and air corditioning plants,
low pressure pipework, painting and fire fightirg equipment, etc.
c/ Generator transformers, auxiliary switchgear, cabling, auxiliary transforrners, lightirg,
etc.



- 23 --
4.18      The cost estimates for boilers, turbo-generators and high
pressure pipework (52% of the foreign currency base costs) are from
contracts which have already been awarded by ESC. Estimates for other
items are based on manufacturers' and contractors' offers for recent
similar civil, mechanical and electrical works in Europe and the Republic
of South Africa. The base costs are expressed in September 1982 prices.
Although ESC is liable for customs duties on imported materials and
equipment (para. 3.07), Hwange I and II projects have been exempted from
such duties. Physical contingencies of 7% of the base costs have been
added. As this project is an extension to a power station under
construction and as there have not been any important geological or
construction problems at Hwange I, 7% is considered acceptable. Price
escalation based on the rates shown below has been included in the
estimates:
FY82     FY83      FY84     FY85      FY86
Foreign              8.5       7.5      7.5       7.5      6.0
Local               15.0      12.0     11.0      10.0      9.0
4.19      The divergence between local and international inflation rates
is not expected to be compensated by regular and predictable adjustments in
the exchange rate. Full adjustment of the purchasing parity of the Z$ for
the inflation rate differentials over the project implementation period
would amount to about 14%, which if applied from mid-FY84 would reduce the
US$ equivalent of total project costs from US$374 to US$357 million, or by
5% only.
4.20      The risk of incurring cost overruns will be minimized since
bids have been obtained for most of the remaining contracts.
Financing Plan
4.21      The proposed project financing plan is as follows:
z             US
$ millions
IBRD Loan                                           72.4            105.0
EIB Loan                                            13.4             19.4
CDC Loan                                            13.3             19.3
UK Suppliers' Credits                               88.3            128.1
Italian Suppliers Credits                           20.7             30.1
UK Grant                                             1.2              1.7
Euro-dollar Loan                                    17.0             24.6
226.3            328.2
Internal Borrowing and Cash Generation              89.8            130.2
Total                                        316.1            458.4



- 24 -
4.22      The financing plan has been completed by ESC with the assistance
of Standard Chartered Merchant Bank, London acting as financial advisors
for the project.
4.23      Contracts have already been awarded for the boilers,
turbo-generators and high pressure pipework financed by suppliers' credits,
on which work is proceeding.  Downpayments may need to be made prior to
loan effectiveness on contracts to be financed by the Bank in order to
maintain progress of the work without delaying existing contractors.
Payments in advance of loan effectiveness may also be required for the
Engineering Consultants and for hiring the high level manpower required for
the Hwange I Power Station, some of whom should already be in place. The
total amount of retroactive financing required is estimated at a maximum of
Z$6.9 (US$10.0) million.
Interest During Construction (IDC)
4.24      IDC on the foreign and local borrowings for the total program
amounts to Z$130 (US$188) million between FY82 and FY86. Given the time
lag in the build up of related revenues from the large development program,
it would be impractical to increase tariffs to meet these charges and the
Government is therefore requesting lenders to add IDC to their loans.  The
figures that follow clearly indicate the need for such assistance based on
consolidated figures for the sector (Annex 5.3).
1982     1983      1984      1985      1986
---------------Z$ millions -------------
Estimated Cash Balance a/         29       38        38        69       121
Estimated Minimum Cash
Required b/                   25        33        38        53        64
Margin (short fall)                4        5         0        16        57
IDC                              12        28        15        29        46
Shortfall (Surplus)               8        23        15        13       (11)
IDC on Bank Loan                  -         1         3         6         9
a/ After all charges except interest during construction
b/ One month's cash operating costs, 3 months' debt service and 5% of
construction costs.
Engineering, Consultants' Services and Project Implementation
4.25      ESC will be responsible for the implementation of the project and
will be assisted by engineering consultants. ESC has entered into a
contract with the consultants (Merz and McLellan) for the preparation of
bid documents, the evaluation of bids and supervision of the construction.
The same consultants, who are being employed in a similar capacity for the
Hwange I Project, have prepared all the feasibility studies for ESC and
recently carried out the long-term development study for the Government
(para. 4.03). The consultants are acceptable to the Bank. The cost of
consultants' services is estimated at about Z$12.0 (US$17.4) million. The
average man-month cost (about 2,500 man-months of salary, international



- 25 -
travel and subsistence) is estimated at about Z$4,800 (US$7,000).
Consultants' services for electricity tariff structure and energy pricing
studies are estimated to cost Z$1.2 (US$1.8) million.  The consultants have
been appointed according to the Bank Guidelines. ESC agreed during
negotiations that it would continue to employ engineering consultants to
supervise project construction, whose qualifications, experience and terms
and conditions of employment are satisfactory to the Bank.
4.26      ESC has some experience in implementing a major power generation
project as it is currently constructing the 480 MW Hwange I power station,
but has been relying heavily on consultants to supervise project
implementation. Due to manpower problems, some time may elapse before this
situation can be rectified. As a first step in building construction
supervision capability, ESC agreed during negotiations that it would
appoint an experienced project manager who will report to the General
Manager.
4.27      Most of the detailed engineering design of the project has been
completed and the contracts for the boilers, turbo-generators and
high-pressure pipework, which have been awarded, are financed from
suppliers' credits. Although satisfactory international competitive
procedures were followed, the Bank could not participate in financing these
components as the bid documents were issued and tenders received prior to
the Bank being requested to assist in financing the project, and the
Zimbabwe authorities wished to take up the credit offers received.  Bid
documents for other contract packages which were already issued but frozen
in manufacturers' hands, have been modified to meet with Bank's procurement
guidelines. The modified documents have been issued and the bids have or
will be opened starting in June 1982. Construction is expected to begin
before the end of 1982 and to be completed by July 1986 (Annex 4.8).
Procurement
4.28      Contracts for equipment and the construction of major buildings
are grouped in appropriate bidding packages and will be procured by
international competitive bidding in accordance with Bank Guidelines.
Equipment contracts will be financed jointly with EIB in proportions that
will be decided when tender evaluation has been completed as EIB wishes to
give priority to contracts that may be awarded to EEC countries. Failing
award to EEC countries, EIB and the Bank will finance the foreign content
of the contracts in the proportion 26:74 and the EIB loan will also finance
the local costs to the extent of 30% of its total loan.    The CDC Loan
will be wholly used to finance local costs using procurement procedures
acceptable to that organization. Local contracts (ventilation and air
conditioning plant, auxiliary transformers, lighting and housing totallIng
Z$ 5.6 (US$8.2) million or 3% of project base cost) will be procured by
ESC's competitive bidding procedures which are acceptable to the Bank.
Contracts to be financed from the proposed Bank Loan and estimated to cost
over US$500,000 equivalent would be subject to prior approval of the bid
documents.



- 26 -
Disbursements
4.29      The proceeds of the Bank loan are expected to be disbursed over
five years on the following basis:
(a) 20% of the total cost of civil works;
(b) 100% of the foreign component of the cost of the
equipment, engineering and consultants' services, training,
technical assistance and studies; and
(c) 100% of the front end fee and of the interest during
construction on the Bank loan.
The proposed closing date would be June 30, 1987, about one year after the
expected project completion date. The disbursement schedule, which is
given in Annex 4.9, implies a disbursement profile faster than the Bank
average for all power projects. As the project is an extension of a plant
for which construction is proceeding satisfactorily,it has been scheduled
to be completed by July 1986, which the mission considers reasonable.
Project Monitoring and Evaluation
4.30      During negotiations the reports and records necessary to monitor
the progress of the project, its evaluation and completion were agreed.
Proposed guidelines for the project monitoring system are given in
Annex 4.10. A close monitoring procedure will also be established to
ensure efficient implementation of the training component. Within one year
of project completion, ESC would submit a completion report to the Bank.
Environment
4.31      The project site is on a plain in the northwest of Zimbabwe which
is devoid of agricultural activity and where vegetation is mostly scrub.
The only industry is the coal mine and all economic activity in the area is
based on the mine. Fly ash will be removed from the flue gases to control
air pollution by electrostatic precipitators; any remaining particulate
matter, sulphur dioxide and the oxides of nitrogen will be dispersed to the
atmosphere through a high chimney. Anticipated ground level maximum 24
hour and annual mean concentrations are estimated in micrograms per m3, as:
(i) for sulphur dioxide: 17 and 2; (ii) oxides of nitrogen: 3 and 0.4; and
(iii) particulates 1.5 and 0.2, respectively. These values are consistent
with Bank recommendations.  Dust emissions from coal handling and storage
will be controlled by adequate design of the equipment and strict operating
procedures.  The ash disposal system will use hydraulic transfer to ash
ponds and dust emissions will be limited to those arising from maloperation
of the plant and equipment.  In high winds, dust from the soil will exceed
any dust from the ash ponds.
4.32      Water pollution will be limited by recycling wastewater from the
power station and using it as make up water for the recirculating ash
disposal system. Excess water will be discharged from a single point in
the power station and will be further treated to  comply with the Water Act
of 1976.



- 27 -
4.33      The nearest major population center is Hwange Township which is
sufficiently distant (6 km) from the power station for the noise effect to
be insignificant. The project will not unduly expand the population
density of the Hwange area.
Risk
4.34      As there have been no significant problems in the construction of
the Hwange I power station, no major risks are anticipated in implementing
the proposed project beyond those that are normally expected in the
construction of a project of this type and size.  Although four reservoirs
of 68,000 m3 each will be constructed at the power station, long
interruptions could occur in the supply of make-up water for cooling by a
47 km long pipeline. Lack of skilled manpower could cause implementation
difficulties, however the risk is diminished by execution of the manpower
plan to be provided by the Government (para. 2.26).



- 28 -
V. FINANCIAL ANALYSIS
Financial Interdependence
5.01      ESC the proposed Borrower, is the largest national utility in
Zimbabwe in terms of the geographical area and retail sales. Although the
international utility CAPC controls the power generation from each of the
plants connected to the grids in Zimbabwe and Zambia, it does not own all
of them (para. 2.04). The system is operated according to the operational
financial ranking of the various plants and financial equitability is
maintained among the various plant proprietors by CAPC paying, in addition
to the operating and debt service costs of its Kariba Complex:
-  operating costs, interest and the greater of historical
depreciation or debt repayment, for the Zimbabwe plants owned and
operated by ESC, HM1ED and BMED (Z$10.2 million in FY81);
-  rent equal to the debt service for the Kariba North Hydro-plant
owned by KNBC (Z$9.0 million in FY81); and
- power import cost from Zambia amounting to Z$19.2 million in FY81
for a guaranteed maximum of 400 MW (Z$48/kW) with an option of
100 MW additional, if available, at no extra charge.
5.02      CAPC does not legally sell power in Zambia but charges the
operating and debt service costs of half the Kariba Complex and the Zambian
330 kV grid (the cost of the power supplied) to ZESCO which then
distributes the power produced from its half-share of the Kariba Complex,
the Kafue and Victoria Falls Hydro-plants throughout Zambia, exports
surplus power from these sources to Zimbabwe and fixes the tariffs to be
charged. CAPC sells bulk power only in Zimbabwe to ESC, HMED and BMED and
its authority for fixing tariffs (para. 2.07) applies only in that country.
5.03      The Zimbabwe utilities (ESC, HMED and BMED) are dependent on each
other and on CAPC for power supplies and are therefore financially
interdependent - the historical financial positions of ESC, CAPC, HMED and
BMED are therefore discussed below.
Past Financial Results and Current Position
Electricity Supply Commission
5.04      ESC's annual accounts embrace distribution operations only in the
income statements as all generation expenses are charged to CAPC. Funds
flow statements and balance sheets include minor capital expenditures as
the major generating facilities are owned by other entities, depreciation
charged CAPC on generation assets, working capital changes and net fixed
and current assets covering both generation and distribution. ESC is well
operated and managed in a financially conservative manner and has
contributed substantially to construction expenditures from internal funds
generation in the past. Percentage contributions have varied from 80% in
FY79 when capital expenditure was Z$10 (US$15) million, to 26% in FY81 when
construction of the Hwange I plant had begun and capital expenditure was



- 29 -
Z$42 (US$61) million. Debt service coverage has also been more than
adequate with annual debt service ratios varying from 1.6 in FY80 to 1.9 in
FY81. Capitalisation was satisfactory at end FY81 although highly geared
with a debt/equity ratio of 65/35. A summary of ESC's funds flows for the
past three years is given below to illustrate the position:
1979    1980    1981    Total         %
-------- Z$ millions --------
Internal Funds                           18       18      25      61
Less: Debt Service & Working Capital  10           9       14     33
Internal Funds Available
for Investment                         8        9      11      28       38.4
Capital Investment                       10       21       42     73      100.0
Balance to be Financed                    2       12      31      45       61.6
Financed by Borrowings                    7        7      36      50       68.5
Cash Increase/Decrease                    5       -5        5      5
Funds at End of Year                     17       12       17     17
Annual Debt Service Coverage            1.8      1.6      1.9    1.9
Annual Contribution to Constr. %    80.0    42.8    26.2   38.3
5.05      Tariff levels are fixed to cover operating costs including
depreciation and interest on debt.  In the past, ESC tariffs have been
increased both in the form of surcharges to absorb increases in CAPC bulk
power charges and to cover the effect of inflation on ESC's operating
costs.  Based on average net operating assets valued at historic cost,
rates of return for the three years ended FY81, were 15.3%, 15.3% and 16.3%
respectively.  If assets had been revalued from 1972, the year before the
fuel crisis when substantial inflation began to take effect, based on the
Fixed Capital Formation Deflator for Public Investment, the rate of return
for FY81 would have been 5.1%.
5.06      ESC's current financial position is sound, as revealed by the
audited accounts for FY81. Outstanding accounts for electricity sales were
equivalent to about 40 days billing, the debt equity ratio was slightly
high at 65/35 because ESC is constructing the Hwange I project to meet the
needs of the entire power sector, and the current ratio was 2.8, in all a
satisfactory position. ESC's historic income statements, funds flow
statements and balance sheets are detailed in Annex 5.2.
Central African Power Corporation
5.07      CAPC has maintained a strong financial position and Government
policies and efficient management have enabled CAPC to operate
effectively. Tariffs have been increased annually as necessary to meet the
effect of inflation on operating costs but depreciation and debt service
have been based on the historic cost of the Kariba Complex and the Zimbabwe
thermal stations. Tariff levels are fixed to cover operating costs,



- 30 -
int'erest and debt repayment and contribute a reasonable portion of the
costs of future expansion. No major capital investments have been made
since the Kariba Complex was constructed in the late fifties. Revenues,
although adequate to cover these costs, will not be sufficient to
contribute adequately to the cost of the large development program that is
to be implemented for the Zambezi River. CAPC's Zimbabwe income statements
for the three years ended FY81, are summarized below:
FY                                                  1979      1980      1981
   = - Z$ millions  =
Increase in GWh Sales %                              0.8      11.4       4.4
GWh Sales                                           6148      6849     7147
Average Price/kWh (Zcts.)                          0.618    0.657    0.728
Average Price/kWh (UScts.)                         0.896    0.953    1.056
Energy Revenue                                        38        45        52
Operating Expenses
Import from Zambia                                 10        13       19
Thermal Costs                                      11        12       10
Operations                                          7         7         9
Depreciation                                        2         2         2
30       34        40
Operating Income                                       8        11        12
Rate of Return % a/                                    -        -        14.9
Operating Ratio %                                   78.9      75.6       76.9
a! Based on Zimbabwe historic net fixed assets.
5.08      Based on CAPC's revalued Zimbabwe net operating assets at end
FY81, the rate of return for that year would have been 5.7%, a low rate
which indicates that existing bulk power prices are below long run marginal
costs.
5.09      CAPC's capital expenditure for FY79-81 averaged only Z$2
(US$2.9) million annually but will increase rapidly if CAPC is to continue
its role as the hydropower development authority for the Zambesi river.
CAPC's balance sheet at end FY81 revealed an excellent financial position.
The current ratio 20/ was 4.6 and the debt equity ratio was 25/75. CAPC's
historic income statements, funds flow statements and balance sheets are
detailed in Annex 5.1.21/
20/ Current assets divided by current liabilities.
21/ Debt and equity as % of debt + equity.



- 31 -
HMED and BMED
5.10      HMED and BMED are also well managed and operated as city
departments. Tariffs which are slightly higher than those of ESC, are
fixed to cover operating costs and debt service and make a contribution to
city revenues. Tariffs have been increased when necessary to keep pace
with inflation and increased debt service. In FY81, HMED contributed
Z$476,000 (US$690,200) and BMED contributed Z$650,000 (US$942,500) to the
revenues of the respective cities or about 30% of the year's operating
surpluses in each case.
5.11      The value of HMED and BMED gross plants amounted in total at end
FY81 to Z$ 106 (US$154) million or about 70% of ESC's gross plant.
However, the development at Hwange will cause ESC's asset values to
increase rapidly and ESCTs distribution expansion is expected to take place
more rapidly than in the cities because of ESC's coverage of the whole
country, except for Harare, Bulawayo, Gweru and Umtali.
Sector Financing Plan
5.12      The power subsector in the future will be interdependent to a
much greater extent than in the past because the development program
(para. 4.06) required to meet Zimbabwe's power demand growth through 1991,
includes Hwange I-III thermal projects to be implemented by ESC,
hydro-electric projects to be implemented by CAPC (including the Kariba
North Bank Station that will be located in Zambia and the joint
Zimbabwe/Zambia future Batoka Hydro-Project). However, as all the projects
in the development program, until the Batoka North Bank Hydro-station is
commissioned in FY94, are required to meet the demand in Zimbabwe only, it
is expected that Zimbabwe will arrange the foreign borrowings and provide
the local borrowings and cash generation to meet the investment costs of
the program. Zambia would be expected to reimburse Zimbabwe when
additional generating capacity will be required in Zambia about 1994.   In
these circumstances financial forecasts have been produced for the Zimbabwe
power sector as a whole covering CAPC (Zimbabwe), ESC, HMED and BMED
operations and the capital investments, borrowings, debt service and
revenues needed for the sector development program through FY91.
5.13      The additional generation, transmission and distribution capacity
that Zimbabwe expects to provide through FY91 to meet the growth in power
demand requires capital expenditures estimated in current prices at Z$4.0
(US$5.8) billion, including interest during construction. The Government
will need to borrow Z$2.3 (US$3.3) billion or 58% abroad, Z$0.4 (US$0.6)
billion or 11% would be borrowed locally and Z$1.3 (US$1.9) billion or 31%,
would be self-generated from the Zimbabwe power sector. The foregoing plan
assumes that retail tariff levels would be so fixed and other necessary
steps taken to meet each year's finance gap between construction
expenditures and borrowing which translates into the need for the sector to
self-finance annually 30% of total construction expenditures for FY84,
50% for FY85 and 30% for FY86 and thereafter. Government agreement to this
effect was obtained during negotiations. The covenant would be based on a
three year average of the test, previous and following years' sector
construction expenditures.



- 32 -
5.14       The plan also assumes that local borrowings by the power sector
whether from Government, banks, insurance companies or other sources, would
be limited to Z$25.0 (US$36.2) million annually at 1981 price levels,    the
maximum available to the sector as indicated by the Ministry of Finance.
5.15       Based on the foregoing assumptions and those detailed in Annex
5.6, the sector financing plan for the ten year period is summarized as
follows:
RCIOR FDNARCING PLAN
(Z$ and US$ millions) a/
Total          Total  Total  %
Fiscal Years              82   83   84   85   86   82-86   87-91  82-91  82-91
Z$             US$
Internal Funds            54   65  140  228  225    712    1,944   2,656 3,851  66.5
Less: Debt Service &
Working Capital     17   13   86  122  114    352         958   1,310 1,900  32.8
Available for Investment    37   52   54  106  111    360       986   1,346 1,951  33.7
Borrowings               120  214  131  151  215    831    1,909   2,740 3,973  68.6
Surplus Cash              -    -    -    -   -34    -34         -60     -94  -136  -2.4
Total Capital Expenditure  157  266  185  257  292  1,157    2,835   3,992 5,788 100.0
a/ US$1.00=Z$1.45
5.16       Tariffs   The average sector retail tariff levels and the annual
percentage increases required to meet the finance plan and provide the
contributions to investment proposed in para. 5.13 are as follow:
Current Prices                            Constant FY81 Prices a/
(cts/kWh)                                        (cts/kWh)
Annual                             Annual
Increase                           Increase
FY      Z         US                       Z         US         %
(actual)  81   1.67         2.42        -            1.67       2.42         -
82   1.67        2.42       -            1.49        2.16       -11
83   2.67        3.87      60            2.15        3.12        44
84   2.84        4.12       6            2.08        3.02        -3
85   3.77        5.47      33            2.53        3.67        22
86   3.87        5.61       3            2.40        3.48        -5
87   4.51        6.54      17            2.59        3.76          2
88   4.67        6.77       4            2.49        3.61        -4
89   4.80        6.96        3           2.37        3.44        -5
90   5.25        7.61       9            2.40        3.48          1
91   6.96       10.09      33            2.94        4.26        22
a/  Using local the escalation rates for operating costs shown in Annex 5.6



- 33 -
Following the 60% increase for FY83, tariff levels at 1981 price levels
will be slightly above the long run marginal cost of electricity of
Zcts.2.18 (US cts. 3.16) per kWh shown in para. 6.09.
5.17   During negotiations the Government agreed to increase the average
level of retail tariffs by 60% in order to ensure that the proposed
earnings covenant will be met for FY84 and thereafter (para.5.13). Tariff
increases will also be necessary: of 6% for FY84, 33% for FY85, 3% for FY86
and 17% for FY87. Thereafter, increases will be small until FY91 when
Hwange III is commissioned and coal consumption approaches its maximum
level.
5.18      The agreement with Zambia for the supply and price of imported
power expired on June 30, 1981 but supplies continue to be received at the
old price of Z$1.6 (US$2.3) million per month for an assured 400 MW with an
optional 100 MW if available. The contract is being renegotiated and the
Zimbabwe Government is unable to indicate when the agreement may be
concluded. The retail tariff schedules of ESC, HMED and BMED include a
bulk power surcharge clause permitting any change in bulk power costs to be
passed to retail consumers. Assurances were obtained at negotiations that
following any increase in bulk power costs the surcharge would be applied
immediately.  Currently an increase of 25% has been assumed in the price of
imported power, escalated as for local costs (para. 4.18).
5.19      ESC has an agreement with HCC for the supply of coal to Hwange I
and II Power Stations but the price of coal sold in Zimbabwe is agreed
annually between Government and HCC (para. 1.20). The price for financial
forecast purposes has been assumed at Z$9.64 (US$13.98) escalated as for
local costs(para. 4.18).
5.20      In addition to the need for tariff level changes to fulfil each
year's financing plan, changes are required in the structure of tariffs as
inter alia, the first block in the domestic tariff has the highest
price/kWh for any type of consumer. This block is often a lifeline rate
and consideration needs to be given to the establishment of such a rate in
Zimbabwe. Certain industrial consumers virtually pay only CAPC's bulk
power price. A systematic review of the economic and social aspects of
Zimbabwe's power tariff structure will therefore be carried out in the
energy pricing study proposed as part of the project (para. 1.21).  The
study would inter alia, review the justification for continued differential
tariff schedules in the ESC, HMED and BMED areas, review the tariffs
applicable to the various categories of consumers on a marginal cost basis
and also review the economic cost of electricity for all end uses in
comparison with the economic costs of alternative forms of energy. Pending
the outcome of the tariff study, differential tariffs scheduled in the ESC,
HMED and BMED areas have been assumed to continue throughout the period of
the financial forecast.
5.21      Future Operations  Forecast income statements, funds flow
statements and balance sheets based on updated GWh sales figures and with
the development program (para 4.06) delayed by a year because the load has
not developed as expected and assumptions covering consolidated power
sector operations for FY82-91 are given in Annex 5.3.   The forecasts show
that the financial position based on the expected tariff increases and



- 34 -
position based on the expected tariff increases and borrowings would remain
satisfactory throughout the forecast period. Energy sales would grow from
7,137 GWh in FY82 to 12,563 GWh in FY91, at an average annual rate of 6%.
Revenues would increase from Z$122 (US$177) million to Z$886 (US$1,285)
million over the same period, an average growth rate of 25% p.a. Operating
expenses would increase from Z$112 (US$162) million in FY82 to Z$514
(US$745) million by FY91 or at an average rate of 18% annually, the higher
growth rate for revenue compared to expenses, reflects the increasing funds
from internal sources required to finance capital expenditures and meet
increasing debt service. In consequence, the operating ratio would improve
from 92% in FY82 to 58% in FY91.
5.22      Rates of Return  Rates of return on revalued net fixed assets in
operation over the forecast period are estimated to vary around 10% from
FY85 after charging depreciation on a revalued basis.
5.23      Liquidity  The liquid position would be satisfactory throughout
the period of the forecast with a current ratio averaging about 2.0.
Working cash balances would be adequate for most of the years of the
forecast but the sector utilities are in good standing with the local banks
and would be able to arrange short term overdrafts when necessary.
Outstanding accounts for electricity are expected to continue at the FY81
levels of about 40 days revenue outstanding.
5.24      Debt  Borrowings required to meet the investment program would
increase the debt/equity ratio from a minimum 34/66 for FY82 to a maximum
of 51/49 in FY90, a low ratio, which given that all foreign costs are
assumed to have been borrowed, indicates that the local borrowing
limitation (para. 5.14) may be too low. However, to guard against
overborrowing, Government agreed during negotiations that Bank concurrence
would be obtained for any power sector loan which would increase the
debt/equity ratio above 60/40.
5.25      To ensure that short term debt would not form  too large a
proportion of total debt, Government also agreed that Bank concurrence
would be obtained to the incurrence of any short term loan,including bank
overdrafts, (term of less than 5 years) which would increase total short
term debt for the sector above 10% of total debt.
5.26      The adjustment in the purchasing parity of the Z$ that could
arise from the inflation rates assumed (para. 4.18), could cause debt
servicing costs for FY84 through FY91 to increase by a total of Z$157
(US$228) million, or by 9% of the total debt service currently estimated
for that period.
ESC's Financing Plan
5.27      ESC as the Borrower and the implementing agency for the Hwange I
- III plants to be constructed during the period of the forecast, would be
responsible for capital expenditures of Z$1.6 (US$2.3) billion or about 40%
of the total sector investment program over the ten year period through
FY91. To finance these expenditures ESC proposes to borrow Z$897
(US$1,301) million or 56% abroad, and Z$110 (US$160) million or 7% locally



- 35 -
as its share of the limited local money market; Z$292 (US$423) million or
18% would be transferred from other sector utilities to provide their share
of the cash generation needed by ESC to help finance the Hwange
projects,the difference between depreciation and debt repayment on the
Hwange plants and the working capital required to operate the Hwange
plants. About Z$313 (US$454) million or 19% would come from internal cash
generation arising from ESC's distribution operations and depreciation on
the Hwange plants charged as part of the generation costs payable by CAPC.
The relatively high figure is due to ESC's distribution capital
expenditures being small in relation to depreciation on a revalued basis.
Based on the foregoing, ESC's financing plan FY82-91 would be as follows:
ESC FIANCING PLAN: FY82-91
(Z$ and US$ millions)
Total            Total   Total  %
Fiscal Years                    82   83   84   85   86   82-86   87-91   82-91   82-91
-~    Z$               US$
Tnternal Funds                 22   34   75   84   96    311          679      990   1,436  61.4
Less: Debt Service &
Working Capital          16   17   43   71   90    237          440     677      982  42.0
Available for Investment         6   17   32    13   6        74      239      313     454  19.4
Borrowings: IBD                 -   12   16    42  11         81        -       81     117   5.0
Other             119  202  104    71  54    550          376      926   1,343  57.5
Transfer from Other Utilities   9   16    7    49  40    121          171      292     423  18.8
Total Capital Expenditure      134  247  159   175 111    826         789   1,612   2,337  100.1
5.28       The financing plan assumes that ESC's tariff levels will be fixed
to cover bulk power purchases from CAPC, operating costs, interest, and the
greater of depreciation or debt repayment, and the finance gap between
borrowings and distribution investment expenditures.   Based on these
assumptions, ESC's rates of return on revalued net fixed assets in
operation would vary between 1% and 2% but over the ten years 20% of
capital expenditures would be provided from internal cash generation.
The low rates of return arise from the fact that ESC, essentially a
distribution utility, would be the owner of large thermal generation plants
without deriving the usual operating surpluses from them. In these
circumstances and in view of the probable future changes in sector
organization, agreement was obtained at negotiations that ESC's tariffs
will be fixed at levels consistent with the average levels required to meet
the sector's self generation covenant (para. 5.13 and Annex 5.5) and that
Government will ensure that CAPC, ESC, HMED and BMED are provided with the
funds required to meet their development programs by charging differential
bulk power tariffs to provide cross-funding within the power sector.



- 36 -
5.29      ESC's Debt  ESC's debt/equity ratio would reach a maximum of
55/45 in FY83 and thereafter fall to 28/72 by FY91. In view of the fact
thiat ESC's future borrowings are largely required to finance the ESC share
of the sector generation and transmission development program, it would be
inappropriate to ask for a limitation of ESC's debt different from the
limitation requested for the sector as a whole. Agreement was therefore
obtained from ESC at negotiations that the Bank's agreement would be
obtained: to the incurrence of any loan that would raise the debt/equity
ratio above 60/40; and to any short term borrowing including bank
overdrafts (term of less than 5 years) that would increase total short term
debt above 10% of total debt.
Sector Financial Organization
5.30      It will be necessary to prepare annual consolidated financial
statements, budgets and long term financial forecasts for the sector as a
whole, as well as for the individual utilities, in order to ascertain that
sector and individual utility demands for tariff adjustments and funds are
consistent with the least cost economic development of electric power in
the country.
5.31      Government is coordinating the operations of the utilities in the
Power Sector through periodic discussions at the Ministerial level in view
of the fact that ESC reports to MIED while the Cities' Electricity
Departments are under the Ministry of Local Government. Coordination at
lower levels will be expanded as soon as agreement on the future sector
organization is reached at the political level and particularly on the use
of sector resources.  Crossfunding within the sector occurs currently by
CAPC charging a 20% development levy on bulk power sales in Zimbabwe to
help finance the Hwange I project. Crossfunding will increase and become
more complicated in the future when ESC will need to receive more funds
from the sector's internal cash generation to help finance the Hwange
projects. CAPC will also need such funds to assist in financing the new
hydroelectric projects and some internally generated funds may also need to
be transferred among the utilities dependent on the incidence of their
individual distribution investment expenditures. A single organization is
required to prepare consolidated sector plans and forecasts and act as the
sector "banker". During negotiations the Government agreed to designate an
appropriate central authority for the power sector financial planning and
research gathering until the sector is reorganized.
Revaluation of Assets
5.32      In order to be able to calculate realistic annual rates of return
for the sector and for individual utility operations each year, Government
agreed at negotiations to have the sector utilities,including CAPC for its
Zimbabwe operations, revalue annually net fixed assets in operation from
1972 the year before the fuel crisis began, using the Fixed Capital
Formation Deflator for Public Investment as the appropriate index.  This
index has been used to revalue the historical assets for FY72-81 and the
inflation rates (para. 4.18) have been used for future years.  Asset values
will be validated about every four years by physical valuation of a portion
of the assets.



- 37 -
VI. PROGRAM AND PROJECT JUSTIFICATION
Need for Project
6.01      Zimbabwe needs additional power generation capacity by April 1985
in order to meet the winter peak in July 1985. 22/ The capacity shortfall
in that year arises from the expected load growth in Zimbabwe (para. 4.04),
retirement of old thermal plant and reduction in the amount of power and
energy available for export from Zambia due to expected load growth in that
country (para. 4.05). The shortage in mid-1985 is about 71 MW or 4.3% of
the maximum demand, estimated to increase to 222 MW or 12.6% of maximum
demand by mid-1986.
6.02      The earliest commissioning dates for available projects
determined during the least cost development studies indicated that only
Hwange II could be put into service by April 1985 assuming that contracts
based on tenders for boilers, turbo-generators and high pressure pipework
that had been received in October 1980, were awarded by the end of 1981.
The Kariba South and Kariba North extensions, although they have a lower
economic cost than Hwange II, could not be commissioned until February and
June 1987 respectively, at the earliest. Construction of Hwange II was
therefore justified as the only plant that could be ready in time. Delays
have occurred in the awarding of contracts and it is expected that the
first unit of Hwange II will now be commissioned in December 1985. The
winter peak of 1985 (July 1985) will be met from system reserves. The two
units will be in service by the winter peak of 1986. Similiarly, progress
in preparation of the extension projects at Kariba South and North Bank
Stations has also been delayed by at least a year because of the need to
reach agreement with Zambia.
Least Cost Development Program
6.03      Available primary energy resources were studied in order to
ascertain economic priority for power production and to determine the
earliest project commissioning dates.  In addition to the hydro projects on
the Zambezi river and the coal resources in Zimbabwe, import possibilities
from Zaire (via Zambia) and Mozambique were also studied. Although Zaire
will have substantial surplus power available in the area (about 500 MW),
it could only be supplied on a non-firm basis as the capacity available
would be needed in the event of the Inga-Shaba transmission line being out
of service and it cannot therefore be considered as an alternative to the
proposed project.  Zaire power may be an alternative to future projects in
Zimbabwe's development program as experience increases in operating the
long Inga-Shaba transmission line, and therefore ought to be considered
when evaluating the implementation of each step in the program.
22/ Because of plant maintenance requirements and allowing for teething
troubles it was determined that the new power unit should be
commissioned by April 1985 instead of July 1985.



- 38 -
6.04      About 50 MW of power imports are available from Cahora Bassa
hydro-plant in Mozambique which would be enough to supply the town of
Mutare near the border with that country.  This amount of power is too
small to have any effect on the nature and timing of the proposed project.
When and if Cahora Bassa II (2,000 MW) is constructed consideration can
again be given to power imports from Mozambique. However, the Zimbabwe
authorities consider that power imports should be limited to a maximum
percentage between 15% and 25% of total requirements for security reasons,
although no limitation has yet been introduced.
6.05      Four alternative development programs were defined and their
economic costs were compared on the basis of discounted cash flow
analysis.  The consultants carried out extensive studies on the shadow
prices and the opportunity cost of capital in Zimbabwe. The Ministry of
Economic Planning and Development concluded that the opportunity cost of
capital was 6% in real terms. The Bank's view was that the cost of capital
was at least 10% and discounting computations were carried out for 4%, 6%,
8% and 10%. The Hwange II project features in all four programs and
because of the timing constraints (para. 6.02), is the next step to be
implemented in all versions of the least cost development program (para.
4.06). The recommended program would change only in the event that
agreement on future development on the Zambezi could not be reached with
Zambia in which event coal-fired thermal plant in Zimbabwe would be
substituted for the future Zambezi projects. Sensitivity tests indicate
that for discount rates above 9%, development of a thermal station on a new
coalfield at Sengwa would be more economic than the Mupata hydro project
which is scheduled for operation in 1996 (paras. 4.06-4.11 and Annex 6.1).
An alternative program in which the Mupata hydroelectric project replaced
Hwange III in 1989 was not found as the least cost program.
Internal Rate of Return
6.06      The internal rate of return (IRR) has been calculated (Annex 6.2)
using capital expenditures over the first ten year slice of the least cost
development program for generating transmission and distribution plants
and the incremental operating costs over 35 years, using FY81 as the base
year. The economic price of coal was taken as Z$l (US$1.45)/ton, 23/ and
sensitivity studies were made for Z$6 (US$8.7)/ton 24/ and Z$9.64
(US$13.98)/ton 25/.  Imported power was priced at Z$50 (US$72.5)/kW p.a.
23/ The opportunity cost of coal for Hwange I, II and III is estimated at
Z$ 0.60 (US$0.87) being the transport and storage costs of the coal
currently dumped as waste (para. 1.04).
24/ The opportunity cost, if an alternative use such as coal gasification
or ammonia and/or methanol plant for Hwange coal arises.
25/ The price fixed by the Ministry of Mines for Hwange coal.



- 39 -
6.07      The IRR is the discount rate at which the cost stream calculated
on the basis of economic prices, is equal to the benefit stream comprising
the incremental revenues calculated from the tariff levels.  Using the
existing tariff level of Zcts 1.67 (UScts 2.42)/kWh, the IRR is estimated
at 6.8%, indicating that existing tariff levels are too low and need to be
increased. Using the tariff level forecast for FY87 (the year Hwange II
will be in full operation) discounted to 1981 price levels, the IRR is
12.2%.
6.08      The sensitivity studies using coal prices of Z$6 (US$8.7) tonne
and Z$9.64 (US$13.98) tonne, show that the IRR would be 6.1% and 5.5%
respectively, with existing tariff level, and 11.5% and 11.1% respectively,
with the FY87 tariff level. The rates of return are sensitive by about
 1% to changes in capital costs of  10%.
Long Range Marginal Costs
6.09      The long range marginal cost of energy at the retail level has
been calculated at Zcts.2.18 (UScts 3.16)/kWh using a 10% discount rate.
The figure is low compared to most of the Eastern African Region countries
and to many countries in the world. The reason for the low level is that
the economic cost of the coal to be used as fuel is only Z$1/ton
(US$1.45/ton), the development program is based on large hydro power
projects and includes no oil-fired steam or gas turbine plant. This level
approximates the projected tariff levels required in the current decade to
provide the resources needed to finance the development program
(para. 5.12 - 5.20).



- 40 -
VII. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION
7.01      During negotiations assurances were obtained from the Government
that it would:
(a) maintain the price of coal to the power sector at Z$9.64
(US$13.98)/tonne in real terms until the Energy Pricing Study is
completed (para. 1.20);
(b) commission an energy pricing study to be completed by June 30,
1984 and that agreed recommendations would be implemented by June
30, 1985 (para. 1.21);
(c) appoint an experienced power sector planner to the existing
planning unit in MIED by December 31, 1982 (para. 2.15);
(d) review the specific plans for extending the Kariba Hydroelectric
complex, particularly whether two stations of 300 MW each is the
optimum solution (para. 4.11);
(e) fix tariff levels and take other necessary steps for the power
sector to self-finance annually 30% for FY84, 50% for FY85 and
50% for FY86 and thereafter, of the average of the test, previous
and following years' construction expenditures (para. 5.13);
(f) not consent to the incurrence of any power sector debt if the
debt/equity ratio would rise above 60/40 (para. 5.24); nor raise
its short term debt (including bank overdrafts) above 10% of
total debt, without the Bank's agreement (para. 5.25);
(g) ensure that CAPC (Zimbabwe), ESC, HMED and BMED are provided with
the funds required to meet their development programs (para.
5.28); and
(h) designate a central authority for sector financial planning
(para. 5.31);
(i) revalue from 1972 the net fixed assets in operation of all sector
utilities and CAPC's Zimbabwe assets (para. 5.32);
7.02      During negotiations assurances were obtained from ESC that it
would:
(a) appoint a project manager with qualifications and experience
satisfactory to the Bank (para. 4.26);
(b) fix tariff levels and take other necessary steps to ensure that
cash generation would be consistent with the sector's obligation
(para. 5.28); and
(c) borrow only if the debt/equity ratio were below 60/40, and
maximum short term debt (including bank overdrafts) below 10% of
total debt, without the Bank's agreement (para. 5.29).



- 41 -
7.03      As a condition of effectiveness of the proposed loan, the
Government would submit a plan for meeting manpower shortages in the Power
Sector (para. 2.26).
7.04      With the above agreements, the project would be suitable for a
Bank Loan of US$105 million equivalent to the Electricity Supply Commission
for 20 years, including a 5 year grace period.



- 42 -
ANNEX 1.1
Page 1 of 5
ZIMBABWE
POWER PROJECT
Coal Resources and Hwange Colliery
Coal Resources
1.        Zimbabwe is well endowed with coal reserves and has
traditionally made use of some of them.  Reported figures quote total
resources, in 24 coal fields, at 29 billion tonnes in situ. Total raw coal
produced from the only colliery at Hwange topped 3.2 million tonnes in the
year ended August 31, 1980 but dropped to 2.8 million tonnes in 1981, due
to strikes and temporary transportation difficulties. Presently coal
supplies about 32 percent of Zimbabwe's total energy requirements. The
coal deposits in Zimbabwe are mostly of Permian age and are concentrated in
two basins, the Zambezi in the north-west and the Sabi-Limpopo in the
South.
2.        A breakdown into resourcesl/ and reserves2/ was made by the
Bank3/.   Only 2.18 billion tonnes or 7 percent of the quoted figure, can
be classified as reserves, of which about 10 percent has coking properties
and only about 15 percent of the thermal coal can be mined by open pit
methods.
Hwange Colliery
3.        The only mine producing coal in Zimbabwe is the Hwange
Colliery4/ which presently has a production capacity of approximately 3.2
million tonnes of raw coal per year (tpa), of which about 1/3 is produced
from underground mines and the balance from open pits. The open pits are
1/ Coal resources refer to coal which is well known but of unacceptable
quality for use at present or which is not so well defined as to allow
accurate estimates to be made of quantity and quality.
2/ Coal reserves refer to all coal in situ which is sufficiently defined
to allow economic extraction in the future.
3/ Energy Assessment Mission; Coal Sector, Full Report by IPD1, dated
September 1, 1981.
4/ Owned and operated by Wankie Colliery Co. Ltd., (HCC) which is managed
by Anglo American Corporation Zimbabwe, who own 34%, Union Miniere
(Belgium) is the only other major shareholder with 5%,the balance of
the shares are held by the public in UK, RSA and Zimbabwe.



- 43 -
ANNEX 1.1
Page 2 of 5
worked by contractors with their own fleets which comprise relatively small
equipment. The overburden is removed in two 15 meter layers at a time
using the box cutting method5/. The average seam thickness is 7 to 10 m,
of which the bottom 2 to 5 m are coking coal high in volatiles. This is
the only portion of the seam currently mined underground . The remainder
is left behind and lost. In the open pits the thermal coal above the
coking coal is stripped and dumped as waste, and is also lost, because it
becomes intermixed with overburden and the high pyrite content makes the
coal amenable to spontaneous combustion. At present, over 2.0 million
tonnes annually are wasted in this way at the Hwange pits. The run of mine
(raw) coal is either sold as is, or washed. About 14 percent of coal
produced is used in the colliery's own coking plant. Byproducts from the
coking plant, mainly gas, tar, benzol, and 25 percent ammonia liquor, are
recovered and sold with the exception of the gas, some of which is used
internally and the excess flared.
4.         The mine is accessible by railroad and paved highway.  Water is
pumped 47 km from the Zambezi. Power is partially self-generated in a
50-year old power plant and purchased from ESC, but the power plant will be
closed when Hwange I becomes operative.
Development at Hwange Colliery
5.        HCC is consolidating open pit operations in order to furnish coal
for Hwange I. Part of this consolidation program is being financed by
IFC6/. The main aims of the Company's 3.9 million tonne per year open
cast mining project are: (i) to supply coal to Hwange I; (ii) to replace
coal from other HCC opencast sources, for sale essentially to HCC's
existing customers (58% of the production); and (iii) reduce operating
costs as under the consolidation HCC costs will reduce in real terms.
6.        Partly in view of the uncertainty concerning the final installed
capacity and timing of the power station as a whole, but also to make use
of existing contractors' supplementary stripping equipment on site, HCC has
devised a two-phase investment program. The first phase comprises an
electric dragline and associated equipment planned for installation
5/ The box cutting method is a method of mining rectangular surface areas
with mechanical shovels and trucks which results in a box like shape in
the area exploited as the coal is extracted.
6/ IFC Appraisal Report No. IFC/T-343, January 7, 1981.



- 44 -
ANNEX 1.1
Page 3 of 5
during FY81-FY83 and is expected to cost Z$132.0 (US$191.0) million of
which Z$13.8 (US$20.0) million is financed by IFC (Investment Number 552).
The second phase, comprising supplementary stripping equipment will be
implemented later, at an additional cost estimated at Z$7.6 (US$11.0)
million depending on the final installed capacity of the power station7/.
Mining Conditions at Hwange Colliery
7.        Within the working areas, the mining conditions are good.  A flat
seam with little faulting, a sound floor and reasonably good roof
conditions have posed few problems for underground mining, the main method
of extraction for over seventy years. Moreover, structurally, most of the
flat-lying coal has been disturbed very little by minor faulting, only 1 to
2 meters throw, and never more than 6 meters. Similarly, no serious
difficulties are expected in the future in supplying the power station with
large scale opencast mining.8/
Proven Reserves at Hwange Colliery
8.        Deducting coal which will be mined until the first unit of Hwange
I is commissioned in December 1982, HCC has estimated the proven mineable
reserves as 41.5 million tonnes of coking and 109.5 million tonnes of steam
coal.   Hwange's proven opencast reserves have been calculated by several
methods over the years. Initially, reserves were estimated by planimeter
and hand calculations before introducing weighting by polygons which, in
turn, has been replaced by computer methods. Some 17 million tonnes of coal
were mined from opencast working in recent years with negligible deviation
from forecast results and this provides ample proof that the estimates of
proven reserves indicated above are acceptable and sufficient to meet the
needs of Hwange I, II and III stations over their useful lives.
Method of Mining
9.        Selection of the method of working was based on an exhaustive
study of ten different ways of removing overburden and eleven alternatives
for coal extraction. The most efficient and lowest cost method of
stripping overburden after blasting was found to be a combination of a face
shovel loading dump trucks for shifting 20-25 percent of the total cover
material and a large walking dragline excavator to remove the remaining
75-80 percent of the total cover material.
7/ Coal quantities foreseen in the power system operation simulation
studies show that with the implementation of the least cost power
development plan, there is no need for the second phase of mining
development (Annex 4.6).
8/ Hwange I, II and III; 1,320 MW total installed capacity.



- 45 -
ANNEX 1.1
Page 4 of 5
Coal Handling to Stockpiles
10.       At the coal tip, coal will be discharged from the dump trucks
into one of two surge bins, each having a capacity of 376 cubic meters, or
about 500 tons. From a surge bin, a feeder will draw coal and deliver it
to a rotary breaker having a throughput of up to 1,800 to 2,000 ton per
hour depending on whether the product is broken to 150 or 200 mm ring
size. For Hwange Power Station requirements, coal will be reduced further
in size after discharge from the rotary breaker and will be conveyed by two
conveyor belts over a distance of 3.8 km. The stockpile areas have been
designed to hold up to two days' mine output. This achieves a reasonable
compromise between the period required to rectify most breakdowns and carry
out normal maintenance, as compared to the cost of providing additional
stockpile capacity to cater for unusual circumstances.
Sale to the Power Station
11.       The Hwange Power Station demand for coal will be met by the
direct use of run-of-mine coal after simple crushing, screening, and
blending as necessary, of the high and low ash coal to meet the ash
specifications (25%). The coal to be provided is currently dumped as waste
to reach the higher quality coal at the bottom of the seam (para. 1.04 and
6.04).



- 46-                                 ANNX 1.1
Page 5 of 5
Z1MBWE
PcAR PRE1
Coal Reserves and Resources and Classification
in Term  of Cokirg and Thermal Coal Properties
(Million Tonme)
Classification with Respect  Classification with Respect to Coidrg
to Resources/Reserves            and Thermal Coal Properties
Total                                Cokirg          Thermal Coal
Coal       Resources  Reserves 1/  Coal        Open Pit         Underground
1           2          3           4            5                6
A)  Zambezi Basin
Harge Concession       1,000           386        614          450        550             WA 2/
Western Area             415           N/A        415          112         70               233
Entuba                   159           N/A        159           22         50                87
Sinamatila               175           175          -           15          -               160
labimbi
LubimbiE)
Hanam )               21,083        20,920        163        2,108        569            18,406
Dahia)
Kennedy                1,200         1,200          -          120         32             1,048
Lusulu                      3,000         2,750        250            -      1,200             1,800
Lubu - Sebrgu                  83            83          -            -               83
Sergwa                        400           N/A        400            -        200               200
Marca                          15            15          -            -               15
Sessann - Kaora             1,000         1,000          -          N/A            1,000
TOUALZAMEZI           28,530        26,29       2,001        2,827           25,703
B)  Sabi - L&Vopo Basin
Tuli
Massabi                   30            30          -           30
Bubye                          60            30         30           60
Sabi
Bendizi                   14           N/A         14           14                            -
Ma1lilongR               260           260          -            -              260
Nkushl7e                 308           159        149            -        200               108
TOTL SABII-LDhOJF        672           477        193          104               568
GRAN) TUrAL                29,0          27,008      2,194        2,931            26,271
PERCNT                       100%           93%         7%          10%                90%
1/ All figures, with the exception of the NHange Concession, are estimates.
2/  HCC does not report thermal cial 1n underground reserves.



TABLE 1. I
ZIMAWE - ENERGY SUPPLY/DVWiA2D BALC  - 1980
(In 000 OE)
SOLID FUEL3              LIQUID FUELS                         ELECICCTY         -OTLN-COERCIAL
Petroleu               41                                           COMMERCIAL
Coal      Coke       Products         Ythanlo-     Hydro       Thermal       Total          ENERCY         Fuelvood       b3gasse        TOTAL EHXRGY
Production                       2,075                                    i5           1,010                    1,010          3,100            1,645          150-1          4>995
Imports                            --693                                  -             693                       693         1,386                                           1,386
Exports                          (172>       (87)          --             --                        (4)            (4)        (263)                                           (263)
Total Supplies                1,903       (87)         693             15         1t703          (4)         1,699         4,223             1,645          150            6,018
Statistical Differences           (83)                     --            (6)                                      __            (89)                                           (89)
Electric Generation              (219)                     --             --                        84             84         (135)                                           (135)
Other Transformation 't          (206)       158 I                                                                              (48)                                           (48)
Sector Own Use/loss               r.e        n.e.                                                                (96)           (96)                          (150)           (246>
Final Cons.                   E,395        71          693              9                                    1,687         7,855             1,645                         s,500
Industtiai/Commercial              781        63           76            _--                                        29           749               58              _           1,807              -_
Iron 6 Steel-'                  538        58                                                                   5t           519                                             589
Ferrochromse,                    16         5                          --                                      281            355                                             355
Chemicals                       --         --                          --                                      2i9            224                                             224
Others                          227                     76             -_                                       278           581               58                            639
Tansport                         186         1          372              9                                      -              568                 _                           568
Road                            --         -           214              9                                      -              223                                             223
Railways                        186         1           86             --                                                     273                                             273
Aviation                        --         --           72             --                                      --              72                                              72
Othwers                            428         7          208                           __  858                                    1r
Agriculture                     216        --           93             __                                       135           448               175                           627
Goverament                      --         --           90             --                                       --             90                                              90
Households                      --         --            9             --                                      223            242            1,412                          1,654
Mining                           90         3           16             --                                       309           418                                             418
Other                           122         4           --             --                                       172           303                                             303
Non-Enersy Use 3                                           37                                                                     37                                              37
__ __ _ __ _ __ __ _ __ _ __ __ _ __ _ __ __ _ __ __                                                     _ ____ _ __ __                         ____  
()  Brackets Show transfer or input to other sectors.  For inventory, bracket means Increase In st,.ck
I/ Coal to Zisco for internal coke conversion is not Shown as part of other transformation but is accounLed by coal used in iron and steel industry.                                              in
The coke by-products and conversion losses are also not shown separately and would be accounted by differences between input and output.
2/ Mission estimates.
3/ Represents bitumen and lubricante.  In drawing up 1,istorlcal tables, these products have been excluded.
Energy conversion factors: bitu;men - 6.7 million Stu/bbl, and lubricants 6 million Stulbbl.                                                                                                  19
4/  Represent September-Oecember 1980 volumes.
S/ Mainly fertilizer Industry.



- 48 -                         ANNEX 2.1
ZIMBABWE
POWER PROJECT
ORGANIZATION CHART OF THE POWER SECTOR
MINISTRY OF
INDUSTRY AND ENERGY
DEVELOPMENT
ELECTRICITY COUNCIL
I~~~~                                    I
CENTRAL AFRICAN         l      ELECTRICITY SUPPLY
POWER CORPORATION                    COMMISSION
CITY OF                     CITY OF                          CITY OF                      CITY OF
HARARE                     BULAWAYO         J                GWERU           l            MUTARE
Direct control through the Electricity Act (Chapter 282)
---~- Indirect control through the Central African Power Act (Chapter 279),
the Electricity Act (Chapter 282) and the Urban Councils Act (Chapter 214)
World Bank-23583



- .' -                             ANNEX 2.2
ZIMBABWE
POWER PROJECT
STATISTICAL DATA--GENERATION AND SUPPLY BY CAPC TO ZIMBABWE AND ZAMBIA
Year Ending June 30th                         1977        1978        1979        1980        1981
A. Generation and Supply by CAPC                                      (GWh)
Generation Controlled by CAPC
-Hydroelectric Power Stations
-Kariba South                             3,916.7    3,725.2    3,563.5    3,743.3    4,098.5
-Kariba North                             2,378.2    3,109.6    3,400.5    3,944.7    3,846.2
-Kafue Gorge                              4,637.4    3,926.4    3,949.7    4,066.6    4,722.2
-Victoria Falls                             761.1        596.4       561.7       526.0       448.6
-SNEL (Net Import)                             -           0.9         -           -           -
- Subtotal: Hydro                      11,693.4   11,358.5   11,475.4   12,280.6   13,115.5
-Thermal Power Stations
-Bulawayo                                    143.1       126.5       149.9       197.4       102.3
-Harare                                      130.8       170.9       146.1       184.7        45.6
-Umniati                                     103.5       118.5       133.0       151.0        33.7
- Subtotal: Thermal                       377.4       415.9        429.0       533.1       181.6
-Total Sent Out                              12,070.8   11,774.4   11,904.4   12,813.7   13,297.1
-Total Transmission Losses                      433.7       440.0       449.1       486.2       500.0
-Total Sales                                 11,637.1   11,334.4   11,455.3   12,327.5   12,797.1
Bulk Supplies
-Zimbabwe
-BMED                                        571.0       584.8       612.6       652.5       691.9
-lHMED                                    1,134.2    1,147.0    1,185.8    1,248.3    1,322.8
-ESC                                      4,714.4    4,364.9    4,349.2    4,948.4    5,132.4
- Subtotal:Sales to Zimbabwe             6,419.6    6,096.7    6,147.6    6,849.2    7,147.1
-Growth Rate (%)                               4.8        -5.2         0.8        11.4         4.3
-Transmission Losses in Zimbabwe             239.2       236.6       241.0       270.0       280.0
-Total Sent Out Supply to Zimbabwe        6,658.8    6,333.3    6,388.6    7,119.2    7,427.1
-Zambia
-CPC                                      4,350.9    4,398.2    4,416.8    4,547.2    4,688.7
-ZESCO                                      886.6       839.5        890.9       930.2       961.3
-SNEL                                          -           -           -           0.9         -
- Subtotal: Sales to Zambia             5,217.5    5,237.7    5,307.7    5,478.3    5,650.0
-Growth Rate (X)                               1.7         0.4         1.3         3.2         3.1
-Transmission Losses in Zambia            194.5       203.4        208.1        216.2      220.0
-Total Sent Out Supply to Zambia        5,412.0    5,441.0    5,515.8    5,694.5    5,870.0
B. Maximum Demands  a/ b/                                           (MW)
-Zimbabwe
-Maximum Demand                            972         946         944        1,028       1,084
-Transmission Losses                         38         39           38          48          48
-Total Sent Out                          1,010          985         982      1,076       1,132
-Zambia
-Maximum Demand                            743          749         738         754         804
-Transmission Losses                         30          28          31          31          22
-Total Sent Out                            773         777          769         785         826
C. Annual Load Factors                                                (x)
-Zimbabwe                                     74          72          74          76          75
-Zambia                                       79          79          80          83          80
a/ In June of each fiscal year.
b/ Total sent out demands in July of each year have been as follow (Annex 4.2):
1977        1978        1979        1980        1981
-Zimbabwe  (MW)                             967          962      1,032        1,129       1,170
-Zambia    (MW)                              774         775         773         796         831



- 50 -
ANNEX 2.3
ZDMBAEWE
POWER PRDJECr
STATISTICAL DATA-BULK SDPPLY AND SALES IN ZlMEABhE
(GWh)
Year Ernding June 30th                    1977        1978       1979       1980       1981
Sent out Supply by CAPC                   6,658.8    6,333.3    6,388.6    7,119.2    7,427.1
Transmission Losses                         239.2      236.6       241.0      270.0      280.0
Total Bulk Sales                          6,419.6    6,096.7    6,147.6    6,849.2    7,147.1
Sent Out Supply From Other
Sources to ESC                          11.9       12.0        9.6        15.0       12.0
Distribution Losses                         389.3       352.6      355.3      362.6      359.7
Ibtal Sales                               6,042.2    5,756.1    5,801.9    6,501.6    6,799.4
-ESC                                   4,446.2    4,128.2    4,106.9    4,716.6    4,896.3
-Harare                                1,056.8    1,073.7    1,115.1    1,163.1    1,244.0
-Bulawayo                                539.2       554.2      579.9      621.9      659.1
Total Sales                               6,042.2    5,756.1    5,801.9    6,501.6    6,799.4
-Mining                                1,235.9    1,237.8    1,148.9    1,247.2    1,301.6
-Industrial                            3,090.3    2,752.3    2,762.6    3,321.8    3,514.1
-Agriculture                             338.0      337.5       4o9.5      399.9      369.5
-Coimercial                              472.6      491.0       502.2      504.6      530.6
-Domestic                                905.4      937.5       978.7    1,028.1    1,083.6
Total Sales                               6,042.2    5,756.1    5,801.9    6,501.6    6,799.4



- 51 -
ZIMBABWE                                   ANNEX 2.4
POWER    PROJECT
INSTALLED CAPACITY
------Installed Capacity -------         Effective                Commis-
Unit Size                  Total         Capacity                 sioning
Type                           Plant Name       Owner    (MW)           Number       (MW)          (MW)                    Date
Publicrly Owned and
Itterconnected
Hydro                           Kariba South   CAPC      111               6         666           633 1/                   1960-62
Subtotal; Eydro                                                                      666           633             60.2
Thermal(Coal-Fired Steam)2/   Harare            City     7.5-30            8         135           127.6                    1946-58
Umniati         ESC     10  -20            7         120           112.8                    1947-57
Bulawayo        City    15  -30            5         120           113.7                    1948-57
Subtotal: Thermal                                                               375          354.1            33.7
Subtotal: Publicly Owned
& Interconnected                                                    1,041           987.1
Privately Owned
Thermal                         Triangle Ltd.                                         45            20
Hippo Valley Estates Ltd,                             23            23
Zimbabwe Iron and Steel Co. Ltd. (ZISCO)               5.5           5.5
Empress Nickel Mining Co. Ltd,                         8.0           1.8
Iomagundi Smelting Planning (Pte) Ltd.                 1.5           1.5
Hwange Colliery Co. Ltd.                              27.0          12.5
Subtotal: Privately
Owned Thermal                                                        110.0          64.3            6.1
TOTAL                                                                        1,151.0       1,051.4          100.0
l/   Following arrangements with the Government of Zambia,
2/                             Nameplate    Year                                           Nameplate      Year
No,   Rating MW    Commissioned                           No,    Rating MW       Commissioned
Harare No. 2         1        7,5         1946                  Umniati         4        20            1953
2       7.5          1947                                 5         20            1954
3      10                                                 6         20            1955
4      10            1953                                 7         20            1957
5      20            1954                                          120.0
6      20            1955
Harare No. 3         1       30            1957                 Bulawayo        1         15            1948
2      30            1958                                 2         15            1952
135.0                                               3         30           1953
4        30            1955
Umniati              1      10            1947                                  5        30            1957
2      10            1947                                          120.0
3      20            1950



- 52 -                        ANNEX 2.5
Page 1 of 2
ZIMBABWE
POWER PROJECT
MANPOWER AND TRAINING
1.        Zimbabwe's power infrastructure is well developed compared to
other countries in the Eastern Africa Region but the sector is extremely
vulnerable at the present time because of the lack of trained Zimbabwean
manpower at all levels.
2.        CAPC's staff totals 827 (of a sanctioned 882) of which 80 are
engineers and technicians. Skilled manpower is short by about 26. CAPC
has been operating without a formal training program, satisfying specific
needs periodically, by training to technician level. Although this is now
inadequate, the situation would improve following the appointment of a
training officer.
3.        ESC's staff totals about 2,800 of which 69 are engineers and
other high-level administrative employees, 97 technicians, 193 artisans,
300 accountants and clerical staff, 200 semiskilled workers, the remainder
being unskilled.   Vacancies now total 180, of which 160 are for skilled
personnel, causing a grave situation.
4.        ESC has a training officer in Harare, who trains only 25
apprentices per year (potential technicians and artisans) that ESC
sponsors for four-year courses. Semi-skilled workers are now being
upgraded to become artisans.
5.        HMED staff total 1,035 (of a sanctioned 1,465) of which about 90
are engineers and 100 are technicians and artisans; the skilled manpower
shortage is 127. HMED is in the process of recruiting a training officer
to establish a training unit to augment the present training intake of 10
per year (potential technicians and artisans) who undergo four-year
courses. About 20 Africans are also currently being trained to become
plant operators, which is notable as the majority of skilled trainees and
workers were non-African until recently.
6.        BMED's staff totals 1,079 of whom 27 are engineers, 45
technicians, 160 artisans, 43 operators, 80 accountants and clerks and 664
unskilled workers. There is a shortage of 42 engineers and technicians.
BMED has recently hired an African engineer to be the full-time training
officer responsible for training at all levels, however, there are
no organized training courses yet.
7.        All organizations  have so far relied mainly on expatriate
engineers and on technicians and artisans prepared through industrial



53 -                       ANNEX 2.5
Page 2 of 2
employers sponsoring employees (usually apprentices) for part-time study at
the Polytechnic in Harare and the Technical College in Bulawayo. This
system worked well although it is now insufficient for the increasing needs
of the power sector and is deteriorating because of the exodus of
expatriate teachers from technical education.
8.        The number of local engineers being prepared by the University of
Zimbabwe although increasing each year, is low. The forecast for
graduation in 1981, 1982 and 1983 (academic years ending December 31) is as
follows:
1981    1982       1983
Civil           3         8         12
Electrical      9         4         12
Mechanical      5         -         12
9.        The average age of power sector engineers is around 50 years.
Few are in the age group between 30 and 45 years. Estimates of the number
of African engineers who have graduated outside the country range between
one hundred and three hundred. Unfortunately the power utilities have been
reluctant to hire them because of their lack of experience, although MIED
and the Ministry of Manpower are now trying to persuade the power sector
organizations to provide graduates with better employment opportunities.



ZIMBABWE
POWER PROJECT
ORGANIZATION CHART OF THE ELECTRICITY SUPPLY COMM\iISSION
THE MINISTER OF
INDUSTRY AND ENERGY DEVELOPMENT
THE COMMISSION (BOARD)
GENERAL MANAGER
COMMERCIAL ENGINEER           ASSISTANT GENERAL MANAGER            SECRETARY AND LEGAL                               CHIEF ENGINEER
TRF  ANl           C                ACC             TRANSPORT          LEGAL           TRAINING         GENERATION OPERATIONS        TRANSMISSION AND DISTRIBUTION
-SYSTEM PLANNING ENGINEER
-STATION MAINTENANCE         -PROTECTION/TEST/
-MECHANICAL ENGINEER          COMMUNICATIONS ENGINEERS
STORESL PERSONNEL  ADMINISTRATION                              -SUBSTATIONS ENGINEER
-DISTRIBUTION ENGINEER
- EL. CONTRACTS ENGINEER
-LINE CONSTRUCTION ENGINEER
POWER STATIONS                AREAS/DISTRICTS
World Ba,k-23584



- 55 -
ANNEX 4.1
Page 1 of 5
ZIMBABWE
POWER PROJECT
Load Forecast for Zimbabwe
Introduction
1.        The load forecast was based on two detailed sales forecasts.  The
first forecast was drawn up on the basis of a market survey including an
evaluation of past statistics and direct enquiry of major consumers as to
their future plans, and the second was based on  econometric studies.  The
differences between the two sales forecasts were small and the central load
forecast was derived from the mean forecast of sales by making allowance
for the transmission and distribution losses, load factors of the different
consumer classes and diversity of the demand.
Forecast of Sales Based on Market Survey and Analysis of Past Trends
2.        This forecast was developed on the basis of a survey of major
mining and industrial consumers and an analysis of past trends of electric
energy consumption. The consumers were classified into five main
sectors--mining, industrial, agricultural, domestic and commercial. The
object of the survey was to establish by direct discussion, as far as was
feasible, the plans that consumers had for future development and how
development would affect their consumption of electricity.  In the mining
sector all consumers whose annual maximum demand in FY80 exceeded 3 MW were
defined as major consumers. Major industrial consumers were defined as
those whose annual maximum demand exceeded 5 MW in the ESC, 3 MW in the
SMED and BMED areas of supply. This classification gave 12 major mining
customers out of 237 and 11 major industrial customers out of 2,500. In
addition to these customers, two other prospective large mining companies
and a number of the larger gold mining companies were interviewed and
surveyed. In the industrial sector two large customers were also
surveyed. No agricultural, commercial or domestic consumers were
interviewed, but official data and plans for agricultural and domestic
development were consulted.
Forecast of Sales Based on Econometric Studies
3.        The approach in the econometric studies was to try to establish
the underlying sector stimulation for electricity consumption and to
predict this as well as possible. When preparing this forecast, economic
planning in Zimbabwe had not reached a point where a fully consistent and
fully articulated model could be used to analyze the interdependencies
between the various sectors and the whole of the economy.  Again the same
five main sectors were studied. The Government's development objectives,
including planned growth rates were reviewed against foreign exchange,



- 56 -
ANNEX 4.1
Page 2 of 5
transport and manpower constraints. The elasticity of the demand against
the price of the electric energy was given special consideration and it was
concluded that the price elasticity of the electric energy demand was
low.  The suppression of demand which would occur by the time there is full
adjustment to the doubling of the present electricity price levels, was
estimated as follows:
Elasticity at double          Change in demand
Sector                    present electricity price   after full adjustment
Mining                                 -0.1                     - 5%
Industrial a/                          -0.1                     - 5%
Commercial                             -0.1                     - 5%
Agricultural b/                         0.0                       0%
Domestic                               -0.15                    -10%
a/  Except Sable Chemicals, which produces fertilizer from electrolysis of
water, which consumed 882 GWh in FY81 (or 13% of total Zimbabwe
Consumption) and had a maximum demand of about 110 MW.
b/  The assumption for agriculture stems from the Government's ambitious
irrigation program. With respect to existing irrigation customers, the
capital costs which are already sunk constitute a high proportion of
irrigation costs. Assuming that these consumers would refrain from
irrigation just to save electricity would not be realistic.
4.        The steps followed for each sector were as follows:
(a) Mining and industriall/ sectors:
(i) identification of the important minerals2/ and
industries3/;
(ii) analysis of historic growth in: production; electricity
consumption; and electricity consumption per unit of
production;
(iii) estimation of likely future growth in output of each
mineral and industry, taking into account both domestic and
export demand;
(iv) estimation of the likely trend in consumption per unit
of output; and
1/  Excluding Sable Chemicals;
2/  Gold, nickel, asbestos, copper, chrome, tin, coal and others;
3/  Foodstuffs, drink and tobacco, textiles, clothing, wood and furniture,
paper and printing, chemicals, non-metallic mineral products, metals
and metal products, transport (vehicles) and others;



- 57 
ANNEX 4.1
Page 3 of 5
(v) synthesis of estimated electricity consumption from
(iii) and (iv).
(b)       Agricultural sector:
(i)  identification of the main uses of electricity 4/;
(ii) identification of the main determinants of specific
electricity consumption 5/;
(iii) estimation of the likely increase of the total irrigated
area 6/;
(iv) estimation of the likely increase in the specific
electricity consumption; and
(v)  synthesis of the estimated electricity consumption from
(iii) and (iv).
(c) Domestic sector:
(i)  identification of the main components: the number of
consumers, the mean consumption per consumer (specific
consumption) and the method of supply (metered or
load-limited);
(ii) estimation of the likely increase in the main components7/;
and
(iii) estimation of the electricity consumption from (ii).
4/ Irrigation pumping, on-farm processing, domestic farm use.
5/ Rainfall, shares of overhead and flood irrigation in the total
irrigation area, average height to which water has to be pumped,
increased water use per hectare to match increased use of other inputs
e.g. fertilizers, shares of electrical and diesel pumping;
6/ Expected to reach 205,778 ha in 1990 (75,950 ha by flood irrigation,
129,828 ha by overhead irrigation); this predicted growth in area is
slower than historic growth (3.6% per annum between 1981 and 1990,
against 8.8% per annum between 1968 and 1979);
7/ For the number of customers, the Government's policies on the
development of low-cost housing, and for the specific consumption
per customer, appliance ownership and usage were considered;



- 58 -
ANNEX 4.1
Page 4 of 5
(d) Commercial and other sectors:
(i) identification of the main components: urban population and
the number and size of the commercial buildings classed in
that category 8/;
(ii) analysis of the growth of the urban population and of the
commercial electricity consumption 9/;
(iii) estimation of the likely increase in the main
components 10/; and
(iv) estimation of the electricity consumption from (iii),
taking into account the government policy to expand
significantly educational facilities and local services.
5.        When the forecasts made for individual sectors were brought
together it was seen that the average annual growth rate over the period
FY80-FY90 (excluding Sable Chemicals) was forecast to be 7.3%, with
industrial consumption rising most quickly at 8.8% and agricultural
consumption most slowly at 4.8%. The relatively small growth in domestic
consumption (5.8%) was largely explained by the existence of a large base
of high income consumers which was not expected to grow rapidly. Sectoral
shares were not forecast to change dramatically, but by FY90 industry's
share was expected to rise to 50% of the total from the 44% in FY80 (both
figures exclude Sable Chemicals). For Sable Chemicals, the forecast
derived by survey and interviews was added to the results of the
econometric studies.
8/ Shops, offices (including government and municipal offices), hotels,
restaurants, street lighting, schools, hospitals, clinics etc.
9/ Historically, commercial electricity consumption has exceeded urban
population growth by approximately 0.8% per annum;
10/ Projections for urban population are those of the Whitsun Foundation
(November 1979) and it is expected the disparity between urban
population growth and commercial electricity consumption growth will
increase as the Zimbabwe economy sees rapid growth and a redistribution
of income to the poorer sections of the community.



- 59 -
ZlM i                             ANN2 4. 1
Paw 5 tf 5
LQMD FCBXAST FCR ZD4BABE
(GWh)
Year En    hne  30th        1982    1983    1984    1985    1986        1987    1988    1989   1990    1991
Total Sales to Sectors
Minir                    1,363   1,487   1,644   1,743   1,833   1,928   2,027   2,132   2,242   2,3B7
Italustrial               3,849   4,163   4,487   4,886   5,222   5,583   5,967   6,378   6,817   7,259
Agriculture                 451     484      521     563      607     655      707     764      825      878
Ccinrcial                  582     623      668      716     768      824     884      947   1,018   1,084
lestic                    1,179   1,262   1,360   1,463   1,573   1,691   1,814   1,934   2,06    2,11
Total Retail Sales        7,424   8,019   8,680   9,371   10,003   10,681  11, D99  12,155   12,964   13,804
Lcsses in Distribution         460      497     538      581     620     662      707     754      804     858
Total Wlk Sales           7,884   8,516   9,218   9,952  10,623   11,343  12,106  12,909  13,768  14,662
Losses in Trarsmission         300     324      350      378     404      431     460      491     523     558
Energy Sent Out              8,184   8,840   9,568   10,330  11,027  11,774  12,566   13,400  14,291   15,220



-60 -                                                               AWX 4.2
YG ffR PRW
YSTMn BAIMMS CF CAPAM3Y AD ENWY
Year &alng 4Jg   30th                          1962   1963   1984   1985  1986   1987   1988    1989   1990  1991   1992   1993   1994    1995   1996   1997    1998  1999   2030
PARr I - 2AMBIA
1. Powr, 9W Seot Ot
A. D16md
1m Dr  1/                                898    915    932    961       999   1,050  1,102   1,157   1,215   1,276   1,340   1,406  1,477   1,551   1,628   1,710   1,795   1,885   1,979
3. mstalAed capncity
-4Criba                              633    633    633    633    633    633    633    633    633    633    633    633    633    633    533    633    633    633    633
-afue 0,re                           900    900    900    900    900    900    900    9S0    900    900    900    900    632               90      90S    900    900    900    900
-Victoria Falls                      108    103    108    108    118    103    108    108    108    108    103    108    118    108    108    118    103    108    108
-Batoka North                          -       -       -      -       -    _        _       _       _      _       _       _       400    600    TO    84          980     8000    v
Ibtal Hydra                     1,641   1,641   1,641   1,641   1,641   1,641   1,641   1,641   1,641   1,641   1,641   1,641   2,041   2,241   2,441   2,441   2,441   2,441   2,441
-Waste Htar                            6       6       6      6       6       6       6       6       6       -      -       -                                           _-         -
Total Capcity  xtal.lad                1,647   1,647   1,647   1,647   1,647   1,647   1,647   1,647   1,647   1,641   1,641   1,641   2,041   2,241   2,441   2,441   2,441   2,441   2,441
Less: Yeserve Rfqdred                    215    215    215    215    215    215    215    215    215    213    213    213    316    350    378    378    378    378    378
Firm CsnAzty  ,ailble                  1,432   1,432   1,432   1,432   1,432   1,432   1,432   1,432   1,432   1,428   1,428   1,428   1,725   1,891   2,063   2,063   2,063   2,063   2,063
C.  RpIw/shrtfall1
Powr Availble fraolm Zia                 534    517    500    471       433    382    330    275    217    152          88      22    243    340    415    353    268   1V8            84
2. B-yD, Glh Sent Out
Systa 2quire_r                         6,193   6,463   6,580   6,724   6,%7   7,261   7,625   8,0S6   8,406  8,828   9,269   9,730  10,218  10,729  11,265  11,829  12,420  13,041  13,693
B. Firm  Ywrgy Gmerati   aity
-Kariba                            4,900   4,900  4,900   4,900   4,900   4,900   4,900   4,900   4,900   4,850   4,850   4,850   4,850   4,850   4,850   4,850   4,850   4,850  4,850
-safm Gorw                         5,230   5,230   5,230   5,230   5,230   5,230   5,230   5,230   5,230   5,230   5,230   5,230   5,230   5,230   5,230   5,230   5,2    5,230   5,230
-Victor.s  slls                      769    769    769    769    769    769    769    769    769    769    769    769    769    769    769    769    769    769    769
-Bat.a North                                   -      -       -       -       -       -       -       -      -       -       -     400  1,2DD  3,00    4,600  4,600  4,600  4 600
Ttcal Hydro                    10,899  10,899  10,899  10,899  10,899  10,899  10,899  10,899  10,899  10,849  10,849  10,869  11,249  12,049  13,849  15,449  15,449  15,4*9  15,449
Hstelst                               53      53      53     53      53      53      53      53      53      -       -       -       -       -       -       -       -      -       -
lbtal Firm Yergy Available    1fl33T  1185r 10g53    1              5fl     193T  103r 6       1S,84 1Sw,  3 7 IU9    W7                -n    1337 1S,W  nBw     13W   137W
C. 9zrplum/vrtfal1
negy Availbelae fEro  2a               4,759   4,489   4,372   4,228   3,985  3,691   3,327   2,946   2,546   2,021   1,530   1,119   1,031   1,320   2,584   3,620   3,029   2,4C8   1,756
1/ In July of the cal yr    amf sal lldiW losses  In te, trmisslw systea.



h4.2
- 61 -P ,2o2
Year E,ndig Juea 3Dth                        182   1983   1984   1985  196    187   19tl    199   1990  1991   1992   1993   1994    1995   196   1997    199   1999   20ao
PAR II - ZD014AE
1. Pwer, M Sut Our
A. Demoad
fhWdea  Dneand V/                    1,298  1,412  1,532  1,649  1,762   1,883   2,005  2,139   2,278   2,420  2,565  2,719   2,88'  3,054  3,238  3,433  3,63B  3,857  4,088
B. I-talled Capacity
-Karba                             633    633    633    633    633    633    633    633    633    633    633    633    633    633    633    633    633    633    633
-iarlim So-th Enterion               -      -       -       -      -    150    300    300    300    300    300    300    300    300    3D0    300    300    300    300
-Kariba North E8teaion               -       -      -       -      -       -    150    300    300    300    300    300    300    300    300    300    300    300    303
-atoka South                         -      -       -       -      -      -       -       -      -    200    600    8D0    800    890    800   8a0   0             890ax  800
-Rupata Scuth                        -       -      -       -      -       -      -       -      -       -      -       -      -       -    150    450    600    603    600
-Mupata  Wrth                        -      -    _         -    _        _      _       _      _       _      _       _      _       _        -    _        3tO    672    603
Total Hydo                      633    633    633    633    633    783  1,063   1,233   1,233  1,433   1,833  2,033   2,033   2,033   2,183  2,483  2,933   3,233   3,233
-Edatig Thetsal                    234    227    213    213    213    213    B9    151    133           85     85      28      -       -      -       -      -       -      -
-P-nge I                             -    219    456    456    456    456    456    456    456    456    456    456    456    4              45     456    456    456    456
-Ibwe IL2/                           -      -       -    190   310    390    390    330    190    190    390    380    390    190    390   310    380    330    380
-ie III                              -      -       -      --   -                 -    190   310    330    380   310    390    380    380    380    380   310    380
9-                                   -2_          _      _         -    _       _       _      _        -               -    _       _      _285
T.tal Thereal                   234    455    669    859  1,049  1,049   1,025  1,177  1,349   1,301   1,301   1,244   1,216  1,216  1,216   1,216   1,216   1,216   1,501
Total CpAcity Inatall                  867  1,038   1,302   1,492  1,682  1,832  2,108  2,410  2,582  2,734   3,134  3,277  3,249   3,249   3,399  3,699   4,149   4,449   4,734
L-a.: Reae,e Require                   125    166   237    231    261    2B4    327    374    403    424    496    508    504    504    527    573    643    690    734
Fi- C.acity Aaf1able                   742    832  1,095  1,261  1,421   1,548   1,78.  2,031  2,182   2,310   2,648  2,769   2,745  2,745  2,872   3,125  3,506  3,759  4,000
C. lwort
Fm Povr A fljable frm 2aida            534    517    503    471    433    382    330    275    217    152          88      22    248    340    435    353    268    178        84
D. Total Supply
D0uD thatCa h ba ppliad reiably   1,26   1,43   1,595   1,732   1,854  1,930,  2,111  2,311  2,399  2,462  2,736  2,791   2,998   3,085  3,307  3,479  3,774  3,937   4,084
E. Supluas/Shortfall                       (22)    27      63     83      92     50    106    172    121       42    171      72    ill       31     69     46    136       80    (R
2. Energy, GWh Sent Oat
A.  Dad
Syate Requireent                     8,184   8,840  9,568 10,330 11,027  11,774 12,566 13,403 14,291  15,220 16,1   17,141 18,170 19,260 20,146 21,640 22,839  24,335  25,774
B. Fire Enry rwxatimn Capability
-KrSba                           4,900  4,900  4,900  4,900  4,900  4,900  4,900  4,900  4,900  4,850  4,850  4,850  4,850  4,850  4,850  4,850  4,850  4,850  4,850
-ari  South extemion                 -      -       -      -       -    30    400    400    350    350    350    350    350    350    350    350    350    350    350
-Kari.l 0 Nth Eerafon                -       -      -       -      -       -    300    300    350    350    350    350    350    350    350    350    350    350    350
-Utoka South                         -      -       -       -      -       -      -       -      -    200  1,500  3,000  4,603  4,600  4,603  4,600  4,600  4,600  4,603
-wpta South                          -       -      -      -       -      -       -      -       -       -      -       -                   100  1,600  2,200  3,050  3,050
-89pata Worth                        -    _         -      -       -      -       -      -       -      -       -      -       -       -      -    _         00   1      2.700
Tctl HyPdro                    4,900  4,900  4,900  4,900  4,900  5,200  5,603  5,603  5,603  5,750  7,050  8,550 10,150 10,150 10,250 11,750 12,550 15,018   15,900
-Edattig Theml                   1,400  1,400  1,400  1,400  1,400  1,403  1,250  1,003    875    550    550    2003----                                             -
-Fmw I                               -    700  220,0  3,00  3,1000  3,030  3,000  3,000  3,O00  3,00a  3,0oo   3,30O   3,000  3,000  3,83O  3,000  3,0tO   3,OOa  3,030
-iarge II                            -       -      -      60  1,900  2,500  2,500  2,503  2,5C0   2,503  2,500  2,500  2,503  2,503  2,503  2,503  2,500  2,503  2,500
-Thwe II                             -      -       -      -       -      -       -     60  1,900  2,510   2,500  2,500  2,500  2,500  2,500  2,500   2,500  2,500  2,500
-szl  _   _      _       _      _       _      _       _      _    -_      -      _       -      -       -      -       -       -     300
Tcta. Theaal                   1,403  2,100  3,600  5,860  6,300  6,900  6,750  6,560  8,275  8,550  8,550  8,200  8,000  8,183  8,000  8,000  8,000  8,000  8,303
Total FirEneigyAwulable              6,300  7,003  8,500 10,760 11,200 12,100 12,350 12,160 13,875 14,300 15,603 16,750 18,150 18,150 18,250 19,750 20,550 23,0C0  24,203
C. I98ort
Fit Eueigy Aailab1e fr- Z-1a         4,759   4,489  4,372   4,2.8  3,985  3,69.  3,327   2,946  2,546   2,021  1,589  1,11S  1,031   1,320  2,586   3,620  3,029  2,409  1,756
D. Total Suffly                         11,059  11,489 12,872  14,988 15,1B5  15,79!  15,677 15,106 16,421  16,321 17,180 17,869 19,181  19,470 20,834 23,370 23,579 25,408 25,956
E. surPlus/sbortfall                     2,875  2,649   3,304  4,65B  4,158  4,017  3,111   1,706  2,130  1,101  1,0(9    728  1,011    210    688  1,730    640  1,093    182
1 In July o the calemkr year and iwczd    Icases in the tr-asalon WSeta.
2/ The B.e II mnita ill rnhbe 220 a      eah offerd at r,o eera cat by th.
_neacurer.



- 62  -                                        ANNEX  4.3
ZIMBABWE
POWER PROJECT
MWl INSTALLED AND FIRM CAPACITY AND MAXIMUM DEMAND OF ZIMBABWE SYSTEM
3,000
Batoka South
No. 1 (200MW)r-
VWankie Ilil     
2,800                                                                         No. 2 (200MW) r-- -
_                                                                        Wankie III
No. 1 (200MW)' 1
2,600                                         INSTALLED                       -             U
CAPACITY             Kariba North         '       FIRM CAPACITY
_                                                            No. 2 (150MW)  fJ
2,400 -                                                         No. I (150MW)--l I
Kariba South      I                  
_                                     ~~~~~~~~~~No. 2 0150MW) ----jn/ -
2,200                                                No. 1 (150MWl
RETIREMENTS AND               Wankie II
DECREASE IN           No. 2 (200MW)L
200 CAPACITY AVAI LAB LE        -ak 4 1
2,000       FROM ZAMBIA        No.         I (200MW
1,800-           No. 4 (120MW) -
~ o~.3  20~MWI ib                                
I                                                        MAXIMUM DEMAND
1,600 -    No. 2 (120MW)rJ"\
No. 1 (1 20MW) r-'riJ                 /     b
1,4000
1,200 -                                       
1,000 _
800_
600                                                 FIRM CAPACITY AVAI LAB LE
FO   XPORT FROM ZAMBIA
400_ 
200_
1981/82  1982/83   1983/84    1984/85   1985/86   1986/87    1987/88   1988/89    1989/90    1990/91
Worl d Ban k-23 582



POWER PRDJEC
Ccnstruction Expenditure - FY82-91
Year Ending June 30th                   1982    1983    1984    1985    1986    1987    1988    1989    1990   1991   Total
A. Genpration & Transmission a/
Hwange I b/                         99.0  148.0   19.0    2.0    0.8         -       -       -       -       -     268.8
1bmarge II                           4.5   47.2   74.7   97.5   33.2         0.9     -       -       -       -     258.0
Kariba South Extension              -       -        1.9   29.7   39.5   53.2   36.3    8.6    -             -     169.2
Kariba North Extension               -       -       0.3     2.0   28.5   39.1   70.7   72.0    9.1          -     221.7
Hwange III                           -       -       -       -       -      14.8   21.7  139.0  165.3   43.5  384.3
Batoka Dam + SBPS c/                 -       -       5.4   23.0   67.4  227.5   181.5  184.2  228.3  256.6  1173.9
Batoka NBPSc                         -      -        -       -       -       -       -       -      17.5   66.2   83.7
Mhpata Dam + SBPS c/                 -       -       -       -       -       -       -       -       -       9.1     9.1
Miscellaneous                        5.0   10.8   14.7    17.3    9.1        6.8     7.3     7.9     8.5     9.2   96.6
Other Tr. by CAPC d/                 9.0     4.4     1.0    5.1   11.8       7.5     6.8     7.4    9.0   11.1   73.1
Subtotal                       117.5  210.4  117.0  176.6  190.3  349.8  324.3  419.1  437.7  395.7  2738.4
B. Distribution
ESC                                 19.0   19.0   42.0   40.0   44.0   51.0   55.0   61.0   67.0   75.0  473.0
HMED                                 4.9     5.0    6.0      6.0    6.0      7.5     8.0     8.0    9.0      9.0   69.4
BMED                                 4.0    4.0      5.0     5.0    6.0      6.0    7.0    7.0    8.0        8.0   60.0
Subtotal                         27.9   28.0   53.0   51.0   56.0   64.5   70.0   76.0   84.0   92.0  602.4
Total Cost                             145.4  238.4  170.0  227.6  246.3  414.3  394.3  495.1  521.7  487.7  3340.8
Total IDC                               11.6   27.8   15.4   29.0   45.8   41.5   75.5  111.9  137.0  155.5  651.0
Total Finanrirg Required               157.0  266.2  185.4  256.6  292.1  455.8  469.8  607.0  658.7  643.2  3991.8
a/  Transmission lines to connect the power statione to the grid
are included in the cOft of each project.
b/ Z$ 96.0 million spent for Hwange I before FY82.
c/ Only those expenses until FY91
d/ ETpenditures for the strengthening of the grid and for the
expension of the transfonmer caparity.



- 64 -
ANNEX 4.5
Page 1 of 3
ZIMBABWE
POWER PROJECT
Description of Hwange II Power Station
Project Area
1.        The project area, shown on the map (IBRD 1538IR1) is located 344
km by road, northwest of Bulawayo and its approximate grid reference is 180
22' south and longitude 2629' east. The elevation of the site is 775 m
above sea level.  A summarized description of the project is given in
Chapter IV. A fuller description of major components is given below, with
a summary of important features of site selection, geology, topography,
meteorological conditions, water and coal supplies. Consultants to ESC had
carried out comprehensive optimization studies to identify all the major
characteristics of all the major components of the plant and power lines
during the preparation of the project report for Hwange I. As the two
units will be built adjacent to Hwange I, results were checked by the
consultants and during the appraisal.
Site Selection
2.        Comprehensive studies were carried out by the consultants to ESC
(Merz & McLellan of UK) for the selection of the site for Hwange I in 1971
and 1972. Transportation of coal, equipment and material for construction
and water supply were taken into consideration for six possible power
station sites. The site selected is situated on the Lower Hwange sandstone
lying between the open cast mine and No. 1 Colliery within reasonable
distance of the open cast mining area. The power station lies
approximately east-west and allows for future westward extension of the
turbine hall for Hwange III units. During the excavation of Hwange I,
groundwater was not a problem, the rock stood well and no major problems
were encountered.  The site is subject to eathquake activity, but this is
minimal and no significant damage has been incurred at the colliery.
Maximum seismic readings recorded in the area were of 3 to 3-i on the
Richter scale.
Transportation and Access to the Site
3.        Transportation and access to the site are not problems for the
units covered by the project. A permanent access road connects the site to
Hwange Township, which itself is located on the Bulawayo-Victoria Falls
road, and there is a rail connection to the site. No difficulties are
expected in transporting the 220 MW generator rotors and stators.



- 65 -
ANNEX 4.5
Page 2 of 3
Size of Generating Unit
4.        The consultants compared the costs of installing 120 MW and 200
MW units in their 1971 report.   It was shown in the report that there were
some economies of scale and small savings in fuel with 200 MW units and the
annual costs for 120 MW and 200 MW units differed little in the first two
years of operation. Over the first five years of operation there were
significant net savings with the smaller units. Transport and reliability
considerations reinforced the choice of 120 MW units for Hwange I. ESC
then opted for 120 MW and decided that 200 MW units would be considered
when a decision was to be taken for the subsequent units. No new studies
were made for the size of Hwange II in 1980, but based on the previous
studies ESC decided and went out for tenders for the 200/220 MW unit size
range. During the appraisal the size was discussed with ESC and the
consultants and it was found appropriate.
Boilers
5.        The two boiler units will be of the semi-outdoor, radiant, water
tube, natural circulation, balance draught type arranged for pulverized
coal firing. Each of the boilers serving a 220 MW turbo-generator is
specified to be capable of producing and superheating at a maximum
continuous rating of 714,000 kg of steam per hour superheated to a
temperature of 5430C (1,009 FO)at the superheater outlet stop valve, from
feed water at a temperature of approximately 2520C (4860F). On the basis
of an average gross calorific value of 24,900 KJ/kg (10,715 Btu/lb) the
anticipated coal consumption at boiler maximum continuous rating is
approximately 98 tons/h. Each boiler plant will be complete with all
necessary auxiliary equipment including superheater, reheater, economisers,
air heaters, two forced draught and two induced draught fans, pulverised
fuel plant, oil burning equipment for lighting-up purposes, electrostastic
flue dust extraction plant, instrumentation and automatic boiler control.
The gases from the boiler units will be discharged into a common chimney
150 m in height.
Water Supplies
6.        All water for the power station and its associated township will
come from the Zambezi river transmitted through a single underground 1 m
(39") pipeline, 47 km long. In 1972, the consultants considered another
alternative of initially installing a pipeline capable of carrying
sufficient water for Hwange I and at a later date a second pipeline with
sufficient capacity for extensions up to 1,680 MW. Comparison between the
two schemes showed significant economic advantage from the installation of
the single large pipeline,capable of supplying an installed capacity of
1,680 MW. This pipeline is being built for Hwange I. The pipeline runs
for most of its length along the route of HCC's existing pipeline from the
Zambezi. The pumping station and reservoir are located away from the



- 66 -
ANNEX 4.5
Page 3 of 3
Zambezi behind a hill and will be above the 1958 flood level, the highest
recorded.
Turbo-Generators
7.         The two sets will be arranged longitudinally, will be sup8lied
with steam at a gauge pressure of 16.6 MPa and a temperature of 543 C
(1,009 FO)and will also operate at 3,000 rpm. The generators will be
completely enclosed and hydrogen cooled, the generation voltage will be
nominally 13.8 kV and the design power factor 0.85. Each boiler and its
associated turbo-generator will operate as a unit and all operational
controls and instrument panels for the pair of units will be arranged in an
air conditioned control room located between the units. Each generator
will be directly connected to its own step-up transformer and synchronised
at the 330 kV busbar.   An emergency unit is not included since, in the
event of an emergency causing a complete shutdown of the station, power for
restarting will be obtained from the 330 kV transmission system.
Power Station Buildings
8.     The frame of the power station buildings will be in reinforced
concrete. The cladding of the reinforced concrete framework will be in
brickwork faced on the outside.  The roof of the turbine house will be
supported by structural steel trusses. Parapets will be used throughout
and a louvred aluminium screen would be constructed on the permanent gable
ends between the bunker bay and the boiler house electrical annex, all with
a view to and neatness of appearance.
Coal, Ash and Dust Handling Plants
9.     Coal will be delivered directly from the colliery by conveyor and
will be about 32 mm in diameter. The capacity of the coal handling plant
will be 1,575 tonnes of coal per hour.
10.    The ash handling and pumping plants of high pressure sluicing type
will be capable of removing 200 tonnes of ash from each of the two boiler
units and will deliver it to the ash disposal area.  The ash discharge
pipelines will be 300 mm diameter and approximately 1.2 km long.
11.    The dust handling plant will be capable of removing during a working
period of 14 hours, 100 tonnes of flue dust accumulating in the various
collecting hoppers, on the boiler ductwork, at the electrostatic
precipitators and at the base of the chimney and transferring it to the ash
disposal area.  The water required for operating the ash and dust plant
will be supplemented by water returned from the ash disposal area.



- 67 -
ANNEX 4.6
ZIMBABWE
POWER PROJECT
Estimate of Coal Consumption at Hwange I, II and III Power Stations
Coal Consumption
Year *                        Million Tonnes
1982                              0.24
1983                             0.24
1984                             0.50
1985                             0.75
1986                              1.04
1987                              1.05
1988                              1.29
1989                             2.01
1990                              2.74
1991                             2.81
1992                              2.02
1993                              1.85
1994                              1.77
1995                             2.09
1996                              1.96
1997                             1.73
1998                              1.55
1999                             2.17
2000                              2.07
Ending June 30th.



- 68 -
ANNEX 4.7
Page 1 of 4
ZTMBA3WE
POWER PRaJECT
Project Cost Estimate
(Z$ 1 = US$1.45)
Project Items                                         local   Foreign   Total    Local   Foreign   Total
----Z$ ndllon-           -        -{S$million- - -
PART A: Civil Works
1.  Main Foundations                               7.6       1.5     9.1      11.0       2.2    13.2
2.   Superstructures                               7.2       0.9     8.1      10.5       1.3    11.8
3.   Chimney                                       0.7       0.2     0.9       1.0       0.3      1.3
4.   Ash Disposal                                  2.1       2.2     4.3       3.1       3.1      6.2
5.   Housing                                       2.5       -       2.5       3.6       -        3.6
Subtotal                               20.1        4.8    24.9     29.2        6.9    36.1
Contingencies
6.   Physical Contingency                          1.3       0.2     1.5       1.9       0.3      2.2
7.   Price Contingency                             5.1       0.8     5.9       7.4       1.1      8.5
Total Contingencies                     6.4        1.0     7.4      9.3        1.4    10.7
TOTAL PART A                           26.5        5.8    32.3      38.5       8.3    46.8
PART B: Boilers; Turbo-Generators; HP Pipework
1.   Boilers                                      14.2      47.8    62.0      20.6      69.3    89.9
2.  TUrbo-Generators                               -        16.3    16.3       -        23.7    23.7
3.  High Pressure Pipework                         0.9       3.2     4.1       1.3       4.5     5.8
Subtotal                               15.1       67.3    8.4      21.9       97.5   119.4
Contingencies
4.   Physical Contingency                          1.3       5.1     6.4       1.8       7.5      9.3
5.   Price Contingency                             3.8       7.2    11.0       5.4      10.5    15.9
Total Contingencies                     5.1       12.3    17.4      7.2       18.0    25.2
TCIAL PART B                           20.2       79.6    99.8      29.1     115.5   144.6



- 69 -
ANNEK 4.7
Page 2 of 4
local   Foreign   Total   local  Foreign   Total
- ---Z$million---    -             'US$ million- -
PART C: Other Mechanical Plant
1.   Coal, Ash, Dust Handling Plants             1.9       5.4      7.3      2.7       7.9    10.6
2.  Vacuum Cleaning Plant                        0.1       0.6      0.7      0.2       0.8     1.0
3.  Ventilation and Air Conditioning Plants      0.6       -       0.6       0.9       -       0.9
4.  Painting                                     0.9       0.4      1.3      1.3       0.6     1.9
5.  Low Pressure Pipework                        0.6       1.8      2.4      0.9       2.6     3.5
6.  Fire Fighting Equipment                      1.3       3.6      4.9      1.8       5.2     7.0
Subtotal                               5.4      11.8    17.2       7.8      17.1    24.9
Contingencies
7.  Physical Contingency                         0.7       0.9      1.6      0.9       1.3     2.2
8.  Price Contingency                            2.3       2.8      5.1      3.4       4.0     7.4
Total Contingencies                    3.0       3.7      6.7      4.3       5.3     9.6
TOTAL PART C                           8.4      15.5   23.9       12.1      22.4    34.5
PART D: Other Electrical Plant
1.  Generator Transformers                       0.4       1.2     1.6       0.5       1.8     2.3
2.  Auxiliary Switchgear                         0.1       3.2      3.3      0.2       4.7     4.9
3.   Cabling                                     1.7       5.6      7.3      2.5       8.1    10.6
4.   Auxiliary Transfonmers                      1.1       -        1.1      1.6       -       1.6
5.  Lighting                                     1.5       -       1.5       2.1       -       2.1
Subtotal                               4.8      10.0    14.8      6.9       14.6    21.5
Contingencies
6.  Physical Contingency                         0.4       0.9      1.3      0.6       1.3     1.9
7.  Price Contingency                            1.8       2.7     4.6       2.7       3.8     6.5
Total Contingencies                    2.2       3.6     5.8       3.3       5.1     8.4
TOTAL PART D                           7.0      13.6   20.6    10.2         19.7   29.9



- 70 -
ANNEX 4.7
Page 3 of 4
Local   Foreign   Total    Local  Foreign   Total
- - Z$ millior ---    - ---US$ miionnr- -
PART E: Transmission
1.   Transission Line                              16.9      14.3    31.2       24.5      20.7    45.2
2.   Trarsmission Transfonmer                       0.1        1.1     1.2       0.2       1.6      1.8
3.   Transmission Switchgear                        0.9       4.2      5.1       1.3       6.1      7.4
Subtotal                                17.9       19.6    37.5      26.0       28.4    54.4
Contingency
4.   Physical Contingency                           1.0        0.9     1.9       1.5       1.3      2.8
5.   Price Contingency                              5.7        5.2    10.9       8.2       7.6    15.8
Total Contingencies                      6.7        6.1    12.8       9.7        8.9    18.6
TIUXAL PART E                           24.6       25.7    50.3      35.7       37.3    73.0
PART F: Engineering and Site Supervision
1.   Base Cost                                      4.6       7.4    12.0        6.6      10.8    17.4
2.   Price Contingency                              1.8        1.3     3.1       2.6       1.9      4.5
TOIAL PART F                             6.4        8.7    15.1       9.2       12.7    21.9
PART G: Training & Technical Assistance & Studies
1.   Training and Technical Assistance              2.5        7.5    10.0       3.6      10.9    14.5
2.   Studies                                        0.2       1.0      1.2      0.3        1.5      1.8
Subtotal                                 2.7        8.5    11.2       3.9       12.4    16.3
3.   Price Contingency                              1.3       3.5      4.8       1.9       5.1      7.0
TOTAL PART G                             4.0       12.0    16.0       5.8       17.5    23.3
SUBTOTAL - BASE 03ST                                    70.6      129.4   200.0    102.3       187.7   290.0



- 71 -
ANNE 4.7
Page 4 of 4
Local  Foreign  Total   Local  Foreign  Total
--Z$ millio   - - -  - - - -US$milliorn - -
Contingencies
Subtotal - Physical Contingencies                 4.7       8.0   12.7      6.9     11.6   18.5
- Price Contingencies                    21.8     23.5   45.3    31.6       34.1   65.7
- Contingencies                          26.5     31.5   58.0    38.5       45.7   84.2
SUBTOTAL - pPROjCr coSr                          97.1    160.9  258.0   140.8    233.4  374.2
PART H: Interest During Construction (IDC)
1.  Interest During Construction
- Bank                                   -        16.3   16.3     -        23.6   23.6
- Other                                 12.0     28.7   40.7    17.4       41.6   59.0
- Total Interest During Construction    12.0     45.0   57.0    17.4       65.2   82.6
2.  Front-erxl Fee on Bank Loan               -        1.1    1.1      -         1.6    1.6
TOTL  PART H                        12.0      46.1   58.1    17.4      66.8   84.2
TOML FIMNCISV REDQUIRED                          109.1    207.0  316.1   158.2    300.2  458.4



Zf.AaE
PWER PRaJECT
MU1MEWMI   SCHJDLE
Calerdar Years                         1982                   1983                    1984                   1985                     1986
Quarters                        1    2    3    4        1    2    3    4       1    2    3    4    1    2    3    4           1      2    3    4
Famtion and Supestructures                                C
Chi-mey                                                   E T RC
Ash Dam Exteruion                                                              E T R
Bailer Plant and Assodated Equipiaent      C                      _____                          ___     __      =__
Turbine Cenetator Plant                   __._-_-__   __
H.P. Pipewoik                              C.
Ceal, Ash, Dust Plant                                     E T   C
Ventilatirg and Air Conditionirg Plant                             E    T R C
Paintirg                                                                 E_T R C                                                        _
L.P. Pipewoik                                                E    T R C
Fine Fightirg Equipersnt                                     E    TRC R_C
Vacum Cleanirg Plant                                               ET    RC C
Gener3tor Traisfonirm                                     E T R C                       .
Auxiliary 91tchgear                                    E  TR C                                                      . _
Cablirg                                                            ET_   RC
Auxiliary Trarsfomers                                        E    T R C
Lightirg                                                     ___E T R C__
TrarsniLssion Line                                        E T    R C
Tra mission Trarsfonmtrs                                     E    T R  C
Traremission Switchgear                                      E    TR   C C
Carcial Load                                                                                                                             Unit 1 Unit 2
End   End
Dec   Mardi?
1985  1986                         x
E: Issu Fquiry Doaiemnts
T: Peceive Terdiers
R: Cumpletion of Tender Evaluation
C: Contract Awand



- 73 -
A-NiEX 4.9
ZLft1BAhWE
POWER PROJECT
Disbursement Schedule
(Millions of US$)
Cumulative             Undisbursed
IBRD Fiscal Year          Quarterly           Disbursements             at end of
and Quarter           Disbursements        at end of Quarter           Quarter
FY83
December 31, 1982           7.8                      7.8                  97.2
March 31, 1983              3.9                     11.7                  93.3
June 30,1983                4.3                     16.0                  89.0
FY84
September 30, 1983          4.8                     20.8                  84.2
December 31, 1983           5.0                     25.8                  79.2
llarch 31, 1984             5.1                     30.9                  74.1
June 30, 1984               5.4                     36.3                  68.7
FY85
Septeraioer 30, 1984        13.0                    49.3                  55.7
December 31, 19b4           13.3                    62.6                  42.4
1M1arch 31, 1985            13.7                    76.3                  28.7
June 30, 1965                14.0                   90.3                  14.7
FY86
September 30, 1985          3.4                     93.7                  11.3
December 31, 1985           3.8                     97.5                   7.5
liarch 31, 1986             3.6                    101.1                   3.9
June 30,1986                3.9                    105.0
Closing Date: June 30, 1987



- 74 -
ANNtZ, 4.10
Page 1 of 2
ZIMBABWE
POWER PROJECT
Project Monitoring Guidelines
1.           A number of areas described in the various chapters are key
elements in the efficient operation of the power sector and ESC in the
success of the project.  These have been discussed with MIED and ESC.  The
main areas for monitoring are described below.
2.          The principal implementation steps to be compared monthly with
planned targets are as follow:
Target Dates
A. Generation
Contract awards for civil works    November 1982
Construction starts                   December 1982
Erection starts                       September i983
Comiiissioning of 1st unit           End December 1985
Commissioning of 2nd unit             End March 1986
B. Transmission Line
Invitation to bid                    October 1983
Bid evaluation                       January 1983
Contract awards                      February 1983
Completion of the 330-kV
transmission line                  November 1985
C. Studies
Completion of energy
pricing study                      June 30, 1984
D. Training and Technical Assistance
Number of expatriates hired
Numbers and categories trained
each year
Completion of training school         December 31, 1984



- 75 -
ANNEX 4.10
Page 2 of 2
3.       Records will be maintained comparing the forecasts against actual
results for:
a) hydro production (in Gwh);
b) thermal production (in Gwh);
c) imports (in Gwh);
d) electricity consumption (in Gwh)
by consumer categories and sectors;
e) coal consumption in power plants;
f) number of outages and their duration;
g) number of staff classified by education
standard and function in the sector;
h) average tariff level (in cents/kWh)
classified in total, by consumer category
and by utility;
i) rates of return on average revalued net
fixed assets in operation, for the sector
as a whole and by utility;
j) self generated funds contributions to
construction costs;
k) operating ratios;
1) number of days energy revenues outstanding;
m) aebt/equity ratios; and
n) changes in project cost estimates.



- 76 -
ANNEX 5.1
Page 1 of 3
ZIMBABWE
POWER PROJECT
Central African Power Corporation
Income Statements: FY79 - 81 a/
(Z$ millions)
Year Ended June 30                                 1979         1980       1981
Increase in GWh Sales %                                         11.4
GWh Sales                                         6,184        6,849      7,174
Average Price/Kwh (Z cts.)                        0.618        0.657      0.728
Energy Revenue                                       38           45         52
Total Revenue                                   38           45        52
Operating Expenses
Import from Zambia                                   10           13         19
Thermal Station                                      11           12         10
Operations                                            7            7          9
Depreciation                                          2            2          2
Total Expenses                                       30           34         40
Operating Income                                      8           11         12
Interest Charged Operations                           2            2          2
Net Income                                            6            9         10
Operating Ratio %                                  79.0         75.6       76.9
Rate of Return %  b/                               12.5         17.3       19.1
a/   Zimbabwe operations only.
b/   Based on 50% of average net fixed assets in operation.



7 77 
ANNEX 5.1
Page 2 of 3
ZIMBABWE
POWER PROJECT
Central African Power Corporation
Funds Flow Statements: FY79-81 a/
(Z$ million)
Year Ended June 30                                1979         1980      1981
Internal Sources of Funds
Net Income - Zimbabwe                                2            6        10
Interest and Other Revenue                           1            1         1
Depreciation                                         3            3         3
Excess of Debt Redemption  over Depreciation         4            5         4
Repayment: KNBC Loan                                 -            -         1
Total Internal Funds                          10           15         19
Operational Requirements
Increase/Decrease in Working Capital                 1            1         2
Debt Repayment                                       6            8         9
Total Operational Requirements                  4           9         11
Internal Funds Available for  Investment             6            6         8
Capital Investment:
Construction and Investigations                      2            2         2
Balance to be Financed                              -4          -4         -6
Financed By:
Borrower
Grant from Zimbabwe Government                                              1
Cash Increase/Decrease                               4            4         7
Cash at Beginning of Year                            3            7        11
Cash at End of Year                                  7           11        18
Annual Contribution to Construction %             300.0        300.0     400.0
a/ Covering both Zimbabwe and Zambia.



- 78 -
ANNEX 5.1
Page 3 of 3
ZIMBABWE
POWER PROJECT
Central African Power Corporation
Balance Sheets: FY79-81
Year Ended June 30                                 1979         1980       1981
Assets
Plant at Cost                                       201          202        204
Less: Accumulated Depreciation                       73           76         79
Operating Assets                             128          126        125
Loan to Kariba North Bank Co. Ltd.                   16           15         14
Current Assets
Cash                                                  7           11         18
Receivables                                           4            5          5
11          16         23
TOTAL ASSETS                                 155          157        162
Equity and Liabilities
Retained Earnings                                    77           89        101
Exchange Surplus                                     16           15         16
93          104      117
Long Term Debt                                58           49        40
Current Liabilities
Payables                                              4            4          5
TOTAL EQUITY & LIABILITIES                   155          157        162
Current Ratio                                       2.8          4.0        4.6
Debt as % of Debt + Equity                          38.4         32.0       25.4



- 79 -
ANNEX 5.2
Page 1 of 3
ZIMBABWE
POWER PROJECT
Electricity Supply Commission
Income Statements: FY79-81
(Z$ million)
Year Ended June 30                                  1979         1980       1981
Increase in GWh Sales %                             -0.5         14.7        3.8
GWh Sales                                          4,107        4,717      4,896
Average Price per kWh (Z cts.)                     1.265        1.247      1.431
Energy Revenue                                        52           59          70
Other Revenue                                          2            2          2
TOTAL REVENUE                                    54           61         72
Operating Expenses
Bulk Purchase                                         25           30         38
Operations                                            13           15         17
Depreciation                                           5            5           5
TOTAL OPERATING COSTS                            43           50         60
OPERATING INCOME                                      11           11          12
Less: INTEREST                                         5            6           7
NET INCOME                                        6            5          5
Rate Base (Historic)                                  72           72         74
Rate of Return %                                    15.3         15.3       16.3
Operating Ratio %                                   79.7         82.0       83.3



- 80 -
ANNEX 5.2
Page 2 of 3
ZIMBABWE
POWER PROJECT
Electricity Supply Commission
Funds Flow Statements: FY79-81
Year Ended June 30                                 1979         1980       1981
Internal Sources of Funds
Operating Income                                     11           11         12
Depreciation                                          6            6          6
Contributions and Gain on Sale of Assets              1            1          7
Total Internal Funds                            18           18         25
Operational Requirements
Increase/Decrease
- Working Capital                                  -            -2          1
Interest Charged Operations                           5            6          7
Debt Redemption                                       5            5          6
Total Operational Requirements                  10            9         14
Internal Funds Available for Investment               8            9         11
Capital Investment
Construction                                         10           21         42
Total Capital Investment                        10           21         42
Balance to be Financed                                2           12         31
Financed By
Borrowings                                            7            7         36
Cash Increase/Decrease                                5           -5          5
Cash at Beginning of Year                            12           17         12
Cash at End of Year                                  17           12         17
Annual Debt Service Coverage                        1.8          1.6        1.9
Annual Contribution to Construction %              80.0         42.9       26.2



- 81 -
ANNEX 5.2
Page 3 of 3
ZIMBABWE
POWER PROJECT
Electricity Supply Commission
Balance Sheets: FY79-81
Year Ended June 30                                 1979          1980       1981
Assets
Plant at Cost                                       135           136        152
Less Accumulated Depreciation                        61            67         73
Net Operating Assets                            74           69         79
Work in Progress                                      58           78        103
Current Assets
Cash                                                 17            12         17
Receivables                                           6             9         10
Inventories                                           8             9        10
Total Current Assets                            31           30         37
Total Assets                                   163          177        219
Equity and Liabilities
Equity and Accumulated Surplus                       51            58         70
Long Term Debt
Debt Outstanding                                    115           120        153
Less Redemption Investments                          14            17         21
Net Long Term Debt                             101          108        132
Current Liabilities
Payables                                               5           10         12
Other                                                  1            1          1
Total Current Liabilities                        6           11         13
Provisions                                            5             5          4
Total Equity and Liabilities                   163          177       219
Debt as % of Debt + Equity                         66.4         64.0       65.3
Current Ratio                                       4.4           2.7       2.8



- 82 -
ZIMBABVWE                                        ANNEX 5.3
Page 1 of 3
POWER SECTOR 0ONSOLIDATION
FINAXIAL FORECASTS   1982 - 1991
INO04E S NATEMENr
(ZllBABWE DXOUARS ,M[LLIONS)
1982      1983     1984       1985      1986      1987      1988      1989      1990     1991
SALIS INCREASE %      4.97      0.25      10.12     7.93       6.73      6.79     6.71       6.73      6.56     6.81
ENERGY SAIES(@AHo      7137      7155      7879      8504      9076      9692     10342     11038     11762     12563
AVE PRICE/KWH[       0.0167    0.0214    0.0284    0.0377    0.0387    0.0451    0.0467    0.0480    0.0525    0.0696
ENERGY REVENJE          119       153      224       321        351       437       483       530       617      874
OTHER REVE3JE 1           3         3         4         5         6         7         8         9        10        12
TOTAL REVENlUES         122      156       228       326        357      444        491      539        627      886
CPERATIN  EXPENSES
FllEEL/BULK PJlC,R       21       31        31        34        41        43         53       68        89        99
OPERATIO0S               53        66        77        86       106       122       134       152      173       212
DEPRECtATICON            38        50       67         78       101       110       123       143       170       203
TUOML EXPENSES          112      147        175       198       248       275       310       363       432       514
OPERdATIN  INC9tE        10         9        53       128       109       169       181       176       195      372
NET INCME BEFORE
- INTEREST               10        9        53        128       109       169      181        176      195       372
INrERESr                23        40        57        71        98       125        154      191       234       280
IDC                     12        28        15        29        46        42        75        112      137       156
- CHRGD OPERATIO0        11       12        42        42        52        83        79        79        97       124
NET iNOIfE              -1        -3        11        86        57        86        102       97        98       248
RETAINED EARNING        -1        -3        11        86        57        86        102       97        98       248
RATE BASE              542       702       952       1115      1357      1603      1679      1858     2174      2613
RATE OF RETURN %        1.8       1.3       5.6      11.5       8.0      10.5      10.8       9.5       9.0      14.2
OPE0gRATI  RATIO %     91.8      94.2      76.8      60.7      69.5      61.9      63.1      67.3      68.9      58.0



- 83 -
ZINMBAE                                                      ANNEK 5.3
Page 2 of 3
FOER SEX:R CX1V)ULDAION
FIN IAL FORECASrS   1982 - 1991
FUNDS FJW Y4STEAMNT
(ZEth       DOLLARS,MIOM)
1982      1983       1984       1985       1986       1987       1988       1989       1990       1991     10TAL
INIERNAL SUJRCES
-CF FUNDS
OPERATIENICW                    10          9         53        128        109        169        181        176       195        372       1402
DEPRECIA'CN                     38         50         67         78        101        110        123        143        170       203       1083
0CUMERS CYNBNS                   6          6         20         22         15         17         18        20         22         25        171
1LU  nL
- FLNDS                         54         65        140        228        225        296        322        339       387        600       2656
CPERATIONAL
- REQJoxS
MMSE/DCES
- WaaMCAPrL                     -5         -6          9          8         -1         -9          2        -9         -5         25          9
llERs QIAE
- OPERATICS                     11         12         42         42         52         83         79        79         97        124        621
IEBI REPAYMEN                   17          9         16         48         55        58         64         49         55        167        538
TNVESDThNS                       4          5          6          7          7         8          9         10         11         11         78
TOTAL OPERAflONAL
- REfJR2NS                      27         20         73        105        113        140        154       129        158        327       1246
INIlFAL EUNDS
- AVAILABIE FOR
-  INVESTfNr                    27         45         67        123        112        156        168       210        229        273       1410
CAPIAL D&ES3 M
TOML OR      1CrICNI           145        238        170        228        246       414        394        495        522        488       3340
DUERESr DE
- aCONIrIN                      12         28         15         29         46         42         75       112        137        156        652
1UTL CAPM41,
-  NVES    Ur                  157        266        185        257        292       456        469        607        659        644       3992
BALAI TD BE
- FIRNCX                       130        221        118        134        180        300       301        397        430        371       2582
FI (I) BY
BORFWOINW S                    120        214        131        151        215        322       313        412        452        410       2740
- SOURCES                      120        214        131        151        215       322        313        412        452        410       2740
CASH INCEASE/
- DEEASE                       -10         -7         13         17         35         22         12         15        22         39        158
CASH AT IEGITNf
- OF YEAR                       27         17         10         23         40         75        97        109        124        146         27
CASH AT YEAR ES                 17         10         23         40         75         97        109       124        146        185        185
ANMJAL EET SERVIE
- ODVERACE                     1.7        2.8        2.1        2.3        2.0        2.0        2.1        2.5        2.4       2.0        2.1
ANNJAL tDNIBN
- mD O(XNSIRUCt.C             17.2       16.9       36.2       47.9       38.4       34.2       35.8      34.6       34.7       42.4       35.3
- 3 YEAR AVERAGE %            15.0       22.3       28.4       50.4       33.4       38.5       32.9       36.3      36.0       47.2



- 84 -
ZIMAMBWE                                         ANNEX 5.3
Page 3 of 3
POER SECIOR (LICNSL      N
FDNW4CIAL FRECASTS   1982 - 1991
BAILANE SHELrS
(ZlMi3AE DOLIARS,iTITIONS)
1982       1983       1984        1985        1986       1987        1988       1989        1990       1991
ASSETS
FnXED ASSEI'S
PLANr l  SERVI(E          1097       1464        1874       21Z6        2743       3041        3369       3946        4643       5585
LESS: DEPRECIA1ION         513        625         761        915        1099       1297        1523       1788        2101       2472
OPERATID  PLANr            584        839        1113       1211        1644       1744        1846       2158        2542       3113
WO    IN PROGRESS          225        257         193        386         252        629        1014       1314        1592       1666
INVESThMS                   25         30          36         43          50         58          67         77          88         99
CUIRM ASSEIS
CASH                        20         13          23         40          75         97         109        124         146        185
INVEIORIES                  19         22          27         32          39         44          48         56          64         76
RECEIVABIES                 15         19          27         39          42         50          56         61          71         99
TOTAL                       54         54          77        111         156        191         213        241         281        360
T1L ASSETS                 888       1180        1419       1751        2102       2622        3140       3790        4503       5238
EIY  AND
- LIAB]TBTIES
PAID IN CAPITAL            195        195         195        195         195        195         195        195         195        195
RETIrA       EARINGS         1         -2           9         95         152        238         340        437         535        783
REVALIATION RESRVE         368        438         529        638         741        866         999       1137        1297       1486
TU'4L ErY                  564        631         733        928        1088       1299        1534       1769        2027       2464
iCM TE4 IEE
E     DIJE                 285        490         605        708         868       1132        1381       1744        2141       2334
- LIABILITIES
PAYABLES                    24         37          40         49          60         81          88        109         131        146
OTHER                        6          6           7          7           7          8           9         10          11         11
BANK OVERDRAFT               3          3           0          0           0          0           0          0           0          0
IOTAL                       33         46          47         56          67         89          97        119         142        157
CONSIERS WNTBNS              6         13          34         59          79        102         128        158         193        233
TITL  BT     AND
- LIABILITIES              888       1180        1419       1751        2102       2622        3140       3790        4503       5238
AVE ROSS PLANr
-/GWH (IT)               141.0      178.0       211.0      235.0       268.0      298.0       309.0      331.0       365.0      406.0
INRFASE IN
- GROSS PLAN1 %            3.7       21.3        17.0        3.4        20.0        2.9         2.8        9.1         9.7       12.3
DEBT % OF
- DEEr + EQTEY            33.6       43.7        45.2       43.3        44.4       46.6        47.4       49.6        51.4       49.2
CURREN  RATIO              1.6        1.2         1.6        2.0         2.3        2.1         2.2        2.0         2.0        2.3



- 85 -
ZIM1BABE                                            ANNEX 5.4
Page 1 of 3
ELECTRICITY SUPPLY X4f1MSSICN
FINCITAL FCeECASIS   1982 - 1991
INCClE STAEENr
(ZIh2A3E DOLARS,MI(IOW)
1982      1983      1984      1985       1986      1987      1988       1989      1990      1991
SALES INCREASE %       4.45     -1.62      12.28      8.50      6.71       6.70      6.69      6.81       6.60      6.95
ENERY SAIES(GWQO       5114       5031      5649      6129      6540       6978      7445      7952       8477      9066
AVE PRICE/KWH        0.0156    0.0201    0.0269    0.0379    0.0385    0.0447    0.0467    0.0482    0.0528    0.0703
ENERGY REVENUE           80        101       152       232        252       312       348       383        448       637
OTER FREVENUE 1           3         3          4         5          6         7         8         9         10        12
TUIAL REVENTUES          83        104       156       237        258       319       356       392        458       649
OPERATIII EXPENS
ODAL 1                   47        58         89       160        171       217       238       254        298       462
FUEL/BUDK POWER          47        58         89       160        171       217       238       254        298       462
TRANS/DIST               16         19        23        27        32         39        47        56         67        81
GENERAL                   1          1         1         1          1         1         1         2          2         2
O/H                       3         5          5         6         7          9        10        12         15        18
CFERATIONS               20         25        29        34        40         49        58        70         84       101
DEPRECIATION             19         22        25        29        34         38        44        49         56        63
YDUL EPENSES             86        105       143       223        245       304       340       373        438       626
OPERATINE IN)M1E         -3         -1        13        14         13        15        16         19        20        23
NEr INCOME BEFCEE
- INrERESr               -3        -1         13        14         13        15        16         19        20        23
TWIEREST                 10        12         13        14        15         17        19        23         23        26
IDC                       2         2          2         2         2          2         3         3          3         3
- CHRGD CFERATIONS        8         10        11        12        13         15        16        20         20        23
NEr I1TDWf              -11       -11          2         2         0          0         0        -1          0         0
REFdD  EAIENJNS         -11       -11          2         2          0         0         0        -1          0         0
RATE BASE               243       365        582       713       923       1137      1183      1227       1270      1529
RATE OF REUTR  %       -1.2       0.0        2.2       2.0        1.4       1.3       1.4       1.5        1.6       1.5
CPERAITIN RATIO %    103.6     101.0       91.7      94.1      95.0       95.3      95.5      95.2       95.6      96.5



- 86 -
ZTh43AE                                                       ANNEX 5.4
Page 2 of 3
ELECrRLICIY SUPPLY COXM{SSION
FINNCLAL  OECASS    1982 - 1991
FENDS FLO STDNM
(ZIMBAS3E DXMIARS,MELUONS)
1982      1983       1984       1985       1986       1987      1988       1989       1990       1991     IOTAL
INrE2-AL 8XRJES
-CF FNDS
OPERAIflIXaf                    -3         -1         13        14         13         15         16         19        20         23        129
DEPRECIATION  DISIBTUON    19              22         25        29         34         38         44         49        56         63        379
CHARM) CAPC                      -          7         17        19         34         37         39         43        46         69        311
CONSUtIERS (XBNS                 6          6         20        22         15         17         18         20        22         25        171
TU  INL
- FUNDS                         22         34        75         84         9         107        117       131        144        180        990
0PE6ATIONAL
- R ESwuf2m
- WTRK, CAPrIA.                 -4          -         11         3         13         -3          -       -10          1         22         33
- OPERAT1MIO                     8         10         11         12        13         15         16         20        20         23        148
DEBT REPAYMlJT                  14          7        13         43         49         53         58        42         35         32        346
INVESTMRT                        4          5         6          7          7          8          9        10         11         11         78
TOAL OPERATINAL
-REqJ(pl2TS                     22         22        41         65         82         73         83        62         67         88        605
INrRAL FtIDS
- AVAILABIE MOR
-INVESiTh r                      -         12         34        19         14         34         34         69        77         92        385
CAPITAL INVESTME
TOM  COiNSCrION                123        220        145       151         81         67         77       200        232        119       1415
INITREST EURIM
- 03NSrRUCrICN                  11         27        14         24         30          3          6        14         29         39        197
TI CAPITAL
- INVESRl4E                    134       247        159        175        111         70         83       214        261        158       1612
BAIANCE 'D BE
- FINANCED                     134        235        125       156         97         36         49        145       184         66       1227
FIEANCED BY
BOR3 Dx                        119       214        120        113         65         37         33       122        151         33       1007
TRANFER FOM (11E
UTILITIES                     9         16         7         49         40         10        26         35         51         49       292
IAL CAPAL
- SOURCES                      128        230       127        162        105         47         59        157       202         82       1299
CASH CEASEI
- iECREASE                      -6         -5          2         6          8         11         10         12        18         16         72
CASH AT BEGINNI2,
- OF YEAR                       17         11         6          8         14         22         33        43         55         73         17
CASH A  YEAR END                11          6          8        14         22         33         43         55        73         89         89
ANNJAL IEBT SERVICE
- ONERAGE                      0.6        1.3        1.8       1.0        1.2        1.2        1.2        1.5       1.8        2.3        1.4
ANNJAL OQNI
- 10 aSTRUCnON                 0.0        4.9      21.4       10.8       12.6       48.6       41.0      32.2       29.5       58.2       23.9



- 87 -
ZIMBABWE                                                ANNEX 5.4
Page 3 of 3
ELECTRICIT  SUPPLY MCoISSION'
FINACIAL FDRECASTS   1982 - 1991
BAAC SHEZ=
(ZIMBAB    DCARS,MIlLIONS)
1982       1983       1984       1985       1986       1987        1988       1989       1990       1991
ASSETS
FDCED ASSETS
PLANT IN SERVICE          463        735       1047        1192       16%        1881       2085       2311        2561       3297
LESS: DEPRECIATICN        198        251        320        400         504        619        752        904        1078       1297
OPERATIMG PLANT           265        484        727         792       1192       1262       1333        1407       1483       2000
WW IN PFOESS              217        248         176        310         24         45         74        229         425         51
INVESTfMNTS                25         30         36         43          50         58         67         77          88         99
CLASSZIA
CASH                       11          6          8          14         22         33         43         55          73         89
INVENTORIES                12         17         23          24         34         35         36         38         40          53
RHEI VABIES                12         16         28          40         43         52         57         59          66         89
TUCAL                      35         39         59          78         99        120        136        152         179        231
TUOAL ASSEIS              542        801        998        1223       1365       1485       1610       1865        2175       2381
WrrM AND
- IlABILlIIES
REETAIND EARNINGS          67         72         81         132        172        182        208        242         293        342
REVALUATION RESERVE       185        216        269         338        404        494        586        683         783        885
TOTAL RPMITY              252        288        350         470        576        676        794        925        1076       1227
ILG IERM DEBT
DEBTX WE                  259        466        573        643         659        643        618        698         814        815
CURRB
- LIABILITIES
PAYABLES                   19         28         34          44         44         56         61         74          81         95
aTHER                       6          6          7           7          7          8          9         10          11         11
TDTAL                      25         34         41          51         51         64         70         84          92        106
0ODbUMERS
CONIRIBUTIONS             6         13         34          59         79        102        128         158        193        233
TUTAL BQITY AND
- LIABILITIES             542        801        998        1223       1365       1485       1610        1865       2175       2381
DEBT % OF
- DEBT + EQUIIY          50.6       61.8        62.1       57.7       53.3       48.7       43.8       43.0        43.1       39.9
CURRENr RATIO             1.4        1.1         1.4        1.5        1.9        1.9        1.9         1.8        1.9        2.2



- 88 -
ANNEX 5.5
Page 1 of 3
ZIMBABWE
POWER PROJECT
Assumptions in Financial Forecasts, FY82-91
General
1.        The consolidated financial forecasts for the period FY82-91
incorporate separate forecasts for CAPC's Zimbabwe grid, ESC, HMED and
BMED.
Revenues
2.        Revenues were fixed annually for each utility at the levels
required to cover operating costs, depreciation, interest charged
operations, working capital including cash, debt repayment and sinking fund
installments and the gap between construction expenditures and borrowings.
The CAPC average price/kWh so calculated was used as the price of the power
that ESC, HMED and BMED are estimated to purchase each year.  The average
selling prices/kWh for each utility and the sector resulting from these
simulations are as follow:
---Z cents/kWh------------
FY          CAPC    ESC    HMED    BMED    SECTOR
1982        0.87    1.56   1.98    1.82         1.67
1983        1.34    2.01   2.47    2.40         2.14
1984        1.76    2.69   3.19    3.31         2.84
1985        2.20    3.79   3.78    3.69         3.77
1986       2.30    3.85   3.97    3.79          3.87
1987       2.96    4.47   4.74    4.37          4.51
1988        3.03    4.67   4.82    4.38         4.67
1989        3.06    4.82   4.98    4.38         4.80
1990       3.35    5.28   5.34    4.80          5.25
1991        4.87    7.03   6.97    6.44         6.96
Fuel Costs
3.        Coal costs have been calculated at Z$9.64/ton for the annual coal
consumption as forecast by the consultants,and escalated at the same rates
as for operating costs.



- 89 -
ANNEX 5.5
Page 2 of 3
Zambia Imports
4.        Power imports from Zambia were assumed at 25% above the present
price of Z$48/kW escalated as for operating costs from FY83 onwards.
Operating Costs
5.        Operating costs have been estimated as follow:
(a) CAPC
(1) Existing hydro plant operation and administration costs at
the 1981 levels;
(2) Existing thermal plants, at the FY81 cost/MW of capacity;
and
(3) New hydro plants, as estimated by the consultants at 1981
price levels, in their Report on Zimbabwe Power Development
of December 1981.
(b) ESC
(1) For ESC's transmission and distribution grid, at the FY81
cost/km for the total length of transmission line estimated
to be in operation each year; and
(2) New thermal plants, as estimated by the consultants at 1981
price levels in their Report on Zimbabwe Power Development
of December 1981;
(c) SMED and BMED
Distribution operating costs have been estimated at the FY81
levels and increased by 5% p.a. in real terms.
Escalation
(d) All operating costs have been escalated at 15%, 12%, 11%, 10%, 9%
and 8% for FY82, 83, 84, 85 and 86 and each year thereafter,
respectively.
Depreciation
Depreciation rates have been assumed at the 1981 average levels
of 4% for ESC, 2.8% for CAPC, adjusted during the forecast period for the
input of the new projects-being capitalised. The average rates rise to
about 3.5% in the later years. HMED and BMED depreciation was assumed at
3.5% pa.



- 90 -
ANNEX 5.5
Page 3 of 3
Capital Investment (Annex 4.4)
6.   (a)  Construction costs for new generation plants and their ancillary
transmission facilities are as estimated by the consultants at
end FY81 price levels, amended by the mission for the proposed
project costs;
(b) ESC's construction costs are as estimated by the System Planning
Department at end FY81 price levels;
(c)  HMED and BMED construction costs are as estimated by the mission
at FY81 price levels;
(d) All construction costs are escalated at the rates given in para.
4.17.
(e) The development program has been delayed by one year for
financial forecast purposes compared to that shown in para. 4.06
to take account of the fact that the Zimbabwe system demand at
end FY81 was about 10% behind the forecast on which the
development program was based.
Borrowings
7.        Borrowings have been estimated on the terms agreed for committed
loans, at Banks terms for other foreign loans and on the current Government
terms for local loans.



- 91 -
ANNEX 6.1
ZIMBABWE
POWER PROJECT
Least Cost Solutions at Discount Rates of 6% and 10%
FY                  at  6%                            at  10%
83/84        Hwange I                        Hwange I
85           Hwange II                       Hwange II
87           Kariba South hydro Extension  Kariba South Hydro Extension
88           Kariba North Hydro Extension  Kariba North Hydro Extension
89           Hwange III                      Hwange III
91           Batoka Dam and South Bank       Batoka Dam and South Bank
Power Station                  Power Station
94           Batoka North Bank Power         Batoka North Bank Power
Station                        Station
96           Mupata Gorge Dam and South    Sengwa Coal Fired Power
Bank Power Station             Station a/
98          Hlupata Gorge North Bank
Power Station
2000           Sengwa Coal Fired Power
Station
a/ 1800 MW total capacity gradually installed until 2000..



- 92 -
ANNEX 6.2
Page 1 of 3
ZIMBABWE
POWER PROJECT
Basis for Calculation of Internal Rate of Return
1.        The economic rate of return on the investment was determined for
the first ten year slice of the power development program for Zimbabwe.
This rate is defined as the discount rate at which the present values of
all incremental program-related capital and operating costs, including
costs for power imports and the incremental revenues attributable to the
development program over 39 years are equal.
2.        The following assumptions were used in calculating the economic
rate of return:
(A) Shadow Prices
(a) Imported material - 100%
(b) Local labor - unskilled - 30%
skilled   - 100%
(c) Local material - steel - 60%
cement - 90%
(d) Foreign engineering services - 100%
(e) Coal - Z$ 1/ton (Z$6/ton and Z$9.64/ton for
sensitivity studies).
(f) Imported power - 100%
(g) Operation and maintenance expenditures
Local component (80% of the total) - 70%
Foreign component (20% of the total) - 100%
(B) Capital Costs
Capital costs assumptions are in accordance with Annex 5.5 at
beginning FY82 price levels except that only half of the dam cost was
included for the Batoka Gorge Hydro project.
(C) Operation costs
(a) Operation and maintenance costs and imports from Zambia -
in accordance with Annex 5.5.
(b) Fuel costs - based on the economic opportunity cost of the
Hwange steam coal - Z$ 1/ton (marginal cost of extraction;
amounts of fuel for each year established by means of an
energy allocation model (simulation study) by the
consultants.



- 93 -
ANNEX 6.2
Page 2 of 3
(D) Benefits
(a) Benefits were calculated using the forecast FY87 (the year
Hwange II will be in full operation) tariff level;
(b) No residual values were included at the end of the 35 year
lives for Hwange I and II.



PMER PRaJECr
Internal Rate of Return
(Z$ million)
Batoka
Kariba     Kariba                   Dam Share          CAPC      E9C+R4E[I-
South      North                  South Bark      Other Trans.  REI) Dist.    Total                               Total   Total           Net
Year   DTange I1arge II  Extension  Extension    wange III  Powr Station           Projects    Protcts   Investnments   O       C4 Goal 1/ Tm,orts  Coats  Benefits 2/  Benefits
1        2         3           4          5           6             7             8               9           10         11    12       13        14      15             16
1982     123.0        4.6         -           -           -             -             10.8          20.8        159.2       5.0  -         2.8    167.0        16.2     (150.8)
1983      89.0        45.0        1.1         0.2         -             1.6            6.8          26.1        169.8       5.0  0.2       5.3    180.3        31.6     (148.7)
1984      10.9        58.0       18.8          1.2        -             5.9            4.8          25.3        124.9       6.0  0.5       2.8    134.2        48.7      (85.5)
1985       -          65.3       24.6         17.1        -            35.7            6.8          26.9        176.4       9.0  0.8       1.8    188.0        66.6     (121.4)
1986       -          17.0       31.2         23.2        9.6          66.2           10.8          27.8        186.3      10.5  1.0      -0.2    197.6        83.0     (114.6)
1987       -          0.7        19.7         36.5        9.3          43.8            7.2          29.8        147.0      11.5  1.1      -1.0    158.6       100.5      (58.1)
1988       -          -           4.5         31.0       63.5          68.8            6.2          29.6        203.6      13.5  1.3      -0.2    218.2       119.1      (99.1)
1989       -          -           -            4.5       70.7          95.0            6.2          30.1        206.5      17.0  2.0       0.3    225.8       13B.7      (87.1)
1990       -          -           -           -          19.8          77.4            7.2          30.6        135.0      18.0  2.7       0.3    156.0       159.7        3.7
1991       -          -           -           -           -            54.4            7.2          31.5         93.1      18.0  2.8       0.8    114.7       181.4       66.7
1992       -          -           -           -           -            16.2            7.2          34.7         58.1      19.0  2.0      -9.2      69.9      205.5      135.6
1993       -          -           -           -           -             2.0            7.2          39.4         48.6      23.0  1.9      -8.2      65.3      228.5      163.2
1994-2017   -         -           -            -          -             -              -             -            -        23.0  1.9      -8.2      16.7      252.9      236.2
2018-2020  -           -          -            -          -             -              -             -            -        20.0  1.8      -8.2      13.6      219.2      205.6
Internal Rate of Return                                                                                                                                                   12.2  3/4
1/ Fconomic cost of coal: Z$1/ton.
2/ Benefits calculated based on the proposed retail tariff levels, i.e. Z cts.2.59/Ad4h for 1987, the year Warkie is in full operation.
3/ Sensitivity analysis:
- Econaoic cost of coal: (Z$/ton)   6    9.64                                                                                                                                  e 
- Ecomalc rate of return:  (%)         11.5  1.1                                                                                                                                 
4/ Internal rate of return with the existing tariff 6.8/ (with eronanic cost of coal Z$ 1/ton).
0'



- 95 -
ANNEX 7.1
ZIMBABWE
POWER PROJECT
Selected Documents and Data Available in the Project File
General Reports and Documents Related to the Sector
1. "Report on Power Development Plan", December 1981.
Merz and McLellan, in association with Sir Alexander Gibb and
Partners and Coopers and Lybrand Associates Ltd.
(Draft available to Bank: October 1981).
2.  "Interim Report on Power Development Plan", June 1981, Merz and
McLellan, in association with Sir Alexander Gibb and Partners
and Coopers and Lybrand Associates Ltd.
General Reports and Documents Related to the Project
1. "Project Report on New Power Station at Wankie", September 1972,
Merz and McLellan (Rhodesia) in association with Watermayer, Legge,
Piesold and Uhlmann.
2. "Report on Second Stage Generation Development at Wankie",
October 1974, Merz and McLellan (Rhodesia).
3. "Report on Zimbabwe Transmission System Development and
Addendum", January 1981, Merz and McLellan (Zimbabwe).
Selected Working Papers
-   Computer printouts and discounted cash flow studies,
internal rate of return and marginal price of power.
-   Project cost estimates -- schedule of expenditures.
-   Power system operation simulation studies.
-   Annual Reports (ESC, HMED, BMEr).
-   Annual Energy Output of the Kariba Hydroelectric Complex.
-   Progress of Works at Wankie I Power Station.
-   Faults which occured on the Zimbabwe System.
-   Financial Projections, CAPC, ESC,BMED and sector consolidation:
Computer Printouts.
-   Development Alternatives for the Least Cost Solution.
-   Existing Facilities of the Electricity Supply Commission.
-   Zimbabwe Transmission System.
-   330kV Transmission System Development.



- 96 -
ZIMBABWE
POWER PROJECT
NAMES OF TOWNS AND CITIES
The Government has  announced  new  names  for towns  and  cities.
Those relevant to the map entitled, "Zimbabwe Power System Development as
of June 30, 1981" (IBRD 15381R1) are as follows:
Gatoma                      Kadoma
Gwelo                        Gweru (as shown)
Marandellas                  Marondera
Mashaba                      Mashava
Que Que                     Kwe Kwe
Salisbury                    Harare (as shown)
Shabani                      Zvishavane
Sinoia                       Chinhoyi
Umtali                       Mutare (as shown)
Wankie                       Hwange



I B R D  15381R1
rseoo)    Z AIRE        t   At Z E A (                                                                                                30                                                    32                           MAY 1982
A'  ~       rt0R  ,{<            ,                                                                                                                                    ZIM 
'0r            -         j  >       (       IA 
> t  l vMe^ <-a^r   '    S 8,                                                                                                    ~~~ZIMBABWE
\rrMAORAAECAR                                                    s                                                         /   \ POW ER  SYSTEM
10r OTS000  t0  Development as of June 30,1981
\f >              77  ZAItN)  ,OofE                                                                                                  Go
010400   ~ ~ rCC-A' IVA                                                                                                                                                       BIU
    \"-R            'a -6';XN                                                                                               mh 
Th'f                                Rgv hD, b-   -6 0 'h~16
ES rmcderp o the f repOno to -   th Wy It-tchd Tho  d..-tD,mow   -od-dh YE R
yfuoa  thtRo 00: EAA snap lEo lOb. .01060 00 E pa-l of tOe WoTEd Eandbc  COE                                      b
aAd>-,t    / et. any /JdDna  00l EAR Eaga0E  DAtf any tEtnttAv cr an-nd- td lcE AI
NAMIBlA'o..,n              Bo0oGng
Z A M B I A                                                          Q                                                                                                                4 
NAII              Vko      &  ,j07* ***_     P      Goog
N~~~~~~~N
20'
Are. Covered by D               5nrrEbotlon Syoreo-
_      _     330 Ky ,ronomson LTne                                                 \\
Other Mon Tr- -smIss-on  -,n-  -nd Mo,or SObstw-soEF 
* * "   330K, TE-n-S-,RE,A  L-e   Plrnnod                                                                                           _|__
_        330Kv l,--Imi.o.... In-, Unnder Constr-t-oAE
-  //        More Th-n One Ci tl*./
*       Theormo  Plonp(Eisti {. E OE ,/ E_9 
H,,d,, PIt-t (Eo EIng)/
j     Thermol Ploni ['d0 r C-osEEA t,O-)/
U       W-no,ie  I Th-rmo   Powe.   Pl-n, PI .nn.d
22'       - * -         nternE -on   Bo-ndoro-                                                                                                                                                                                     22
BOTSWANA                                                                 O                              MO Z AMBI QUE
o           52          100           50                 /
K LOME lOBS E                    .r.E_____s__
MILES_I _          _        _       _                                                  -               S UTH    AFRICA
         26'      50                  00                     28   C                                              30\                                                32'



