rocumnt of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
As pR2-C4
Report No. P-4152-CM
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
IN AN AMOUNT EQUIVALENT TO USg17.8 MILLION
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF CAMEROON
FOR THE
NATIONAL AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH PROJECT
October 29, 1986
I This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties Its contenis may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CAMEROON
NATIONAL AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH PROJECT
CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit     =    CFAF Franc (CFAF)
1 US$      =    CFAF 360 (as of July 1986)
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 Square kilometer (km2)    =    0.3861 square mile
1 Hectare (ha) = 0.01 km2   =    2.4711 acres
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
CGIAR          Consultative Group on International Agricultural Research
DGRST          Delegation Generale pour la Recherche Scientifique et
Technique
(General Delegation for Scientific and Technical Research)
DRST           Direction de la Recherche Scientifique et Technique
(Directorate of Scientific and Technical Research)
GTZ            Deutsche Geselschaft fur Technische Zusammenarbeit Gmbh
IRA            Institut de la Recherche Agronomique (Institute of Agronomic
Research)
IRZ            Institut des Recherches Zootechniques (Institute of Animal
Research)
ISNAR          International Service for National Agricultural Research
MESRES         Ministere de l'Enseignement Superieur et de la Recherche
Scientifique (Ministry of Higher Education and Scientific
Research)
MINAGRI        Ministere de l'Agriculture (Ministry of Agriculture)
MINEPIA        Ministare de l'Elevage, de la Peche et des Industries
Animales (Ministry of Livestock, Fisheries and Animal
Industries)
NARP           National Agricultural Research Program
NCRE           National Cereals Research and Extension Project (USAID)
ODA            Overseas Development Administration (United Kingdom)
PAID/CA        Pan African Institute for Development/Cameroon
TAC            Technical Audit Committee
TLU            Testing and Liaison Unit
FISCAL YEAR
July 1     -     June 30



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
CAMEROON
NATIONAL AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH PROJECT
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:             Republic of Cameroan
Beneficiary:          Ministry of Higher Education and Scientific
Research
Amount:               US$17.8 million
Terms:                 Standard IBRD terms.
Cc-financing:         Overseas Development Administration, United Kingdom
(US$1.6 million equivalent on grant terms) and
Deutsche Gesellschaft Fur Technische Zusammenarbeit
(GTZ), West Germany (US$0.8 million equivalent on
grant terms).
Project Description:  The project aims at reorienting agricultural research
towards solving problems of food crops and livestock
production to enhance its effectiveness and relevance
to needs of small farmers. The main actions of the
project would be to (a) construct and upgrade the
physical infrastructure and strengthen technical,
operational and managerial capabilities of the
Institute of Agronomic Research (IRA) an.! the
Institute of Animal Research (IRZ); (b) create
central documentation and analytic units to support
the research system; and (c) introduce systematic
procedures for the review and programming of research
and for ensuring dissemination to the extension
system.
Project Benefits:     In the long-term, the project would help to develop
improved agricultural techniques and new farming
systems focused on food crop and livestock production
for local consumption. It would adapt the new
technology to the needs of smallholders and herders
by focusing on methods for speeding the transfer of
research findings to them. Meanwhile, in the
short-term, the project would aim at promoting
self-sufficiency in the scientific, technical and
administrative expertise of the research institutes
by increasing the skills of nat4onal staff engaged in
agricultural research.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank autnorization.



- ii -
Project Risks          The major risk is that the project research findings
may not be fully relevant to farmers' needs and
therefore not be adopted by them. The project would
minimize this risk by: (i) enhancing the ability of
the regional centers and stations to undertake
relevant research focused on the farming systems (ii)
creating an effective interfacing of extension
agencies; (iii) strengthening the research
programming and administrative capacity of IRA and
IRZ; and (iv) providing additional expertise and
training for national staff.
Estimated Costs
% of
Local    Foreign      Total  Rase Costs
US$ Million      -
IRA                                    13.8         9.0       22.8        68
IRZ                                     2.8         5.1        7.9        24
Joint Services                          1.4         1.2        2.6         8
Total Base Cost                   18.0        15.3       33.3       100
Of which:
Civil works                      7.3        2.9        10.2       31
Vehicles/Equipment               1.5        3.4         4.9        15
Technical Assistance             1.0        3.8         4.8        14
Training                         0.4        3.1         3.5        10
Salaries local personnel/        7.8        2.1         9.9       30
operating costs
Physical Contingencies             1.1         1.2        2.3
Price Contingencies                5.2        2.4         7.6
Total Project Costs               24.3        18.9       43.2
Taxes and Duties                   3.8        -           3.8
Total Project Costs               20.5       18.9        39.4
(net of taxes) 



- iii -
Financing Plan             IBRD       ODA          GTZ        Govt     Total
--S$ Millio      --
Civil Works                 6.3        -            -          6.4       12.7
Vehicles/Equipment/         3.1       0.2           0.1        2.9        6.3
Furniture
Technical Assistance        4.1       1.2           0.7         -         6.0
Trainfng                    4.3       0.2            -          -         4.5
Salary/Operating Costs       -         -             -        13.7       13.7
Total                  17.8       1.6         0.8         23.0      43.2
Estimated Disbursement (US$ million)
FY87    FY88    FY89   FY90    FY91   FY92   FY93   FY94
Annual           0.0    1.1      3.0     4.3      3.9    3.0    1.8    0.7
Cumulative       0.0    1.1      4.1     8.4    12.3   15.3   i7.1   17.8
Economic Rate of Return: n.a.
Appraisal Report: No. 4796-CM.
-aps: IBRD 17514R and 17515R.



INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECONMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT-
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED LOAN
TO THE REPUBLIC OF CAMEROON
FOR A NATIONAL AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
loan to the Republic of Cameroon for the equivalent of US$17.8 million to
help finance a National Agricultural Research Project. The loan would have
a term of 20 years, including a 5-year grace period, at the standard
variable  interest  rate.    Cofinancing  by  the  Overseas  Development
Association (UK) and Deutsche Geselchaft fur Technische Zusammenarbeit
(FRG) would be in the form of grants of US$1.6 million equivalent and $0.8
million equivalent, respectively.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.        A report entitled "United Republic of Cameroon-Economic Memoran-
dum" (Report No. 2877-CM), was distributed to the Executive Directors on
April 30, 1980.  Since then, several economic and sector missions have
visited Cameroon, the most recent one in February  1986.   Their major
findings, including preliminary work on the changed oil revenue prospects,
are incorporated irn the following paragraphs.
Background
3.        Cameroon is one of Africa's most diverse countries, with a wide
variety of climatic and ecological zones, ethnic groups, languages, and
traditional cultures. It has an estimated population of 10 million (1985)
znd covers an area of 475,000 km2.  The overall density is low, but there
are several densely populated regions in the west and the extreme north.
The main centers of population and economic activity are widely separated.
making the development and maintenance of an adequate transportation
network  vital  but  also  costly.   Cameroon's  main  opportunities  for
development lie in the expansion of agricultural, livestock and forestry
production, as well as the processing of agricultural and forestry products
for domestic consumption and export.  Cameroon became an oil producer in
1978.  Total production reached 8 million tons in 1985, of which 1.2
million tons were refined in Cameroon to meet domestlc demand.
4.        Basically  an  agricultural  country  at  independence  in  1960,
Cameroon has experienced rapid rural-urban migration; over one-third of the
population now lives in the cities. Douala, the major industrial center
and port, has an estimated population of about one million; Yaounde, the
capital, is the second largest city with an estimated 500,000 residents.
Several other urban areas of significant size play important roles in the
economies of the various regions.



5.        The stated development philosophy of the Government of Cameroon
is "communitarian liberalism," characterized by five-year indicative
investment plans and a mixture of private and public ownerships. Market
forces are tempered by extensive Government regulation in areas sucn as
price control, investment, interest rates and credit allocation, the latter
under the framework of the franc zone system for Equatorial Africa.  In
general, the Government's macroeconomic policies have been prudent and
Cameroon's GNP per capita (US$810 in 1985) is one of the highest in
Sub-Saharan Africa. Due to the Government's emphasis on balanced regional
development and strong central authority, the country has enjoyed
exceptional economic and social stability, and the surge in oil revenues at
the beginning of the decade was handled without major economic disruptions.
6.        The past few years have been a period of transition.  In November
1982, after almost 25 years in power, President Ahmadou Ahidjo resigned and
his constitutional successor, Prime Minister Paul Biya, became President.
President Biya consolidated his power in September 1983 when he was elected
president of the sole political party and in January 1984 when he was
confirmed as President of Cameroon in a national election. However, the
country was shaken in April 1984 when a group of soldiers launched an
unsuccessful coup attempt.  Over past years, Mr. Biya has promised a more
democratic style of government, more rigor in the management of public
funds and greater social justice.   The new Government is committed to
economic   liberalization,   although   still   within   the   context   of
"'communitarian  liberalism".   It  has  also  endorsed  the  objectives  of
preserving a strong agricultural base, maintaining food self-sufficiency,
and building up social and transport infrastructures. It has expressed a
strong interest in improving the efficiency of state enterprises, 'n some
cases through privatization.
Economic and Social Developments
7.        In recent years Cameroon has registered a remarkable overall
economic and financial performance. Growth averaged 6.9 percent per annum
in the second half of the 197-6 and is estimated at about 9.1 percent per
annum for the first half of the 1980s. Fixed investment, which was only 10
percent of GDP in the early 1960s, grew to an average of about 20 percent
in the second half of the 1970s and to an estimated 25 percent in 1985
while remaining in line Aith the country's absorptive capacity. Domestic
savings have been more than sufficient to finance domestic investment since
the end of the 1970s, largely because of the rapid expansion of crude oil
production and exports that started in 1979/80. The fact that Cameroon
managed to accumulate substantial overseas balances reflects a prudence,
rare among oil-exporting countries, in keeping public spending within
reasonable bounds.  Recourse to external borrowing has been limited, and
the debt service ratio has consistently remained around 10 percent.
8.        The good overall economic and financial performance of Cameroon
hides, however, a number of structural problems.  Export crops have not
performed particularly well over the past five years due to deteriorating
real producer prices accompanied by the migration of the younger rural



population to the cities and an apparent shift toward food crops.
Manufacturing growth took place through protection policy and the
establishment of an inefficient public enterprise sectoL accounting for
about 7 percent of GDP, which is an increasing burden on the budget. The
financial sector is underdeveloped and thus unable to intermediate
efficiently public savings to private investors or to mobilize private
savings, especially in preparation for the post-oil era. Although part of
government oil revenue has been saved, an increasing portion is used to
finance rapidly growing recurrent expenditures, an expansion of the
agricultural support programs (including input subsidies), and increased
assistance to ailing industrial public enterprises (including the servicing
of their debts).
9.        Although steady progress has been made in the well-being of the
population over the past two decades, much remains to be done in the social
sectors. Student enrollment increased considerably at all levels of the
educational  system,  but  the  quality  and  efficiency  of  education
deteriorated. Health-related indicators are on the low side, considering
Cameroon's overall level of economic development. Life expectancy at birth
is a low 53 years, the result of a high infant mortality rate due to
inadequate health coverage, poor access to water supply, lack of sanitation
services in crowded urban areas, and poor nutrition and health practices.
10.       In 1981, about 40 percent of the rural population was considered
to live in absolute poverty, i.e., with an annual per capita income of less
than US$105. This may partly explain the heavy rural migration to Yaounde
and Douala, where high average incomes fueled in part by the expenditure of
increasing oil revenues give rise to expectations of employment in the
formal sector under favorable conditions. In fact, conditions are not much
more favorable in these cities since one quarter of the population is
classified as absolutely poor.
Development Prospects and Issuies
II.       The basic problem that Cameroon must address in the near future
is the recent sharp downturn in oil prices. Since lower world prices have
reduced the reserves which can be profitably exploited, Cameroon must
absorb, within a period of a few years, not only a 15 percent cut in GDP,
but a 45 percent drop in current revenues and a 50 percent cut in exports
of goods and services. Fortunately, because of cautious policies and large
financial savings, the Cameroonian economy is basically strong enough to
deal with the new situation.   Per capita private consumption has been
growing rapidly in real terms so that some reduction will not necessarily
become a hardship. However, while Cameroon is in a privileged situation
because of its presently small external debt, its borrowing capacity is
limited by the expected decline in export receipts.
12.       Essentially, Cameroon's adjustment to the new situation will come
through measures aimed at (a) reducing private and public consumption and,
to a substantial extent, the investment rate, and (b) reorienting the
economy toward exports.  With respect to the first, private consumption



-4-
growth should be sloved through fiscal and other measures. Simultaneously,
current public expenditures, which considerably outstripped nominal GDP
growth during the oil era, must be restrained and non-essential investments
curtailed. While most of these measures would tend to offset budgetary
losses in oil revenues, if well-designed they could also bring about lower
real wages and a depreciation of the real exchange rate, which in turn
would tend to redress the trade balance. However, far reaching actions for
stimulating exports must also be undertaken.   In particular,  producer
incentives for export crops must be substantially improved if the nearly
stagnant sector is to play its role in partially offsetting the balance of
payments impact of the drop of oil exports. Such measures would have to be
coupled with increased institutional support to the agriculture sector.
Moreover, incentives will also be required to orient industrial activities
more toward exports through, among others, tax and tariff reforms.
Finally, reforms in the financial sector will be necessary in the longer
run if the financial system is to mobilize adequate private financial
savings and intermediate their flow to more productive investments.
13.       In the longer term, the major issue will be to cope with a fast-
expanding population. Altbough Cameroon's population growth rate was 2.3
percent in the 1970s, it is accelerating and currently projected at 3.2
percent for the remainder of the century. The urban population is expected
to triple by the end of the period.   Providing meaningful  employment
opportunities to a sharply expanding urban labor force is and will remain a
major challenge for the Cameroonian authorities.
External Borrowing and Creditworthiness
14.       Total public external debt outstanding and disbursed rose from
US$371 million at the end of 1976 to US$1.7 billion at the end of 1985.
Debt service payments rose from US$39 million in 1976 to US$286 million in
1985, while exports increased from US$700 million in 1976 to about US$2.3
billion in 1985.  As of end-1985 the World Bank Group's share of the
estimated total public and guaranteed private debt was 30.2Z; its share in
total debt service payments was 16.2%. However, Cameroon's traditionally
modest reliance on external financing has been followed, during the oil era
of increased financial independence, by diminished recourse to external
borrowing  and  some  prepayment  of  foreign  loans.   Gross  disbursements
against public and publicly guaranteed external borrowing bave dropped from
a peak of US$564 million in 1980 to US$188 million in 1984. Net transfers
have fallen from a peak of US$389 million in 1979 to minus US$98 million in
i985, When debt service payments exceeded gross disbursements.  Increased
borrowing will be required before the end of the decade to compensate for
declining oil revenues.  However,  the debt service ratio, presently at
below 10 percent, appears likely to remain below 15 percent for the rest of
the decade. Cameroon is fundamentally creditworthy.



-5-
PART II - BANK GROUP OPEn&TIONS IN CAMEROON
15.       Bank and IDA commitments in Cameroon as of June 30, 1986 amounted
to US$966 million equivalent and covered 48 projects: 22 in agriculture, 15
in transportation, 4 in education, 3 in public utilities, 1 small- and
medium-scale enterprise project, 2 technical assistance projects and 1
urban project.   Transport and agriculture account respectively for about
50 percent and 38 percent of these commitments. IFC had invested in eight
enterprises, with total net loan/equity commitments of US$10.9 million.
16.       Project implementation has, overall, improved over past years.
The Government has generally shown willingness to collaborate with the Bank
in finding solutions, but slow project processing and implementation delays
are still a problem. In particular, the overall disbursement rate, which
used to compare favorably with that of most other countries, has slowed
down due to administrative bottlenecks, notably in the central procurement
agency.   Technical  assistance  is  being  arranged  to  help  streamline
procurement procedures, and a procurement seminar is scheduled for FY87.
17.       The Bank's initial investment strategy in Cameroon was to support
the Government's development efforts in three main directions: (a)
strengthening and extending the road and rail trunk systems and improving
the port of Douala; (b) raising agricultural output and exports; and (c)
improving education. Until 1975, apart from one water supply project, Bank
lending was concentrated in the transport, agriculture and education
sectors.   Since  1975,  it  has  diversified  into  forestry,  small-  and
medium-scale  industry,  urban  development,   technical  assistance  and
telecommunications. For the immediate future, projects are being prepared
in agriculture to support the Government's objectives of increasing
agricultural exports, enhancing smallholders' productivity and improving
the quality of rural life; in transport, to upgrade as well as expand and
maintain the network; in urban development, to build up the local
governments'   capabilities   to   cope   with   fast   growth;   and   in
education/manpower  training,  to  meet  the  rapidly  increasing  skill
requirements of the economy.
The Bank's Country Strategy
18.       The Government wishes the Bank to maintain an active assistanec
program in Cameroon to ensure a steady flow of resources for developm.Aat
and to be the vehicle for technical assistance in project design and
implementation and the source of advice for policy reform. The rationale
for the Bank's program lies in the need to meet the country's increased and
more complex development assistance requirements. To make up for a fast
declining oil sector, the Government must make critical decisions
concerning the removal of major development bottlenecks and the composition
of a reduced domestic investment program. The Bank's major objectives are
to help (a) increase the efficiency and international competitiveness of
the productive sectors and those which directly support production; (b)



promote private initiatives and reduce the role of the parapublic sector in
the economy; (c) strengthen Government policy-making, investment planning
and implementing capabilities;  (d) develop the country's human resource
base; and (e) improve the living conditions of low-income greups.
19.       To reach its objectives the Bank will combine lending, economic
and sector work and technical assistance to the central and technical
ministries. & financial sector analysis was recently produced with active
Cameroonian participation, and strategy papers for other major sectors are
being discussed with Government with a view to reaching broad agreement on
a macroeconomic and sectoral policy framework. Key topics in this dialogue
are the role of the public enterprise sector, reform of the financial
sector, skilled manpower constraints and needs, and administrative reform.
Official Development Assistance
20.       Disbursements  of  official  development assistance  during  the
second half of the 1960s amounted to about US$45 million a year, mostly in
the form of grants. France provided most of the assistance. In the 1970s,
foreign aid increased to about US$90 million a year, with only one-fifth in
the form of grants. Bank and IDA financing amounted to about 23 percent of
total disbursements and the Bank Group became the major source of public
assistance. Cofinancing has been featured in 25 of the 48 Bank-financed
projects and is being actively sought for several projects under
consideration to improve aid coordination and support a gradual shift to
private financing.
21.       In 1985, disbursements from private sources accounted for 10
percent of 'otal disbursements under public debt, down from 61 percent in
1982. Public external debt outstanding and disbursed as of December 31.
1985. amounted to US$1.7 billion, 20 percent of which was in the form of
World Bank loans and 14 percent in IDA credits.  By end-1985, Bank loans
and IDA credits accounted for about 14 percent of debt service.
PART III - AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH
A. Background
22.       Aware  of  the  critical  importance  for  Cameroon's  future
development to preserve a strong agriculture and of the need to address the
problems induced by fast increasing urban food demand, Government continues
to give priority to agriculture.   Cameroon's considerable agricultural
potential is only partially tapped.  The varied topography, soils, and
climate enable the couutry to grow a wide range of agricultural crops for
local processing and consumption, as well as for export, predominantly in
smallholdings,  but  also  in  large  commercial  plantations,  medium-size
estates, and cooperative farms.  Two key Government goals are to increase
agricultural exports and maintain food self-sufficiency despite an aging
and slow growing rural population, and to stem the exodus of youths from



rural areas, by raising rural incomes and living conditions. These goals
require increased productivity per hectare and farm worker. However crop
yields and herd productivity have remained relatively low, partly because
the many innovations proposed by agricultural research were unsuited to the
socio-economic  circumstances  of  the  producers.   The  Government  is
emphasizing agricultural research as a means of increasing productivity.
This is apparent in the budget allocations to the Institute of Agronomic
Research (IRA' and the Institute of Livestock Research (IRZ) which bave
increased at .n annual rate of about 30Z for IRA and 40Z for IRZ over the
past seven years.   The proposed National Agricultural Research project
would be part of this effort, particularly geared to increasing the
relevance of research to smaller farmers.
B. The Institutions
23.       The  Ministry  for  Higher  Education  and  Scientific  Research
(hESRES).    In  1974,  Government  assumed  direct  responsibility  for
agricultural research which was previously carried out by specialized
French institutions, which are still making a large contribution to
agricultural research through the provision of expatriate researcbers and
training.   In  1979,  the Government created  the General Delegation for
Scientific and Technical Research (DGRST), attached to the Office of the
Prime Minister to manage scientific research.  At the same time, crop and
forestry research activities were grouped into one institute (IRA), and
livestock and  fisheries research into another  (IRZ).  In 1984, higher
education and scientific and technical research activities were regrouped
into a newly created ministry, the Ministry of Higher Education and
Scientific and Technical Research (MESRES).  MESRES administers not only
the two agricultural research institutes, but also three other research
institutes for human sciences, medicine and medical plant studies, and
geology and mining research, as well as two national scientific committees
concerned with environment and technology transfer. MESRES is responsible
for the policy direction of its research institutes and chairs the
Management Boards in charge of approving the respective IRA and IRZ program
and budget proposals.
24.       Agronomic Researcb Institute (IRA). The institute has expanded
rapidly in recent years in spite of difficulties in recruiting a sufficient
number  of qualified  scientists  and  technicians.   Its  staff  of  2,400
includes 139 researchers and executives, of whom 48 are expatriates. IRA's
headquarters near Yaounde controls administration and finance, accounting,
and logistical services for a still incomplete network of stations and
antennas managed by four regional centers. Although these services do not
meet current needs, IRA's research work is often of value to the cash crop
sub-sector; however, there is still a lack of adequate knowledge of the
local small farm conditions.
25.       Animal Research Institute (IRZ).  As with agronomic research,
animal research was essentially carried out by French institutes until IRZ
was created in 1979. IRZ also has grown rapidly and is now responsible for
all livestock and fisheries research. Its staff consists of 42 researchers



-8-
(10 expatriates)-two and a half times more than in 1978/79-but many of
the newly recruited staff are young and lack adequate training or practical
knowledge of the traditional livestock sector. IRZ shares IRA's inadequate
headquarters facilities. While considerable investment is being made in
infrastructure, the need to upgrade staff and orient research toward
pastoralism and mixed smallholdings is becoming more acute.
C. Agricultural Research
26.       The major problems related to agricultural research in Cameroon
have been: (i) that the programs have lacked overall coherence and tended
to reflect the intellectual interests of researchers rather than needs of
local, smaller farmers and, therefore. have been too focused on
technological problems of large-scale producers and on exotic rather than
local  livestock;   (ii)  inadequacy  of  research  installations;  (iii)
inadequate  numbers  of  qualified  researchers  and  technicians;  (iv)
cumbersome administrative procedures of IRA and IRZ; and (v) inadequate
linkage between these organizations and field level agricultural extension
staff and farmers.
27.       Agronomic Research.  The country is divided organizationally into
four regions for crop research, which largely follow the major ecological
zones. Each region is, or will be, provided with a hierarchical network of
a research center controlling research stations and antennas (Map 17514).
In the past, the overall program was essentially a compilation of the
activities and interests of individual researchers.  The result was an
emphasis on the production of scientific papers and research findings which
had little applicability to the conditions of the average smallholder and,
therefore, rarely interested the extension services. However, important
efforts have been initiated to improve program preparation and to reorient
research programs to provide high quality research applicable to food crops
and to accelerate the dissemination of the results to farmers. A beginning
has been made in establishing a well-defined research programming process
for agronomic programs, such as cereals and rootcrops. A total of 22 such
programs now exist which are crop and crop group oriented, including a
small forestry program. National coverage is good, but thinly spread.
More results with potential applicability to smallholders are emerging.
However, performance remains patchy and weaknesses still exist. Physical
infrastructure remains inadequate for the current needs and, although
review processes are being improved, there are still inadequacies in
external review of each region's research activities and in overall
coordination and programming of research activity.
28.      Animal Research.  The main emphasis has been on beef and dairy
cattle through the introduction and testing of exotic breeds. However, the
high level of management required by this vulnerable stock has occupied
much of the attention of the research staff, to the detriment of more
relevant research. Also, the specialized breeds (for meat or milk) on
which research has concentrated, do not interest the pastoralists since
they need hardy,  multi-purpose  animals.   Promising  results have been
obtained in pasture research, but grazing trials on farmer's fields have



-9-
yet to be started. The pig and poultry research program concentrates on
intensive rearing for the emerging commercial production sector. Thus,
little of the preaent research is relevant either to the actual situation
in the field or to the needs of the livestock owners.
29.       Facilities.  Although recurrent funding for research has been
dramatically increased, physical facilities at most of the field stations
are inadequate  to support the expanded programs.  Field stations lack
accommodations for visiting staff and sufficient housing for staff at all
levels, thus inhibiting both recruitment for remote research stations and
staff reassignment, and hampering on-site supervision by technicians. Some
existing scientific and field equipment is old or dilapidated and there is
insufficient transport to provide mobility for the researcb staff. This
latter problem is exacerbated by the lack of radio communications between
the centers end their stations, which results in unnecessary travel. There
is also a critical need for improved headquarter facilities for IRZ, and
for upgraded analytical and documentation facilities.
30.       Staffing.  The Ministries of Agriculture and Livestock who have
control over the careers of most graduate agriculturalists assign only a
handful of them to research, while, the lack of an attractive career
profile for technicians acts as a deterrent for potential recruits.
However, there has been some recent improvements in the number of graduates
being made available to research and the institutes have been able to
recruit directly for fixed-term contracts.  To attract technicians, a
statute is being formulated by MESRES which provides for bette-r career
prospects.   A  problem  still  ramoins,  however,  with  the  number  of
administrative staff. The low status and reward system inherent to the
position do not attract staff witb the desired qualifications and
experience.
31.       Organization.   IRA  and  IRZ  are  not  organizationally  and
financially independent.  Their research programs, organization, funding,
personnel  and  information  policies,  and  management  structures  are
determined by various ministries. For the execution of work programs and
budgets, these institutes must follow Government administrative procedures
which are inappropriate for efficient research management. This leads to
sub-optimal programs, considerable delays in execution and, sometimes, a
waste of funds.
32.       Extension.  Responsibility for extension, particularly in crop
production, is divided among several agencies, and there is no structure
for ensuring effective research-extension communication. The major role in
crop extension lies with parastatals, generally built around one major
activity,.e.g., cocoa, coffee, cotton, rice etc. Most of these report to
the Ministry of Agriculture (MINAGRI), but some report to the Ministries of
Plan or Commerce. The weak interministerial links, typical of Cameroon,
adversely affect communication between these agencies and the research
establishment. Under the National Cereal Research and Extension (NCRE)
Project, supported by USAID, a Testing and Liaison Unit (TLU) has been
established to facilitate such exchanges, and this effort would be expanded



- 10 -
in the proposed project.  Livestock extension rests entirely with the
Ministry of Livestock, Fisheries and Animal Industries (MINEPIA). However,
its provincial delegation and field staff are mostly concerned with animal
health and few have any knowledge of livestock production or husbandry. As
a consequence, there has been little effective contact between MINEPIA and
IRZ, although steps have recently been taken to set up regular meetings at
the regional level.
E. The Bank's Involvement and Strategy in Agricultural Research
33.       Since 1967 the Bank Group has been involved in 22 agricultural
projects, amounting to US$369 million in loans and credits. Much of the
Bank's earlier lending was for nucleus estate smallholder plantation
projects.  Since the mid-1970s, smallholder projects and regional rural
development projects integrating productive and infrastructural components
have been given priority.   The Bank is now moving toward sub-sector
projects which would address key issues identified as bottlenecks to
achieving productivity growth, such as research, input supply, extension,
marketing, and credit. Most past projects have included adaptive researcb
components, which were most useful but contributed little to national
research. It became clear that a free-standing national research project
was an important building block in the Bank's program of assistance to
agriculture in Cameroon.
34.       The project is in line with the Bank's agricultural strategy in
Sub-Saharan Africa, which gives high priority to agricultural research.
The project would complement other Bank-assisted agricultural projects by
developing a range of improved techniques for crop and livestock
production, and would facilitate the implementation of the research
components under these projects. The project would also aim at increasing
coordination with bilateral programs and at strengthening the links between
the Cameroonian agricultural research institutes and the Consultative Group
on Internati.onal Agricultural Research (CGIAR) network of international
centers.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
A. Project Origin and Objectives
35.       The proposed project was identified in May 1981 and prepared in
February 1983 by World Bank/FAO Cooperative Program missions.  It was
appraised by a Bank mission in May 1983. As a result of successive cabinet
reshuffles (including the creation of MESRES in 1984) Government was slow
in reacting to Bank's proposals, but the project appraisal was updated by a
mission in June 1985. Throughout project preparation and appraisal, close
coordination was maintained with external assistance agencies, especially
French and U.S. agencies (paras. 23 and 32). Negotiations were held in
Washington, (July 28 - August 1, 1986). Details of the project are in the



- 11 -
Staff Appraisal Report No. 4796-CM, dated October 14, 1986, which is being
circulated separately.
36.       The project aims at reorienting and strengthening research to
enhance its effectiveness and relevance. It emphasizes research on small-
holder food crop production systems, as development of suited technologies
has lagged and hampers the implementation of Government's agricultural
programs. It pays particular attention to adapting these technologies to
small farmers' and herders' circumstances and to accelerating the transfer
of technology to them, with a view to raising their productivity and
incomes.   The  Project  would  emphasize  improved  facilities,  research
methods, management principles, planning, and training activities that
would reinforce the effectiveness of staff and research facilities and
would include investments for specific needs.
B. Summary Description
37.       The project would have a nationwide coverage and would reorient
the emphasis of the IRA and IRZ research programs towards smallholder
production systems and expand the capacity of these institutes to undertake
such research programs through actions at three levels:  (a) within the
institutes;    provision    of   essential    infrastructure,    equipment,
communications and other facilities at field stations; provision of
technical assistance for critical aspects of priority research activities
such as root crop nematodes and small livestock nutrition; increase in the
number of Cameroonian staff, particularly at the technician level and
expanded in-service training programs; and provision of technical
assistance for improvement of research programming and management, and of
administration and control systems; (b) support of the researcb system
through provision of basic computing and documentation facilities serving
both institutes; and (c) measures to improve botb overall research
programming and supervision, and dissemination of research results.
C. Detailed Featuics
1. Agronomic Research.
38.       Regional Research Facilities.  To assist IRA in emphasizing food
crops and in adopting a systems approach to research, the project would
strengthen and expand the relevant research centers and their stations and
antennas, by (a) creating a new center at Foumbot to serve the west and
northwest regions; (b) establishing two new field trial grounds at
Minkomayos for the Nkolbisson Center and at Mouda for the Maroua Center;
and (c) upgrading the other regional agronomic research facilities.
Specialized equipment for a textile laboratory at Maroua and a plant
pathology laboratory at Ekona would also be provided. Forestry research
would be selectively strengthened at Nkolbisson, Maroua, and Foumbam
through provision of some additional infrastructure and facilities, and
funds would also be earmarked to support the research activities of the
-eeds units.   The estimated base cost of these facilities is US$12.4
million.



- 12 -
39.       Staff and Expertise.  Critical gaps in IRA expertise would be
filled by provision of a full-time specialist in nematology for the Nyombe
Center. In addition, the project would finance 30 months of short-term
consultant inputs in soil and fertilizer and pest and disease problems,
mechanization, and rural sociology, where full-time expatriate positions
are not justified. Provision would also be made under the project for the
creation by IRA of 20 additional positions for Cameroonian researchers and
executives at the regional Centers, 11 of which would be agronomists
working on food crops and three sylviculturalists, and 54 positions for
research technicians and administrative assistants, 84 for skilled support
staff and 74 unskilled support staff.
40.       Provision would also be made for the upgrading of agricultural
research management and methods through an institutionalized training
program. Training seminars would be organized annually for both IRA and
IRZ (para. 43) and conducted by organizations such as the International
Service for National Agricultural Research (ISNAR), and the Pan African
Institute for Development/Cameroun (PAID/CA) in Douala. Provision would be
made for the formal post-graduate training of selected researchers and
experienced technicians respectively.   Study tours would be organized to
help senior staff to keep abreast of new research techniques, especially
crop systems research.   Finally, local training wiould be provided  to
upgrade the specific skills of technicians and senior support staff. To
ensure the adequate programming of training, assurances were obtained at
negotiations that a five-year training plan would be established by
April 30, 1987, together with a detailed program for 1987/1988; annual
programs would be prepared thereafter. Both the plan and the programs
would be submitted to the Bank for comments.
41.       Research Management.   The capacity of the IRA Directorate to
coordinate and manage this expanded research program would be strengthened
under the project through the international recruitment of a research
management specialist and the creation of 2 biometrical unit and of the
joint computer center. The creation of an editorial and reporting service,
headed by an internationally recruited scientific editor, would assist in
the preparation of technical documents and IRA's and IRZ's documentation
services would be expanded into a joint IRA/IRZ library/documentation
center (para. 45).   IRA and IRZ administrative and financial management
would be improved through training, and revised procedures. These would be
based upon an organization and management study to be carried out by ISNAR.
Assurances were obtained from Government that the recommendations of the
study would be sent to the Bank for review and agreement on a time-bound
implementation  program  would  be  reached  by  December  31,  1987.   The
employment at post of either the IRA research management specialist or the
IRZ research management specialist, whichever occurs first, would be a
condition of loan effectiveness. Whichever of these alternatives does not
occur first will be a condition of loan disbursement for that project
component to which it relates.



- 13 -
2.   Animal Researcb
42.       Bambui and Wakwa Centers.   To assist IRZ in reorienting  its
research program towards the needs of local pastoralists and small-scale
livestock producers, a livestock systems research team would be established
at each center to facilitate the adoption of the new research objectives.
It would concentrate on defining the key constraints of traditional
producers and on developing improved livestock management systems which
they can readily adopt. Both centers would receive additional vehicles and
equipment, and their infrastructures (including housing) would be upgraded
and expanded, at an estimated base cost of US$1.1 million.
43.       Staff and Training.  Provision would be made under the project
for 8 additional positions for Cameroonian researchers and executives, 13
for technicians and administrative assistants, 14 for skilled support staff
and 13 for unskilled support staff. Training seminars would be carried out
to upgrade agricultural research methods and management (para. 40). Study
tours would be organized to get acquainted with the systems approach to
livestock development. Finally, fellowships would be provided to selected
technical support staff to improve their capacities in laboratory and field
recording  techniques.   To  ensure  the  adequate  programming  of  staff
training, assurances were obtained at negotiations that a five-year
training plan would be established by April 30, 1987, together with a
detailed program for 1987; annual programs would be prepared thereafter.
44.       Management.  The research management and technical capacity of
the Directorate would be strengthened under the project through the
creation of a Technical Assistance position for a livestock research
management specialist (para. 40). A TA position for a biometrician would
also be created to initiate the storage of IRZ research data and provide
advice on the statistical aspects of livestock systems research and trials.
In addition, the project would provide for 45 man-months of short-term
consultancy to address problems in specific fields, e.g., animal traction,
mineral nutrition, forage seed agronomy, and sociology.
3.   Joint Facilities
45.       In order to support these research programs, there is need for
improved computer and documentation services. Since these facilities can
be readily shared, the project would establish a joint library and
documentation  center  and  one  joint  computer  center.   Besides  saving
resources, the development of these joint s'arvices would help foster
collaboration between the two arms of the agricl-ltural research system.
46.       Computer Center.  The joint computer center would be equipped
with a mini-computer and the ancillary hardware compatible with the IRA and
IRZ network of regional micro-computers. It would be headed by a computer
specialist, initially an internationally-recruited expert, and later by a
Cameroonian counterpart who would have received graduate training overseas
in computer technology. Although the center would primarily serve as a



- 14 -
data bank, it would also handle meteorological data, statistical and
economic computations, and the institutes' payroll, bookkeeping and
inventory control.
47.       Library and Document -ion Center.  Provi-sion would be made under
the project to expand the exis-ng IRA and IRZ documentation services into
a central agriculture library and documentation center at Nkolbisson,
equipped to access international data banks and to carry appropriate
reference material.  Four regional satellite documentation centers would
also be established. Assistance in initial management of the facilities
would be provided by a TA librarian. The finalization of an agreement
between IRA and IRZ, in a manner satisfactorily to the Bank, governing the
joint use of the computer center and library/documentation center would be
a condition of disbursement for the construction and equipment of these
facilities.
4.  Research Programming and Dissemination
48.       Project  Coordination.   The  Director  of  the  Department  of
Scientific and Technical Research (DRST) of MESRES would be responsible for
the coordination of the project with other ministries and agencies
involved, and for undertaking the planning and programming of agricultural
research.   DRST's major  role would be  to ensure  that the  institutes
research programs are consistent with the Government's Agricultural
strategy and specific research policies.  Therefore, under the project,
systematic procedures for the review of research activities would be
introduced, a well articulated National Agricultural Research Program
(NARP?) prepared and a review system established, including regular
technical audits of regional centers. It was agreed at negotiations that
Government would submit a draft of the NARP to the Bank for review not
later than December 31, 1988.
49.       The emphasis would be on regionally developed research programs
to meet identified local needs, but with the ultimate coordinating
responsibility remaining with the DRST. In this context, emphasis would be
on increased autonomy for regional research centers. An in-depth review of
each region's research program would be carried out every two years. To
accomplish this task a Technical Audit Committee (TAC) would be established
for each institute, chaired by the Director or his Deputy. This committee
would be joined by a regional team including representatives of local
parastatal enterprises and farmers for the review of regional research
programs. Assurances were obtained at negotiations that the two TACs would
be established by June 30, 1987. As part of their contribution to the
drafting of the NARP, these TACs would, no later than June 30, 1988 perform
a diagnostic review of all IRA and IRZ centers and an in-depth review of
each center every other year. The summary reports of these reviews would
be forwarded to the Bank within three months after the completion of the
review.
50.       The   Extension   Interface.    As   a   key   element   in   the
research-extension structure, the project will expand the effort to create



- 15 -
TLU's (para 32). Three units would be assigned respectively to the Foumbot
(West), Nkolbisson (center-south) and Ekona (Littoral) research centers, to
complement the existing unit at Bambui (North-west). Each unit would be
composed of an internationally recruited extension agronomist and an
agro-economist, and IRA counterpart staff. The TLUs would play a leading
role in identifying farmer problems and constraints hindering increased
production and would have a vital input to regional research programming.
As research results become available, the TLU staff would also conduct
on-farm testing in collaboration with NCRE, IRA researchers and extension
agency personnel.   They would be responsible for evaluating the field
trials and recommending any further studies or modifications.
51.       Technical Assistance  Under the project a total of 43 man-years
of long-term internationally recruited technical assistance would be
provided, of which 26 man-years would be for research programming and
specialized support services and 17 man-years for disciplinary and systems
research. Approximately 21 man-years of this assistance would be provided
by ODA, and 6 man-years by GTZ, both on a grant basis. In addition, the
project would provide for 147 man-months of short-term consultancies for
specific problems for which a full-time position would not be justified.
To ensure the timely start of project activities, Government agreed at
negotiations to employ specialized agencies to recruit TA staff and
short-term consultants.
D.  Pro ect Cost Estimates and Financin
52.       Cost  Estimates.   Project  costs  cover  incremental  research
activities as the project either expands, strengthens or reorients present
research  activities,  they  do  not  cover  current  operations.   These
incremental costs for the five year implementation period (1987-1992) are
estimated at CFAF 15.6 billion (US$43.2 million) with a foreign exchange
component of about 44%. The net-of-tax project cost is estimated at
US$39.4 million. Cost estimates are based on mid-1986 prices and include
no physical contingencies on local wages and salaries, 5% on expatriate
assistance and consultancy, and 10% on all remaining investments and
operating expenses.  Price contingencies have been computed at 6.8% for
1987 and 1988 and at 7.0%, 7.1% and 4.0% respectively for 1989-91 the
following three years for the foreign exchange component of costs, and at
12% throughout for their local currency component. Contingencies amount to
approximately 29% of base costs.
53.       Proposed Financing and Budgetary Implications.  The proposed IBRD
loan of US$17.8 million would be made to Government for a 20 year period,
including 5 years of grace, at the standard variable interest rate.
Cofinancing by ODA and GTZ would be in the form of grants of US$1.6 million
equivalent  and  US$0.8 million  equivalent,  respectively.   The  remaining
costs (US$23.0 million) would be borne by Government. All funds would be
passed on to MESRES budget for deployment as follows: IRA, US$29.9 million;
IRZ, US$10.0 million; and joint services, US$3.3 million. ODA financing
would cover technical assistance (US$1.2 million), supporting equipment
including vehicles, micro and mini-computers, photocopy equipment (US$0.2
million),



- 16 -
and  training  (US$0.2  million).   The  GTZ  grant  would  cover  technical
assistance (US$0.7 million) and equipment (US$0.1 million). The fulfillment
of all conditions prior to the ODA and GTZ effectiveness would be
conditions of effectiveness of the IBRD loan. Assurances were obtained at
negotiations that Government funding be provided to IRA and IRZ at the
beginning of each fiscal year as separate allocations sufficient to cover
the approved budgets.   Following project  completion,  Government  would
continue to fund IRA and IRZ on a permanent basis, taking into account the
recurrent project costs. In addition a condition of effectiveness would be
that Government had deposited in separate project accounts for IRA and IRZ
an amount equivalent to six months of operating expenditures for the project.
Following project completion, annual MESRES budget appropriations for IRA
and IRZ would be adjusted to take account of recurrent project costs on a
permanent basis. The project would strengthen IRA and IRZ accounting and
financial control services to ensure that they are fullv capable of
managing incremental project funds under the project (paras 43 and 46).
E. Procurement and Disbursement
54.       Procurement.   Procurement  arrangements  are  summarized  in  the
following table; figures in parentheses show respective amounts to be
financed by IBRD.



- 17 -
AMOUNT AND METHODS OF PROCUREMENT
(US$ million)
Total
Procurement Methods --                    Project
Items to be Procured            ICB           LCB       Others        N/A       Costs
1.  Civil Works                  -            12.8/    -                        12.8
(6.4)                             (6.4)
2.  Vehicles                     1.6           0.4       0.2 L                   2.2
(0.9)        (0.2)        -           _         (1.1)
3.  Equlpment                    1.9 b/        0.4       0.4 c/                  2.7
(1.0)        (0.3)        -           -         (1.3)
4.  Furniture                     -            1.3        -            -          1.3
(0.6)                             (0.6)
5.  Techoical Assistance and
Consultancy Services    -                -        6.0 -         _         6.0
(4.1)                   (4.1)
6.  Training/Fellowships          -             -        4.5 t                   4.5
(4.3)                   (4.3)
7.  Local Salaries/                                                         e
Operating Costs            -             -         -           13.7 -   13.7
Total                     3.5          14.9      11.1          13.7      43.2
_~-                  --            -
(1.9)        (7.5)      (8.4)                  (17.8)
a/  Cimil irks for buldings and odtr nfrasttures wo'd be aired tenox local Ccqpetitive
Biddig (B) sinc it Is unllhly that they vzld attract foreign bidders becmes of lo unit cost,
resnte locatin andphmsig over time.
b/  Cotracts of US$100,000 or nire, uamnly for inported equizznt and vebicls, vould be warded tbrigx
International Ccpetitve Biddig (IC). Coatract ixir US$100,000 and up to an agg iega  m amnt of
US$2 million mainly for smll equipment, mtoircycles, funmiture and supplies wuld be prlcured
dthmug ICB procedures acceptable to the Bnk.
c/  Vehicles and equijmmt wrth an estinated US$0.2 mIllIon  uld be procured by A and GZ un3er their
oa nrddlis
d/  43 man-years of in-te-rntlly recruitEd expatriate staff, at a unit cost of   ri
US$100,000 (all incbmsive, eoept bousin) and 147 .n-emotbs of sbart-term coosltanry, at a *uit
cost of xbut US$10,000 per mm"wth (all inclbsive) cculd be finind by the project. This TA
cmtild be procued tmugzf specialized awci  fofwIn  procedwes acceptable tD the Buik  Cotract
for TA finsxoed by CD and GrZ worth an estiated US$1.2 million and US$0.7 millico respectively,
would be awarded in accordcee with (IDA aoId gMidels.
e   Expmditures for training, local staff salari  and other qperatizg ecpen wctld be aude according
to esthaiabed Govemmenat procedres satisfactory to the Ban-   I= would minly finmee fefUiships
abroad.



- 18 -
55.       To  expedite  disbursements,  two  revolving  funds  would  be
established in Special Accounts for IRA (US$485,000) and IRZ (US$275,000)
respectively. These funds would be administered by the Ministry of Finance
and would be used for all expenditures up to US$20,000.   The Special
Accounts would be replenished on a monthly basis or when reduced to one
third whatever comes first.  Details of the operation of the Special
Accounts were agreed at negotiations.
56.       Disbursement.  The proceeds of the Bank loan would be disbursed
to IRA and IRZ over about seven years in the amount of US$10.3 million and
US$5.6 million respectively, under the following categories: civil works,
US$5.7 million (50% of total expenditures); vehicles and equipment, US$2.6
million (50% of total expenditures); technical assistance and training,
US$3.8 and US$3.8 million respectively (100% of total expenditures). About
US$1.9 million would be unallocated.
F. Financial Control, Audit and Reporting
57.       The project would strengthen IRA and IRZ financial and adminis-
trative divisions (paras 43 and 46) by developing new financial control
systems suited for computerization and involving advanced bookkeeping, cost
accounting and inventory control methods.  Assurances were obtained at
negotiations that IRA and IRZ would submit to the Bank, within six months
of the close of each financial year, an annual audt report prepared by
independent auditors acceptable to the Bank, as well as quarterly and
annual progress reports.
G. Benefits, Justifications and Risks
58.       Social Benefits.  By emphasizing food crop production ani res-
ponding to the needs of small-scale farmers and herders, the project would
serve three important Government objectives of the Fifth and Sixth
Five-Year   Development   Plans:   (a)   contribute   to   national   food
self-sufficiency; (b) increase smallholders' incomes, thereby improving
income distribution by helping the poorer producers to increase their
productivity; and (c) alleviate the mural exodus. The project would also
substantially increase the level of technical skills of research staff.
Consequently, despite the large initial number of TA expatriates proposed
to meet its specific needs, the project would speed up the replacement of
expatriate researchers by Cameroonians.
59.       Economic Justification.  A major effect of project investment
would be the greater impact of Government's other investments in research,
extension and rural development on the economy. Because of the uncertain
and interlocking nature of the investments and their returns, and the
difficulty in quantifying benefits directly in economic terms, no conven-
tional estimate of the project economic rate of return (ERR) has been
calculated. However, total project base costs represent incremental annual
expenditures of only 0.3% of the 1983/84 agricultural GDP. A resulting
increase in agricultural GDP of about 0.25% per year from 1990 to 2010
would be sufficient to achieve an ERR of 12%, reflecting Cameroon's



- 19 -
opportunity cost of capita'l.  Considering (a) thc potential breakthroughs
in  farm  technology  (e.g.,  improved  seeds,  cropping  practices  and
fertilization) concerning the rainfed food crops for which Cameroon has a
comparative advantage, and (b) the favorable rates of return recorded in
adaptive research, the project ERR is likely to be substantial.
60.       The current level of resources channeled to research outside the
project being expected to remain the same, the project would roughly
increase total research expenditures by 30%, or a ratio of research expen-
ditures to agricultural GDP of approximately 1.3%. This level approaches
the generally accepted long-term target of 22 for resource allocation to
research needed  to  continue  the  strengthening  of Cameroon's national
program and to complement any further expansion of the international
system. The project can therefore be seen as a significant undertaking in
economic terms, i.e., close to the optimum that the Government can
currently absorb.
61.       Project Risks.   The increase of resources  targeted on  those
aspects of agricultural production of principal interest to smallholders
does not ensure that the actual research undertaken will be of relevance to
the real problems of the smallholders or be adopted by them. The specific
project components that would contribute to minimizing this risk are (a)
the emphasis on the farming systems approach and an effective interface of
extension agencies, as means of upgrading the ability of the regional
research centers and stations to undertake relevant studies; (b) the
provision of analytical expertise to strengthen IRA and IRZ research
programming and administrative capacity; and (c) the provision of
additional training for national staff.
PART VI - RECOMMEND.ATIONS
62.       I am satisfied that the proposed Loan would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Bank and recommend that the Executive
Directors approve the proposed loan.
Barber B. Conable
President
Washington, D.C.
October 29, 1986



Ay*96'6'geo  s.2vS
-{ourlpZ- IC l(010     ;V



ANNEX  I
- 21  -        Economic Indicators I                 Page  1 of 4
Fiscal Yuars
1990        1981        1992        1983        1994        198!
NATIONL ACCODTS                                               ------------------                                   --
(billions current CFAF)
GDP                                                      1410.2       1796.3      2172.9      2610.0      3195.0      3739.0
gross Doestic Savings                                     246.8        442.7       532.9       801.9      Ili1.7      1428.9
Consumptian                                               1163.4      1353.b      1640.0      1916.1      2083.3      2310.1
Gross Domstic Investment                                  295.9        489.4       53.7        680.1       V2.         954.1
Exports IFS                                               379.0       516.2        5W.2        797.0      1040.7      1323.2
Ilports 6FS                                               427.1       561.9        605.0       675.2       7S7.9       149.1
(as Z of 6F at mrket prices)
6DP                                                        100.01      100.0?      100.01      100.0?      100.01      100.01
Gross Doustic Savings                                       17.53       24.6?       24.51       30.6z       34.8?       39.2%
Consumption                                                92.51       75.41        75.5?       69.41       65.22       &1.81
Gross Domstic Investmeat                                   21.OZ        27.21       24.91       26.0?       25.9?       25.5Z
Exports SF9                                                26.8        2.n          27.Z        30.4?       32.?        335.4
Imports  SF5                                               30.3?       31.3?        27.9?       25.8?       23.7:       22.71
Annual Ral Rate of Groth
GDP                                                        14.4         15.4         6.5         7.2         8.1         8.6
Consumption Private                                         11.4         6.3         5.9        -3.0         4.9         2.9
Consuptio  Public                                           5.6          6.7         9.1        13.4         7.7         5.5
Gross Daeetic Investment                                    11.1        41.2         1.9         6.9         9.9         7.7
Exports 6IFS                                               25.6         22.2        -4.6        20.1        11.4        13.0
Imports IFS                                                10.7        14.6        -8.9        -4.7          5.3        -2.9
ICOR Al                                                     1.9         4.4          L.9         4.0         3.6           A
Gross Yalue Added by Sector
(billions current CFAF]
Agriculture inc. Livestock, etc                           404.4       4&8.1        596.7       607.1       702.0       795.3
mining                                                     105.8       201.7       263.0       400.5       520.5       654.2
Industry                                                  225.3       294.5        394.2       466.8      56.3         715.9
Transport and Communication                                90.0        103.6       119.3       128.9       147.3       169.6
Trade                                                     202.3       .32.3        249.3       310.7       414.9       476.0
Public aduinistration                                      99.e        110.1       135.3       17i.5       212.9       245.0
Other Services                                            206.1        263.4       278.6       395.5       438.2       495.E
Import Duties                                              76.5       102.6        126.4       146.8       173.0      1K1.
(as Z of total)
Agriculture inc. Livestock1 etc                            20.71       27.21        27.01       23.2'       22.0Q       21.0?
lining                                                      7.51        11.2Z       12.11       15.3:       16.31       17.5:
Industry                                                   16.01       16.41       1l.1        17.81       18.41       19.11
Transport and Communication                                 6.41         M.BI        5.51        4.9?        4.61        4.5?
Trade                                                      !4.31        12.91       II.5       1'.9S       13.0?       12.7?
Public administration                                       7.1?         6.11        6.2?        6.61        6.7?        6.62
Other Services                                             !4.61        14.71       13.7r       14.71       13.71       13.3Z
Import Duties                                               5.4Z        5.71        5.5?         5.6?        5.4:        5.3?
a] ICO based ou non oil SOP



ANNEX I
-22 -                                           Page 2 of
Economic Indicators 2
Fiscal Years
1990        1981         1982         1983         194         19985
SUMMARY GOVERNMENT FINANCE                                                                                                       -
Ibillions of current CFAFI
Current Revenues (incl. all oil) a/                          230.6        447.0       536.9        706.0        717.1       B13.9
Carrent Expenditure                                          151.7        217.5       260.6        358.5        446.1       506.5
Current Surplus                                               79.9        229.5       276.3        347.5        271.0       307.4
Capital Expenditure                                           73.2        226.2       233.7        247.7        274.3       307.2
Externally Financed                                           32.3         72.3        53.6         42.8         60.6        71.8
(as I of GDP)
Current Revenues                                              16.41        24.9%       24.7Z        27.OZ        22.41       21.8Z
Current Expenditure                                           10.81        12.11       12.01        13.71        14.0Z        13.5Z
Current Surplus                                                5.61        12.91       12.7Z        13.3Z         B.5I        8.2Z
Capital Expenditure                                            5.21        12.6Z       10.91         9.51         8.61        8.2I
External DBrrowing                                             2.3Z         4.01        2.51         1.6Z         1.91        1.9Z
MUNEY, CREDIT AND PRICES
(in dillions CFAF, end of period)
Haney and Guasi-Noney                                        315.4        405.6       483.4        612.4        736.2       871.5
Bank Credit to government (net)                              -53.6       -134.5      -116.6       -109.5        -74.3       -42.0
Bank Credit to Eccmony                                       416.6        559.7       67B.7        BOB.B        906.1       878.3
(Percentages or Index Numbers)
Haney and Duasi-money as 1 GDP                                22.41        22.6Z       22.21        23.41        23.0Z       23.31
Yaoonde CPI (1968=100)                                       279.1        306.6       346.9        393.8        450.5       492.3
(Annual Percentage Changes)
Yaounde CPI                                                    7.7Z         9.91       13.11        13.5I        14.4Z         9.3Z
Bank Credit to Government                                     47.71       150.9%      -13.3I        -6.1I       -32.1Z      -43.5%
Bank Credit tu. Econosy                                       28.71        34.31       21.31        19.21        -0.3Z        9.01
aJ Revenues include oil revenues transfered to budget and Compte Hors Budget.



ANNEX I
- 23 -                                       Page 3 of 4
Economic Indicators 3
Fiscal Years
1990        1991        1982         1993        1994        1995
BALANCE OF PAYNENTS                                  -
[in billion CFAF)
Exports of Goods and NFS                                   378.0        516.2       599.2        797.0      1040.7       1323.1
Imports of Goads and NFS                                   427.1        561.9       605.0       675.2        757.9       849.0
Resource Gap (deficit = -3                                 -49.1        -45.7        -5.8        121.8       282.9       474.1
Payment Capital Services (net)                             -31.9        -63.9       -93.5      -139.1       -171.1      -162.9
Payment Labor Services (net)                                -2.3          1.8        -0.4        -1.9         -0.7         0.8
Transfers (net)                                              0.7          2.5        -4.7         -1.2        -2.2       -17.6
Current Account Balance                                    -92.6       -105.3      -104.4        -L9.4       109.8       294.5
Short Tern Capital (net)                                    -7.0        -14.6        43.9        34.0          3.7        30.2
Foreign Direct Investment (net)                              22.0        30.5        27.6         57.8        92.1       -21.7
Medium and Long Term Borrowing (net)                        106.7        96.6        69.9        85.1        104.0        60.1
Other Capital n.e.c. (net)                                 -41.3          0.5        23.3       -13.0       -116.5      -169.7
Capital  ccount Balance                                     80.4        113.0       164.5        163.9        93.3      -101.1
Errors and Omissions                                         26.2       -31.2       -75.2        -70.9      -242.2      -176.3



I lillios of US$ at curt it pricesi                          ANNEX  I
- 24-                                           Page 4 of 4
ETEWI   PUDLIC 6 PUIBLICLT                                   Calendar Years
SUARAIITED hlRRO11Nh I DEBT
1980       1'191        1992       1993        1994         1?95
A. Disbursements
1. Public I Publicly Suer. Loans          513.5       332.7       200.4       191.9       91B.4       112.4
Official Creditors                   259.6      252.7        151.2       161.5       163.2       156.3
Nultilateral                       81.6        81.6        64.5         77.4       92.2        77.5
of shich lE1D                    29.3        19.9         19.3       43.8        46.3        46.5
of usich IDA                     19.1        32.1        32.3        12.7         7.6         4.0
Bilateral                         177.0       171.1         6.7        84.1         91.0       79.5
Private Creditors                   314.9         90.1        45.2        30.4        11.2        26.2
Suppliers                           0.0          9.3         0.6         1.3        0.0         0.0
Financial Markets                 314.9         71.0        4B.5       29.1         10.2       26.1
9. Repayments
1. Public & Publicly  Uar. Loans           92.0        88.9       145.9       111.0       114.7       144.1
Official Creditors                    27.6        32.6        44.7        50.9        54.4        69.5
Nultilateral                         9.7        12.0        12.5        15.9       23.0        33.1
of stich IBRD                     4.2          3.7        4.9         9.0        11.0         16.2
of stick IDA                      0.5         5.3         0.4          0.7        0.9          2.0
Bilateral                           19.0        19.1        32.2        35.1        30.5       36.4
Private Creditors                     54.4        56.3       101.0        60.2        60.4        75.3
Suppliers                            5.0         4.S         4.4         4.1         3.2         3.1
Financial Markets                  47.6        51.9        96.6        56.1        57.2        72.1
C. Interest
1. Public & Publicly Gur. Loans           104.1       116.9       123.5        92.9       107.1        93.2
Official Creditors                    41.4        46.6        51.9        55.7       62.9        63.9
Multilateral                        10.0        10.4        19.5       22.6        27.4        29.3
of uhicb IBRD                    12.~        11.9        22.1        14.6        ;7.2        19.7
of tich lil                        1.1        1.1         1.4         1.5         1.6         2.7
Bilateral                          23.'        29.2        32.4        33.0        35.4        35.6
Private Creditors                     62.7        70.2        71.6        37.2       44.4        29.3
Suppliers                            7.9         7.7        10.3         1.2        7.9         0.7
Financial Rarkets                  54.9        62.5        bl.3        36.0        36.4        29.7
D. External Debt (DI)
1. Public & Publicly Soar. LDans         2045.6      2036.3      1945.3      1029.1      1737.7      1974.6
Officlal Creditors                  1218.0    131.6        1151.1     1;65.2      1364.9      1569.6
Multilateral                      465.2       515.6       555.6       I01.2       639.5       70"9.
of shich IBRD                   152.2       167.3       !81.7       :1T.5       252.8       293.1
of nhicn IDA                    145.0       i72.6       204.5       216.1       222.2       226.5
Bilateral                         72'.7       80E.0       795.5       764.0       726.4       960.7
Private Creditors                   030.6       71i.7       594.2       463.9       372.8       405.0
Suppliers                         !4. 2       :26.4       115.1         97.3       82.3       i11.3
Financial Markets                 688.4       5tl.;       470.1       366.6       290.4       303.6
E. DOD-to-SOP Ratios
1. Long-Term Debt/SD?                     30.391      26.6i;      26.56b      24.70t      22.271      24.90%
F. Debt Service/Exports
1. Public & Guaranteed Loans              10.301       9.38%      1.33:l       9.07.       6.73.       0.47%



- 25 -
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS                                 Annex II
IN THE REPUBLIC OF CANEROON                                    Page I of 2
A. STATEMENT OF BANK LBOANS AND IDA CREDITS (as of June 30, 1986)
Loan or                                                                    Amount (Less concdlations)
Credit                                                                       Bank      IDA-   UnIdZH_  e
Number       Year   Borrower          Purpose                              -i--l-lUS         il iu-
Twenty-four Credits and nineteen Loans have been fully disbursed             216.17   227.21
1494-CN      1971   Caaeroon          Feeder Roads                             4.60                 1.76
1723-C       1979   Camero            Highway IV                              3H.00                 2.50
1734-CU      1979  Reqifercam          Railway IV                             27.00                 9.26
1753-CU      1979   Cameoon            Second later Supply                    21.00                 0.35
1010-CU      1990  C40eroon           Livestock 11                                      16.00       7.15
1919-CU      1991   Caeroon           Nwrthern Province Rural Developmnt   25.00                   12.77
1168-U1      1991   Camroon           Technical Cooperation X1                         10.00 aJ    5.74 bI
2092-CU      1962   Caron              Forestry                                 7.00                5.09
2160U        1992  Caeron             Oil Pals/Rubber Consolidation           50.80                33.9
2150CU       1962  Caoon              Highway V                               70.00                19.15
2244-U       i93   Caroon              Urbn Developmnt                        20.00                17.71
22C          1963  NPiC               Third Douala Port                       22.50                14.53
2406-C       1994   Caron.              estern Province Rural
Developmnt II                                                                21.50               20.07
_48-CU       1965  Cameron            Third Hevecam Rubber                     6.30                 6.73
2567-Cl      1995  Cameroon           FSAR [1                                 25.50                25.50
2594-CU      1995   Cameroon          Sixth Highway Project                  125.00               125.00
2683-CR      1996   Cameroon          Educational & Voc. Training              30.1
TOTAL                                                    712.47   253.21     306.25
of which has been repaid                                69.43     9.54
TOTAL now outstanding                                    644.04   243.67
Amount sold                        12.72
of which has been repaid        I2.72              -        -
TOTAL now held by Bank and IDA bi                        644.04   243.67
TOTAL UNDISBURSED                                        293.36    12.89     306.25
a/ Computed at the rate of the approved dates
bi Beginning with Credit 1075-CM, credits nave been oenominated in Special Drawing Rights.  The
dollar amounts in these columns represent the dollar equivalent at the time of credit
negotiations for the IDA amcunts and the doilar equivalent as of June !S, 1966, for the
undisbursed amounts.



- 26 -
ANNEX 2
Page 2 of 2
B. SM M  t1F EIFC INEMMIS (as of Jue  30, 1986)
Invesl  t     Fiscal
Numb__        Year       Oaligr          Toape of   lnes     Eq                     To
834-C1         1985       cl   -         Textie                     2.85      -       2.85
311-0          L975       BATA              m Factoy                 -       0.13    0.13
355-01         1977       SAFACAN }       Pbaier PlInatim                    0.81    0.81
43D-1          1979       SAF      II    Rubber Plairaclm           -        0.40    0.40
452-C1         1979       AUCAI           mu-?Fer=m  Mau             3.50     0.93    4.43
551-C1         1981       SC1             Food & Food   E rProceu    0.70     0.19    0.89
578-01         1981                       OnC  Bottle Factozy        -       -0.10    0.10
579-01         1981       SAFACAN m Iubbw Plmtat1m                   -        0.17    0.17
633-0I         1982       SO tS           Food & Food P    m..izi    1.33      -      1.33
681-0          1984       SAP9M           Food & Food Pros         0.69      0.26    0.95
7964?1         1985                       Food & Food Pzvminlmg      1.85     0.56    2.41
MMA      s                                                          10 LO.92  3.55   14.47
Lem cmm*3taUms, temnsticas, nepaymits and sal                      0.69     0.26    0.95
TOML comiuts no held by Ir-                                        iO.23      3.29   13.52
IUEAL UNDTSHU ')                                                     2.96     -       2.9



- ,7 -
Annex III
Page 1 of 2
CAMEROON
NATIONAL AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH PROJECT
SUPPLEMENTARY DATA SHEET
Section I. Timetable of Key Events
(a) Agency which prepared project: FAO Cooperative Program
(b) Time taken to prepare project: 5 months
(c) Date of appraisal mission: May 1983
(d) Date of post appraisal mission: November 1983
(e) Date of pre-negotiation mission: June 1985
(f) Date of Completion of negotiations: August 1986
(g) Planned date of effectiveness: December 1986
Section II. Special Bank Implementation Actions
None .
Section III. Special Conditions
1.   During negotiations assurances were obtained that:
(a) A five-year training plan would be established by April 30, 1987,
together with a detailed program for 1987/1988 (para. 40).
(b) Government carry out an Organization and Management study of IRA
and IRZ according to terms of reference acceptable to the Bank,
review the recommendations of the study with the Bank and agree
on a time-bound implementation program by December 31, 1987,
(para. 41).
(c) Preparation of guidelines for the National Agricultural Research
Program would be agreed upon, a draft of this would be submitted
to the Bank for review no later than December 31, 1988, a review
system would be established including regular technical audits of
regional centers (para. 48).



-- 28 -
Annex I1I
Page 2 of 2
(d)  DRST would establish technical audit committees by June 30, 1987,
(para. 49).
2.   Conditions of effectiveness would be that:
(a) The employment at post of either the IRA research managezent
specialist or the IRZ research management specialist, whichever
occurs first, would be a condition of loan effectiveness (para.
41).
(b) All conditions for effectiveness of the ODA and GTZ grants would
be fulfilled (para. 53).
(c) Government would deposit, in separate project accounts for IRA
and  IRZ,  an  amount  equivalent  to  six  months  operating
expenditures (para. 53).
3.   Conditions of disbursement would be that:
(a) The research management specialist for IRA or the research
management specialist for IRZ who would not have been in post
when the loan became effective, should be in post (para. 41).
(b) An agreement would be signed between IRA and IRZ providing for
joint use of the computer center and library/documentation
center (para. 47).



MALI                                 j        12i                                                                            '4 t'
MALI j   N I G E R  /    C  H A D                       Ngs tn Pa  ieat preCty                                   ke Chad
SUDAN       ~~~TfW k%W1 Bnk 5staIffleXC*jsnIft,V
<      r - * r...kZ  CAod                       2                   1UDAN   weKttet^titto t se eJorverueroe of im
todf idsexcAusn,* 1ow me
SUR K            Z                  i -y                                   ti e,t use etlthe wow 8anc
Ft                           e~~~~~~~~~~~rd me hIIefftoleWI Frmnce
-,T1   z  ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~.-'                    KCorporabonr he denon-alhon
zc }tz  iy  NIGERIA  S    S      fi         <.             used and the bou,dar'ws shwM 'r
z                                                      am~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~. Ns map do not f    onel  NwiQ
vaetI of The VbwAd Bank and mew
<  l  J   iNTRAL AFRICAN          ,Ietrnatoi Frwince Corpwaonr
RE PUBLIC     _i JuLuCtmenl an Mte ebot status
-  (CAMERC)ON      _  tany tretatiator any
el.                                ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~enciofssmetTeI Of acceptIance OftoDAMN
EQU     Yaound6
Gulf of  EQuATORIALa    sf  *t.  '~P4i   (                                                                        
G >?0  GUINEA    j   3OFTHEi  Z A T         R E
<: GABON )   rf                                                                                                           ,!  ONGOr
CAMEROON                                                                           '.-d.
NATIONAL AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH PROJECT
TO BE CREATED   TO BE IMPROVED
EXISIING    UNDER PROJECT    UNDER PROJECT           IRA/
0             Directorate                              J4                                                    *J       0
A               *                  A              Station                                        S             A.
*                                  *              Antenna                                          S soucomndou4
IRZ;
Directorate                              J
Center
A                                  A              Antenna
) \5 angue4e          1010eo     O 
Paved  Roads.                                                      *- B-                         i
-          National
Unpaved  Roads:                                                                                             I. 
National *                                           I          Y
Province                                                      F,g ,0,     Tl  -
.----  District                                             1              ,                      )      wrc%         s ,      \(
.,--- |Railroads                                                                                           Ndcck      iJ
--zr   Rivers
- .-    International Boundaries
tO,100                                 200 KILOMETERS                                   ! r                                                                   bckon ivi
or.,                        * ^             * I                      ,   !                     j           ..                                           . _   .



O MILES                                  #                                                -
Ng .cun je
0 IWO~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~P ib,F
Sdi   /g~~~~~modil:.M                                               *-N                          v 
19gut ; i CngFec                                                                                             ( 1<-@) _b uBL
n                                     ,x41~~~~~~~~..-. -'-                                     '\      -
z    QAOIA                                                                         w- ,---        ig                  &x
G  u / / o / ! W Bobu                                                                                                                         6- -
0~~~~~~~~8  u                                                -'AME-           "                                  -
Dr n                              EQUATORI   GUINEA    j             G   A   B   O  N                   HS RD THE ?CONGC               F  R     C
AFSM                                                               TH    C
Ngut,                                                                                     R E P U B L I C~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~4
_         _on              i                                                       _
a  Ong~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                                  I__________
(Ji                              _________ M___de___b_



M      A L   I          |                                     r
o ...- j     N I G  E R                  C H A D        5               %   .       U       I        N
Pale x   / ENTRE ARCSUD A N         ._ ' V *                             .
Chad
acAo@            -s-.t             ;          N    I  G    E   R   I  A                                                                   ... ..u. .C                      H     A     D
C1-      u'                           l            eE  THE  Z A I R E--
AtZ^Nr/ GABON io,#<-'-''';    
OCLcAN                       t        V-{        g__.::.:v::   
v~~ ~~~~~ ,                                                                                                :'':::::N,-
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ I ::                                         :.:    :  ,  ,:,':s
......:.......s
CAMEROON
RAINFALL AND  REICEF
i... CONOOJ                                                                             J~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~. .. . .     .
-600 Ischyels  .millimeters.                                                                              J     ' '"'bKe   o$.n 2%,
Elevations                                                                                    ,u:            ::.:2
E below 600 meters .......  .gb 
L 600 - 900 meters _  sr
90  -so1500 meters  ,
A NCGoN oer \500 meters                      ,                           GAOUA
OCERAveNs.......
CAMEROO                                                                 '             '   4r 
RAINFALL  AND  RELIEF                                                                      *~~~~~~~~~~........
-.-Ibelnown60   metdarers                                                                " . .     .. .........
6s e =f if 0 22 40 ->0 5|0 190 120 meterst                                  j~\__ .    .....                                                       '.r
-   .> ten onal boundae .sp 10                                                                                                :..  ;   ..
..       . .  . . . .
A                                                            -' -~...........
KILOME TEES ~ ~ ~ ~ ~   ~      ~     ~      ~     ~     ~     ~    ~    ~    .......
_  9  2~~~~~~~  dpbp   sp    iqo                                                                 -~~~~~~~~~~..   .....         N



N  I G  E  R  I A      -        ?     ;
t Momft '* ( ' '' " '': " 1, H ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~C  E N  T R A  L 
J   ^  1 5 0  v     *     ,                ,           >  i z '    <      >          ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~R EP U  B  L I C
4                  ',,I2[tant4*sa1i $N;ng Es1Wkl ';ERTOUA
EQAoRA             f      Aoo;;<                                                                            '    
bdrombix,on gLptQla                                 toerdlno!4t9t4t 
2   a   vi~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~B t 2our 5 >   '
O    CEN                   QATRIlGUNE   jGA    ON                                        .3OFTH  ONO  
8~~~W 4-<  ,*jt1






