Document of
The World Bank
FOR OMCAL USE ONLY
Report No. 13631
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
CAMEROON
NATIONAL AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH PROJECT
(LOAN 2766-CM)
OCTOBER 25, 1994
Tyi e:  l
Agriculture Operations Division
Occidental and Central Africa Department
Africa  Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EOUIVALENT
(as of June 1994)
Currency Unit: FCFA
US$1.00 = 560 FCFA
ABBREVIATIONS
PCR          Project Completion Report
GTZ          German Executive Agency for Technical Assistance
ODA         Overseas Development Agency
FAO/CP      Food and Agriculture Organization/Cooperation Program
IRA          Institute of Agronomic Research
IRZV         Institute of Zootechnics Research
NARP        National Agricultural Research Program
ISNAR       International Services for National Agricultural Research
PEs          Public Enterprises
DRST         Directorate of Scientific and Technical Research
MRST         Ministry of Scientific and Technical Research
USAID        United States Agency for International Development



FOR OFFICIL USE ONLY
THE WORLD BANK
Washington, D.C. 20433
U.S.A.
Office of Director-General
Operations Evaluation
October 25, 1994
MEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT: Project Completion Report on Cameroon -
National Agricultural Research Project (Ln. 2766-CM)
Attached is the Project Completion Report on Cameroon National Agricultural Research
Project (Ln. 2766-CM) prepared by the Africa Regional Office. Part II was prepared by the
Borrower; it points out the benefits of the project but essentially agrees with the conclusions and
lessons of Part I of the Report.
The project had some impact on the agricultural (IRA) and livestock (IRZV) institutes
through human resource development and improvement in research infrastructure and equipment.
Improved planning processes for research made some progress at IRZV, but less so at IRA.
However, economic decline in Cameroon and a complete breakdown in funding eventually led to a
vertical cessation of research apart from a few subprojects relying completely on external support.
Considering the evolving economic conditions at the time of preparation and appraisal, the project
design was inappropriate. A redesign of the project in 1988 was ineffective due to worsening
economic conditions, and a similar attempt in late 1989 was abortive. A drastic restructuring and
reduction in the research system proposed in 1993 (prepared by FAO/CP and with donor
concurrence) is still under consideration by Government.
The project outcome is rated as unsatisfactory with a modest institutional development
impact. The limited benefits are of uncertain sustainability. The quality of the Project Completion
Report is satisfactory.
No audit is planned at this time. However, after completion of the Training and
Agricultural Extension Project (Ln. 3185-CM), both projects may be audited concurrently; this would
provide an opportunity to review the outcome of the ultimate research restructuring plan.
Attachment
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only In the performance of
thfir official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.






FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
CAMEROON
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
NATIONAL AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH PROJECT
(LOAN 2766-CM)
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page
No.
Preface .                .....................................................                                                                    i
Evaluation Summary   .............................................                                                                              iii
Part I. PROJECT REVIEW  FROM  BANK'S PERSPECTIVE ...................                                                                              1
Project Identity    .............................................                                                                          1
Background    ...............................................                                                                              1
Project Objectives and Description    .................................                                                                    2
Project Design and  Organization                  ..................................                                                      5
Project Implementation  .........................................                                                                         6
Project Results  ..............................................                                                                           7
Project Sustainability   ..........................................                                                                       9
Bank Performance  ............................................                                                                           10
Borrower Performance  .........................................                                                                          10
Project Relations    ............................................                                                                        10
Consultant Services  ...........................................                                                                         10
Lessons Learned  .............................................                                                                           11
Part II. PROJECT REVIEW FROM THE BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE   ...                                                                 ......            13
Part III.  STATISTICAL  INFORMATION    ...............................                                                                          16
TABLES
Table  1   Related Bank Loans   .......................................                                                                         16
Table 2    Project Timetable  .........................................                                                                         17
Table 3A   Cumulative Loan Disbursement ...............                                        ..           ...............                     18
Table 3B   Disbursement by  Categories    ..............                                   ...................                                  19
Table 4    Project Implementation    .....................................                                                                     21
Table 5    Project Costs and Financing   ..................................                                                                    22
Table 6    Project Results ...........................................                                                                          23
Table 7    Compliance with  Credit Conditions  ..............................                                                                   26
Table 8   Use of Bank Resources   .....................................                                                                         27
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.






CAMEROON
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
National Agricultural Research Project
(Loan 2766-CM)
Preface
This is the Project Completion Report (PCR) of the Cameroon National Agricultural
Research Project for which Loan No. 2766-CM in the amount of US$17.8 million was approved
in November 1986 by the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development.  Two
technical assistance grants complemented the loan: the German GTZ contributed US$3.3 million
and the British ODA $2.8 million.
The Loan was fully disbursed and closed, as scheduled, on June 30, 1993. The core
of the PCR was prepared by the FAO/World Bank Cooperation Program (FAO/CP); Part II was
prepared by the Government.
Tlhe FAO/CP report was prepared on the basis of World Bank, GTZ, ODA and
Government documents, successive FAO/CP reports on the restructring of agricultural research
and a FAO/CP mission to Cameroon from July 7 to 16, 1993.  The FAO/CP report was
reviewed by AFlAG staff.






CAMEROON
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
NATIONAL AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH PROJECT
(LOAN 2766-CM)
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Objectives
1.    The Project's objective, framed within the overall sector strategy, was to increase the
productivity and incomes of the small-scale agricultural producers through improved technology
creation and transfer. Specific objectives were to (i) improve agronomic and animal research
programming through the development and application of methods responding to the agricultural
strategy of the Borrower and to the needs of the smallholder sector; and (ii) improve the
technical and operational capabilities of IRA and IRZV as well as the relevance of their work
through farming systems research management.
2.    To achieve the objectives outlined above, NARP was to introduce three major project
components: agronomic research for the IRA, zootechnic research for the IRZV and joint
facilities. The agronomic research component was to improve the capacity of IRA's central
management, research planning, stations and antennas, to support research activities and to carry
out a training program. The zootechnic research component was to improve IRZV's ability to
manage and expand two research centers, support fisheries research and develop a training
program. The jointfacilites component consisted of common infrastructure for the IRA and the
IRZV which included: construction, equipment and the operation of a library, computer center
and an information center.
3.    Special emphasis was to be placed on the development of improved agricultural
techniques and a new farming system focused on food crops and livestock production for local
consumption. Promoting self-sufficiency in the scientific, technical and administrative expertise
of the research institutes by increasing the skills of national staff engaged in agricultural research
was equally important.
Implementation
4.    Project implementation was marked by a slow start; Government attempts to curtail the
spending of public agencies, including the two research institutes within so-called performance
contracts, financial difficulties experienced by the Government, delays of counterpart funds, and
the Bank's suspension of disbursements, inhibited the realization of scheduled activities. The
Loan Agreement was signed in November 1986, and became effective in December 1987,
following completion of the project implementation studies. The Project was redesigned and the
legal documents were modified in January 1988. Due to delays in obtaining counterpart funds
from the Government and in recruiting experts in research management, implementation of the



iv
IRA component did not start until March 1988 and implementation of the IRZV component until
August 1988, a point in time when the country was already in a deep financial and economic
crisis.
5.    In light of the financial difficulties experienced by the Government, and the request by
the Prime Minister (Mission for the Rehabilitation of Public and Para-Public Enterprises), IRA
and IRZV, with the help of the International Service for National Agricultural Research (ISNAR)
in the Hague, Netherlands, drew up an action plan focusing on restructuring, replanning and
rehabilitating agricultural research. Performance contracts were signed in December 1989 for
the IRA and in 1991 for the [RZV. Unfortunately, the country's fnancial situation did not
stabilize and the Government was unable to fulfiI its commitments as stipulated in the contracts,
and agricultural research plunged into a deep crisis.
6.    In 1992, when an improvement in the country's financial and economic situation was still
not in sight, the Goverrunent, on the advice of the donors, finally saw the need to develop
scenarios for a basic restructuring of agricultural research with a view to radically reducing costs
and changing the instirutional setting. The respective study and decision-making process are still
ongoing.
7.    The cost of the Project had been estimated at US$43.2 million at appraisal (IBRD
US$17.8 million, ODA US$1.6 million, Government US$23 million). At project closing, it was
estimated that US$23.6 had been fianced by external aid, with IBRD, ODA, GTZ contributing
US$17.5, 2.8, 3.3 million respectively.   The Govermnent's contribution could not be
established precisely; however, it was limited to staff salaries.
Project Results
8.    Project results have been mixed. Although the Project's specific achievements can be
identified in three areas, namely human resources, physical infrastructure and equipment, and
research output in improved agricultural seeds, the overall results fell short of expectations.
Human resources were developed through formal and on-the-job training.   Physical
infrastructure, including equipment, was expanded and improved at many sites. Buildings were
erected at 16 sites; most of the buildings were finished, but several were poorly executed and
a few remained uncompleted due to poor contractor performance. A substantial amount of
equipment, such as laboratory and computer equipment, were bought and installed. Despite of
this, the Project did not achieve its specific objective to increase the effectiveness and relevance
of agricultural research during its life time as most of the research activities came to a standstill
due to the country's deep economic crisis. At the end of the Project, the crisis had resulted in
an agricultural research system that had no operating funds, a large staff on strike and
infrastructure that is not properly maintained.



v
Sustainability
9.    The results of three Project activities are likely to be sustained: the human resources and
capability building program, physical infrastructure and equipment, and research output in
agricultural seeds. Less likely to be sustainable are the results in forestry, animal and fisheries
research and farming systems research, with cotton systems a possible exception. To increase
long-term efficiency and relevance of research systems, a major down-sizing and change in the
structure of agricultural research away from public to private sector type management and
towards beneficiary domination is required.
Lessons Learned
10.   The following are some of the lessons learned from this project which can be applied in
preparing future projects:
(a)   An adequate and stable macro-economic and sectoral environment is of utmost
importance and special attention to it during all stages of the project cycle.
(b)   Financial commitment by the government and specialised agencies to agricultural
research must be clear and ascertained early on.
(c)   The structure and management of the institutions to be supported must be sound
at the outset.  Civil servant and public sector management of agricultural
research are most likely deficient, particularly when the public sector is weak.
(d)   Control and adjustment mechanisms during implementation should be strong, both
on the side of the Borrower and the donors. Annual and mid-term reviews are
very important, and so is the participation of non-research specialists.
(e)   The level of Bank supervision should be evenly maintained throughout project
imnplementation in order to respond immediately to rising problems.






CAMEROON
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
NATIONAL AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH PROJECT
(LOAN 2766 CM)
PART I: PROJECT REVIEW FROM BANK'S PERSPECTIVE
A.   Project Identitv
Project Name:           National Agricultural Research Project
Loan Number:            2766-CM
Department:             Occidental and Central Africa
Sector:                 Agriculture
Sub-sector:             Research
B.   gBacklMund
1.    Cameroon is a country with many, particularly agricultural, resources.  After 1960 it
enjoyed high growth for over twenty years; towards the end this growth was associated with
rapid expansion of the public sector. However, between 1982 and 1986, during which period
the project was prepared and approved, the country's economic and financial performance
changed. In 1982, the year the project was identified, overall economic growth was at a high
level, well beyond 5% p.a.; oil production and exports were the new source of growth, as
opposed to the broad-based agricultural exports of the past. Growth levels remained high until
1985 in spite of the stagnation of agricultural exports and falling prices. In 1986, the year the
project was appraised, world market prices for oil and the traditional agricultural exports
slumped and it was obvious that the country was facing an economic and financial crisis. The
ultimate depth and duration of the crisis, however, was beyond the imagination of most.
2.    Between 1982 and 1986, the outlook on and the strategies for the agricultural sector
changed. A relative neglect of agriculture during the oil boom gave way to a renewed emphasis
on agriculture, when reserves and income from oil were declining. Within the sector emphasis
shifted from exports to import substitution and food production, as agricultural imports were
rising fast; it also shifted from public enterprises (PEs) as development engines to the
rationalization of PEs and smallholder-based development, as the export-oriented PEs proved
increasingly inefficient and costly, whereas smallholders continued to provide the bulk of the
food and export production. As a consequence, the tools of developing small-scale agriculture
and food crops, namely agricultural extension, research and input supply, received increasing
attention.  After years of neglect, it was discovered that the performance of agricultural
extension services was weak and had little impact on smallholders and food crops.



-2-
3.    In agricultural research, instrmental for improved extension, the perspectives changed
also. The effort concentrated on the two large public research institutes: IRA for agronomic
and forestry research and IRZV for animal and veterinary research. They had grown rapidly
in terms of research staff, usually delegated from the various sectoral ministries, and support
staff hired on contract. The constraints identified were: weak overall and research management;
poorly trained staff; inadequate facilities; and research that was too academic, not well adapted
to the needs of smallholders, neglecting food production of the crop and animal type, and
remained in the drawers of researchers rather than reaching the beneficiaries.
4.    To address these constraints in agricultural research, the Government of Cameroon
approached the World Bank for assistance. A prolonged project preparation and implementation
process was set in motion. It started with identification through an FAO/CP mission in January
1982. An appraisal mission visited Cameroon in 1983. A final appraisal report was prepared
in October 1986 and the Project was approved by the Board of Directors in November 1986; the
loan became effective in March 1988 and was closed in June 1993, allowing for the usual four
months grace period.
C.    Project Objectives and DescriDtion
Objectives
5.    The Project's overall objective was to increase productivity and the incomes of small-
scale agricultural producers via improved technology creation and transfer.  The Project's
specific objective was to increase the effectiveness and relevance of agricultural research by (a)
improving the planning of agronomic and animal research through the development and
application of methods focusing research on the agricultural strategy of the country and the needs
of the smallholder sector; and (b) improving the technical and operational capabilities of IRA
and IRZV as well as the relevance of their work through farming systems research and better
research management.
6.    Three project components - agronomic research, animal research and joint facilities -
were to help achieve these objectives. The agronomic research component covered measures
to improve IRA's central management as well as capacity at the level of research centers and
stations to support priority research activities and to carry out a training program. The measures
included the following:
(a)   Central management:
(i)   research planning:  the development and application of methods based on a
critical analysis of research against the needs of users and the country's
agricultural development strategy; the establishment of a biometrics unit to
provide statistical assistance to researchers and log the results of experiments;
(ii)   administrative and financial management: (i) assistance in the development of



- 3 -
financial and administrative management procedures; (ii) development of financial
control mechanisms and computerized accounting inventories; and (iii)
reorganization of logistical services;
(iii)  preparation of technical documents and extension material through  the
establishment of a publishing and reporting service which would function in
collaboration with the above biometrics unit; and
(iv)   construction, rehabilitation  and  equipping  of office  facilities and  staff
accommodation, and acquisition of equipment and vehicles.
(b)   Research centers:
(i)   carrying out experimental work with improved management and technical
procedures; and
(iO)   developing a farming systems approach by ecological zone and by type of farming
and effective liaison with extension services;
(iii) establishing and operating a research center at Foumbot and two field trial grounds
in Minkomeyos and Mouda to serve the Nkolbisson and Maroua centers; and
(iv)   constructing and equipping housing, offices, storage, laboratory and garage
facilities, construction of access roads and fences, and acquisition of vehicles,
equipment and implements.
(c)    Priority research activities:
(i)   crop research, including the improvement of the Njombe research center, and
acquisition of specialized equipment for the cotton fiber technology laboratory and
the phytopathology laboratory at the Ekona Research Center; and
(ii)   forestry research, including the improvement of the Maroua station and the
Foumban station through the construction and equipping of laboratories, staff
houses, office facilities and cold storage facilities for seeds, and acquisition of
vehicles and field equipment.
(d)   Training:
Carrying out a training program, including seminars, scholarship awards for
post-graduate studies, specialized study tours abroad and local training.
7.    The animal research component included measures to improve IRZV's central
management, expand research at two research centers, to support fisheries research and carry



- 4 -
out a training program. The measures included the following:
(a)   Central management:
(i)   formulation of a long-term research strategy that meets the herders' needs;
(i)   assistance in developing advanced financial and administrative management
procedures;
(iii)  assistance to field staff in the design and economic analysis of surveys and in
identifying and taking into account relevant social factors;
(iv)   statistical assistance to researchers and installation of storage facilities for
research data; and
(v)   construction and equipping of office facilities and staff housing and acquisition
of vehicles and equipment.
(b)   Research centers:
Expanding research at the Bambui (Western Highlands) and Wakwa (Northern Savannah)
research centers to solve problems of livestock producers and to develop improved livestock
management systems which are acceptable to producers, including:
(i)   carrying out initial surveys to establish husbandry patterns and production
parameters, experimental programs and follow-up surveys covering ranching and
agro-pastoral activities,
(ii)   pasture improvement; and
(iii)  the acquisition of equipment, vehicles, mobile laboratories, scales and supplies.
(c)    Fisheries research:
Carrying out surveys and collecting baseline data.
(d)   Training:
Carrying out a training program, including seminars, granting fellowships for
post-graduate studies, specialized study tours abroad and local training.
8.    The joint facilities component covered the following:
(a)   the construction, equipping and operation of a library and information center at



-5-
Nkolbisson for the joint use of IRA and IRZV staff; and
(b)   the construction, equipping and operation of a computer center at Nkolbisson for the joint
use of IRA and IRZV staff.
D.   Project Design and Organization
9.    The Project's concept was to increase short and long-term efficiency and the relevance
of the existing research system. The concept assumed that the size of the research system and
the institutional structure were basically sound; thus, the design did not aim at major structural
innovations.  It seems that this concept, as well as basic assumptions, were shared by the
Borrower as well as by the staff who prepared and appraised the Project.
10.   In retrospect, it is safe to say that the above assumption about size and structure was
wrong.  The size of the research system and its operating costs were beyond the country's
capacity and needs; soon after loan effectiveness the country could not afford the Project's
counterpart funding. Furthermore, in recent years agricultural research was basically inoperable
due to a general lack of funds; they were not even sufficient to pay salaries. Recent studies also
showed that the system in place cost more per year to run than some of the large international
agricultural research centers. The institutional structure was evidently also flawed. Because
the research system was part of the civil service structure, it was difficult, if not impossible, to
manage personnel, finances and research efficiently and adapt to different circumstances. The
country's civil service was and still is politicized and oversized and lacks transparency and
accountability in its management. Such an environment is not conducive to professionalism and
good management neither in research nor in other areas.  Tne root cause of the lack of
relevance and efficiency and of the bloated size of agricultural research, was its public and civil
service nature; it renders research unaccountable, in general, and to beneficiaries such as the
farmer community and the extension services, in particular.   That this was not seen and
addressed at the design stage is surprising; it was only when the crisis became a reality for a
prolonged period that the problems were fully recognized.
11.   The Directorate of Scientific and Technical Research (DRST) of the Ministry of Higher
Education, Informatics and Scientific Research (MESIRES) (replaced in 1992 by the Ministry
of Scientific and Technical Research, MRST) was responsible for organizing the activities of
IRA and IRZV and for approving and auditing their annual budgets.   The organizational
structure, with a Studies and Project Unit, a Program Monitoring Unit as well as a Technical
and Scientific Cooperation Unit, was to ensure coordination of project activities, particularly
with regard to the preparation of the National Agricultural Research Program which was to be
prepared during the first two years of the Project. The program was supposed to be the basis
for the planning and scheduling of agricultural research. The DRST was also responsible for
links between the institutes and external cooperation agencies.
12.   The management capacity of the institutes was to be strengthened to enhance effectiveness
through decentralized management, improved financial and research services, better planning,



-6 -
monitoring, documentation and scientific information. For this purpose, plans had been made
to recruit additional staff (43 man-years of technical assistance, 145 man-years of Cameroonian
researchers and 239 man-years of technicians and administrative assistants).
E.    Project ImDlementation
13.   Project implementation was marked by a slow start; timid attempts by the Government
to curtail the spending of public agencies, including the research institutes, within so-called
performance contracts; a gradual recognition of the need for a major restructuring of agricultural
research; problems in non availability of counterpart funds and suspensions of disbursements;
and, nevertheless, spending of substantial amounts of money from Government and donors
sources.
14.   The Loan Agreement was signed in November 1986, but only became effective in
December 1987, pending completion of the project implementation studies. In November 1987,
the Project was redesigned and the legal documents were modified in January 1988. Due to
delays in obtaining counterpart funds from the Government and in recruiting experts in research
management, implementation of the IRA component did not start until March, and August 1988
for the implementation of the IRZV component, by which time the country was already in a deep
financial and economic crisis.
15.   So-called performance contracts were the Government's tool to reduce costs and improve
effectiveness of public entities when the financial crisis became a reality. At the request of the
Prime Minister (Mission for the Rehabilitation of Public and Para-Public Enterprises), IRA and
IRZV, with the help of ISNAR, drew up action plans focussing on restrcturing, replanning and
rehabilitating agricultural research. Performance contracts were signed in December 1989 for
the IRA and in 1991 for the IRZV.
16.   The performance contracts were based on a master plan for agricultural research in the
country and the different ecological regions; it defined the financial, human and physical needs
required under assumptions of somewhat reduced costs and public finances stabilizing at a lower
level. Unfortunately, the financial situation did not stabilize and the Govermment was unable
to fulfill its commitment as stipulated in the performance contracts.  Agricultural research
plunged into a deep crisis caused by a complete absence of operating funds associated with
increasing delays in payment of salaries, prolonged strikes and degradation of its vast
infrastructure.
17.   In 1992, with no improvement in the country's financial and economic situation in sight,
the Government, urged by the donors, finally saw the need to develop scenarios for a basic
restructuring of agricultural research with a view to radically reducing costs and changing the
institutional setting. The respective study and decision-making process are still ongoing.
FAOICP assisted in the process with two studies, one in September 1992 and another in
December 1993. Donors met in September 1992 in Rome promising to support an agricultural
research system with annual costs half of what they used to be, management decentralized, IRA



and IRZV merged, personnel managed along private sector lines and with strong beneficiary
participation.  A detailed restructuring proposal was presented in the FAO/CP's study of
December 1993; the basic institutional structure and the legal framework, particularly with
respect to the roles of the state and the beneficiaries, still remain to be defined and agreed upon.
The opinion prevailing widely in 1994 is that (a) halving the annual cost will not suffice for the
system to be sustainable, given the continued difficulties in the country's public finances;
sub-regional division of labor in research, focus on a small core research system dependent on
public funds and increased beneficiary participation in research funding would help to reduce
costs; and (b) beneficiary domination and private sector type management are essential for donor
support of the core research system.
18.   The Bank loan of US$17.5 million was completely disbursed.   Bank funds were
available throughout the life of the Project except after September 1992, when disbursements to
Cameroon were suspended several times for a total period of almost one year. Suspensions
occurred due to Cameroon's failure to service its debt with the Bank; which slowed down
activities considerably, apart from those related to training where disbursements continued. The
Government's direct counterpart funds were small in the initial years and completely absent in
the last three years of the Project.  Total annual investments and operating subsidies for
agricultural research, which in the fat years of 1980 to 1984 amounted to CFAF 5 billion, were
reduced to less than CFAF 2.7 billion in 1991. Later the treasury was unable to effectively pay
the allocations for agricultural research in the state budget. The absence of direct counterpart
funds was a main cause for delays in disbursement, in spite of an adjustment in disbursement
categories.   The last such reallocation was made on May 18, 1992.   Overall Bank
disbursements are recorded in Table 3B.  Most of the expenditure went into construction,
vehicles and equipment. ODA and GTZ withdrew from the Project in 1993. GTZ extended
its support to December 31, 1993, with a view to eventually assisting a quick transition to a
restructuring mode. Such a quick transition did not materialize, however.
19.   The total cost of the Project for its five years of implementation was estimated at
US$43.2 million at appraisal (Table 5A). US$20.2 million were to be provided by external
sources - US$17.8 million by the Bank, US$1.6 million by the ODA, US$0.8 million by the
GTZ - and US$23 million by the Government. At loan closing, it was estimated that US$23.6
million had been financed by external aid, with the EBRD, ODA and GTZ contributing
respectively US$17.5, 2.8 and 3.3 million.  The Government's contribution could not be
established precisely; it was limited in essence to staff salaries.  Since the accounting system
in place does not record expenditure by grant donors and is incapable of systematically
monitoring costs of the activities of the institutes or its various research and production
programs, only overall figures are available.  All Government expenditure for agricultural
research, including salaries and counterpart costs for all projects related to research (NARP,
FAC and USAID projects) were globally estimated by the PCR mission at US$34 million.
F.    Project Results
20.   The Project's results have been mixed. Although the Project's specific achievements can



- 8 -
be identified in three areas, namely human resources, physical infrastructure and equipment, and
research output in improved agricultural seeds, the overall results fell short of expectations.
Hulman resources were developed through formal and on-the-job-training. The Project enabled
two staff members of IRA to obtain PhDs or Doctorates and four staff members to obtain Master
of Science degrees or DEAs. Sixteen IRZV staff members obtained PhDs and nine Master of
Science degrees or DEAs. There is now a large pool of highly trained research staff of both
institutes as follows: post-graduate degrees: 35 PhDs, 52 Master of Science degrees or DEAs
and 77 trained as engineers at IRA; and 16 PhDs and 47 Master of Science degrees or DEAs
at IRZV.  Hundreds of staff were trained on-the-job, through seminars and minor training
exercises.  Such training covered a wide variety of fields ranging from planning and doing
actual research, to cost accounting and computerization. Most of this know-how is not being
put to proper use under the current circumstances, but will serve the country in its future
agricultural research or other development activities.
21.   Physical infrastructure, including equipment, was expanded and improved at many sites.
buildings were erected at 16 sites (Abong Mbang, Bambui, Bertoua, Dibamba, Dschang,
Foumban, Foumbot, Garoua, Kribi, Nkoemvone, Nkoolong, Maroua, Ngaoundere, Njombe,
Nkolbisson, Wakwa). Most buildings were finished, but several were poorly executed and a
few remained uncompleted for reasons of poor contractor performance or lack of parallel
investments such as electricity supply.  The duplication of IRA and IRZV buildings was a
problem at several sites. A joint IRA/IRZV library was established in Nkolbisson and the
number and quality of publications available has increased. A system for computerized data
processing was created and is available to researchers for the collection, analysis and processing
of research and personnel data.  A substaial amount of equipment (laboratory equipment,
computers, etc.) was purchased and installed. Most of the equipment is still used today, even
if conditions of operation are less than optimal; some were not installed and some may even
have disappeared from research by now, most likely still rendering service to the country in an
unplanned manner. A fairly large number of vehicles were acquired under the Project and most
vehicles still function today.
22.   In spite of this, the Project did not achieve its objective to increase the effectiveness and
relevance of agricultural research during its lifetime, as most of the research activities came to
a stand still due the country's deep economic crisis.  At the end of the Project in 1993, the
crisis had resulted in an agricultural research system that had no operating funds, a large
demoralized staff on strike due to many months of salary arrears, and an infrastructure that was
rapidly deteriorating due to a lack of maintenance and pilferage; only some donor-financed
islands of research were able to maintain somewhat normal activities. In late 1993, a scientific
audit examined the results of agricultural research and concluded that, while there were many
potentially interesting research results, agricultural research was still not beneficiary oriented;
it did not sufficiently consider the economic environment of the beneficiaries, and its link to
extension as well as attention given to the presentation and distribution of research results in a
manner accessible to potential users were still very weak.
23.   One of the Project's objectives was to improve research programming and output. This



- 9 -
objective was achieved with regard to the IRZV, which, in 1991 and 1992 made good progress
in systematic application, planning and methodology, with assistance provided by the GTZ.
Programming improved at least temporarily at the level of IRZV. With GTZ support, notably
the systematic application of its planning by objective methodology, good progress was made
in 1991 and 1992.  Eight research programs were developed; a survey was conducted on
IRZV's client/supplier relationship with regard to products and service.  A bibliography and
an analysis of the research results during the 1982-1991 period were produced.  Research
programming at IRA, in contrast, made only little headway. It remained complicated by five
large national programs; certain programs, namely on production systems and agro-forestry,
remained ill-defined with overlaps.  Although a database for use by the extension services
contains much useful technical information, it has not been updated since 1990; the same applies
for the catalogue of publications of IRA's library.
24.   It is difficult to assess the output and impact of the research carried out, and in the
absence of detailed studies, no concrete conclusion can be drawn. It is more than likely that
progress was made in the area of agricultural seeds, and that after the Project, it will still bear
some impact. Results in forestry, animal and fisheries research are far less palpable. Likewise
results from farming systems research or research on sustainable systems are meager, with
cotton systems a possible exception. As far as agricultural seeds are concerned, the vegetative
material of the cash and plantation crops of the southern part of the country, such as palm oil,
rubber, banana, cacao and coffee seems to have improved; seed material of IRA origin continues
to be used by the large commercial plantations and by small-scale producers in areas where
adequate extension and seed distribution systems have developed. Productivity of cotton, the
cash crop dominant in the North and Extreme North Province, has also improved with IRA
providing research assistance to the cotton company, SODECOTON. Food crops also benefited
from research. This applied to rice, important in the North and North West, maize (West and
North West), sorghum and millet (North), plantains, cassava, sweet potato and potatoes. The
Njombe base succeeded to providing well adapted fruit plants and processing techniques.
Relations with rural development agents and technology transfer to small farmers are still very
weak, as confirmed by the above scientific audit (para. 6.01). Research driven improvements
in relations were achieved in the early stages of the project, but came to a halt. At present, the
push for collaboration comes to research from such projects as the Bank financed National
Agricultural Extension and Training Project or the French funded Garoua II Project.
G.    Project Sustainabilitv
25.   For the reasons highlighted above, the results of three project activities are likely to be
sustained: the human resources and capability building program, physical infrastructure and
equipment, and research output in agricultural seeds. Less likely to be sustained are the results
in forestry, animal and fisheries research and farming systems research, with cotton systems a
possible exception. To increase long-term efficiency and the relevance of research systems, a
major down-sizing and change in the structure of agricultural research away from public to
private sector-type management and towards beneficiary involvement is required. Part of the
investment made during the Project will certainly be used by a restructured research system.



- 10-
H.   Bank Performance
26.   The Bank's performance was weak. The Bank might have given more consideration to
the worsening economic and financial condition of the country and assessed its potential effect
on the Project and subsequently introduced measures to limit the negative impact of the crisis
or made adjustments to the Project's concept. Signs of an impending economic crisis were
evident as early as 1986 when the Project was negotiated.
27.   During implementation, a rigorous mid-term evaluation of the Project would have been
appropriate to correct the project.  Supervision missions should have been more critical; they
should have alerted the Bank and the Borrower early on about the development objectives not
being achievable during these years of crisis and under the present structure of the institutes.
Firmer insistence by the Bank on the Borrower's compliance with Bank procurement rules and
provision of counterpart funds, and more attention of supervision missions to financial and
mranagement issues would also have helped to avoid wasting some resources.
I.    Borrower Performance
28.   The Borrower's performance was also very weak.  The deficiencies listed above, and
in particular non-adjustment to the worsening fmancial situation during project preparation and
implementation and lack of critical analysis of the structural weaknesses of agricultural research,
also apply. Moreover the Borrower's commitment to agricultural research seemed weak. The
complete absence of counterpart funds since 1991 and salary arrears can be explained by the
financial crisis, but it reflects the low priority given to agricultural research by the Govenmment;
although expenditure cuts occurred everywhere, they hit agricultural research earlier and more
severely than other sectors and services. Whether the lethargy in the face of mounting signs of
a breakdown in the system was greater in the case of agricultural research than elsewhere is
difficult to assess, but it was certainly great. Procurement, accounts and financial management
posed problems throughout the project period, reflecting the weakness and lack of rigor in public
management; the PCR mission found it difficult to find clear management practices at the level
of a department, center or station; the system in place seemed seriously disorganized,
particularly at the field level.
J.    Project Relations
29.   Relations between the Bank and the Borrower were generally satisfactory.   A few
problems surfaced, nonetheless, during the recruitment of counterpart staff working alongside
international experts, and in June 1992, when the Special Account was not replenished due to
the unavailability of counterpart funds.
K.    Consultant Services
30.   Consultants were employed for IRA in the areas of research and financial management,
biometry, scientific editing, nematology and documentation, and for IRZV in the areas of



- 11 -
research, administrative and financial management, biometry and animal husbandry. A planned
consultancy in fisheries became redundant when qualified IRZV staff came on board.
Generally, consultant services were of good quality. GTZ staff performed particularly well as
the progress in IRZV's research programming shows; later this assistance proved very useful
in providing the background for the restructuring of agricultural research.
L.    Lessons Learned
31.   The following are some of the lessons learned from this Project which can be applied in
the preparation of future projects:
(a)   An adequate and stable macro-economic and sectoral environment and close
monitoring of all stages of the project cycle, is  of utmost importance.  One
main reason for this Project not achieving its objectives was the lack of reaction
of the Bank and the Borrower to changed circumstances. The sectoral policy
framework was ill-defined throughout the Project's life, particularly with respect
to sectoral institutions and mechanisms of technology transfer, and this was in
part responsible for the lack of relevance of agricultural research. For future
involvement in agricultural services and research, this would imply:
(i)   a strong presence of macro-economic as well as sector and institutions
specialists in preparation and appraisal teams, on the donor side, and
increased involvement of the agencies involved in macm-economic,
financial and sectoral management, on the Borrower side;
(ii)   waiting with major investment projects in agricultural research until the
macro-economic and sectoral policy framework is safe and stable; and
(iii) that in periods of rapid change, assistance should remain limited in size
and concentrate on adjustment rather than maintenance or expansion of
service activities.
(b)   Overall commitment by the Borrower to agricultural research, and not only
commitment by the specialized agencies concerned, is important and must be
ascertained early on. One important way to test such commitment could be to
obtain guarantees for adequate counterpart funding in the legal agreement, during
negotiations, and up-front payment of annual counterpart funds, during
implementation.
(c)   The structure and management of the institutions to be supported must be sound
at the outset. Civil servant and public sector management of agricultural research
is most likely deficient, particularly when public sector management is weak in
general. Private sector-type management in agricultural research should be a
precondition for major future support; such management can be assured by



- 12 -
effective beneficiary involvement, rather than administration or researcher
domination in its control mechanisms. Competition and cooperation in research
at the national and regional levels rather than a concentration on monolithic and
large national institutes is another way of fostering efficiency and relevance.
(d)   Control and adjustment mechanisms during implementation should be strong both
on the Borrower and donor side.   Annual and mid-term reviews are very
important, with the participation of beneficiaries and of non-research specialists,
such as specialists in management, institutions, financial management and
extension.
(e)   Successful research projects would require not only a broad commitment by the
government, but strong leadership and a relevant accountability mechanism . It
is essential that project activities be coordinated and that the responsibility for
such coordination be assigned to one person both by the Borrower and the Bank
in order to ensure a coherent vision for the realization of project objectives.
(f)    Agricultural research projects should not be overly ambitious, particularly in an
enviromment of weak institutions and local capacity. The size of the and design
of the project must take into account the availability of local resources, not only
in terms of volume but also the timeliness and sustainability. Moreover, equal
attention should be give to both 'the hardware" and the technical output of the
project (quality and relevance of scientific and technological output).
32.   Effective application of these lessons in Cameroon remains to be seen, but there is reason
to be optimistic as the Borrower has undertaken and continues with important steps in the right
direction. A plan for restrucuring agricultural research was prepared in December 1993. It
foresees (a) the creation of a new institute replacing IRA and IRZV; (b) the reduction of annual
operating costs of the agricultural research system by half through staff reduction, particularly
but not exclusively excessive support staff; (c) the strong decentralization and client participation
in research; and (d) the application of private sector management principles. Staff reductions
have started with FAO technical assistance, and fmancial support from the European Union,
from the Bank-financed Agricultural Extension and Training Project. The main points of the
restructuring plan are still under consideration by the Government and, hopefully, will be
resolved in the coming months in consultation with interested donors.



PART II: PROJECT REV[EW FROM BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE
33.  In November 1986, the Government of Cameroon signed a Loan Agreement with the
World Bank for US$17.8 billion to strengthen agricultural research in Cameroon through the
National Agricultural Research Project (NARP). The principal objective of the Project was to
consolidate the national research system for food crops, livestock production and appropriate
technology with a view to increasing the incomes of small-scale producers. Specifically, the
NARP sought to:
(a)   develop human resources, particularly through staff training;
(b)   expand existing infrastructure by building accommodation for researchers and
laboratories, and by providing a variety of scientific and technical equipment and
vehicles;
(c)   redefine research programs by making them more compatible with the real needs
of those who use the results of research activities;
(d)   improve the organisation and management capacity of the IRA and the IRZV; and
(e)   strengthen access to scientific and technical information, and introduce the general
use of computers.
34.   Although the agreement was signed in 1986, the NARP did not actually become effective
until 1988 and closed five years later in 1993.
Project Results
35.   The NARP achieved notable results, which are summarised below:
*     the IRA and IRZV facilities have tripled in size;
*     a common scientific infornation center for the IRA and IRZV was built;
*     a computer processing center was built and equipped;
*     human resources were developed: 18 researchers received PhDs or Doctorates and 13
received DEAs or Master of Science degrees. Hundreds of technicians were trained on-
the-job through seminars and workshops;
*     the availability of scientific equipment and mobile laboratories increased considerably;
*     the management capacity was generally improved as a result of computer usage;
*     the relationship between the Borrower and the Bank was satisfactory, and was largely



- 14 -
marked by mutual agreement.
Lessons Learned
36.   The main lessons learned are the following:
(i)    When the Project was designed, the national capacity to finance research over a
medium to long-term period without external aid, was overestimated. This,
coupled with the drastic and general reduction in public revenues after 1987,
made it impossible for the Government to honor its agreement to provide
counterpart funds.
(ii)   The Borrower's inability to meet its financial commitment has compromised the
sustainability of the Project.
(iii)  A mid-term review of the Project should have been conducted to redefine its
objectives and adapt them to the critical economic situation in Cameroon.
(iv)   Generally speaking, the total lack of coordinatior between the IRA and the IRZV
has affected the definition of the research programs.
(v)   Despite the establishment of a joint library and computer centers, the policies
developed in these areas by the IRA and IRZV were neither coordinated nor in
harmony.
(vi) Although the Project made a large investment in increasing infrastructure and
scientific equipment, a commensurate maintenance component was not introduced.
(vii)  The recurrent costs generated by the first phase of the Project are substantial and
exceed the country's present capacity to ensure the smooth operation and
maintenance of the Project's achievements.
(viii) There have been few opportunities for international consultancy assignments,
although there are Cameroonian nationals available who have the required skills
for such assignments.
(ix)  It is relevant to question the rationale for limiting the duration of such a large
research program.   The Project came to an end just when the physical
components (infrastructure, equipment, training) were achieved, in the face of a
very difficult macroeconomic situation.
Prospects
37.   Having examined the project completion report for the National Agricultural Research



- 15 -
Project, written and presented on behalf of the donors by the FAO/CP mission, the Government
is generally satisfied with its conclusions, with some exceptions as indicated above.
38.   At the end of the first phase of the NARP, the Government considers that the Project has
demonstrated that adequate and well-focussed international cooperation can significantly
contribute to improving the prospects for sustainable rural development. In light of the positive
achievements of the Project, and taking into account the importance of the food security
objective, the need to improve the productivity and the living conditions of rural populations,
it is imperative to build on the shortcomings or inadequacies of the first phase. It is equally
important that the first phase be judged as it was at the design stage - in other words, a pilot
phase to define the long-term objectives and to develop or establish the means for the effective
implementation of subsequent phases.
39. Thus, it would be unfortunate for the NARP, and all parties concerned with its
implementation, to give up because of the aforementioned difficulties. The commitment of the
Cameroonian farmer, who has to bear the responsibility for the loan, and is the true borrower
under the Project, should be given careful consideration.  This can only be done by the
implementation of a second phase of the Project which would ensure the sustainability of the
achievements and justify the investments made under the first phase.
40.   With the support of its partners, the Government is ready for this new challenge in
national agricultural research.



- 16 -
Table 1: Related Bank Loans
Project Title    Subjec          Yeer of       Amo   of          Nan-           Project        Remarof
Approa         Lam (SDR        Disbursed     Closin Dte
.  mmAn)           _mnt
L 2560-CAM     Speedal ftnin       1935           25.0             7.33          12.31.93     New codang
for rwal                                                                      dot
L 29120-CAM    ReabIitatio         19S       -    61.70           29.65          12.31.9S
of cocoa
L 30140-CAM    Dewdopmet           19S9           34.60           2519          06.30.95
Of liven6ock
____ ___ ____ __ sector    _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _
L 3150-CAM    SALI:                1939           1500o0          50.00         03.31.93     New closig
shucm-                                                                       date
Adinba
L 31350.CAM    Tranig m_           1990           21.00           1732           03.31.97
L 32060.C"    SDA - H _in          1990           21.S0           13      __    12.31.97
Reaourme         __
L 3313J0CAM    Foo" aeut           1992           23.00           20.9          0630.90
L 27660-CAM    NaI                 197             17.             0.33          0 93
RA_lek
_____  Pnerco



- 17 -
Table 2: Project Timetable
Item             Date       Revised     Actual       Remarks
Scheduled     Date       Date
Identification            5/81        1/82        1/82        FAO/CP
Preparation               2/83          -         2/83        FAO/CP
Appraisal misison         4/83        11/83      11/83
Appraisal report          5/83        6/85       6/85       Most recent
version 10. 14.86
IBRD approval of loan      -            -        11/86    Loan Agreement
No. 2766 CM
Signing of loan            -            -        11/86
Effectiveness            12/87        3/88       3/88    IRZV in August
1988 because the
Coordinator of
the National
Agricultural
Research Project
was appointed at
that time
Completion               12/92                   12/92
Closing                   6/93                   6/93



Table 3A: IBRD Credit Disbursements
Estimated Disbursements               Actual Disbursements        Actual as % of Estimate
World Bank Fiscal Year        Semestre
_ _                                                                                                                                                                _ Disbursements  Cumulative  Disbursements  Cumulative  Cumulative  Annual
1987                      _        1I 0                                       0                   0               0               0               0
1988a/                _                                 360                 360
Ii                   710               1070                   92              92              9              13
1989    __                                             1420                2490
___    .            B1600              4090                3137             3229           78.2           106.2
1990   __   _                __ 2140                                       6230
il                  2140               8370                 7501           10730           128.2           1753
1991                               l                   1950               10320
_I _  li1960                          12280                 2516           13246           107.8            69.5
1992                  _                                1600               13880
__  li              1420              15300                 2235           16481           101.1              74
1993b/                             1                    900               16200                                                                                                                                                   _
li                   8 9 0            1 7 0 9 0             1 5 2 1        1 7 0 0 2        9 9 .5            85
19 94                             1                    710               17800                 537           17539            98.5            75.6
aI  P ro je c t   e ffe c tive n e s s   d ate :  0 3 . I8 .8 8
b/ Prjc  lsng dt:0309



~~~~~~~~~~~~Tal 3B: IBRD Credit Disbursement by Categories IUS$000)
Category           Appraisal Estimate   Amonmdmant      1988      1989      1990       1991         1992        1993        Total at    Non-Dibuvrsed
Project Closing   Arnount
PROJECT
I + 6 Construction                        8300           8878         921   1778        4753        1151          688        247            8689
2 + 7 Vehicle supplies                    3100           4782           0      680       1629        699          937        689            4535
3 + 8 Technical assistance                4100           1445           0      311       334         259          2101       270            1383
4 + 9 Training                            4300            1358          0      1 ee       314        176          329        252            1236
5 + IO Operatirng Expenses                   0            1337          0      303       472         231           9 1        63            1160
1 1 Non allocated                            0               0          0        0          0          0            O          0               0
Total disbursed                          17800          17800          92     3137       7501       2516         2235       1521           17002
Funds                                        0               0          0        0          0          0             0          0            537
Total= =         i
11. IRA
IA Construction                           5600           e923          92     1212       3787       1015          592         131           6830
2A Vehicle supplies                       2200            2542          0      467        554        433          689         201,          2345
3 Technicasl Assistance                   1200             660          0      183        165         90           115         69            612
4 Training                                1800             763          a      16X        202         92           117         65            636
5 Operating expenses                         0            1092          0      202        396        189           085         52            924
Total disbursed                          10800           11980         92     2224       5094       1819          1598        518          11347
II.IRZV.
6A Construction                            200            1455          0      5668       470        136            48        116            1335
7A Vehicle supplies                        Soo            2140          a      113       1031        258           232        466           2100
Techinical Assistanice                    2900             785          a      128        179        169            95        201             771
Training                                  2200             595          0        6        112         84           212        187             Soo
Operating expenses                           0             245          a      101         76         42             6         11             236
Total disbursed                           5800            5220          0      914       1868        689           593        981            5042



Table 3B: IBRD Credit Disbursement by Categories IUS$OOO                               i (cont'd)
Category            Appraisal Estimate   Amnrdment        1988      1989      1990       1991         1992        1993         Total ct    Nonl-Dsbursed
Amount
COMMON ACTIVITIES b/
6B Construction                             500             500          0         0       496           0           2 8          O             524
7B Vehicle supplies                         400             100          0         0        44           8                       22              90
8 Technical sssistance                        0               0          0         0          0          0            O          O               O
9 Training                                  300               O          O 0        0         0           0           0                           O
0 Operating Expanses                          0               0          O         0          0          0             O          O               O
_ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~17539
Total ct                                   1200             fOO          0         0        540          8            44         22             614
Non-Disbursed Amount                          O               O          O         O          O          OOOO
at Amendment of May 18. 1992.                                                                                                                   __O
b/ Included in IRZV's disbursements with lines for the IRA. 
cI Differences are due to rounded up figures. 



Table 4: Key Implementation Indicators
Unit          Objecrives set at A  raisal      Irnpleentation (June 1993)
IRA        IRZ      COMM         IRA       IRZV        COMM                                Remarks
A. Construcfion
Ltaboratories (with basic uaterial)                m2              1590          0          0       3200          0            0 Wold Bank agreement
Offices (furmished)                                 m2             1280       2000          0          0       2000            0 IRA-tenovatons
Fumished accommodation for high level officials    unit             54           7          0         is          4            0 IRA -18 neI w and 40 renovated
Executives (furnished)                             unit             45          0           0         is          0            0
Support strff (fumished)                           r2               45          0           0         to          0            0
Libmry at Nkolbisson. Bjanbui, cotnputer centre at Nkolbison.
Other consttuction work                            t23520|                       0        550          O          0          550 reading  om  at Bambui. 3 shop
B. Other Infnsffucture
Fencing                                            km               34          0           0         10         0             0
Roads                                              krn              28           0          0          2          0            0 IRA - Nkolbisson
C  Vehicles
Cars                                               unit             40          20          2          6          3            0
4x4 Pick-Up Truck                                  unit             31           8          0         24         14
4 4x4                                              unit              5           2          2          0          0            0
7-tonne trucks                                     unit              6          2           0          I          I            0 Dibambs for paIm oil (IRA). Mtnkon (IRZV)
Motorbikes                                         unit            103          16          0         10          0            0 |overnmtns to decide wbether to reduce
Specilised vehicles                               unit              0           6          0          0          6            22 mobile labontofies
Tractors                                           unit              II          I          0          2          I            0
N
20-seater bus                                      unit               I          0          0          2          0            0Foumbot aml Nkolbisson (Word Bank agreement)
D. Equipment
Field equipment                                     set             22           7          0          0          4           90
Fara equipment                                      et               3           0          0          0          0            0
Garage equipment                                    aet               6          2          0          0          2            0
Agru-meteorology statins                           utuit             9           0          0          0          0            0 Difficulty aelecting English or French mnterfa
100 km radio                                       unit              6           2          0       -2            0             |USAID nalle the radios
Computers                                          unit               7          3          1         10          9            0
Portable computers                                 unit              0           0          I          0          0            0
Textile laboratory                                 unit               I          0          0          0          0            0 Too cosdy
Equipment for phyto-enthomology laboratory         set                I          0          0          I          0            0Marua
Equipment for nematology laboratory                set                I          0          0          1          0            0
Other equipment                                     0               yes        yes        yes         yes         0            0
E. Technical Assistance
IRA - Cordylas audits carried out between 1989 and 1993 not
Planning and administrative support             man-notdis          144         96         72                    96              |inchded
Systems and research disciplines                man-rnontbs         204        240         72         54        100            0
F. Trtining
Seminars (cnsulutnts)                           mnu-months           16         16          0         19          0            0
MSc overseas                                    main-mtont5hs       240        360          0        192         90            0IRZV - not necessasy; level has been reached already
Ph.D overseas                                  tmn-tonths            72        160          0         72        191            0
StudymvisitsAnisn-montlns  138  24          O          0                       0 Funded by other BDFs IRA - financed by other sources
Study visits                                   rnaa16                                                                           0IZ - ritht    bY3ot24  s0u0c0
Administration (in Cxmeroon)                    mati-nionths        582        201          0           1        16             0IRZ  finned by other sources
Laboratory Assistants                           man months                     168          0          0        192             0



Table 5: Project Costs and Financing
I                          -           - ~~~~~I  --                      a
Total         18RD          ODA           GTZ           Govrt        Total      18RD        ODA         GTZ       Govt.
Apprsisal Estimate                                                Expenses
A. Total Research Costs                    43200          17800          1600           800        23000      82607       17539 277Sa/           3330         58963
/. IRA Toral      _                        29900          10800           900             0        18200                  11347                     0         40993
Construction                               11200           5600             0             0         6800                   6830                     0         10945
Vehicles/materials                          4500          2200           100             0         2200                   2345                     0
Technical Assistsnce                        1800           1200           600             0           0                     612                     0              0
Training                                    2000           1800           200             0           0                     636                     O             0
Operating costs/salaries                   10400              0             0             0        10400                    924                     0         30048
1. IRZ Total                               10000           5800           200           800         3200                   5042                  3330         17970
Construction                                 500            200             0             0          300                   1335                     0          2603
Vehiclas/materials                          1000            500             0           100          400                   2100                   770
Technical Assistance                        3800           2900           200           700            0                    771                  1250              0
Training                                    2200           2200             0             0            0                    600                   510              0
Operating costs/salaries                    2500              0             0             0         2500                    236                   800          15367
ll. Common Toral                            3300           1200           500             0         l600                   1228                   220              0
Construction                                 1000           500             0             0          500                    524                     0              0
Vehicles/materials                           800            400           100             0          300                     90                     0              0
Technical Assistanca                         400              0           400             0            0                      0                     0              0
Training                                     300            300             0             0            0                    e14                     0              0
Opereting costs/salaries                     899              0             0             0          800                       0                    0
tieneral Researrh Cosrs                    43200          17800          1600           800        23000      82607       17539 2775a/           3330          58963
Construction                               12700           6300             0             0         6400                   8689                     0          13548
Vehlcles/materials                          6300           3100           200           100         2900                   4535                   770
Technical Assistance                        6000           4100          1200           700            0                   1383                  1250              0
Training                                    4500           4300           200             0            0                    1236                  510              0
Operating costs/salaries                    13700             0             0             0        13700                    1160                  800          45415 
Funds                                                                                                                        637                     0
a/ 1 /9U L sterling (exchange rate on
Iure 30 1993 51.00 - US$1 551_
Thr mrssTcr rmt ncrtv ttn speerTrc     _
data. ODA experts said that the
US$2775 were mainly used for technical
and material on the basis of an analysis
of the Institutes debts at 03.30 93. and
JiOi lotal operating costs (salaries
included) of both institutes,



- 23 -
Table 6A (1): Project Results (IRA)
A. Direct Benefits
Indicators              SAR Estimate'               PCR Estimate
1. Increase in productivity                          Increase in corn in the West
per unit.                                            and North, and in cassava
in the West and South in
.___   _particular.
2. Increase in work                                  Difficult to appreciate.
efficiency.
3. Contribution to food                              Despite the increase in the
self-sufficiency.                                    population, food supply is
good. Food security in the
North has increased at the
sarne rate as cotton
production.
4. Increase in income-                               Improved village palm oil,
generating produce.                                  banana for export, rubber
and cotton.
5. Increased farmiing                                Not obvious because of the
revenue.                                             crisis Oowering prices).
6. Improved rural living                             Stagnation and/or
conditions.                                          regression.
7. Improved technical and                            Improvement was
scientific standards for                             necessary, but the operating
researchers.                                         costs were not
forthcoming, which
inhibited the recruitmnent of
researchers.
8. Soil conservation and                             Research underway for soil
vegetation .                                          conservation.
9. Improved farming                                   In the North (culture (
systems.                                              crops), in the West
(marketing gardening).
10. Rationale for using                              For cocoa (brown when
pesticides.                                           rotten).
Reeducation in the number
of cotton treatment
administer.
'No data available.



- 24 -
Table 6A (2): Project Results (IRZV)
A. Direct Benefits
Indicators                  SAR Estimate'                 PCR Estimate
1. Increase in productivity                                 Increase in poultry, rabbit
per unit.                                                   and pork production.
2. Increase in work                                         Difficult to appreciate.
efficiency.                                         ..
3. Contribution to food                                     The results of the research
self-sufficiency.                                           done on dairy production
were used to create two
______________________ production companies.
4. Increase in income-                                      Improved poultry, rabbit
generating produce.                                         and pork produce.
5. Increased farming                                        Not obvious because of the
revenue.                                                    crisis (lowering prices).
6. Improved rural living                                    Difficult to assess.
conditions.
7. Improved technical and                                   Improvement was
scientific standards for                                    necessary, but the operating
researchers,                                                costs were not
forthcoming, which
inhibited the recruitment of
researchers.
8. Soil conservation and
vegetation.
9. Improved farming
systems.
10. Rationale for using
pesticides.
'No data available



- 25 -
Table 6B: Project Results
A Economuc Impact'                       Remarks
Increase in GDP for agriculture by about   Considering the worsening economic crisis
0.25% (US$5 million) per year from 1990   Cameroon has been facing since the
to 2010 (equivalent of ERR of 12%).      beginning of the Project, it is difficult to
evaluate the economic impact of the
research on the GDP for agriculture,
which dropped from CFAF 976 to CFAF
852 billion between 1987 and 19912.
Table 6C: Studies
C. Studies3          _                                 _
Study Tide          Institute            Subject              Impact of the
I_________  aRZ14RM                     1st
A Study on Poultry  IRZV (Prof P.        Crossbreeding
Breeding Research   Horst).              poultry in
in Cameroon.                             Caneroon.
'The Economic Rate of Return (ERR) has not been calculated.
2Source: The World Bank, 1993: World Table 1993.
3These studies were not anticipated in the SAR, however, several studies were undertaken as part of the NARP and
by vanous BDFs (see the ltst in Annex 1).



Table 7: Status of Covenants
Credit                        Subject                   Complepkon                               Statu
Agreement No.                                                Deadlne
202 (b)          BofTower to open two special accounts: (a)   Not specified.  IRA and IRZV: the special accounts opened at the Bank of Credit
IRA, (b) IRZV (for the IRZV and joint                      and Commerce) were transferred to the Sociitc commerciale des
activities) in a comrnmercial bank.                        banques - Credit L)ynnais.
2.03             Closing date: June 30, 1993.           June 30, 1993       On schedule.
3.02 (b) (c)     Borrower to deposit its contribution into the              IRA: initial deposit of CFAF 175 million (BCC) and a contribution
IRA project accounts (CFAF 450 million)                    of CFAF 85 million.
and CFAF 350 million into the IRZV                         IRZV: no deposits made.
project accounts.
3.04 (a)         IRA: Employment of consultants         In line with project   Achieved, except for recruitment of consultant specialised in fishing,
specialised in research management,    implementation      because a highly qualified Cameroonian executive was recruited.
biometrics, scientific writing, nernatology,   schedule.
and docunentation.
IRZ: Employment of consultants
specialised in research management,                                                                                                 M
administrative and fuiancial management,                                                                                            a'
biometrics, fishing, computers.
3.05 (a)         Detailed annual training plan.          April 30 of each   IRA: Plan submitted for 1989/90 only.
year.              IRZV: Plans submitted in line with schedule.
401 (b)          Special accounts and project accounts to be   Every fiscal year.    Audits for 1988189 were sent to the World Bank on April 7, 1991.
audited, certified copies to be sent to the                The 1991/1992 audit is on-going.
World Bank six months after the end of the
fiscal year.
4.01 (c)         Proper maintenance of financial documents.                 Achieved, according to the nationals, but there were two accounts
books - one national and one for the NARP.
4.02 (b)         Ensure that there are sufficient resources  After June 30, 1993.  Not ensured.
afler Project closing.
5.02             Draw up a national plan for agricultural  December 31, 1988   Not achieved.
research.
5 01             Annual seminars - IRA, IR.V and other   Every year.        Not achieved. The GTZ did, however, organise a few national
technical institutions.                                    seminars.
5.04             Establish a technical auditing committee  June 30, 1987    Not established. Two technical audits were carried out in 1989 and a
(IRA, IRZV).                                               scientific audit was carried out in July/August 1993 following the
closing of the NARP.



Table 3: Use of Bank Resources
Stage of Projec Cycle       FY        No. of      No. of           Specialisation        Cot in     Rab      Fq            Types of       Remarks
peopleI     people                                 usSooo                            Problem4
_ _   _      _     ~~~~~~~~~sminm                                                               _                            _      _
Identificatio_m
L Prqaation, preappnusa       1912      25.5        3           ECN RD, EDO                 N.D.      3          -            S,TMF
I. Appraisad                 1983       18.5        3           AOR R. ECN                  N.D.      3          2            S,TMYF
ELt epwration, weapyraul     1913       100.0       7           AGR, R, ECN, LVS, EDO       N.D.      3          2            S,M,F
H. Apraisa                   1984       34.9        3           CPA. SRE                    N.D.      2          1            S,T,M,F
Negotabons                    1914      36.5        1           R                           N.D.      3          2             .
Negoiations                   1985      16.6        3           OPA. ECN                    N.D.      3          2            MF
Negoiations                   1986      23.0        6           AOR, ECN.D                  N.D.      3          2_M2
Negotiations                  1917      6.2         2           ECN.D                       N.D.      2          1            MF  __                  _
Superviuion I                 1987      2.1         1                                       N.D.      3          2            M
Supervision 2                 1911      10.7        4           ECN, D                      N.D.      3          2            M
Supervision 3                 1989      8.6         3           ECN.D                       N.D.      3          2            MF
Superision 4                  1990       15.2       3           ECN,D                       N.D.      3          2            MJF
(26.5)?
SupervisionS                  1991      21.6        6           ECN,D                       N.D.      3          3            MJF
(15.0)
Supervision 6                 1992       12.7       2           ECN,D                       N.D.      3          3            MY
(14.5)                                                      1
Supervision 7                 1993      8.1         3           ECN.R                       N.D.      3          3            MF
.                           {~~~~~~~~~~7.0)
Project complio               1993      4.0                     R/AOR                       N.D.
!Specialisation AGR - Agronoist RD - Rt      -  e p..   . ECE  - Ecnmist R  Rarche, LVS  Livestock Specialist; CPA - Operations Assistant; D = Divae
upecialisations or non-spciald  caliso
21 = no problns, or few; 2 = moderte prbes; 3  maqo problem.
31 = improvent; 2 no changc, 3 worseig.
4S -Scientific, T - Techucal; M = MmegenFt; FinnFn  ciahl.
1n brackets in line with the revised pl



