FJI *'                  V o  X as  vDocument of
*      *io  bur I              The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-1877-KE
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT AND LOAN
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF KENYA
FOR A
RURAL ACCESS ROADS PROGRAM
June 15, 1976
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY UNIT
Kenya Shilling (KSh)
CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
SDR 1 = KSh 9.66
KSh 1 = SDR 0.10
Because the Kenyan Shilling is tied to SDR, the US$/KSh
exchange rate is subject to change. Calculations in this
report are at a conversion rate of US$ 1 = KSh 8.05, which
is close to the short-term average exchange rate.
FISCAL YEAR
July 1st - June 30th
ABBREVIATIONS
DDC   -   District Development Committee
MOA   -   Ministry of Agriculture
RARP  -   Rural Access Road Program
STD   -   Staff Training Department



FOR OFmFCIAL USE ONLY
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO
THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AND LOAN
ro THE REPUBLIC OF KENYA
FOR A
RURAL ACCESS ROADS PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
development credit to the Republic of Kenya for the equivalent of US$4.0
million on standard IDA terms and loan for the equivalent of US$4.0
million to help finance a Rural Access Roads Project. The proposed loan
is for a term of 25 years including 5 years grace with interest at 8.85%
per annum.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
General
2.        A report entitled "The Second Decade:  Basic Economic Report on
Kenya" (Report No. 201--KE, dated January 15, 1974) was distributed to the
Executive Directors on February 20, 1974.   Subsequently, a report on an
Agricultural Sector Survey on Kenya (Report No. 254a-KE, dated December 20,
1973) was distributed on MIarch 13, 1974. The accelerated world inflation,
including the increase in oil prices, had a serious impact on the Kenyan
economy. In response, the Government in 1975 formulated an action program
to restructure the economy. We have had extensive discussions with the
Government about this restructuring program in the context of our program
loan negotiations and in coordination with the IMF Staff.
3.        In order to monitor progress in implementing the action program and
discuss specific policies needed in its context especially in agriculture,
manufacturing and government finance an economic updating mission visited
Kenya in the spring of 1976. Country Data Sheets are attached as Annex I.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



-2-
Restructuring Program
4.        In February 1975, the Government formulated an action program
(Sessional Paper No. 4 of 1975 on Economic Prospects and Policies) in order
to adjust the development objectives and policies under the 1974-78 Develop-
ment Plan to the more serious balance of payments constraint. The overall
growth rate target had to be reduced from 7.4 to 6% per annum. The basic
objective of the Government's action program is to restructure the economy
as fast as possible, so as to achieve maximum economic development in the
future under much more stringent balance of payments conditions. The strategy
is to restrain imports in a way that has a minimum impact on production in
the next few years and to direct more production into exports. It will
therefore be necessary to compress public and private consumption and to
channel investments into the most productive and quick yielding uses, in
particular into appropriate import substitution and export promotion.
In both activities the agricultural sector will have a major role to
play; by further improvements to its performance it will also have to
absorb more labor and maintain incomes in a period of possible slowdown
of urban employment. Manufacturing, which will possibly become the most
dynamic sector in the long run, faces a particularly difficult adjustment
process in the next few years. It will have to improve its resource
utilization and reduce its heavy import dependence in favor of more domestic
resource-based production and exports.
5.        The action program relies mainly on global monetary and fiscal
policies reinforced by agricultural pricing policies and some specific
administrative measures to implement the restructuring strategy. Not only
is the overall money supply growth limited by direct restriction on credit
expansion, but the Government is also directing credit specifically into
agriculture, manufacturing, export business and tourism. On the fiscal
policy side, Kenya's already good tax performance as well as the measures
introduced in 1973 and 1974 to make the system more progressive does not
leave much room for substantial tax increases. The Government nevertheless
intends to raise some taxes on non-essential domestic and imported products
and to further improve tax administration and revenue collection. Some
other envisaged tax measures (capital gains tax, improved inheritance tax
and increased urban property tax) seek to promote equity as well as
revenue increases. The discussion continues with the other Partner States
in the East African Community about a modification of the common external
tariff towards more uniform rates.
6.        The Government's strategy also aims at holding the domestic rate
of inflation well below that abroad, so as to help bring about import
substitution and export promotion by price differentials; this hardship will be
distributed between income groups in such a way that the lowest income groups
receive full compensation for cost of living increases, while better-off members of



-3-
society are made to bear a proportionately larger share of the burden by
partial compensation or no compensation at all.
7.        A revised three-year budget for FY76-78 is part of the action
program; it aimed at reducing the growth of government consumption,
promoting exports, increasing production of agricultural commodities for
import substitution and use of more labor-intensive techniques.
Recurrent expenditure growth in real terms was to be reduced to 6% from the
11% projected in the 1974-78 Development Plan and development expenditure
growth rate included in the Development Budget was set at 7 - 8% as
against 12%. This required the politically difficult decision to bring
the rapidly accelerating recurrent expenditure for education under control.
The Government decided to allow only 7% annual increase, freezing education's
share of recurrent expenditure at 29%. In the Development Budget, the share
of agricultural and water development was increased from 22 to 35% while
that of road and building construction was brought down from 22 to 18%;
moreover, a significant shift away from trunk roads to secondary and
labor-intensive construction of rural access roads was incorporated
within the road construction program. In addition to these domestic
measures, the Government was seeking to accelerate disbursements under
existing foreign financing commitments and to obtain additional commitments,
including quickly disbursing assistance, in order to maintain some momentum
of growth while the restructuring policy was taking effect.
Present Economic Situation
8.        After a period of steady growth of GDP averaging a remarkable 6.2%
per year, Kenya's economy is now growing at a far slower pace. GDP increased
by 3.6% in 1974 and probably less than 2% in 1975. The disappointing perfor-
mance of agriculture, still the most important economic sector, explains
part of this slowdown, and this in turn was strongly influenced by continuous
unfavorable weather conditions. Thus, notwithstanding welcome producer
price increases in January 1975 for the main crops which provided adequate
incentives to producers, Kenya saw a very uneven and on balance disappointing
performance in agriculture. In addition to improved weather conditions,
the sector's recovery will require intensified policy measures to stimulate
agriculture including maintenance of adequate price incentives and
improved support services. The simultaneous slowdown in manufacturing
growth (6% instead of 8% before) was linked, first, to actual domestic and
foreign demand slumps and, second, entrepreneurs' pessimistic outlook for
muarket improvements. The Government's restrictive credit and import policies
led especially to a drop in construction output. However, the private
services sector has so far slowed down less than other sectors, with real
earnings in tourism being maintained. Lastly, the Government sector is
growing at a rate somewhat above that of the economy as a whole. Inflation is
now at high levels for Kenya: 15% in 1974 and 20% in 1975. Further price
increases are expected in 1976, following the October 1975 devaluation of 14%.



-4-
9.        The overall deficit in the balance of payments in 1974 was $84
million. In 1975 the deficit was $55 million. IMF assistance cushioned
the drawdown of foreign exchange reserves to a large extent ($39 million
in 1974, $45 million in 1975), and Kenya moreover received extraordinary
support from various donors, including a $30 million IBRD Program Loan.
Nevertheless Kenya's reserves at the end of 1975 were at $101 million, a
precarious level equivalent to only about 5 week's imports ($167 million
at the 1974 import level).   Therefore, K-enya remains depcndent on balance
of payments support in the near future, particularly since resumption of
import growth cannot be matched immediately by export earnings. The 14%
devaluation of the Kenya shilling in October 1975 is an important step
towards restoring balance of payments equilibrium in the medium terms.
The terms of trade index fell less steeply in 1975 than in the crisis
year 1974 (19%) but still deteriorated by 6%. As a result, real per
capita income in 1975 has dropped at 6% below its 1973 level. A general
reversal of price movements in favor of Kenya is not yet in sight not-
withstanding coffee price increases which will ease the situation in
1976.
10.       Government revenue as a percentage of GDP rose from 23% to 28%
between 1973 and 1975, but failed to keep in step with expenditures which
went up from 29% to 35% of GDP. There was a more rapid growth in develop-
ment than in recurrent expenditure with more than 30% of total expenditure
now devoted to development expenditure. The Government managed to some
extent to attract additional foreign financing to offset shortfalls in
revenue growth, but had to revert (contrary to past practice) to substan-
tial amounts of domestic credit to cover the unusually large budget deficit.
Policy Issues
11.       The balance of payments constraint remains the most serious economic
problem. The Government will therefore have to pursue its restructuring
policies even more vigorously than in 1975. It will have to gear budgetary
policies (both growth and composition of expenditures) towards the stated
objectives and redirect not only the agricultural but also the industrial
sector by its pricing, credit and import policies. This should be combined,
to the extent possible, with measures to help the economy recover from the
low growth of 1974 and 1975. The immediate concern for output and employment
should, however, not be at the expense of creating strong inflationary
pressures in the economy which could set off a wage-price spiral.
12.       One of the main elements of the restructuring policy is to improve
even further on the respectable past growth performance (6% per year) in
the agricultural sector. The Government is applying several policies to
enhance agricultural growth. First, it aims at providing adequate price
incentives to farmers; annual price reviews for the major crops take
place but price announcements are not always simultaneous for all products



-5-
and may be too late to affect planting decisions. In this connection,
under the proposed Integrated Agricultural Development Project, the
Government has agreed to publish controlled prices not later than
December 15 of each year and has also given an undertaking to set up
a unit in the Ministry of Agriculture to formulate recommendations on
absolute and relative agricultural prices. The Government also seeks
to channel a larger proportion of development expenditures into
projects in the agricultural and other directly productive sectors.
In the past, the bottleneck was a shortage of well-prepared
projects. There is now a sound project pipeline but the bottleneck now
emerges at the financing and to some extent the implementation stages. Con-
siderable amounts of foreign financing for agricultural projects are being
committed, but it proves difficult to disburse these funds rapidly. Strength-
ening the Government's implementation capacity over a wide range of agri-
cultural services will take time. The Government is training more Kenyan
agricultural officials and is attempting to improve the quality of extension
officers who provide the most essential link to the farmer himself. The
proposed Integrated Agricultural Development Project will go some way toward
achieving higher quality and better coverage of extension services.
13.      The manufacturing sector had been growing rapidly at 8% per annum
until 1975, mainly through import substitution within the domestic market
and exports to the East African Community (EAC) market under the protection of
EAC import duties and national controls. In the process, the medium to
large scale enterprises have become dependent on imported capital goods,
spare parts and raw materials. However, Tanzania and Uganda no longer
offer good market prospects because of economic slowdown and/or the estab-
lishment of parallel national industries, while the easier import-substitution
opportunities within Kenya have been exhausted. In order to retain its dynamism,
manufacturing has to be geared towards exports outside the EAC market and en-
couraged to use more domestic resources inter alia through promotion of more
appropriate technology and smaller-scale industry. A Bank mission visited Kenya
in April 1976 to assist in the preparation of a project in this field, and the
International Finance Corporation is considering support to small scale business.
14.      The restructuring program thus requires that use of local resources
be made financially more attractive vis-a-vis imported inputs and exports
nore remunerative vis-a-vis domestic sales. The Government has, in fact,
already taken two important steps in this direction: an export compensation
payment of 10% on export value of processed goods to offset the sales
tax of 10% and the 14% devaluation of the Kenya shillings (together with
the other EAC currencies). Their combined effect was to increase exporters'
prices by 25% in Kenya currency. There has been less progress so far in
lowering import duties for raw materials, final consumer goods and capital
goods and making them more uniform. This should preferably be done by a
series of adjustments under the EAC treaty and requires consent by EAC
partners.



-6-
15.      At the time of preparation of the FY1976-78 forward budget,   deficit
financing was not seen as a serious problem, provided that expenditures could
be kept under control and foreign financing would be forthcoming. Since
then, the final outcome of FY1975 yielded a large overall budget deficit
and the outlook for FY1976 is worse. FY1976 revenue is suffering from the
economic recession which has affected both income tax and customs duties
receipts. Moreover, both recurrent and development expenditure are higher
than estimated.  The Government is concerned about the financial squeeze
in the budget and is in the process of tightening FY1976 expenditure ceilings
as well as adjusting its targets for the forward budget now rolled over to
FY1977-FY1979 'ith a view to curbing expenditure in non-directly productive
activities and allotting adequate development as well as recurrent funds to
high priority projects without creating undue inflationary pressures. With
recovery of economic activity in the near future revenue will hopefully grow
more rapidly again. Nevertheless, contrary to previous expectations, re-
course to domestic borrowing on a larger scale is necessary to support the
development budget.
16.      In the past the Kenya Government has followed a conservative policy
with regard to external borrowing. Since Independence Kenya has been in-
creasing new commitments at a rate of about 8.5% per year, or somewhat less
than the rate of growth of the economy as a whole in current prices. As
a result, Kenya's debt service burden is still comparatively light (3% of
exports in 1974, excluding Kenya's share of East African Community debt) and
the country could,if necessary,resort to moderate borrowing on commercial
terms during the next few difficult years without impairing long-term credit-
worthiness.  About 14% of total external debt is now held by IBRD (Bank
Group: 30%), but because Bank Group lending has only recently become a sig-
nificant proportion of Kenya's debt, debt service to IBRD in 1974 was still
only about 15% of all debt service payments (Bank Group: 17%). In addition
to its own external public debt, Kenya is also jointly responsible together
with the other two Partner States for debts incurred by the East African
Community and its institutions, which amount to some $244.8 million (including
undisbursed). Allowing for a nominal one third of service payments on these
debts, Kenya's total debt service ratio is about 4%.
17.      In spite of the much greater need for external capital now facing
the country, Kenya is still following a cautious policy in her external
debt management, although the Government is making greater use of suppliers'
or export credits on favorable terms to finance some of the larger projects
now ready for implementation.   Assuming a slower growth rate   ahead during
the restructuring period, Kenya's external debt will have to increase
considerably over the next decade if the expected balance of payments
gap is to be filled. While Kenya's economic performance certainly



-7-
justifies substantial amounts of concessionary financing, including IDA
credits. It can be expected that the terms of borrowing would be on the
average less favorable than Kenya has enjoyed in the past. However, since
export earnings will increase during the period as well, barring major
unforeseen developments in Kenya's terms of trade, the debt service ratio
would probably not exceed 16 percent by the end of the 1970s. By that
time it is estimated that IBRD might hold about 22% (Bank Group: 28%)
of total disbursed debt, and receive 15% (Bank Group: 16%) of debt service
payments. Beyond 1980 creditworthiness will depend on Government's
ability to take action in the near future to increase the productivity
of investments, to reduce the import propensity and to increase exports.
Temporarily, higher debt service payments in the early 1980's may be
followed by a fall in debt service ratio in the latter part of the decade
if the Government's action program is successful. However, in spite of
the considerable efforts of the Government to improve domestic resource
mobilization, limitations on domestic resources are so severe that it
will be necessary to finance from external sources a substantial part
of the costs of the program, including some local costs.
PART II - BANK GROUP LENDING TO KENYA
General Lending Policy
18.      The fundamental aim of the Bank Group's lending program to Kenya
is to support projects that simultaneously increase resource based pro-
duction while promoting incomes and employment. While in the past our
emphasis was on the development of infrastructure, we are now moving towards
directly productive projects that provide support for the lower-income
groups of the population and are concentrating on projects in rural areas
of Kenya. The Bank Group has become a major source of external finance for
Kenya. However, despite our increased level of lending in recent years,
the capital constraints are high and we are expanding our functions to
include promotion of co-financing both with export/suppliers' credit insti-
tutions and bilateral and multilateral aid agencies.
Ongoing Projects
19.      Kenya has to date received 19 Bank loans and 18 IDA credits
amounting to $332.9 million and $145.7 million, respectively, supporting
34 operations. In addition, Kenya has been one of the beneficiaries of
ten loans totalling $244.8 million which have been extended for the develop-
ment of common services (railways, ports, telecommunications and finance
for industry), operated regionally for the three Partner States of the East
African Community -- Kenya, Tanzania and Uganda. Annex II contains summary
statements of Bank loans and IDA credits to Kenya and the East African Corpo-
rations, a summary of IFC investments in Kenya, and notes on the execution
of ongoing projects.



-8-
20.      The progress on Kenya's ongoing projects has, on the whole, been
satisfactory but with a few projects particularly in the agriculture,
transport and population sectors behind schedule. One reason for this is
the manpower constraints in certain fields requiring time consuming re-
cruitment from abroad.     With   greater efforts  in attracting qualified
expertise, and the gradual increase in suitably trained Kenyans to fill such
positions, the problems should eventually be alleviated. In addition, Bank
staff is assisting through frequent supervision and contacts with Government
officials.
Projects under Preparation
21.      A number of projects are now under preparation, the majority of
which aim at supporting agricultural production and rural development. An
irrigation project in the Lower Tana River Basin has been appraised; and
two projects, one for expansion of sugar production and one for another
credit tranche to the Agricultural Finance Corporation are now being appraised.
A broadly conceived integrated agricultural development project and a wildlife
and tourism project are being presented to the Executive Directors along with
this project.
22.      Concurrently  with efforts to support agricultural production,
we foresee a need for complementary development of rural infrastructure,
including rural access roads and rural water supply schemes. Whiile the
major emphasis will continue to be on agriculture and the development of
the rural economy, the Bank recognizes the need for continued support to
infrastructure and services necessary for sustained growth of the economy
as a whole. And in an effort to strengthen Kenya's industrial development,
particularly in resource-based manufacturing with emphasis on intermediate
technology, we expect to support a small scale business project and continue
supporting the Industrial Development Bank.
East African Community
23.      The East African Community Corporations have experienced diffi-
culties in recent years. While the 1967 Treaty for East African Coopera-
tion is one of the most far-reaching and comprehensive economic cooperation
agreements in existence among sovereign states in the developing world, in
practice, the degree of economic integration and cooperation among the
Partner States is much less than what was envisaged in the Treaty. Poli-
tical developments in the Partner States have created tension within the
Community and impaired the growth of interestate trade. These difficulties
have been compounded by the balance of payments constraints which all three
Partner States experienced.



-9 -
24.       Of the Community Corporations, the East African Railways Corpora-
tion (EARC) has been the most severely affected. As a result of long delays
by the Partner States in approving increases in tariffs and restrictions on
the interstate transfer of corporate funds, EARC was unable to order essential
spare parts and supplies with the result that its operational capacity has
deteriorated considerably. In July 1974, the Partner States agreed, with
Bank assistance, on a package of financial measures to rehabilitate the
EARC including interstate transfer of funds and injection of additional
capital.   However, this agreement was never fully implemented and as a
result, disbursements under Loan No. 674-EA (East African Railways III)
were suspended in February 1975. A further meeting was held in July 1975
at which an agreement was again reached on formula for sharing of debt
service payment by the Partner States, and suspension of the loan was
lifted.
25.       The Partner States recognized that because of their fundamental,
political and economic differences, a review of the 1967 Treaty was called
for.  For this purpose a Commission has been established consisting of three
Cabinet level officials from each country, with Mr. Demas, President of
the Caribbean Development Bank, as Chairman. This Commission is expected to
submit its reports by the end of 1976. While there is hope that the Commis-
sion may deal with the structural differences in the long run, the Corpora-
tions are still facing a difficult period.
26.       Since February 1976 the relationship between the Partner States has
further deteriorated. Arrangements for debt service payments were
again disrupted resulting in long delay in making debt service
payments to the Bank. Disbursements to the East African Railways
Corporation, the East African Harbours Corporation, the East African
Posts and Telecommunications Corporation and the East African
Development Bank were suspended by the Bank on April 28, 1976.
As the Executive Directors were informed on May 25, 1976 (SecM76-383),
a mission visited East Africa in May to discuss with the Presidents
and Finance Ministers the debt service problems which endangered
both the Bank's operations in East Africa and the credit standing
of the Community and the Partner States (being jointly and severally
responsible).    An Agreement  was   reached to ensure remittances
from the Regional Offices of the Corporations to complete all over-
due payments and these were made by June 1, 1976.     Disbursements
on the Community loans were, therefore, resumed with effect from
June 1. Regarding future debt service payments, the Agreement



-10-
(i) specifies fixed contributions by each Partner State to meet
external debt ogligations, (ii) commits the Governments to ensure
remittances from the Regional Offices of the Corporations, (iii)
establishes a mechanism and procedure for timely payments, and
(iv) provides automatic foreign exchange cover for debt service
remittances.
IFC
27.       IFC has committed a total of $35.0 million for four companies in
Kenya (Pan African Paper Mills, Ltd.; Kenya Hotel Properties, Ltd.; Tourism
Promotion Services (Kenya) Ltd.; and Rift Valley Textiles, Ltd.). As of
April 30, 1976, IFC held for its own account $25.9 million comprising
$18.4 million of loans and $7.5 million of equity.
PART III - THE RURAL SECTOR
Rural Development Strategy
28.            Agriculture and related activities constitute the single most
important sector in the Kenyan economy. Nearly 34% of the GDP was derived
from this sector in 1974 and provided employment for 90% of the labor force.
The main export commodities include coffee, tea, sisal, beef and pyrethrum.
Major crops marketed domestically include maize, wheat, sugar livestock and
dairy products. Of these crops, maize is the staple food crop followed by
pulses, cassava, millet and bananas in some areas.
29.       Apart from the large scale farm sector involving some 3000 units,
the rural population is made up of some 1.2 million small farmers producing
some 50% of agricultural outputs. However, the high rate of population
increase is outstripping the absorptive capacity of subsistence agriculture,
resulting in widespread rural unemployment and migration to the urban areas.
This calls for the adoption of a rural development strategy that can provide
a major thrust not only to mitigate these problems but also to meet the re-
quirement of a growing rural population. The Kenyan Government has fully
recognized that a soundly based rural development strategy must be supported
by adequate road infrastructure. Accordingly, the expenditure program under



the 1974-78 Development Plan provides, inter alia, for improvement of
secondary and minor roads in the rural areas and development of new access
roads in agricultural areas where communication is not feasible on a year-
2(' >S1si.
Rural Development Institutions
30.       It has been recognized that to implement the rural strategy defined
above requires the establishment of effective institutions geared to tackle
problems associated with rural communities. As part of this process, a
Special Rural Development Program was initiated in 1967 on an experimental
basis to test the rural development strategies at district level. Six experi-
mental areas were chosen and a variety of agricultural pilot projects were
introduced including credit for farmers and traders, stock farm inputs,
livestock marketing, extension staff training, family planning, functional
literacy and rural access roads. The Special Rural Development Program laid
the foundation for the establishment of District Development Committees which
provides for local participation in development planning.
31.       Kenya is administratively divided into 40 districts each of which
is served by a District Development Committee composed of representatives of
various bodies concerned with rural development, chaired by a District Com-
missioner. Its purpose is to ensure that District Development Plans reflect
the priorities and needs of the local people and to coordinate different
sectoral development proposals into a well-balanced and integrated plan at
district level. The day-to-day work of the District Development Committee
is administered by a District Development Officer who plays an important
role in the preparation of the District Plan and in coordinating development
projects with the Provincial Planning Officer under the Ministry of Finance
and Planning.
Rural Access Roads Program
32.       In the past trunk and primary roads received priority, although
parallel programs were also implemented in the construction of special
purpose roads such as settlement, tea, sugar and rice roads. Of the 52,000 km
of roads constructed to date, over 22,000 km are classified as trunk, primary
and secondary roads, while 25,000 km comprise minor roads and 5,000 km special
purpose roads. Paved roads increased in length from a little over 1,000 km
in 1960 to about 3,700 km in 1974, but more than 90% of the classified road
network still consists of gravel or earth roads. In addition, there are
between 85,000 and 100,000 km of rural roads, but a majority of them are
not all-weather.
33.       In accordance with its rural development strategy, the Kenya
Government started in 1975 a Rural Access Road Program. The program aims
at construction of 15,000 km of rural access roads over a period of eight
years. The importance of this program and its potential Impact on rural



-12-
development may be seen by considering that, at present, there are large
areas of districts included in the Rural Access Roads Program where the
rural people have to walk more than 15 km to reach an all-weather road.
The main objectives of the Rural Access Roads Program are to (a) stimulate
increased cash crop and livestock production and bring more persons into the
market economy by providing the necessary all-weather access to markets;
(b) provide rural employment by using labor-intensive construction methods;
(c) improve access to social facilities and services; and (d) increase local
participation in development planning through selection at the district level
of roads for improvement.
34.       Twenty-two districts have already been selected by the Government
for Rural Access Roads Program. The Ministry of Works will issue to the
District Development Committees guidelines and procedures for selection of
roads within these districts. The Special Project Branch of the Ministry of
crks will i:etermine basic construction techniques and standards.  During
negotiations, it was agreed that an already-existing committee consisting of
-&e--as seven Provincial Planning Officers, representatives of the Ministries
of Agriculture (including someone connected with the Integrated Agricultural
Development Project, which is being proposed for Bank Group financing),
Finance and Works, would annually review the districts scheduled for inclusion
in the Rural Access Roads Program and the allocation of funds among them.
Since the District Development Committees comprise both the district level
officers of all government departments concerned with rural development and
public representatives of the districts, a high degree of identification
witb, and support for, the program and a sound selection of roads can be
expected. An economic and social evaluation of the roads selected for each
district will be prepared by the Ministry of Works; a satisfactory economic
and social evaluation (a minimum of 10% economic rate of return plus substantial
social benefits) will be a prerequisite of Bank Group financing.
35.       The roads are to be relatively short (5-10 km); they are expected
to carry almost no through traffic and the exoected volume of traffic is low.
In nearly all cases, such roads are built to all-weather standards along
existing tracks or low standard roads. Since the road construction
standards need to be just adequate to maintain their all-weather
characteristics, the basic cross section selected provides a width of
carriage-way of only four meters (plus one meter wide shoulders on each
side) and gravel thickness of 10 cm. However, the carriageway can be
widened to six meters and the gravel thickness increased to 15 cm.
whenever conditions justify it. Construction is to ensure appropriate
road surface quality and adequate drainage, thereby ensuring that the
roads are passable during the rains.



-17-
(e) 90% of expenditures for evaluation and monitoring of
the Rural Access Roads Program.
49.       The implementation of the Rural Access Roads Program requires
an early output of trained staff to undertake the tasks set out in the
project. In order to expedite the implementation of the proiect, it is
recommended that costs incurred from April 1, 1976 of up to $C.2 million
be financed retroactively. The IDA Credit will be disbursed first.
Ecological Impact
50.       In some areas scheduled for Rural Access Roads Program construction
there is evidence of uncontrolled destruction of trees and foliage as well
as cultivation on steep slopes in the vicinity of recent road improvements
which are already causing serious soil erosion. This situation could be
aggravated by the improved access to markets which will result from the
Rural Access Roads Program. The importance of preventing soil erosion has
been recognized by the Government and it was agreed during the negotiations
that it would take appropriate measures to ensure that the implementation
of the Rural Access Roads Program would not aggravate soil erosion in the
areas served by the Rural Access Roads Program (Section 4.02 of the draft
Development Credit Agreement).
Project Benefits and Justification
51.       A formal economic analysis of a project of this nature is
fraught with difficulties and could be misleading if undue significance
were attached to more readily quantifiable benefits, such as agricul-
tural output. Even an attempt to quantify the agricultural benefits
attributable to the road improvements would be somewhat conjectural,
because there is little evidence from Kenya to indicate the nature of
the relationship between expenditures on access road development and
agricultural production. Such benefits are, in any case, normally
derived from a package of development investments of which road improve-
ments are only a part. Moreover, for certain other benefits of major
importance in the case of the RARP, such as improved access to schools
and health centers, there appears to be no practicable way at present
whereby total benefits might be measured.
52.       The overall evaluation relates to the full 8-year construction
program-in 22 districts. Construction and maintenance costs have been
readjusted on an economic basis, taking account of the shadow prices
of productive factors. The direct economic benefits comprise increased
agricultural production through improved access to markets and more
effective coverage by Government services, such as extension and
veterinary programs. Forecasts. are based on average data for the whole
area covered by the program, in the absence of detailed district data
and should, therefore, be regarded as broad orders of magnitude indica-
tors only, although probably on the conservative side.



-18-
Potential vehicle operating cost savings are regarded as negligible in
view of the low traffic volumes and have not been included. The benefits
have been quantified by estimating the growth in marketed agricultural
output attributable exclusively to RARP construction. This is put
conservatively at 0.5%, compared with 5.0% for anticipated normal growth,
and does not take into account any increase in subsistence production.
The resulting benefits are adjusted to allow for the cost of inputs
and the shadow price of foreign exchange earnings from forecast export
of crops. The estimated rate of retun is in excess of 12%. This is based
only on direct economic benefits and does not take into account the
income redistribution effects of the program and improved access to
social services, which would represent a substantial addition to the
more readily quantifiable benefits. It is estimated that the construc-
tion program alone would generate some 84,000 man-years of employment
for casual labor.
53.       The project is not without risks.   Because the use of labor-
intensive construction techniques in road construction is new in Kenya,
there is little experience to serve as a guide. It is possible that
unforeseen problems might arise causing delays in project execution.
However, through extensive supervision and the monitoring and evaluation
to be carried out, it should be possible to detect such difficulties
sufficiently early to prevent serious delay in the implementation of
the project.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS
54.       A draft Development Credit Agreement between the Republic of
Kenya and the Association and a draft Loan Agreement between the Republic
of Kenya and the Bank, copies of which are being distributed to the
Executive Directors separately, conform generally to the pattern of the
Association's and the Bank's agreement for roads and highways projects.
Also being distributed separately are the Recommendations of the
Committee provided for in Article V, Section l(d) of the Articles of
Agreement of the Association, the Report of the Committee provided
for in Article III, Section 4(iii) of the Articles of Agreement of the
Bank and the draft resolution approving the proposed credit and the
proposed loan. Special features in the proposed Development Credit
Agreement are referred to in paragraph 41, 42, 43, and 44.
55.       I am satisfied that the proposed development credit and loan
would comply with the Articles of Agreement of the Association and the
Bank.



-13-
36.       In order to implement its policy of increasing rural employment
opportunities, the construction of the rural access roads would employ
labor-intensive techniques in preference to mechanization, but this does
not rule out the use of construction machinery and equipment where found
more economical. Civil works are carried out through construction units,
each comprising some 270 casual laborers recruited at the village level
and supervised by appropriately qualified Ministry of Works personnel.
The average road length to be constructed by each unit is estimated at
45 km per annum but this varies with local conditions. The number of
units in a district depends upon the workload for the district, but is
estimated at 3 or 4. Each unit is split into 2 or 3 sub-units, each working in
in a different labor catchment area of a 3-4 mile radius to ensure that
workers do not travel long distances to get to work.
37.       The Government of Kenya attaches great importance to the success
of the Rural Access Roads Program but it also realizes that its full imple-
mentation requires external resources and financial assistance. Therefore,
besides the World Bank Group, the Government has approached bilateral
agencies to seek support for the program both for construction and technical
assistance. The United Kingdom is financing construction on a pilot basis
and expects to expand its participation.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
38.       Although Kenya has in the past received extensive Bank Group
assistance in highways development, this is the first time consideration
has been given to supporting a rural access roads project. The Government
in 1974 requested Bank Group assistance in financing the early phases of
the program. An appraisal mission visited Kenya in September 1975.
Negotiations were held in Washington in May 1976. The Kenya delegation
was led by Mr. Simon Mbugua, Permanent Secretary, Ministry of Works.
A report entitled "Appraisal of a Rural Access Roads Project - Republic
of Kenya" (No. 1039a-KE) dated May 25, 1976 is being circulated to the
Executive Directors separately. A project and loan/credit summary is
given in Annex III.
Project Description
39.       The proposed project, which forms part of the Rural Access Roads
Program (RARP), would provide assistance to the Government for the following:
(a) equipping and operating eight construction units for
three years each;



-14-
(b) equipment and training aids for the Staff Training Depart-
mert Training Expansion Program;
(c)  technical assistance;
(d) evaluating and monitoring the Rural Access Roads Program;
and
(e) equipment for maintenance and repair of roads constructed
under the Rural Access Roads Program.
Construction Units
40.       The construction standards for the project have been described in
para 35. The 8 construction units will construct about 1,000 km of access
roads over the three years. The Government will select the districts in
which the construction will be implemented, taking into account important aRri-
cultural developments, such as the proposed Integrated Agricultural Develop-
ment Project and the South Nyanza Sugar Project.
Training Expansion Program
41,       A Staff Training Department was established in the Ministry
of Works in 1971 with IDA assistance (Credit No. 224-KE) to meet in part the
demand for highways staff by training sub-professional technical personnel in
these areas. The Ministry of Works has now drawn up a five-year training
expansion program designed to train a total of 3,500 road supervisors, sur-
veyors, storekeepers, mechanics, welder/auto-electricians, equipment operators
and drivers by 1980 to meet the RARP, and other Ministry of Works normal maint-
enance requirements. The physical facilities of the Staff Training Department
will be expanded with additional classrooms, workshops, laboratories, stores,
training equipment, materials and vehicles to continue to train Ministry of
W.orks staff in road maintenance required elsewhere in the highway system. The
Government has agreed to take all necessary measures for the timely imple-
ulentation of the Staff Training Department Training Expansion Program, includ-
ing the appointment of all required instructors (Section 3.09 of the draft
Development Credit Agreement).
Technical Services
42.       Because technical assistance for the rural roads program
is provided     from other sources, no large scale technical assistance
component is included in this project.   It was, however" agreed during nego-
tiations that since some of the instructors for the Staff Training



-15-
Department Training Expansion Program would themselves be recent graduates
of the program, supervising instructors would be employed, as required and
in consultation with the Bank Group, to provide back-up experience and
support. A sum of $0.5 million is included in the project for this purpose
or for other technical assistance considered essential to the Rural Access
Roads Program. Because of the importance of the Superintending Engineer
post, it was agreed that in the event the post became vacant, the Government
would consult the Bank Group regarding the qualifications, experience and
functions of prospective appointees. (Section 3.02(a) of the draft
Development Credit Agreement.)
Evaluation of and Monitoring the Rural Access Roads Program
43.       Monitoring and evaluation of social and economic effects is
essential in view of the program's innovative nature. A sum of $0.4
million is therefore included in the project for this purpose. In order
to avoid duplication of effort, this component should be carried out in
collaboration with other Bank Group financed projects such as the proposed
Integrated Agricultural Development Project. The Government has agreed,
as a condition for disbursement under this category, to submit for Bank
Group approval, a monitoring and evaluation plan (Section 3.10 of the draft
Development Credit Agreement). Consultants to carry out this task would
be appointed in consultation with the Association (Section 3.02(b) of
draft Development Credil: Agreement).
Maintenance
44.       The maintenance of the roads constructed under the Rural Access
Roads Program will be the responsibility of the Maintenance Branch of the
Ministry of Works. About 2,700 km of access roads will have been constructed
under the Rural Access Roads Program by the end of the period covered by the
project. By the end of the Rural Access Road Program, maintenance costs
totalling US$6 - 8 million (net of contingencies) should have been incurred
in keeping these roads in a satisfactory condition. It is proposed to pro-
vide US$0.6 million under the project for vehicles required at the outset
of the maintenance program to supplement Government resources until program
benefits begin to accrue. The Government has prepared a satisfactory road
maintenance plan and has agreed to ensure proper maintenance and repairs
of the roads constructed under this project (Section 4.03 of the draft
Development Credit Agreement).
Project Costs and Financing
45.       The total project is estimated to cost US$10.1 million net of taxes,
with a foreign exchange component of US$5.7 million or 57% of total project
cost. The proposed Bank loan and IDA credit of $4 million each will finance
80% of the total project costs (net of taxes and duties).



-16-
The proceeds from the loan and credit will be used to finance the equipping and
operating of eight construction units for three years each ($3.1 million);
training expansion and equipment ($1.7 million); technical assistance ($0.5 million);
evaluation and monitoring ($0.4 million); maintenance equipment ($0.6 million);
and contingencies ($1.7 million).
Project Implementation
46.       The project will be administered by the Ministry of Work's Special
Projects Branch as part of the overall Rural Access Roads Program. The
Branch will be responsible for determining standards of road design and
construction in accordance with the criteria described in para 35. Other
project inputs will be provided through the strengthening of the Staff
Training Department under the training expansion program which will
produce trained personnel for the Rural Access Roads Program. The project
will provide some inputs for the monitoring and evaluation through
technical assistance. The project is scheduled for completion on June 30,
1980.
Procurement
47.       Procurement of all machinery and equipment for the construction
units and the Staff Training Department Training Expansion Program costing more
than US$100,000   equivalent     will be under international competitive
bidding according to the Bank Group guidelines. It is recognized, however,
that because of requirements for standardization, international competitive
bidding procedures may, in some instances, be inappropriate. The Association
xvill therefore review bidding documents with a view to determining whether
local procurement procedures are more appropriate. Contracts for less than
the equivalent of US$100,000 will be procured in accordance with local pro-
curement procedures satisfactory to the Association.
Disbursements
48.       Disbursements from the Bank Group credit and loan, which will be
fully documented, will be on the following basis:
(a) 100% of foreign expenditures or 90% of local expenditures
for equipment and vehicles (excluding hand tools),teaching
aids and mechanics' training equipment and maintenance;
(b) 50% of expenditures for hand tools;
(c) 60% of expenditures for construction unit operating costs;
(d)  100% of foreign expenditures for technical assistance; and



-19-
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
56.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the
proposed credit and loan.
Robert S. McNamara
President
Attachments
Washington, D. C.
June 15 , 1976






ANANEX T
TABLE 3A                                         Page I of li Pages
KENYA                 - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
LAND AREA (THOU KMi).........................
---------------                        ~~~~~~KENTA                            REFERENCE CCUNTRIES (1910)
TOTAL        582..6                                         MOST RECENT
ARABLE          .                         19 60       1 970   ESTIMATE           TANZANIA        KOREA (SOUTH) MAURITIUS-
GNP PEP CAPITA CUSS)                          90. 0      1 40. 0      17 0. 0              1 10 .0     2710. 0      28 0. 0
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
POPULATION (MID-TM. MILLION)                 8.3        11.2         12.5                 12.9        !1.4          0.9
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQUARE KR4.                          14.0         19.0         21.0                14.0        319.0       400.0
PER SQUARE KM.    MAR10L LAND               ...                       .1 41.0                      7 49.0       761.0
VITAL STATISTICS
CRUDE RIRTH RATE PER THOUSAND            50 .0 /a b   498. 0      4 7. 0               47.0/a       20.0         2 6.0
CRUDE DEATH RATE PER THOUSAND            20.0         1 4.0        1 7 .0              2209.80
INFANT MORTALITY MATE (/THOU)              ..         S.OC/a        I. 10.0 a                                   57.0
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH CYRS)           4 5.0 /a.b   4 8. 0       50.0                4 3 * 0      65.0         A 3 .0
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE                     ..         04           0.4                 3 .2         2.6          2 .4
POPULATION GROATH MATE (l)
TO TAL                                    3.0          0.1          3.2                 0 .0         2.4          2.4
URBAN                                       .          7. 0 /b       ..5.0 /a, ,                     6 .0         1 .6
URPBA N PO0P U L ATfION  l or TO0T AL        8 .0 /a    1 0.0          6. .0/a                        4 1.0        4 4. 0
A GE ST RU CT UR9E (P E RCE NT)
0 TO 14 TEARS                           4 6 .0  #    4 8.     .        4               4J   a      4 2.1       4 1 .9
15 TO 64 TEARS                           49 .2        4 H.O.                           5 3.0        ! 4.6        5 4 .5
65 TEARS AND OVER                         4 .8 /a.c    0 .6          .                  2.6/         3.3          3 .6
A GE D EP END0E N CY RA T IO                 1 .0        11      .      .I0.9                          0 .8         0. 8
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO                    1 .3 /d     0.1I/c        I.12/a                           1.4         1 .5 /a
rAMILY PLANNING-
ACCEPTORS (CUMULATIVE, ThOU)......
USERS Cl Or MARRIED WOMEN)                  .                         ..
EMPLOYMENT
TOTAL LAROR FORCE (THOUSAND)             3 300.0      5 10 0 .0 /d  54EE.C             56 00.0 /a.b1T400.T0       250.0
LA8OR FOACE IN AGRICULTURE 00)                ..       o9.0 7d       06 .0                91.0 /a.b   5.T          3 0. 0
UNEMPLOYED (u Or LABOR rORCE)                 ...                       ..                              .oL a       7 .o
INCOME DISTRIRUTION
o Or PRIAATE INCOME RECDO BT-
HIGHEST   5Z Or POPULATION                 ..         2 0 2/                           33 .5 Ic     20. 1
HIGHEST 200 Or POPULATION                   .         52. A6                           63.U         47.
LOwEST   200 OF POPULATION                                                              2 3.  .32.3c  64.1
LUwEST   401% OF POPULATION                I. 197j                   ...87                          146.2
OISTRIBUTION Or LAND OWNERSHIP
o OWNED AT TOP 10% OF OWNERS                  ......                                                  2 8. 0
I OW NED 8 T SM ALL EST 10X0 ONNERS           ......                                                   2.0
HEALTH AND NUTRITION
POPULATION PE09 PATS IC IAN             IlI 000/a a   1830. /r If   55C. c /A         2 1 570.-0 /b  2 2 10.0/b  4090.0
POPULATION PER ~NURSING PERSON       1 61t .O.ot   ct7?            .                300;        14.7           0.
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED                iiO.O7ti    810.E           .                 7 00. 0 W  1 9 20. 0     2 5 0.0
PEA CAPITA SUPPLY Or 
CALORIES (2 OF REQUIREMENTS)            1 03 .0      101.0        10 2.0                7 3. 0     1 03 .0      1 04 .0
PROTEIN (GRAMS PER OAT)                  751.0        71.0         67.0                 43.0        45.0         50.0
-0F WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE             32.-0       2 9 . 0                           2 3 .0      1 9.0        1 9. 0
DEATH MATE C/THOU) AGES 1-4
10UCA ION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIO
PR IMAR Y SCHOOL                         49. 0        61.0C.                            3 7.0      104. 0       10 5. 0
SECONDART SCHOOL                          3 .0/If      9.0 /R        .                   3 .0       4 1 .0       310. 0/b
TEARS OF SCHOOLING PROVIDED
(FIRST AND SECOND LEVEL)                 1 3 .0       103.0        1 3.0C               1 3.0       12 .0        1 4. 0
VOCATION4AL ENROLLMENT
(0 OF SECONDARY)                         1 2 .0 /f     2. 0         2. 0 lb             4 .0        1 5.0         1 .0
ADULT LITERACT RAT E El)                       .        3 0 .0       35.0C.                            9 2. 0 L
HOUSING
PERSONS PER ROOM (AVERAGE)                   2 .5 Ia       ....2. 7
OCCUPIED DWELLINGS WITHOUT
PIPED  WATER (7.)                          3.           .                 .             30.0/a.d    00.0 Id
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITYT
(Z OF ALL DWELLINGS)                        ........                                                s.o
RURAL SWELLINGS CONNECTED
TO ELECTRICITY (I)                          ......                                                  3 0.0
CONSUM4PTION
RADIO RECEIVERS (PER THOU POP)               9 .0        4 8 .0      4 1 .0               1 1 .0     1 26. 0      10 2. 0
PASSENGER CARS (PER THOU POP)                8.0          9.0         9.0                  3.0          2.0        15.0
ELECTRICITY (KWH/YR PEA CAP)                50.0        68.0         78.0                 29.0 /b    309.0        270.0
NEWSPRINT (RD/TM    PER CAP)                 0. 4         0 .5        C.6                  0 .1         3 .4         C.7
SEE NOTES AND DEFINITIONS ON REVERSE



nun i
Unless otherwise noted, data for 1960 refer to 1959-61, for 1970 to 1968-70, and for Most Recent Estimate to 1971-73.
** auritius has been selected as ani example of a predominantly agricultural econesry, which is following som enlightened policiesa designed to diversify
production andi promote accelerated industrialization.
KENA           1960  /a   l962;     /b  African, population;     Li Based on complete enumeration of non-ALfrican population and of urban African population,
and on a 10 percent sample of rural African population aged 0-lIt, 15-59 andi 60 years and over, respectively;       /d  Ratio of
population under 15 and 60t and over to total labor force;      /e  Registered, not all practicing in the country; nursing personnel
includes midwives ari assistant midwives;      If  Includes teacher training at the third level.
1970  /a  Registered only;       /b  1962-69;     /i Ratio of population under 15 and 65 end over to labor force age 15-59 years;
7d  labor force age 15-59 years;      ,e. Urlbain households;    If  Registered, not all practicing in the country;       /I  Includes
teacher training at the third level
MDST RECENT ESTIKATE  /a   Registered, not all practicing in the country;      /b  Including teacher training at the third level.
TANZANIA,       1970  /a  1967;     /b  Tanganyika only;      /c  Households;     /d   Urban only.
KOREA (SOUTH)   1970  /a  Registered;     /b  Registered, not all practicing in the country;       /c  Ton years end over;      /d  Water piped inside.
MAURITIUS       1970  /a  Ratio of population under 15 and 65 and over to total labwr force;       /b  acluding vocational education.
R8, February 26, 1976
DEFINITfIONS OP SOCIAL INDICATORS
TA  ~   ~    02)Ppuaion p                                                                       r nuring   rso   - Population divided by catcher of practicing
Total-TctTAiificearea comprising lanid area end inland waters.                     male ad Fkfemal   gradute anu'rses, "trained" or 'certified-' nurses, and
A rabI  - most receot estbi.Zfe of land aree uhed temporarily or permanently            auxiliary personnel with training or experience.
for cultivation, pastures, market and kitchen gardens Or to lie fallow.             P     tion:or ho pital bed - Population divided by number of hospital beds
eat   in  ait end private general and specialiced hospital and
taR  - omNP per capita estimates at market prices, calcu-              rehabilitationi centers; exciudme nursing hones and establtshrments for
IiEiWEFiPAn     onvceraion nethod as World Rank Atlas (1972-74 basis),                 custodial and preventive care.
Per capita _eTwvLvof' caoriesl (%  fva rqirements)    Computed from e-gry
POU        :~l   ia        si                                                           eqialn      o   etfo    suple    avalale in country per capita per day;
1pp,ppJmidyr.~4lalion) -9As of July first; if not available, average                    available supplies comprise domestic production, imports less exports,
oltoend-year so  too,es                                                            and chaniges in stock; net supplies exclude aniotl feed, seeds, quanti-
ties used in food processing and losses in distribution; requirements
Populationdenity - ppr suare kmc - Mid-year population per square kilo-                 were estimated by FAO based on physiological needs for normal activity
mee  (0  hotres)ofstotal area.                                                   and health considering environmental temperature, body weights, age and
Po,pulatiso density - par aquara ka of arable Land - Cuaputed as above for              sex distributions of population, and allowing 10% for waste at household
tarble land only.                                                                     level.
Per_cei~ta suply oprti(grac          per day) - Protein content of per
Vital statistics                                                                         caiantsppyo           odpr day; net supply of food in defined as
Crude birth rate Dar thousand - Annual live births per thousand of mid-                  above; requireomnts for eli countries established by USD2A Economic
year population; usually five-yewar verages ending in 1960, 1970 end                   Research Services provide for a minimum allowance of 60 grams of total
1975 for developing countries,                                                        protein per day, and 20 grams of ainimal and pulse protein, of mArch 10
Crupgdeidat  rate per thousand - Annual deaths per thousand of mid-year                 grams should be animal protein; these standards areflower than those 'f
pplto;uually five-year averages ending in 1960, 1970 and 1975                  75 grama of total p-otel,n an 0) grw     of animal protein as an average
for developing countries,                                                              for the wcrld, proposed by FAO in the Third World Food Survey.
infant mortality rate (/thoul - Annual deaths of infants under one year               Per caita poensplfrmanimal and puls,e - Protein supply of food
of ag  per housad Live births.eie                                                          from animals and pulses ingamser day.
Life expectancy a tbirth (y-s ,- Average number of years of life remain-              Dahrate (thou) a       As-   - Annual deaths per thousand in age group 1-k
Ing at birth; usually five-year averages ending in 1960, 1970 and                    ytears,totWchiiar4WiF tE     age group; suggested as an indicator of mel-
1975 for developing countrie S.                                                       nutrition.
G9ros  rprdution rate - Average number of live daughters a woman will
SiW  E   nlrT`l reproductive period if she experiences present age-            Education
specific fertility rates; usully five-year averages ending in 1960,                 Xd-.T =t  rollen rai          rmayshoc          &rlmn       f  l   gsa
1970 and 1975 for developing countries,                                               percentage ofpimr      sho-age population; includes children aged
Populaion grotnh ratse%       total - Compound aninual growth rates of mid-             6-li years but adjuBted for different lengths of primary education;
yerpplton for 1950-60, 1960-70, and 1960 to most recent year.                   for countries with universal edc'wation, enrollment may exceed 100%
Population gzrowth rate (%) - urban - Computed like growth rate of total                 since somes pupils are below or above the official school age.
population; diff'erent definitions of urban areas may affect compara-               AdJustedenrolment ratio - secondar schol - Computed as abovet second-
bility of date among countries.                                                       ary edction requires at least foryas of approved primary instruc -
1f4LnAPop~4tin(,% Of total) - Ratio of urban to total population;j dif-                  tionj provides general, votational or tweahor training instructions for
rhikiCdif          oftIT -b-n areas may affect comparability of data                 pupils of 12 to 17 years of age; correspondence courses are generally
among countries,                                                                      excluded.
MARestrurtwessremnt) - Chcildren (0-lJL years), working-age (15-64 years),            Years of schooling  rovdesdv(,first and second levels) - Total years nf
and retired (65 yeara and ovar) as percentages of mid-year population,                schooling; aseondr       lovel, vocational, instruction may be partially
Age dADndecvratio - Raio of population under 15 and 65 and over to                       or completely excluded.
those of ages 1lVthrough 64.                                                        Vocational enolmnt(%o       scLaondan) - Vocational institutions include
Econg  nd     v ratio- Ratio of population under 15 and 65 and over               tecrlutcl   ni ral     or other programs which operate independently or
to  b  riS FThVeWlinge group of 15-6k years.                                      as departcents of secondary inatituttona.
Family planning - acceptrs(cmuaive, thou         - Cumulative number of               Aduilt literacy rates(,%) - Literate adults (able to read and write) as per-
acceptors of birthcnrldvcsunder auspices of national family                           cantage Of toa     dult population aged 15 years and over.
planning program since inception.
Fatl    1 slm ig   srs (% of married wemen) - Percentages of married
women tof all d-bearing age (15-44 years) who use birth-control de-                 Poreona gr room (ave     e) - Average number of persons per room in occupied
vie  oalmaried womean in same age group.                                        convenionahl dwelIlingsIn urban areas; dwellings exclude non-permanent
structures and unoccupied parts.
Emi=sypnt                                                                              Occupied dwelings without piped wate ()-Occupied conventional dwell-
Totl lbor,foce  thousad) - Economically active persons, including                   ings in urban An  rural areas without Lcide or outside piped water
armsd forces and' un  ow yed but excluding housewives, students, etc.;                 facilities as percentage of all ocuid dwellings.
definitions in v-arious countries are not comparable.                               Access to electrnity2% of all deel=ge        - Conventional dwellings with
labor forc iaeiculture (8N        Agr icatural labor force (in farming,'               Telectricity in livin   quarters as perceint of total dwellings in urban
forestry, huting and fishing; as percentage of total labor force,                     and rural areas.
U:%2edrlof labor force) - Unemployed are usually defined as per-               Rural dwlig      onnected to electricity (%) - Computed as above for rural
sona   arelae and wling to take a job, out of a job on a given                      dwelling"s onlay.
day, remained out of a job, and seeking work for a specified minimum
period not exceeding one week; may not be comparable between coun-                     f7to
tries due to different definitions of unemployed and source of data,                ReH re     1ver     rto         -  l   ye     frciesfrrdobod
e.g., esployment office statistics, sample surveys, compulsory unen-                  catee  to geeapp          spr thousand of population; excludes ouixceneed
playnent insurance,                                                                    receivers in countrijes and in years whom registration of radio sets was
in effect; data for recent years nay not be comparable since east coup-
Income distribution - Percentage of private income (bath in cash and                     tries abolished liceseing.
kind Treceived IF richest 5%, richest 20%, poorest 20%, and poorest                  pal              gr hupp        - Passeniger cars comprise ontor cars seating
kO% of pooalo.ls                                                                            ma   eght Persons; excludes ambulances, hearses and military
vehicles.
Distribution of land m_ownershiip - Percentages of land owned by wealthiest            Elcrcl        w        r a)-Ama        conaumeption of industrial, coms-
IN% and poorest 10% of lnd omiers,                                                     c iala puriitbivateelectricity in kilowatt hours per capita; gen-
H                                                                 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~erally based on prodcLtion data, without allowanOe for losses in grid,
,~t and Hutr ,tio                                                                    but allowing for imports and expwts of electricity.
'oni     i    ;Sia    - Population divided by number of practticing                HM        _,inu1~Ng nr rs~ c) - Per cap ita annual onurspution in kilogram
phyiiasqualif efromn a mesdical school at university level.                            estimatsd from dmaiEc production plus not imports of newsprint.



KE NY A
Annex 1
ECONOMIC DEVELDWENT DATA
(Amounts in di~fltons of U.S. dollars)                                               Page 3 of 4 Pages
PralI mu,-
Actual.                  ru            rjected          1964-    1974 -    1975 -    1976 -    1973     1975      1981
~1964 1   19732/     194   /      97       1Pr6     19q81      1972     1975       1976      1981      -
NATIONAL ACCOUINTS                                                               _                    ____                         __
A 193Pices & Exchange Rates         Average AnulGowhRts                    At Percent of ODY
Gross Domestic Product                1,030     2,2       245          ,02      267       3,356       6.       23        5.          .0      100.0    107.5    107.0
Gains from Terms of Trade(+              10        -  -     113       - 175      - 144    - 210        -        -          -         -          -     - 7.5     -7.0
Gross Domestic income                T7ro 2O 72           57322       777       7732M3   77   6       6.5     -0.2        7.1       4.7     TUDO      TUIT     TU0
Import (cine. NB'S)                     296       718       767         635        766      896       6.1    -17.2      20.6       3.2        30.9     32.9     28.6
Exports  "  (import capacity)  35~2~0   686       588          525       640      840       2.8    -10.7      21.9        5.6       29.5     25.2     26.8
Resource Gap                             54    -732      '-fl9        '=73O       7776    =36          -        -         -          -         T7.4  -7777    --r 8
Consumption Expenditures                838     1,686     1,610       1,866     1,933     2,351       6.6      1.i       3.6       4.0        72.6     80.2     74.7
Investment     '  (incl. stocks)        149       668       701         571        686      851      11.6    -18.7      20.4       4.4        28.8     24.5     27.1
Domestic Savinigs                       202       636       522         461        560      785       5.9    -11.7      21.5       7.0        27.4     19.8     25.0
National Savings                        211       511       462         429        519      718       5.0. -7.2         21.0        6.7       22.0     18.4     22.8
MERCHANDISE TRADE                              Annual Data at Current Prices                                                                As Percent of Total
rmorts                                                                                                   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1973  1974
Capital goods                        122.4     170.5      175.2       200.8                                                                         1 9.6
Intermediate goods (NcLfuels)        173.2     214.2     272.6        435.9431                                                                        25
Fuels and related materials           41.3      47.4       67.0       227.2                                                                10.6     22.1
of which:   Petroleum              (41.3)    (47.4)    (67.0)      (227.2)                                                              (10.6)   (22.1)
Conupto      gos105.8                          128.1      117.6       161.9                                                                18.6      15.8
Total March. ISprs(i)                427       560.2      632.4     1,025.8                                                               100.0     100.0
Exports
Primsary products (Esnl. fuels)      144.7     135.8      256.2       291.5
F'uels and related materials          40.3       51.4      61.7       127.7
of which:    Petroleum             (40.3)    (51.4)    (61.7)      (127.7)
Manufactured goods                    103.6     112.6    -150.1       172.3
Total Merch. Exports (fob)           288.6      299.8     4~68.0      591.5
Tourism and Border, Trade             25        76         70
Merchandise Trade Indices               1973      1974      1975       1981
Excport Price Index                  100       130        138        221
Import Price Index                   100       161       181         267
Terms of Trade Index                 100        81         76         83
Exports Volume Index                 100       110         93        140
VALUE ADDED BY SECTOR                Aninual Data a     ~       Prices and EXChange Rates              Aver%e Annual qGrowth Rates          As Percent of Total
36'z~      _W7A       1973      197                                 T_194-97   172-1973     1973-74 1964    1972   1973   1974
Agriculture                         1756       24         6           6                                 .%8.17.                   -08     23      0     20      0
Industry and Mining                  119       229       253         264                               8.57.        10.5%          4.37,  20     21     22     20
Service                              400       722     -774          816                               7.6/,         7,27,         5.4%   57     59     58    40
Total                                65      117       i294       1,344                                7.47.          8.17.        3.7   100    10     10     10
PUBLIC FINoANCE                                 In current prises and exchange rates
(Ce-ntral Government)                  64/65     71/72    72/73      73/74     74/75     75/76
Current Receipts                     138      398        419         493     669       711
Curnt pedtgures                159      337        374         395     569       644
Budgetr    Svns                      -21       61         45          98     100        67
Other Public Sector
Espenditure in Development           38       145        173        191     246       381
Budget
US 4 million
CURRENT   EXPENDhITURE DETAILS                    Actual         Prelim.    Est.     Proj.         DETAIL ON                                 At end 1- 5/ 6 P and ER
As%TtlCretEpn.)16/5E~L                                           197675 ~fl376=3778              PUBLIC SECTOR                        Piro   Pa         ofTotal
Education                         11           28       27        28         28       27         INVESTMENT PROGRAM                    (19 74 /75   - 19 77 / 78)
Other Social Services                          1:,      U         1          1         9         Social Sectors                            L              It1
Agriculture                        9            ,..      37                                      Agr icu~lture                             274            2 2
Other Economic Services           3                11   i         12        13       15         Wa er Devetapuset                          171            13
Administration and Defense       30            26       25        28        27       21          Industry and Mining                        423
Other   (incl. C.F. Expent.)     39            18       17        14        15       21          Power                                      7 
___                                 ___         Transport and Cossounications ~~~~~~~~~~~~~Tr232          18
Total Current Expenditures      100           100      100       100       100      100         Ohenprt                                    280            22iaton
Total Expenditures                US$   1,276 xil       100%
SELECTED INDICATORS                             1965-1970      1975-1980.      1981-1985           FINANCING
(Calculated from 3-year averaged data) 
Average   ICOR                                        3.3.          4.7              3.3                 Public Sector Savings                389           30
Import Elasticity                                    1.0           0.6             0.7                 Program aid counterpart              347            27
Marginal Domestic Savings Rate                       0.29          0.29            0.29                Poreifan Projeact Aid                540            43
Marginal National Savings Rate                       0.22          0.30            0.29                Total Pinancing            US$     1 ,2 76xil.     100%
LABOR PORCE AND                                      Total Labor Porce                                      Value Added Per Worker (1971      -    Prices & Ems. Rates)
OUTPUT PER WORKER                          In Millions          7. of Total                                        in U.S. Dollars            percent of Average
1971               1971'                                                1971                         1971
Agriculture                                      4,647                86                                                 109                            36
Industry                                           141                 3                                               1,426                          475
Service                                            301                 6                                               1.286                          429
Total                                            5,377               100                                                 300                           100
not applicable            -  nil or negligible          I/ In 1967-69 prices and exchange- rate.
not available            -    less than half the       2/l Revised figures,                                                           ue1,17
smallest unit shown .     3/ Preliminary figures.Jue1,97



A19-
;I A  tf
WIN taoor ol 



ANNEX II
Page 1
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN KENYA
A. Statement of Bank Loans and IDA Credits as at April 30, 1976
Loan or
Credit #    Year    Borrower    Purpose                Amount (less Cancellations)
Bank  IDA 1/  Undisbursed
Six (6) loans and nine (9) credits,
fully disbursed                                      87.7   40.0
185        1970   Kenya        Education                      6.1        1.8
714        1970   NCC          Water Supply            8.3               1.5
224        1970   Kenya        Road Maintenance              12.6        2.5
276        1972   Kenya        Highways                      22.0        5.2
826        1972   Kenya        Nairobi Airport         29.0              4.9
344        1972   Kenya        Agricultural Credit            6.0        1.7
932        1973   Kenya        Highways                29.0             21.9
946        1973    IDB         DFC                      5.0              1.0
468        1974   Kenya        Population                    12.0       11.0
477        1974   Kenya        Livestock                     21.5       21.2
993        1974   Kenya        Tea Factories           10.4              8.8
1093        1975   Kenya        Group Farm Credit        7.5              7.5
537        1975   Kenya        Group Farm Credit              7.5        7.5
1105        1975   Kenya        Site and Service         8.0              8%0
543        1975   Kenya        Site and Service               8.0        7.8
565        1975   Kenya        Agriculture-Forestry          10.0        9.6 2/
1132        1975   Kenya        Agriculture-Forestry    10.0              9.2 -
1133        1975   Kenya        Transportation-
Pipeline             20.0             19.9
1147        1975   TRDC         Hydroelectric Develop. 63.0              51.9
1148        1975    IDB         DFC                     10.0              9.8
1167        1975    Kenya       Mombasa & Coastal
Water Supply        35.0             35.0
1184        1975    Kenya       Education III           10.0             10.0
TOTAL                  332.9 145.7      257.7
of which has been
repaid             8.1    0.1
Total now outstanding 324.8 145.6
Amount sold     5.1
of which has
been repaid   4.4       .7
Total now held
by Bank & IDA          324.1 145.6
189.4  63.3        257.7
Total undisbursed
1/ Prior to exchange atdjustment.
2/ Includes $6.6 undisbursed grant participation.



ANNEX II
Page 2
B. Statement of IFC Investments in Kenya as at April 30, 1976:
Amount in US$ Million
Year            Obligor           Type of Business     Loan    Equity    Total
1968 &
1973      Kenya Hotel Properties    Hotels              5.2      2.7       5.9
1970 &
1974      Pan African Paper Mills   Pulp & Paper       11.9      5.7      17.6
1972       Tourism Promotion
Services                  Hotels             2.4       -         2.4
1975       Rift Valley Textiles,
Ltd.                      Textiles            6.3      2.8       9.1
Total Gross Commitments                25.8      9.2      35.0
less cancellations,
terminations, repay-
ments and sales                      7.4      1.7       9.1
Total Commitments now
held by IFC                         18.4      7.5      25.9
Total Undisbursed                       9.0       .7       9.7



ANNEX II
Page 3
C.   Projects in Execution -/
Credit No. 185-KE - Education: $61. million Credit of May 20.
1970; Effective Date: August 5, 1970; Closing Date: December 31,
1977:
The project is practically completed; only one school, the Nyeri
Secondary Technical School is behind schedule. It is now under construction
and making satisfactory progress. Nearly all furniture and equipment have
been installed and are in use. Current estimates shows a modest cost
overrun of about US$0.5 million. The Closing Date was extended from
December 31, 1975 to December 31, 1977.
Loan No. 714-KE - Nairobi Water Supply Project: $8.4 million
Loan of December 11, 1970; Effective Date: March 26, 1971;
Closing Date: September 30, 1976:
Good progress was made on the main project items, and water was
delivered in Nairobi on schedule in March 1974. However, the Closing
Date was postponed to September 30, 1976, to enable completion of disburse-
ments for ancillary project components which are behind schedule and a
request for another extension of three months is expected. Costs are about
30 percent over the appraisal estimates, due mainly to local cost increases.
The Water and Sewerage Department has continuing problems attracting and
retaining staff for its engineering and commercial sections. The financial
results of water operations have been generally satisfactory; the increased
project costs have been met from internal cash generation. A water tariff
increase early in 1975 proved to be inadequate to maintain a sound financial
position through 1976 and another substantial increase has been implemented
with effect from January 1, 1976.
Loan No. 224-KE - Road Maintenance: $12.6 million Credit of
December 28, 1970; Effective Date: March 18, 1971; Closing
Date: June 30, 1976:
The project is going well, though its final completion may be
delayed till December 1976 -- 18 months behind schedule.
The delay    is mainly due to   a slow start in construction of regional
workshops on account of unforeseen difficulties experienced in acquisition
These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding
the progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report
any problems which are being encountered, and the action being taken
to remedy them. They should be read in this sense, and with the
understanding that they do not purport to present a balance evaluation
of strengths and weaknesses in project execution.



ANNEX II
Page 4
of sites and procurement of steel. These difficulties have now been
resolved and no further major problems are anticipated on this
project. The Closing Date was postponed from June 30, 1975 to
June 30, 1976.
Credit 276-KE - Highways: $22.0 million Credit of June 5,
1972; Effective Date: March 22, 1972; Closing Date:
December 31, 1977:
The project, due for completion in March 1975, which is
jointly financed by a Swedish Credit of $6.0 million, has slipped
considerably behind schedule and is now expected to be completed by
December 1976. Completion cost of the project is anticipated to
exceed the appraisal estimates of 42 million KSh by a little over
25 percent on account of imflationary price escalation and the
adoption, where necessitated by tariff conditions, of specifications
and design standards higher than those envisaged in the appraisal
estimates. The Closing Date was postponed from March 31, 1976 to
December 31, 1977.
Loan 826-KE - Nairobi Airport: $29 million Loan of June 2,
1972; Effective Date: July 7, 1972; Closing Date:
December 31, 1977:
Completion is now estimated in February 1977, one year
later than originally anticipated. Most of the delay is covered by
time extensions granted the principal contractor for unforeseen
delays. There is also a serious cost overruns on the project
(estimated at US$20 million. Additionally, the principal contractor
is experiencing financial problems which could influence his ability
to continue. Establishment of the Aerodromes Department is well
underway and plans for personnel training are now being prepared.
The consultants to establish the unified commercial and cost accounting
system for the Aerodromes Department have been engaged and are now
at work.



ANNEX II
Page 5
Credit No. 344-KE - Agricultural Credit: $6.0 million Credit
of November 29, 1972; Effective Date: March 2, 1973; Closing
Date: Jtne 30, 1976:
The project progresses well and disbursements will be completed
by the Closing Date (June 30, 1976). Performance of the Agricultural
Finance Corporation (AFC), the project executing agency, has improved.
After several years of losses it will make a small profit in FY 1975/76.
AFC has consolidated its staffing position, developed sound loan making
procedures and has become more oriented towards advanced planning and
loan follow up. Its decentralization program progress will but its
Finance and Accounts Department requires strengthening. Internal as well
as external reporting procedures, particularly regarding loans in arrear,
also requre further development.
Credit No. 477-KE - Livestock: $21.5 million Credit of June 5,
1974; Effective Date: December 2, 1974; Closing Date:
December 31, 1980:
Project implementation has been slow and there are substantive
problems on organization, cost overruns and pricing. Government has
requested a detailed review of the project and a joint IDA-ther donors
mission has undertaken an indepth review. Their report is expected shortly.
Loan No. 993-KE - Tea Factories: $10.4 million Loan of June 5,
1974; Effective Date: September 23, 1974; Closing Date:
June 30, 1980:
The first four factories should have been completed by March 1975,
but due to delays in original planning and by the contractors, one commenced
processing on 8th December 1975 and on 5th January 1976 and the remaining
two in March/April 1976. Tenders have been received and awarded for the
building and machinery for two more factories, bids are awaited for the
erection of the machinery and the electrical work and the sites are now
being cleared and levelled. They should be operational by the end of this
year.   The new KTDA departments to be established under the project are
functioning but will require strengthening if KTDA is going to handle
satisfactorily its additional commitments. Yields, lower than envisaged
at appraisal, and high construction costs are either going to reduce the
number of factories built in the period or the period may have to be
extended.



ANNEX II
Page 6
Credit No. 537-KE/Loan 1093-KE - Group Farm Rehabilitation:
$7.5 million Credit and $7.5 million Loan of March 27, 1975;
Effective Date: September 30, 1975; Closing Date: December 31,
1981:
Recruitment of staff has been slow, and selection of farms
is in progress but slow particularly for the mixed farms. The project is
estimated to be about 6 to 12 months behind schedule.
Credit No. 543-KE/Loan No. 1105-KE - Site and Service Project:
$8.0 million Credit and $8.0 million Loan of May 6, 1975;
Effective Date: September 25, 1975; Closing Date: June 30, 1980:
Key project staff have been appointed and project execution is
proceeding satisfactorily. Construction of off-site infrastructure and
preparation and servicing of the first 1,000 site and service lots are
well under way. Design and engineering for the rest of the project is
being carried out by consultants and all studies under this project have
commenced.
Loan No. 1117-KE - Program Loan: $30 million Loan of May 27, 1975;
Effective Date: August 26, 1975; Closing Date: June 30, 1976:
The loan has been fully disbursed. Progress on policy aspects of
the project is proceeding satisfactorily.
Loan No. 1133-KE - Mombasa-Nairobi Oil Product Pipeline Project:
$20 million Loan of June 27, 1975; Effective Date: December 3,
1975; Closing Date: February 1, 1978:
Engineering and procurement are on schedule, and construction
started.  Barring unforeseen delays, the project should be completed on
schedule.
Loan No. 1132-KE/Credit No. 565-KE - Second Forestry Plantation
ProJect: $10.0 million Credit and $10.0 million Loan of June 27,
1975; Effective Date: September 25, 1975; Closing Date: December 31,
1981:
Development of nurseries and preparation for planting is now
well underway. However, delay in procuring vehicles may cause a set back in
the planting program. Higher minimum wage for the forest workers and
general infestation has increased the cost of the project. The Land Use
Committee has now been established under the Ministry of Lands and
Settlement whose members are composed of the Permanent Secretaries of the
Ministries involved with the use of land.



ANNEX II
page 7
Loan No. 1147-KE - Gitaru Hydroelectric Power Project: $63.0
million Loan of July 25, 1975; Effective Date: January 29,
1976; Closing Date: December 31, 1979:
Procurement and construction is well underway but effectiveness
of the loan was delayed because of need to amend Trust Deed.
Loan No. 1148-KE - Second Industrial Development Bank Project:
$10.0 million Loan of July 25, 1975; Effective Date: October 7,
1975; Closing Date: July 1, 1979:
Commitments under the project are well underway.
Loan No. 1167-KE - Mombasa and Coastal Water Supply: $35
million Loan of October 15, 1975; Effective Date: January 13,
1976; Closing Date: December 31, 1980:
Progress is satisfactory. The initial equipment supply contracts
have been awarded. Tenders for the major pipe supply and pipeline construc-
tion contracts are due in May 1976.
Loan No. 1184-KE - Third Education Project: $10 million Loan of
December 31, 1975; Effective Date: March 17, 1976; Closing
Date: December 31, 1981:
The project is off to a good start. The Project Unit is fully
staffed, a survey of the physical facilities to be extended of the
17 primary teachers colleges has been conducted. Consulting architects
for the Educational Broadcasting and Multi Media Service Station design
and construction supervision are being established. The National Committee on
Educational Objectives and Priorities is at work, with an interim report
to be prepared by July 1976.



ANNEX   II
Page 8
D. East African Community
General
Owing to delays in meeting debt service on various loans to
the East African Corporations disbursements to the East African Railways
Corporation, East African Harbours Corporation, the East African Posts
and Telecommunications Corporation and the East African Development Bank
were suspended on April 28, 1976. Following receipt of outstanding pay-
ments the suspension was lifted on June 1, 1976.     The background to
these events is described in paragraphs 23 to 26 above.
Loan 674 EA - Third Railways Project: $42.4 million
Loan of May 25, 1970; Date of Effectiveness -
October 30, 1970; Closing Date - June 30, 1977
The physical execution of the original project has been seriously
delayed due to administrative and political problems within the Community
and the East African Railways Corporation's unsatisfactory procedures for
procurement, investment planning and coordination. In November 1974, the
Executive Directors approved a reallocation of the uncommitted balance of
the Loan to be used for consultant services and emergency investments.
Agreement was reached in July 1975 for the hiring of consultants to assist
EARC with outstanding organizational and financial issues. Coopers and
Lybrand (financial consultants hired by ODM) completed their asset studies
in early 1976 and CANAC (technical consultants) are proceeding with the
decentralization study.
Loan No. 638 EA - Second Harbours Project: $35.0 million
Loan of August 25, 1969: Date of Effectiveness -
December 16, 1969; Closing Date - December 31. 1976
Loan No. 865 EA - Third Harbours Project: $26.5 million
Loan of December 18, 1972: Date of Effectiveness -
April 16, 1973; Closing Date - June 30, 1977
Considerable delays have occurred in implementing the project
financed partly by Loan 638-EA. However, construction is now more than
95% complete. The Closing Date has been postpone from December 31, 1975
to December 31, 1976. The major civil works financed partly by Loan 865 EA
were completed in September 1975, six months behind schedule. Some smaller
project elements intended to be financed under Loan 865 EA, will have to
be deleted. Serious cost overruns for cargo handling equipment, tugs
and lighters financed by CIDA have occurred, and its credit has been
increased accordingly from Can.$26.0 million to Can.$33.5 million. Port
labor productivity has stagnated in Mombasa and declined in Dar es Salaam.
At the same time cargo throughput has declined considerably for Mombasa



ANNEX II
Page 9
and increased above forecasts for Dar es Salaam, where the three berths
financed under Loan 865-EA are now being used, although transit sheds
and open storage areas for them have not yet been completed.
Loan No. 843-EA - East African Development Bank Project:
$8.0 million Loan of June 28, 1972; Date of Effectiveness -
September 28, 1972; Closing Date - June 30, 1977
Operations of the Bank have been decentralized and the newly
formed regional office teams are now competent in dealing with all aspects
of development financing operations. The entire first loan has now been
committed by EADB.
Loan No. 1204 EA - East African Development Bank Project:
$15.0 million Loan of March 1, 1976: Date of Effectiveness -
June 7, 1976; Closing Date - March 31, 1980
This loan was declared effective on June 7, 1976.
Loan No. 914 EA - Third Telecommunications Project:
$32.5 million Loan of June 22, 1973; Date of Effectiveness -
September 19, 1973; Closing Date - December 31, 1976
Problems within the EAC have only marginally affected the Posts
and Telecommunications Corporation due to the considerable existing decen-
tralization of operating authority. Deterioration of the corporate cash
position and rate of return has been slight in comparison to other Com-
munity Corporations and the situation has improved by a rate increase
allowed by the Community in February 1975. All major items have been
completed by mid-1975, except two microwave links which, due to a long
lead time for delivery, will be delayed by 12 months.



ANNEX II
Page 10
E. SUMMARY STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS FOR COMMON SERVICES GUARANTEED
BY KENYA, TANZANIA AND UGANDA AS AT APRIL 30, 1976
(US$ million)
Amount less cancellations
No.          Year    Borrower     Purpose                        Bank       Undisbursed
Three loans fully disbursed                                      75.0
638  EA      1969    EAHC         Harbours                       35.0          2.3
674  EA      1970    EARC         Railways                       42.4         12.0
675  EA      1970    EAPTC        Telecommunications             10.4           .0*
843  EA      1972    EADB         Development Finance             8.0          1.0
865  EA      1972    EAHC         Harbours                       26.5          11.8
914  EA      1973    EAPTC        Telecommunications             32.5          10.4
1204  EA      1976    EADB         Development Finance            15.0          15.0
Total                                      244.8         52.5
of which has been repaid                  32.3
Total now outstanding                      212.5
Amount sold                    24.4
of which has been repaid     24.4          0
Total now held by Bank                     212.5
Total undisbursed                            52.5
*   $21,251.23 remains undisbursed



AtT\EX III
Page 1
KEN1YA - RURAL ACCESS ROADS PROJECT
CRED.tT/LOAN PROJECT SUMDIARY
Borrower:                      The Republic of Kenya
Amount:                        Credit:  $4.0 million
Loan:    $4.0 million
Terms:                         Credit:  Standard
Loan:    25 years with 5 years grace
Interest:                     Loan:     8.85%
Project Description:           The project will assist the Government in
implementing the first phase of the Rural
Access Road Program (RARP) by:
(i)    Equipping and operating eight construction
units for three years each;
(ii)    Equipping the STD Training Expansion
Program;
(iii)    Technical services for RARP
(iv)    Evaluating and monitoring the RARP; and
(v)    Maintenance and repair of the roads
constructed under the RARP.



ANNEX III
Page 2
ESTIMATED COST
Local        Foreign        Total
---------- US$ million----------
a)  8 RARP construction units             3.3           1.4            4.7
b)  Equipping the STD training            -             1.7            1.9
expansion program services
c)  Technical a-s?stance                  '.1           0.5 3.13
d)  Evaluation and monitoring             0.1                          0.54 5
e)  Maintenance ve'aicles                 J.1           0.6            0.7
Baseline Cost                        4.8            4.6            .4
f)  Contingencies
(i)    Physical                      2.4            0.3            -7
(ii)   Price                         0.7            0.3           1.5
TOTAL (including taxes)               .?           5.7            .3.
(net of taxes)               4.4           5.7           10.1



ANNEX III
Page 3
Financing Plan:                          Local     Foreign     Total
($ Million Equivalent)
IDA                                   -         4.0        4.0
IBRD                                  -         4.0        4.0
Government                           2.1         -         2.1
TOTAL                           2.1        8.0       10.1
stimated Disbursements:1                 FY 77      FY 78      FY 79      FY 80
Annual                               2,780      2,460      2,200        560
Cummulative                          2,780      5,240      7,440     8,000
Procurement:                              Procurement of all machinery and equipment
for the construction units and the Staff
Training Department Training Expansion
Program in excess of the equivalent of
US$100,000 will be under normal Bank Group
guidelines for international competitive
bidding procedures. It is recognized,
however, that even in the case of contracts
exceeding $100,000, because of requirements
for standardization and to facilitate
the use and servicing of equipment,
international competitive bidding
procedures may, in some instances, be
inappropriate and local competitive
bidding procedures would apply. Contracts
for less than the equivalent of US$100,000
will be procured in accordance with the
Government's local procurement procedures,
satisfactory to the Bank Group.
Rate of Return:                           12 percent.
Technical Assistance:                     Staff Training Department Traning -
10 manyears
Monitoring and Evaluation - 6 manyears
Appraisal Report:                         Report No. 1039a-KE dated
May 25, 1976.



