Report No. 1039b-KE                                                                FIILE  COPY
Appraisal of a Rural Access
Roads Project Republic of Kenya
June 3, 1976
Regional Projects Department
Eastern Africa Regional Office
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Document of the World Bank
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients
only in the performance of their official duties. Its contents may not
otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
The official unit of currency in Kenya is the Kenya Shilling (KSh).
However, in accordance with the practice of the Kenya Government, most large
values are expressed in Kenya Pounds (KI). The equivalents shown and figures
used throughout the report reflect the October 1975 devaluation of Kenyan
currency, unless stated otherwise.
KnO.05    =  KShl
KE1.00    =  KSh2O
US$0.124 = KShl.OO
US$1.00   =  KSh8.05
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 meter (m)            =  3.28 feet (ft)
1 kilometer (km)       =  0.62 miles (mi)
1 hectare (ha)         =  2.47 acres (ac)
1 kilogram (kg)           2.2 pounds(lbs)
1 metric ton (m ton)  =  2,204 pounds (lbs)
1 sq km (km2)          =  0.386 sq miles (mi2)
ABPREVIATIONS
DDC     -  District Development Committee
DDO     -  District Development Officer
MFP     -  Ministry of Finance and Planning
MOA     -  Ministry of Agriculture
MOW     -  Ministry of Works
MPC     -  Ministry of Power and Communications
ODM     -  Overseas Development Ministry (United Kingdom)
ORT     -  Organization for Rehabilitation through Training (Switzerland)
PDC     -  Provincial Development Committee
PPO     -  Provincial Planning Officer
RARP    -  Rural Access Roads Program
RDF     -  Rural Development Fund
RRGP    -  Rural Road Regravelling Program
SIDA    -  Swedish International Development Authority
SRDP    -  Special Rural Development Program
STD     -  Staff Training Department
TPU     -  Training Production Unit
UNDP    -  United Nations Development Program
USAID   -  United States Agency for International Development
REPUBLIC OF KENYA
FISCAL YEAR
July 1 - June 30



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
REPUBLIC OF KENYA
APPRAISAL OF A RURAL ACCESS ROADS PROJECT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS            ....................       ..........               i
1.    INTRODUCTION  .             ...........................................                 1
2.    THE TRANSPORT SECTOR AND RURAL BACKGROUND  ...............                              2
A.    The Geographic  and Economic  Setting    ............                            2
B.    The Transport Modes                                           oo.o..             2
-  Railways   . .o .... ... ... . .   .      ............ t    .......*           2
-   Port of Mombasa  .        ............ o...o ....... ooooo                   3
-  Aviation  ...                         ......... * *  . * . . * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * *  .**.*.**  3
-  Roads  .........,4.,...... .                                                  3
-  Transport Coordination and Policy  .....  o......                  ..         4
C.    The Rural  Setting  ..... ...*. *..  *.. * .**... ........ . . ..... .           5
-  Agriculture  ... .......  ..... *.... too .......* ****.....   * *            5
-  Population and Employment                  ..........      toot..             5
-  Education   .o......  ..... .    ....... . ..            . *                  6
-  Health  .................. .....          o...o.......................o....   6
-  Rural Development Planning and Financing  .....   oo                          6
3.    THE RURAL ACCESS ROADS PROGRAM ................                 o .........             7
A.   Scope and Objectives  toots"..   ........                                          7
B.   Administration  ..*         ......................                                8
C.   Implementation                 ................                                   9
D.   Financing  .. ........................... *to.o......... . ..o....                9
E.   Construction                          ...................                        10
Fo  Maintenance  ..*.......*.....*..... o...                                          11
G.  Training   o .... ..o.o ........................     ... oo......... o.           11
H.   Environmental  Impact  ......  ......           ...... ... . 0... ..    .        11
4.    THE PROJECT  ...................              o-        .................              12
A.   Objective and Description    .             .........                             12
B.   Execution  ..              ........................................              12
C.   Cost Estimate   ...... 0.......   ................................               15
D.   Financing and Disbursements              .......       ..                        18
E.   Procurement  . .......                                       .........           19
This report was prepared by Ian Smith (Economist), Mlanzoor A. Shaikh
(Engineer), Marie Garcia-Zamor (Technical Editor), Richard Clough
(Agricultural Economist), Giuseppe A. Morra (Training Officer), and
A.sif Faiz (Young Professional).
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



TABLE OF CONTENTS (Continued)
Page No.
5.  ECONOMIC AND SOCIAL EVALUATION .................... .. .....      20
A.   Problems of Economic and Social Evaluation    .........     20
B.   The Approach Adopted .....    ..........................    21
C.   Conclusions      ... 0.......... .................... .................  21
-  Overall RARP Evaluation .........................        21
- Pilot Evaluation of the RARP in
Kakamega District .............................        22
- Labor-Intensive/Capital-Intensive Cost
Comparison  ............................................ 0...  22
6.  AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION ...................         23
ANNEXES
1.  IBRD/IDA Transport Projects Benefiting Kenya
2.  Phased Inception of Construction Units
3.  A.   Basic Organizational Structure
B.   Basic Field Structure
C.  Detailed Unit Structure
4.   District Development Committees and the Rural Development Fund
5.  A.   Photographs of a Track Before Construction, and
A Road Nearing Completion
B.   Photographic Comparison of Some Capital- and Labor-Intensive
Operations
6.  A.   Summary of Estimated Costs per Construction Unit-Year
B.   Details of Estimated Costs per Construction Unit-Year
7.   Implementation Schedule
8.   Training
Tables
1.  Categories of Personnel .o be Trained by the STD, 1976-80.
2. Yearly Training Output of the STD for the Three Programs, 1976-80.
9.   Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
10. Economic and Social Evaluation
Tables:
1. Rural Access Roads Construction Cost
2. Maintenance Costs for Rural Access Roads
3. Agricultural Benefits from Rural Access Roads
4. Summary of Economic Costs and Net Agricultural Benefits
5. Kakamega District - Results of Economic Evaluation
6. Summary of Comparative Costs Per Km of Gravel Road
Construction
7. Assumptions Underlying Evaluation of Economic Costs
8. Effects of the Two Construction Alternatives on Cost-Benefit
Analysis and Economic Return
MAPS
1.  Former Bank Group-Financed Roacds - EasLern Area (IBRD 11951)
2.   Former Bank Group-Financed Roacds - Central Area (IBRD 11950)
3.   Former Bank Group-Financed Roacs - Western Area (IBRD 11949)
4.   Population Density 1969 (IBRD 11947)
5.   Kakamega District - Proposed Rural Access Roads (IBRD 11948)



REPUBLIC OF KENYA
APPRAISAL OF A RURAL ACCESS ROADS PROJECT
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS
i.        Under Kenya's 1974-78 Development Plan, a shift in emphasis is
taking place from improvement of the trunk and primary road network to de-
velopment of local access roads. This policy change is reflected in a re-
cently initiated 8-year (FY1975-82) Rural Access Roads Program (RARP) to
construct 15,000 km of low-cost roads in 22 districts by predominantly
labor-intensive methods. The RARP will stimulate agricultural production
and provide easier access for rural dwellers to social services and facil-
ities. Because of the heavy labor input, it will redistribute income to
the local population. The program will also afford an opportunity for
local participation in development planning.
ii.       In support of an early phase of the RARP, the proposed 3-year
project will assist with the equipping and operating of 8 locally recruited
construction units, a total of 24 construction unit-years. In addition, the
project will finance the foreign exchange portion of support items, compris-
ing training equipment and technical assistance. It will also provide funds
for RARP monitoring and evaluation and for vehicles to assist with RARP
maintenance. The Ministry of Works will be responsible for project execution.
iii.      The total project cost is US$10.6 million (US$10.1 million net of
taxes) of which the Bank Group will finance US$8 million (79% of net of tax
costs, or 73% after allowing for residual value of equipment). It is ex-
pected that other external agencies will also assist with the RARP, outside
the project.
iv.       Because an economic return for each participating district cannot
be calculated at this time, an economic return on the RARP as a whole has
been estimated and is in the range of 10-15%, exclusive of social benefits.
However, Bank Group financing of access road construction in each district
will be contingent upon submission of a satisfactory economic and social
evaluation (minimum 10% economic return, plus significant social benefits)
of roads selected for the RARP for that district.
v.        Equipment costing more than US$100,000 is to-be procured through
international competitive bidding. However, it is recommended that, where
circumstances warrant standardization, the Government be permitted to pro-
cure specific brands of Bank Group financed equipment through local compe-
titive bidding.
vi.       Having reached satisfactory agreement with the Government on the
subjects referred to in chapter 6, the project constitutes a suitable basis
for an IDA credit of US$4 million, on standard terms, and an IBRD loan of
US$4 million for a period of 25 years, including a 5 year grace period, at
8.85% interest, to the Republic of Kenya.






REPUBLIC OF KENYA
APPRAISAL OF A RURAL ACCESS ROADS PROJECT
I. INTRODUCTION
1.01      In May 1974, the Kenya Government requested the Bank Group to assist
in financing part of an 8-year (FY1975-82) Rural Access Roads Program (RARP).
The proposed program was refined in the light of subsequent pilot experiments
and a revised loan application was submitted in July 1975. The RARP embodies
several national policy objectives. First, it provides for the construction
of 15,000 km.of rural access roads, and thus reflects Kenya's recent shift of
emphasis from improvement of the trunk and primary road network to development
of local access roads to support agriculture and bring economic and social
benefits directly to the rural population. Second, it utilizes labor-
intensive construction methods 1/ to achieve an efficient use of economic
resources and an increase in rural employment. And, third, it provides an
opportunity for increased local participation in development planning through
selection at the district level of roads for improvement. These national
objectives coincide with those adopted in recent years for Bank Group lending.
1.02      The RARP has attracted the interest of various international and
bilateral agencies which will assist the RARP from outside the project. The
Overseas Development Ministry (ODM) is already financing construction on a
pilot basis and expects to expand its participation.
1.03      The project will assist with the organization and implementation
of part (FY1977-79) of the 8-year program. Total project cost is US$10.6 mil-
lion, of which the Bank Group will finance US$8 million.
1.04      This will be the Bank Group's tenth lending operation for road
development in Kenya. Past projects, covering a period of 15 years, con-
cerned wholly or in part with roads are shown in Annex 1 and in Maps 1-3.
These projects have provided for the upgrading of all classes of roads and
have brought a wide range of benefits to the general economy, particularly
agriculture and tourism, and the benefits have been widely dispersed through-
out the country. The execution of the works and the performance of the Ministry
of Works (MOW) as executing agency have been satisfactory.
1/   The term "labor-intensive" is used throughout this report to refer to
a mix of technologies with a high labor input, that is, one in which
the input is predominately labor but which also includes the use of
tools and equipment, where the nature of the operation renders them
more economic.



-2-
1.05      Other Bank Group loans/credits benefiting transport in Kenya in-
clude one for a pipeline and several to the East African Community for rail-
ways and ports, services jointly owned by Kenya, Tanzania and Uganda. These,
too, are detailed in Annex 1.
1.06      This report is based on data provided by the MOW and on the find-
ings of an appraisal mission comprising Ian Smith (Economist), Manzoor A.
Shaikh (Engineer), Marie Garcia-Zamor (Technical Editor), Richard Clough
(Agricultural Economist), Giuseppe A. Morra (Training Officer) and Asif Faiz
(Young Professional), which visited Kenya in September 1975.
2. THE TRANSPORT SECTOR AND RURAL BACKGROUND
A. The Geographic and Economic Setting
2.91      The Republic of Kenya, located on the Indian Ocean, covers 582,000
km (Map 4). Although it lies on the equator, altitude variations provide a
wide range of climatic conditions which often render road construction and
maintenance difficult. More than half the country, to the north and east,
is arid and sparsely populated and contains few transport links. The most
heavily settled areas are along the coast and in the southwest highlands
between Mount Kenya and Lake Victoria; over half the country's population
lives in this one-fifth of its area. Transport network development re-
flects this settlement pattern, and the rail and road systems both serve
these regions.
2.02      Kenya's per capita gross national product (GNP) in 1975 was
US$195. The Kenyan economy is based largely on agriculture, which pro-
vides about 30% of the gross domestic product (GDP). About 60% of exports
are either raw or processed agricultural products. (Paras. 2.14-.16 pro-
vide additional information on agriculture.) Tourism is of growing impor-
tance and, since 1968, has earned more foreign exchange than any single
export commodity. From 1968 to 1973, the number of tourists doubled to
approximately 310,000 annually.
B. The Transport Modes
Railways
2.03      The East African Railways Corporation, owned and operated lointly
by Kenya, Tanzania and Uganda, provides services over a 7,000 km system of
which 1,600 km lie within Kenya. For imports and exports and for long
distance bulk movements, the railway is the principal carrier. Through
Mombasa it provides the main outlet to the sea for Kenya, Uganda and Rwanda.



- 3 -
Sixty percent of the 12 million tons handled annually by the East African
Railways Corporation originates or terminates in Kenya.
Port of Mombasa
2.04      Mombasa, operated by the East African Harbours Corporation, also
owned jointly by the 3 countries, is Kenya's principal port. It handled
approximately 7 million metric tons of general cargo in 1973, an increase
of more than 60% over 1964 and more than 10% over 1972. To meet growing
demands, Bank Group assistance has helped in augmenting Mombasa's capacity and
in implementing a modernization program.
Aviation
2.05      The East African Airways Corporation, another joint East African
service, operates international services from Kenya to Europe, Southeast
Asia, and other parts of the African continent, as well as domestic services
within the 3 partner states. Passenger traffic at Nairobi and Mombasa
airports has doubled since 1965 and reached a total of 1.3 million passengers
in 1972. Freight traffic at these airports increased from about 10,000 tons
in 1965 to over 29,000 tons in 1973. Both passenger and freight traffic are
expected to increase substantially after 1977, when construction of a new
international airport at Nairobi and improvements to Mombasa airport are
complete. Movements of passengers and freight by air within Kenya are
relatively insignificant.
Roads
The Road Network
2.06      Since Independence, the Government has improved highway facilities
extensively. While trunk and primary roads have received priority, parallel
programs have resulted in construction of special purpose roads (e.g. settle-
ment, sugar, tea and rice roads). The 52,000 km highway network comprises,
in terms of MOW road classification, over 22,000 km of trunk, primary and
secondary roads, 25,000 km of minor roads and 5,000 km of special purpose
roads. While the length of paved roads has increased from a little over
1,000 km in 1960 to 3,780 km in 1974, more than 90% of the classified net-
work still consists of gravel or earth roads. In addition, there are be-
tween 85,000 and 100,000 km of rural roads, many of which do not provide
all-weather service.
Traffic Growth and Characteristics
2.07      Traffic varies from a few vehicles per day (vpd) on minor roads to
over 10,000 vpd on roads near Nairobi. Traffic grew at an estimated annual
rate of 5% throughout the 1960s, with heaviest growth on trunk roads, which
account for about 70% of total vehicle-kilometers but only 12% of the road
network. In the last 2 years, however, there has been a general decline in
the traffic growth rate on all trunk roads, partly as a result of rising oil
costs.



- 4-
Administration and Planning
2.08      The MOW is responsible for administration, construction and main-
tenance of the road network. The Ministry of Finance and Planning (MFP) and
MOW together prepare investment proposals for the highway sector at the
beginning of each Five-Year Plan period. The MOW, through its Planning Unit,
evaluates the proposed projects and prepares the detailed investment program.
2.09      One of the aims of the current National Development Plan (1974-78)
in road development is to create a system of all-weather access roads between
farms and markets, in line with the Government's shift of emphasis from
development of the trunk road system to rural roads. Such construction is
expected to account for a substantial proportion of planned public sector
development expenditures financed by the central Government.
Road Transport Regulations
2.10      To regulate the road transport industry, Kenya has an elaborate
licensing system under which the regional licensing boards, in granting
operators' licenses, will specify routes, conditions of operation, etc.
However, since the late 1960s the road transport industry has become more
open and competitive and the influence of the licensing boards has been
diminishing. Even more important for the RARP, since 1973 vehicles under
3 tons, such as would be expected to use the rural access roads, have been
exempted from the licensing system. Thus, road transport services on the
RARP roads should be competitive and free from quantitative regulations.
Construction and Maintenance
2.11      Highway construction is generally by contract.  In addition to a
number of subsidiaries of expatriate firms, some local firms have success-
fully competed for and satisfactorily completed contracts under Bank Group
financed projects. For non-contract work, the MOW normally utilizes its
own construction units, which have gained construction experience under
Loan 932-KE and Credit 276-KE. All road work under the RARP will be car-
ried out by the MOW with locally recruited casual labor.
2.12      Despite recent improvements in maintenance standards and proce-
dures, highway maintenance is still inadequate. Annual maintenance alloca-
tions are considerably less than recuired and the situation is aggravated
by cumbersome procurement procedures, The Government, however, recognizes the
maintenance implications of the RARP and the need for an appropriate increase
in allocation (para. 4.]3). Improved procurement procedures should result
from the special arrangements set up under the RARP (para. 4.25).
Transport Coordination and Policy
2.13      The Ministry of Power and Communications (MPC) shares responsibil-
itv with the East African Community for common transport services operating



in Kenya (paras. 2.03-.05), while the MOW is charged with providing and
maintaining the highway system. The MPC is vested with responsibility for
overall transport coordination. The question of modal competition or dup-
lication of services does not arise with the project roads, which will
simply link farms with local markets and social services.
C. The Rural Setting
Agriculture
2.14      About 90% of Kenya's population lives in rural areas and depends
primarily upon agriculture, which provides over 25% of recorded wage em-
ployment. In 1974, the sector contributed about 30% of GDP, of which
about 16% was provided by subsistence agriculture and 14% by monetary
agriculture.
2.15      Less than 20% of Kenya's land has high or medium agricultural po-
tential. Most of the better land is in the highlands, in western Kenya or
along the coast. Because of geographic and climatic variations, diverse
farm commodities are produced. The principal export products are coffee,
tea, sisal, beef and pyrethrum, and the major food products marketed domes-
tically are maize, wheat, sugar, livestock and dairy products. Maize is
the main subsistence crop, although pulses, cassava, millet and bananas
are also grown for subsistence.
2.16      Before Independence, the agricultural market sector was dominated
by large-scale holdings generally operated by Europeans. Recently, most
of these holdings have been transferred to Africans either intact or sub-
divided. Considerable efforts have been made to develop smallholder agri-
culture in the traditional farming areas, especially through encouraging
the production of high value export crops, such as coffee, tea and pyre-
thrum, and through introducing hybrid maize and improved cattle. As a
result of these developments, small-scale farms now produce about 50% of
total marketed agricultural production.
Population and Employment
2.17      Kenya's population is growing at about 3.3% per annum and is es-
timated to have reached 13.4 million in 1975. If this growth rate continues,
it will be about 30 million by the year 2,000. The population is unevenly
distributed because rich farm land is found in only a few relatively small
areas. In 1969, the 3 most densely settled provinces, Nyanza, Western and
Central, had 47% of the country's population yet only 6% of the lqnd area.
The population density in these provinces averaged 151 persons/km-. At
the other extreme, North-Eastern Province had only 2% of the populaiion
yet included 22% of the land area, giving a density of 2 persons/km



-6-
2.18      Wage employment has grown at only 4% per annum over the past 10
years and continues to absorb only a small proportion of the labor force,
about 826,000 persons in 1974. As a result of the limited employment opportu-
nities offered by the wage sector, most new entrants to the labor force seek
work in traditional agriculture. But the high rate of population increase is
outstripping the absorptive capacity of subsistence agriculture, and there is
widespread rural unemployment and migration to the urban areas. These trends
are likely to persist and intensify unless measures are taken to arrest them.
The project is intended to assist in curbing these trends by increasing
employment opportunities through stimulating increased production of cash
crops.
Education
2.19      The Government is committed to universal primary education, and
substantial progress has been made toward this goal over the past decade.
In 1974, enrollment at primary schools totalled 2.8 million, compared with
only one million in 1965. Similarly, secondary school enrollment increased
from 48,000 in 1965 to 196,000 in 1974. This has only been achieved at sub-
stantial cost. The Ministry of Education spends more than any other ministry,
and for the 1974-78 Plan period it has been allocated 20.4% of total Govern-
ment expenditure. School attendance and inspection procedures will benefit
from improved accessibility under the RARP.
Health
2.20      Considerable progress has been made in improving rural health
services. The Government is the primary provider of these, although church
missions are also important. Government health services are provided through
national, provincial, district and subdistrict hospitals and through health
centers, subcenters and dispensaries. At present there is a ratio of about
one health center plus associated dispensaries per 100,000 people; the aim is
to reduce this to one per 50,000 and to facilitate access by improving
rural access roads.
Rural Development Planning and Financing
2.21      The MFP, the central coordinating ministry, has overall responsibil-
ity for economic planning and financial administration, collaborating as
necessary with other ministries. These functions are primarily executed by
the Ministry's Planning and Treasury Departments, respectively. Coordina-
tion between them is maintained partly through a system of inter-departmental
committees responsible for preparing the national development plan and
annual estimates. Rural planning takes place at both the national and
district levels.
Development Planning
2.22      The Planning Department of the MFP is responsible for preparing
national development plans and for routine planning matters. The Government



-7-
has long been committed to district development planning, but until recently
has lacked the capacity for this. Following the establishment of the experi-
mental Special Rural Development Program (SRDP) in 6 pilot areas in 1967,
considerable experience was gained of the way in which local people could
participate in development planning; of particular interest was the use of
District Development Committees (DDCs) as forums for discussing local devel-
opment matters. Consequently, it was decided to establish a permanent DDC,
under a District Development Officer (DDO), in each of the country's 40
districts. So far, 16 DDOs have been appointed and most cover more than one
district. Every district will eventually have a DDO, after which each dis-
trict should have the capacity to produce a District Development Plan to be
forwarded to the MFP in Nairobi for consideration in formulating the National
Development Plan. (Additional information about the SRDP and DDCs is given in
Annex 4.)
Financial Administration
2.23      The Treasury Department is responsible for routine financial ad-
ministration and for preparation of the annual budget. Approximately two-
thirds of total expenditure is included in recurrent estimates and the
remainder in capital development estimates.
2.24      Government financial administration is highly centralized.  All
funds are voted to the different national ministries, although some items
in the estimates support projects in particular districts. Allocation of
funds to such projects is a matter for the MFP in collaboration with the
operating ministries. To encourage more district participation in develop-
ment and to offset this centralization, the Government has recently esta-
blished a Rural Development Fund (RDF) within the MFP. This fund finances
rural works and other development projects chosen by DDCs, thereby enabling
them to undertake small local projects or ancillary investments which have
not been provided for in the ministries' budgets (Annex 4). This facility
will assure adequate funds for investments that may be required to complement
the RARP.
3. THE RURAL ACCESS ROADS PROGRAM
A. Scope and Objectives
3.01      The RARP, which began in 1975, provides for construction of 15,000
km of rural roads in 22 districts over an 8-year period (FY1975-82). The
districts selected for the program are in the most populous and agriculturally
productive parts of the country, covering nearly 80% of the population (Map 4).
The kilometerage will vary from district to district depending, inter alia, on
a district's agricultural potential and the extent to which it is served by
the existing road system. The Government will periodically review the list of



- 8 -
scheduled districts and the allocation of RARP funds among them, taking
account of the views of all ministries affected. All work will be executed by
construction units employing labor-intensive techniques (paras. 3.09-.12).
The estimated construction cost of the RARP is about US$100 million, including
physical and price contingencies. 1/
3.02      The objectives of the RARP are:
(a) to stimulate increased cash crop and livestock production
and bring more persons into the market economy through provision
of all-weather access to markets;
(b) to provide rural employment through use of labor-intensive
construction and maintenance methods;
(c) to improve access to social facilities and services; and
(d) to increase local participation in development planning
through selection at the district level of roads for
improvement.
B. Administration
3.03      A newly-created Special Projects Branch within the MOW Roads
Department is administering the RARP, as well as the recently instituted
Rural Road Regravelling Program (RRGP). It is headed by a Chief Superin-
tending Engineer, who has under him a Senior Superintending Engineer and
a Superintending Engineer working exclusively on the RARP. The MOW Planning
Unit, in collaboration with the Special Projects Branch, sets guidelines for
road selection and the Special Projects Branch determines standards of road
design and construction (para. 3.09).
3.04      At the operational level, the program is under the control of MOW
Rural Access Roads (RAR) engineers and work is executed by construction
units comprising an inspector, 4 overseers and a locally recruited casual
labor force of about 270. On average, 8 construction units are to be under
the control of each RAR engineer, who has 2 superintendents to assist him
in supervising the work of these units. Annex 3 contains charts showing
the organizational structure of the Special Projects Branch down to field
level. Recruitment of RAR engineers is proceeding satisfactorily.
3.05      The respective DDC is to select the roads to be improved, within
the framework of each district's annual program and MOW guidelines relating
to objectives, function, terrain, length, etc. Since the DDCs comprise both
the district level officers of alL Government departments concerned with rural
development and public representatives of the districts, a high degree of
1/   See footnote to the cost table in para. 4.15 for details on contingencies.



-9-
identification with, and support for the program and a sound selection of
roads can be expected. The road selection is subject to approval by the
central ministries, but since the DDCs include ministerial representatives,
approval should not normally be withheld. The functions of the DDCs are
described in more detail in Annex 4. Map 5 illustrates a typical selection
of roads.
C. Implementation
3.06      RARP construction is being phased progressively on a unit-by-unit
basis as shown in Annex 2.  The phasing aims to bring at least parts of the
22 districts into the RARP at an early stage, but, in setting priorities,
consideration is given to other factors such as complementary development
projects that could be expected to benefit from early access road construc-
tion. The DDC selects the roads, up to the maximum kilometerage agreed to
for that district, before construction is scheduled to start. An economic
and social evaluation of the roads selected for the district is then pre-
pared by the MOW Special Projects Branch.
3.07      The phased build-up in the number of construction units is to
allow time for training personnel (para. 3.14). The program will be in
full operation in the sixth year after initiation, with 74 construction units
which will continue operating until completion of the program in 1982. As
shown in Annex 2, the phased introduction of units will be dispersed widely
among the various districts. Some of the first will be in Nyeri, Kwale
and South Nyanza Districts.
D. Financing
3.08      Funds for the US$100 million program, including contingencies, will
be provided from the MOW budget. Owing to the labor-intensive methods to be
used, the foreign exchange component of total program costs will be relatively
low, at about 30%. The Government is therefore depending on external assist-
ance for local as well as foreign exchange costs. ODM aid has already been
committed for several pilot units, and additional funds are expected from this
source. USAID also proposes to provide funds for the program amounting to
US$6 million over 4 years and other bilateral agencies have expressed an
interest. There are adequate institutional arrangements for financing neces-
sary complementary investments, such as storage facilities or farmer training
programs (para. 2.24).



- 10 -
E.   Construction
3.09      The proposed roads will be relatively short (5-10 km) penetration
or linking roads and will carry almost no through traffic and very low
volumes of local traffic. In almost all cases, they will be built on the
line of existing tracks or low standard earth roads. (Pictorial examples of
a track before construction and a road nearing completion are shown in Annex
5A.) The general standards which have been set for these roads by the MOW
Special Projects Branch are satisfactory. Since the roads need to be just
adequate to maintain their all-weather characteristics, the basic cross
section selected should provide width of carriageway of only 4 m (plus one
meter wide shoulders on each side) and gravel wearing course of 10 cm. How-
ever, the carriageway may be widened to 6 m and the gravel course thickness
increased to 15 cm wherever conditions justify it. The road surface will be
of appropriate quality and the drainage adequate to discharge surface water,
so traffic can pass during the rains. Construction techniques are determined
as far as practicable by the Special Projects Branch and are set down in a
manual for circulation to the RAR field engineers, but, given the widely
varying topographical and soil conditions throughout Kenya, significant dis-
cretion is given to the field engineers. The Government prepared a satisfac-
tory draft of this manual prior to negotiations.
3.10      Casual labor is recruited at the village level.  Within each unit
the use of mechanized equipment is restricted to the absolute minimum (e.g.
for transport of construction materials and possibly mechanical rollers) and,
except where clearly uneconomic, all operations are carried out with simple
hand tools. (Pictorial examples of contrasting labor-intensive and capital-
intensive techniques are shown in Annex 5B.) The list of equipment and tools
for each unit is given in Annex 6. It is estimated that equipment will have
a 5-year life; replacement costs are not, therefore, likely to be significant.
3.11      A major construction problem is determining the optimum labor/
capital mix required for the program's target output and social objectives.
Another is choosing appropriate work methods and technology. The mix and
methods for the first units are based on preliminary studies and experiments
on projects already underway; further research into techniques and methods
is being carried out under a 3-year Labor Intensive Implementation Study to
which the Bank is tontributing research funds amounting to US$400,000 inde-
pendently of the project.
3.12      The average work output of a typical construction unit is esti-
mated at 45 km per annum but varies with local conditions. The number of
units in a district depends upon the workload for the district; on average,
3-4. To minimize travelling (and possibly diverting labor from agriculture),
every unit is split into 2 or 3 subunits, each working in a different labor
catchment area of a 3-4 mile radius. 1/ Units are brought into service at
different stages in accordance with the proposed phasing and afterwards
operate continuously throughout the program.
1/   Diversion of labor is only likely to occur, if at all, during the
harvest season. In this event, the program in the area concerned
could be suspended without significant cost.



- 11 -
F. Maintenance
3.13      Maintenance of RARP roads is the responsibility of the Maintenance
Branch of the MOW Roads Department. The success of the RARP will be jeopar-
dized if construction is not followed by proper maintenance. The Government
has proposed that RARP maintenance methods should also be labor-intensive and
has stated that adequate funds will be made available.   Maintenance policy
and arrangements are- satisfactory; a policy statement and program have been
submitted to the Bank Group.
G. Training
3.14      An initial constraint on the RARP is the shortage of key personnel
to carry out and, in particular, supervise the labor-intensive operations.
The rate of program implementation thus depends largely on the rate at which
such staff are trained and posted to units. The MOW has a Staff Training
Department (STD), set up with IDA assistance in 1971 (Credit 224-KE), which
trains MOW subprofessional technical personnel (e.g., road supervisors,
equipment operators, and mechanics). However, the manpower demands of the
RARP, the RRGP and the normal growth of MOW highway activities will require
the training or retraining during 1976-80 of some 3,500 employees, of whom
2,800 will be new recruits to the MOW. The training of these new recruits,
as well as the retraining/upgrading of existing personnel, will necessitate
a considerable expansion of STD.
3.15      In 1975, the Swedish International Development Authority (SIDA)
financed a study, carried out by the Organization for Rehabilitation through
Training (ORT, Switzerland), to assess current STD capability and to propose
a plan to meet the needs of the 3 programs mentioned above. Based partly
on ORT's recommendations, the MOW has drawn up a 5-year training expansion
program, the overall cost of which is estimated at US$4.6 million, at 1975
prices. This proposed training expansion is essential to the implementation
of the RARP and is provided for in part under the project (paras. 4.07-.08).
H. Environmental Impact
3.16      In some areas scheduled for RARP construction, tree removal and
cultivation on steep slopes in the vicinity of recent road improvements are
already causing soil erosion. Adequate protective legislation exists but
enforcement is lax. This situation could be aggravated by the improved
transport access to agricultural markets which will result from the RARP.
Thus, the importance of preventing serious erosion through law enforce-
ment and public education has been discussed with the Government. During
negotiations, the Government agreed to take all measures as are required to
ensure that implementation of the ARRP will not aggravate soil erosion in the
areas to be served by the RARP.



- 12 -
4. THE PROJECT
A. Objective and Description
4.01      The project will assist the Government in implementing part
(FY1977-79) of the RARP by financing:
(i) the equipping and operating of 8 construction units for
3 years each (FY1977-79) 1/;
(ii) equipment and training aids for the STD training expansion
program to produce the staff required for the RARP, the RRGP
and the annual maintenance program for classified roads;
(iii) technical assistance;
(iv) monitoring and evaluation of the RARP; and
(v) vehicles for maintenance of the roads constructed under
the RARP.
Rural access roads constructed under the program should also increase the
effectiveness of the Integrated Agricultural Development Project proposed
for Bank Group financing and of the Sugar Development Project for South
Nyanza now under preparation.
B. Execution
4.02      The MOW will be responsible for project execution (para. 3.03).  A
tentative project. implementation schedule is given in Annex 7.
(i) Rural Access Road Construction
4.03      The 8 construction units financed under the project will construct
about 1,000 km of access roads over the 3 years. The Government will select
the districts in which the units will operate, probably Nyeri, Kwale and
South Nyanza (para. 3.07), districts in which important agricul-
tural developments are taking place or planned. During negotiations, the
Government confirmed that it would carry out the periodic reviews of sched-
uled districts and respective budget allocations described in para. 3.01
through an already-existing committee comprised of Kenya's 7 PPOs and repre-
sentatives of the Ministries of Agriculture (including someone connected with
the Integrated Agricultural Development Project, which has been proposed for
Bank Group financing), Finance and Works.
1/   It is anticipated that over this period ODM, which is also assisting the
RARP, will finance most of the remaining 7 construction units scheduled
to start in FY1977.



- 13 -
4.04      As agreed during negotiations, the economic and social viability
of the proposed district access roads will be a condition for financing under
the project 1/. Initially, a 10% economic return will be accepted as satis-
factory, providing that significant non-quantified social benefits can also
be demonstrated. This figure may be revised for later evaluations as the
methodology for quantifying benefits improves. During negotiations, the
Government confirmed that these evaluations will be carried out on the
basis of agreed criteria and that disbursements under the credit/loan for
construction in each district included in the project will be contingent
on demonstration of satisfactory rates of return. A satisfactory prototype
evaluation of the roads proposed for South Nyanza District has already been
submitted to the Bank Group.
4.05      The organization and administration of construction units is
described in para. 3.04 and details on construction standards, manning and
techniques are given in paras. 3.09-.12. During negotiations, the Govern-
ment gave assurances that suitably qualified RAR engineers will continue to
be appointed as the program expands (para. 3.04).
4.06      The costs of the construction units are discussed in para. 4.16.
However, a picture of the structure and working of a typical unit can be
derived from the following cost percentage breakdown:
Percentage of
Item                                  Total Unit Cost
(i)  Wages of permanent staff                               16
(ii)  Wages of casual labor                                  36
(iii)  Cost of equipment (depreciated over 5 years)           15
(iv)  Cost of tools                                           5
(v) Cost of construction materials (gravel,
cement, etc.)                                        2
(vi)  Operating costs of transport and equipment             17
(vii)  Cost of compaction operations                           3
(viii)  Land compensation for right-of-way                      2
(ix)  Cost of site camp accommodation                         4
(ii) Training Expansion Program
4.07      The proposed MOW 5-year training expansion program aims to improve
the standard of highway maintenance by training a total of 3,500 road supervi-
sors, surveyors, storekeepers, mechanics, welder/auto-electricians, equipment
operators and drivers. The physical facilities of the STD will be expanded
with additional classrooms, workshops, laboratories, stores, training equip-
ment and materials, ranging from heavy items such as graders, rollers and
bulldozers to workshop tools and audio-visual aids. Also, the current staff
1/   It is intended that roads for inclusion in each district's program will
be selected and evaluated in approximately 3 annual "batches"; the 10%
economic return requirement will attach to each annual batch, taken as
a whole.



- 14 -
of 44 instructors/administrators will be increased to 72. The additional 28
staff should include a deputy principal for the STD, a training coordinator
and an administrator, as well as instructors to conduct the courses.
4.08      Bank Group funds will finance the cost of training equipment,
workshop tools and training aids (para. 4.17). SIDA is also expected to
assist the training expansion program outside the project as part of its
participation in the RRGP. Instruction under the training expansion program
will be provided by existing expatriate and Kenyan instructors. In addition,
the Government has agreed to appoint suitably qualified instructors, including
some in a supervisory capacity to support the work of newly-graduated Kenyan
instructors (para. 4.26). It is anticipated that these supervisory instruc-
tors will be provided from bilateral sources. However, if necessary, some
of them could be financed under technical assistance funds provided under
the project. During negotiations, the Government agreed that it would pro-
cure the training equipment and buildings proposed for the training expan-
sion program but not provided for under the project, on the grounds that
these are essential to the training expansion program as a whole and to
the effective use of instructors. Additional training details are given
in Annex 8.
(iii) Technical Assistance
4.09      Specialized technical assistance will be necessary to aid the
TIOW with the planning and coordination of the labor-intensive program and
the proper organization of construction and maintenance. The need for
planning and coordination of the RARP is particularly acute owing to its
geographically disparate character and the number of agencies involved in the
program. Again, the novelty of the labor-intensive approach will, as the
program progresses, generate new and unforeseeable problems, the effects of
which could be mitigated by a prompt and effective interchange of experience
among construction units and study teams. The routine administration of the
RARP will also require considerable attention.
4.10      During negotiations, the Government indicated that it had adequate
funds in prospect for financing current technical assistance requirements.
However, the project provides funds for further technical assistance needs
that may arise (para. 4.18).
(iv) RARP Monitoring and Evaluation
4.11      For the purposes of monitoring the social and economic effects
of the RARP and assessing the extent to which it accomplishes its goals
(para. 3.02), a monitoring and evaluation facility will be set up (para.
4.19). During negotiations, the Government agreed to furnish the Bank
Group with a plan for such a facility.
(v)   Maintenance
4.12      Ilaintenance of roads constructed under the RARP are the responsi-
bility of the Maintenance Branch of the NOW Roads Department.  The labor-in-
tensive methods to be employed are described in the maintenance plan compiled
by the TIM0 which were discussed during negotiations and are satisfactory.



- 15 -
4.13      During negotiations, the Government agreed that, for the roads
constructed under the RARP, the funds and resources necessary for adequate
maintenance would be provided as and when required. By the end of the RARP,
recurrent maintenance costs totalling US$6-8 million (net of contingencies)
should have been incurred in keeping these roads in satisfactory condition.
To aid the Government until program benefits begin to accrue, the project
provides financial assistance to procure the vehicles required at the outset
of the maintenance program (para. 4.20).
C. Cost Estimate
4.14      The overall cost of the 8-year RARP at 1975 prices, including
physical and price contingencies, is estimated at US$100 million: US$96
million for the 15,000 km construction program and US$4 million for support
items such as administration, monitoring and evaluation and training 1/.
4.15      The estimated cost of the project, which will finance construc-
tion over 3 years (FY1977-79) and associated support items, based on mid-
1976 prices, is:
1/   A nominal 50% of the US$4.6 million cost of the 5-year training
expansion program has been assigned to the RARP in estimating
program costs.



- 16 -
Local  Foreign  Total   Local  Foreign  Total
-----KSh million -----   -----US$ million-----
a) Equipping and operating
of 8 construction units
for 3 years each               26.8    10.9      37.7    3.3       1.4      4.7
b) Equipment and training aids
for training expansion
program                         1.6    13.7    15.3       0.2      1.7       1.9
c)  Technical assistance            0.5      4.3      4.8     0.1      0.5       0.6
d) Monitoring and evaluation
of the RARP                     0.4      3.6     4.0      0.1      0.4       0.5
e)  RARP maintenance vehicles       0.7      5.3      6.0     0.1      0.6       0.7
BASELINE COST                  30.0    37.8    67.8       4.8      4.6       8.4
f) Contingencies 1/
(i)  Physical                  3.4     2.2      5.6      0.4      0.3      0.7
(ii)  Price                     5.6     6.4    12.0       0.7      0.8      1.5
TOTAL (including taxes)        39.0    46.4    85.4       4.9      5.7      10.6
(net of taxes)          34.9    46.4    81.3       4.4      5.7      10.1
1/ Physical contingencies are equivalent to 10% of items (a) and (b). Price
contingencies reflect a weighted average increase of 10% per annum derived
from the following percentages.
1976    1977-79
Equipment                                9%        8%
Civil Works                             13%       12%
Foreign exchange accounts for 57% of total project costs, net of tax.



- 17 -
(i)   8 RARP Construction Units
4.16      The cost of this item is aggregated from an estimated average
cost (net of contingencies) per construction unit of US$134,200 for ini-
tial equipment (Annex 6A) and US$150,600 per annum for operating, at mid-
1976 prices. 1/ A percentage cost breakdown among the different construc-
tion unit subcomponents is given in para 4.06. The cost estimate reflects
an annual average output per construction unit of 45 km at a cost per km
of about US$4,300, net of contingencies.
(ii) STD Training Capability
4.17      The cost of expanding STD training capability is estimated at
US$4.6 million at 1975 prices (Annex 8). As indicated in (b) of the cost
estimate, the project will assist with the provision of equipment, tools and
teaching aids, at a cost of US$1.9 million. The Government proposes to seek
external assistance outside the project for the other items of the training
expansion program, mostly instructors, additional equipment and buildings
(para. 4.08). SIDA proposes to provide approximately US$1.3 million for
training, as part of its assistance to the RRGP.
(iii) Technical Assistance
4.18      A nominal amount, broadly equivalent to 10 man-years, based on an
average of US$50,000 per man-year, has been included to be provided if and
when necessary (paras. 4.08-.10).
(iv) Monitoring and Evaluation of the RARP
4.19      The project provides for Bank Group financing of US$400,000 towards
the cost of monitoring and evaluating the RARP (para. 4.11), the details of
which will be set forth in the plan the Government has agreed to submit. The
submission of an acceptable plan is a condition for disbursement of this item.
(v) Maintenance Vehicles
4.20      Estimated maintenance costs for access roads during the RARP period
are US$6-8 million (net of contingencies). Bank Group financing of US$600,000
will be provided under the project to assist with the procurement of vehicles
required at the outset of the maintenance program.
1/   Given an estimated 5-year life for equipment, its residual value at
the end of the project period will be US$75,000 per construction unit,
giving a total of US$600,000 for the 8 units.



- 18 -
D.   Financin  and Disbursements
4.21      The foreign costs comprise 57% of total project costs (para. 4.15)
but only 29% of the project's construction costs. The limitation of financing
to the foreign element of construction could discourage the Government from
formulating for external financing projects which have a heavy local employ-
ment requirement and which economize on foreign exchange. Thus, it is recom-
mended that Bank Group funds be provided for 79% of project costs (or 73%
after allowing for the residual value of equipment). Project costs amount to
US$10.6 million (US$10.1 million, net of taxes), of which US$8 million would
be financed by the Bank Group and US$2.6 million, the balance of local costs,
provided by the Government.
4.22      The participation of the Bank Group in the project will, there-
fore, be as follows:
Item                     Total
(US$ million)
Construction units                  3.1
Training expansion                  1.7
Technical assistance                0.5
Monitoring and evaluation           0.4
Mtaintenance vehicles               0.6
Contingencies:
Physical                      0.5
Price                         1.2
Total               8.0
This total comprises an IDA credit of US$4 million and an IBRD loan of
US$4 million.
4.23      Disbursements from the Bank Group credit/loan account will be on
the following basis:
(a)  100% of the foreign exchange cost of construction
equipment for 8 construction units, training
equipment and tools, and maintenance vehicles,
if imported directly, or 90% of total costs if
imported but procured from local suppliers;
(b) 50% of the total cost of hand tools, whether
imported or manufactured locally; 1/
1/   Though some hand tools may be imported in the early stages of the
RARP, the Government aims to substitute locally manufactured tools
to the maximum extent.



- 19 -
(c) 60% of the residual operating costs (i.e., excluding
depreciation of equipment and procurement of hand
tools) for 24 construction unit-years, subject to
agreed operating costs and work outputs 1/;
(d) 100% of the foreign cost of technical assistance; and
(e) 90% of the costs of RARP monitoring and evaluation.
4.24      As the scheduled implementation of the RARP requires an early out-
put of trained staff, the Government agreed during negotiations to recruit
instructors and MOW trainees and to provide all necessary facilities and
equipment, as and when required for the STD training expansion program. It
is recommended that the Bank Group provide US$0.2 million for retroactive
financing for recruitment or extensions of instructors' contracts and pur-
chase of equipment for the STD. An estimated schedule of disbursements is
given in Annex 9. The IDA credit will be disbursed first. Any funds remain-
ing in the credit and loan account upon project completion will be considered
for reallocation to project related items.
E.   Procurement
4.25      Equipment for construction and training costing in excess of
US$100,000 will be procured through international competitive bidding on
the basis of Bank Group "Guidelines for Procurement." However, the Govern-
ment will be permitted to procure specific brands of equipment through local
bidding procedures where circumstances warrant. Such circumstances could
arise in the equipping of a unit in a district where other units are already
operating and interchangeability of equipment and spare parts would be de-
sirable or, in the case of training, where the object is training in the
use of specific makes of equipment which are widely employed in the field.
Equipment costing less than US$100,000 will be procured through local bid-
ding procedures, which are satisfactory to the Bank Group. As construction
will be implemented exclusively by local labor, there will be no contracts to
let. A large number of simple hand tools will also be required for the RARP.
It is intended that many of these will be procured from local firms to foster
the development of the domestic manufacturing industry and to economize on
foreign exchange. Procurement procedures were agreed during negotiations on
the basis of a policy paper the Government prepared for procuring goods for
the RARP. Since timely procurement is necessary for smooth implementation
of the RARP, the Government has set up, within the Special Projects Branch,
a section concerned solely with procurement.
1/   Disbursements in this category will be made against certificates of
expenditure, the documentation for which is not submitted for review
but is retained by the borrower and available for inspection by the
Bank Group during the course of a project supervision mission.



- 20 -
4.26      Many instructors for the STD are currently in position, but some
additional ones, including some supervisory instructors, will be recruited
either by bilateral aid programs or by Government recruitment of individual
instructors; in addition, the Government may extend ongoing contracts (para.
4.08). During negotiations, it was agreed that appointments of supervisory
instructors would be made in consult:ation with the Bank Group. It was fur-
ther agreed that the Government would afford the Bank Group a reasonable
opportunity to comment, in the event that the RARP Superintending Engineer's
post becomes vacant, on the qualifications and experience of any person pro-
posed for appointment to this post and on the functions to be performed.
5. ECONOMIC AND SOCIAL EVALUATION
5.01      The aims of the RARP are to facilitate increased agricultural pro-
duction and improve access to market centers, educational, health and other
social facilities. The construction of access roads by labor-intensive meth-
ods would also provide local employment and permit a more economic utiliza-
tion of resources. DDC selection of roads for improvement would further the
Government's objective of increasing local participation in development plan-
ning.
A.   Problems of Economic and Social Evaluation
5.02      A formal economic analysis of a project of this nature is fraught
with difficulties and could be misleading if undue significance were attached
to more readily quantifiable benefits, such as agricultural output. Even an
attempt to quantify the agricultural benefits attributable to the road im-
provements would be somewhat conjectural, because there is little evidence
from Kenya to indicate the nature of the relationship between expenditures
on access road development and agricultural production. Such benefits are,
in any case, normally derived from a package of development investments of
which road improvements are only a part. Moreover, for certain other bene-
fits of major importance in the case of the RARP, such as improved access
to schools and health centers, there appears to be no practicable way at
present whereby total benefits might be measured. In view of these con-
siderations, a feasible approach is to evaluate quantifiable agricultural
benefits and support this with a judgment on the importance of non-quanti-
fiable benefits. 1/
1/   In the Government's pilot evaluation for Kakamega District (para. 5.07),
an imputed annual per capita value of KShlO for the benefits of improved
access is used. The figure is estimated in a somewhat arbitrary manner,
but the technique may be refined in future evaluations.



- 21 -
B.   The Approach Adopted
5.03      An economic evaluation might be undertaken at several different
levels: for each road segment, for each district in the program, or for
the program in the aggregate. In view of the national policy of involving
local interests more closely in the planning process, the choice of roads to
be developed within any district would most appropriately be left to the DDC
concerned (para. 3.05). Under this selection procedure, a formal economic
evaluation of each individual road, most of which will only be 5-10 km long,
would be conceptually difficult and, in any case, beyond local manpower
resources. DDCs will be required simply to give a descriptive justification
for each road selected.
5.04      Manpower limitations also preclude an evaluation of the complex of
rural access roads for each of the 22 districts, prior to credit/loan effec-
tiveness. In any case, such evaluations could be premature for those dis-
tricts scheduled for the later stages of the RARP. Economic evaluation at
the district level is, however, considered essential both for an efficient
use of Kenya's resources and for purposes of international lending.
5.05      The approach adopted has, therefore, been as follows.  First, an
overall national assessment of the RARP in its entirety is presented in
Annex 10, Section A. Second, a summary of a pilot evaluation for Kakamega
District presented by the Government in support of its loan application is
set down in Annex 10, Section B. This particular analysis has important
limitations, but it illustrates the type of evaluation that will be carried
out for other districts. Under the project, similar evaluations will be
presented by the Government for each project district prior to the start
of construction in that district. These evaluations should become increas-
ingly refined in the light of experience. Finally, a comparative analysis
of executing the program by labor-intensive techniques and orthodox capital-
intensive techniques, demonstrating the economic justification of the labor-
intensive alternative, is presented in Annex 10, Section C. The conclusions
of these analyses are given below.
C.   Conclusions
Overall RARP Evaluation
5.06      The overall evaluation relates to the full 8-year construction pro-
gram in 22 districts. Construction and maintenance costs have been readjusted
on an economic basis, taking account of the shadow prices of productive fac-
tors. The direct economic benefits comprise increased marketed agricultural
production through improved access to markets and more effective coverage by
Government services, such as extension and veterinary programs. Forecasts
are based on average data for the whole area covered by the program, in
the absence of detailed district data and should, therefore, be regarded
as broad orders of magnitude indicators only, although probably on the con-
servative side.



- 22 -
Potential vehicle operating cost savings are regarded as negligible in view
of the low traffic volumes and have not been included. The benefits have been
quantified by estimating the growth in marketed agricultural output attribu-
table exclusively to RARP construction. This is put conservatively at 0.5%,
compared with 5.0% for anticipated normal growth, and does not take into
account any increase in subsistence production. The resulting benefits are
adjusted to allow for the cost of inputs and for the shadow price of foreign
exchange earned from forecast export of crops. The estimated rate of return
is in excess of 12%. This is based only on direct economic benefits and does
not take into account the income redistribution effects of the program and
improved access to social services, which would represent a substantial
addition to the more readily quantifiable benefits. It is estimated that
the construction program alone would generate some 84,000 man-years of em-
ployment for casual labor.
Pilot Evaluation of the RARP in Kakamega District
2
5.07      Kakamega District, in western Kenya, has an aria of 3,520 km
and a population of 783,000, a density of 222 persons/km . The district has
good potential for cash crop production, but at present over 90% of the popu-
lation depends on subsistence farming. A major obstacle to shifting to cash
crop production is the absence of reliable all-weather links between farms and
markets. The construction program will provide for some 450 km of access roads
dispersed widely throughout the district as shown in Map 5. In calculating
the economic return on the Kakamega access road complex, only the value of addi-
tional marketed agricultural and livestock output attributable to the program
has been taken into account. But the evaluation does attempt a quantification
of the redistribution and social effects of the program, which, while excluded
from the final calculation on the grounds of its theoretical and data limita-
tions, could possibly be refined for future district evaluations. The estimated
rate of return, in terms of agricultural and livestock benefits alone, is esti-
mated to be of the order of 22%. Given the present lack of refinement of
district evaluations, and mindful of the substantial non-quantifiable social
benefits, a 10% economic return would constitute adequate justification for
the program in each district.
Labor-Intensive/Capital-Intensive Cost Comparison
5.08      This exercise calculates the costs per km of constructing the access
roads by the relatively labor-intensive techniques adopted for the RARP and by
the more orthodox capital-intensive method. It is assumed that by completing
the program in 4 instead of 7 years, with equal kilometerage of construction
in each year, the capital-intensive method will result in an earlier realiza-
tion of the estimated benefits. This advantage is more than offset by the
higher economic costs and lower return of the capital-intensive alternative.
The economic costs of construction for the labor- and capital-intensive alter-
natives are estimated respectively at US$3,255 per km and US$5,234 per km.
The corresponding rates of return are about 13% and 9%.



- 23 -
6.   AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION
6.01      During negotiations, the Government agreed that it would:
(i) establish, by February 1, 1977, arrangements of an inter-
ministerial character for a periodic review of the list of
districts scheduled for inclusion in the RARP and of the
proposed budgetary allocation to each (para. 4.03);
(ii)  prepare a social and economic evaluation, on the basis of
agreed criteria, for the access roads proposed for each
district. The demonstration of a satisfactory rate of
return is an agreed requirement for disbursement for the
road construction program for each district (para. 4.04);
(iii) continue to appoint suitably qualified RAR engineers in the
field (para. 4.05);
(iv)  timely recruit the supervisory instructors required for the
training expansion program, in consultation with the Bank
Group, and the new MOW trainees required for this program
(paras. 4.07-.08 and 4.26);
(v) provide the additional items of training equipment and
buildings required for the training expansion program
(para. 4.08);
(vi)  provide the funds and resources, as and when required, for
adequate maintenance of the roads constructed under the RARP
(para. 4.13);
(vii) furnish the Bank Group with a satisfactory plan for monitoring
and evaluating RARP social and economic effects, as a condition
of disbursement for this item (para. 4.19);
(viii) afford the Bank Group a reasonable opportunity to comment, in
the event the RARP Superintending Engineer's post becomes vacant,
on the qualifications and experience of any person proposed for
appointment to this post and on the functions to be performed
(para. 4.26); and
(ix)  take all measures required to ensure that implementation of the
RARP does not aggravate soil erosion in the areas it serves
(para. 3.16).
6.02      With the agreements indicated above, the project is suitable for an
IDA credit of US$4 million, on standard terms, and a Bank loan of US$4 million
for a period of 25 years, including a 5 year grace period, at 8.85% interest,
to the Republic of Kenya.
June 3, 1976






ANNEX I
REPUBLIC OF KENYA
RURAL ACCESS ROADS PROJECT
IBRD/IDA Transport Projects Benefiting Kenya
A.  HIGhWAY PROJECTS
Approx.           Status
Year          Loan/credit              Amount                            Main Purpose                         .ength (L. complete)
(US$ million)                                                              (km)
1960        Loan   256-KE              5.6                Agricultural development including                     910             100/
feeder road construction
1964        Credit  70-KE              4.5                Trunk road engineering, improvement                    315             1007.
and construction
1965        Credit  77-KE              3.0                Tea road improvement                                 1.440             1007
1967        Credit 104-KE              5.3                Sugar road engineering and construction                820             1007.
1968        Credit 120-KE             10.7                Trunk road construction                                460             1007
1969        Loan   639-KE             23.5                Trunk and feeder road reconstruction;                1,550             ]00'!
sugar road construction; settlement
road improvement
1970        Credit 224-KE             12.6                Improvement in organization and execu-                                  85)7
tion of highway maintenance
1/
1972        Credit 276-KE             22.0                Trunk and feeder road reconstruction;                1,660              80,
tea road construction; settlement road
improvement
1973        Loan   932-KE             29.0                Trunk and primary road improvement;                    717              40,
sugar road improvement and construction
B.  RAILWAY. PORT, PIPELINE PROJECTS
Status
Year             Loan                 Amount                             Main Purpose                                        (}/ complete)
(US$ million)
1955        Loan   1lO-EA             24.0                Procurement of rail loco:motives and                                   100,
rolling stock
1965        Loan   428-EA             38.0                Assistance with rail and ports capital                                  lUO
development program
1969        Loan   638-EA             35.0                Provision of berths, vessels, equipment                                  95/
etc. at Dar es Salaam and Mombasa
1970        Loan   674-EA             42.4                Further assistance with rail development                                 707
plan
1972        Loan   865-EA             26.5                Provision and modernization of berths                                    802.
and port facilities at Dar es Salaam,
Mombasa, Tanga
1975        Loan  1133-KE             20.0                Construction of oil products pipe-line,
Mombasa-Nairobi
1/ Ant additional US$6.0 million (approximate) is being provided by the Swedish Government.
Source:  IBRD appraisal reports and division files.
June 1976



REPUBLIC OF KENYA
RURAL ACCESS ROADS PROJECT
Phased Inception of Construction Units
(270 Laborers/Av. Output: 45 km per unit p.a.)
Number of Units per District
1974-75               1975-76               1976-77               1977-78               1978-79               1979-80               1980-81                1981-82
Distric                 On-                   On-                   On-                   On-                   On-                    On-                   On-                   On-
Number-'       Start going Total  Start going Total  Start going Total  Start going Total  Start going Total  Start going Total  Start going Total  Start going Total
I            I      -      -        -      1     1        -      1      1       1      1      2       1      2      3       -      3      3       -      3      3        -      3      3
2            -      _      _        1      _     1                1    1       1      1      2       1      2      3       -      3      3       -      3      3        -     3      3
3            -      -      -        1      -     1        -      1      1       1      1      2       1      2      3       -      3      3       -      3      3        -     3      3
4            -      -      -        1      -      1               1    1       1      1      2       1      2      3       -      3      3       -      3      3        -      3      3
5            -      -      -        1      -     1        -      1      1       1      1      2       1      2      3       -      3      3       -      3      3        -      3      3
6            -      -      -                                            I _  _  1  -  1  1  1  2      1      2      3       -      3      3       -      3      3        -      3      3
7                          -        -      -     -               -      1       1      1      2       1      2      3       -      3      3       -      3      3        -     3       3
8            -      -      -        _      _     _        1      -      1       1      1      2       1      2      3       -      3      3       -      3      3        -      3      3
9             -      -     -        -      -      -       1      -      1       1      1      2       1      2      3       -      3      3       -      3      3        -      3      3
10             -      -      -       _      _      _       1              1     1      1      2       1      2      3       -      3      3       -      3      3        -      3      3
11             -     -       -                                                   I _  _  1  -  1  1  1  2  1  2      3       -      3      3       -      3      3        -      3      3
12             -     -       -       -      _      _       1      -      1       1      1      2       1      2      3       -      3      3       -      3      3        -      3      3
13             -     -       -       _      _      _       1      -      1       1      1      2       1      2      3       -      3      3       -      3      3        -      3      3
14             -      -      -       _      _      _       1      -      1       1      1      2       1      2      3       -      3      3       -      3       3       -      3      3
15             -      -      -       _      _      _       1      _      1       -      1      1       2      1      3       1      3      4       -      4      4        -      4      4
16             -      -      -       -                                                  I -  1  -  1  _  1  1  2  1  3       1      3      4       -      4      4        -      4      4
17             -      -      -              _      _       1      -      1       -      1      1       1      1      2       2      2      4       -      4      4        -      4      4
18             -     -      -        -                                                  I _  1  -  1  -  1  1  1  1  2       2      2      4       -      4      4        -      4      4
19             -      -      -       _      -      _       _      _      _       1      -      1       1      1      2       2      2      4       -      4      4        -      4      4
20             -      -      -       -      -      -       -      -      -       1      -      1       1      1      2       2      2      4       -      4      4        -      4      4
21             -      -      -       _      _      _       _      _      _       1      -      1       1      1      2       2      2      4       -      4      4        -      4      4
22             -      -      -       _      _      _       _      -      -       1      -      1       1      1      2       2      2      4       -      4      4        -      4      4
I     -      1       4       1     5      13       5    18       18    18    36        24    36    60        14    60    74         -    74      74        -    74      74
1/ District numbers do not, at this stage, indicate specific geographical locations.
Source: Revised Loan Application, July 1975.
June 1976



REPUBLIC OF KENYA
RURAL ACCESS ROADS PROJECT
Basic Organizational Structure
CHIEF ENGINEER ROADS)
MOVV PLANNINGUNITE                                                                                       N
|STAFF TRAINING DET. 
LABOR-INTENSIVEHO
TECHNOLOGY AND                                  SPECIAL PROJECTS BRANCH
SOCIO-ECONOMIC IMPAC                               CHIEF SUPENNTENDING
STUDY GROUPS                                          ENGEGEER
ROAD
REGRAVELLING
RARP                                                      ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~PROGRAM
SENIOR SUPERINTENDING
ENGINEER
SUPERINTENDING
|A ARNGINEER A
World Bar-k-15617
z






REPUBLIC OF KENYA
RURAL ACCESS ROADS PROJECT
Basic Field Structure
SPECIAL POET
BRANCH
6 CHAINME 
I_ LAND ROVER  DRVER                   --- AR|  ---__
INSPECT R  INSPE TOR  INSECTOR  iSPEC    ENG  IN PECR TOR                              ILEIPALCTOF
I  ENGNEER   |-    ~   - -   1    NOR ACCOUNTS CLER
AND~~~~ ~ ~ ~ ~~                                                            LANVE
SUPERI NTENDENT                                        E  N INSN
|~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~SPRNE ONIT                                        ND ROVE f
World 8ank-15618






REPUBLIC OF KENYA
RURAL ACCESS ROADS PROJECT
Detailed Unit Structure
OINSPECRTOR                  H
ST ElLBR                         MASON                        MASON                                                W  |5 TRACTOR DRIVERS | | 2 HEADMEN
2 STOR EM EN *                     I 
CARPENTER                                                                                  T                  
2 ASST T.K                    4HADE                         4 HEADMEN*2  AORR                                        50 LABOURER
ACCOUNTS CLERK
2 CLERKS
4 MECHANICS
94 LAOUER                      94 LABO URERS     l
ll TRUCK DRIVER    |
TRACTOR DRVR |
OPERATOR         l
'CASUAL LABOR                                                                                                       VVorld Bank-15619
z
z






ANNEX 4
Page 1
REPUBLIC OF KENYA
RURAL ACCESS ROADS PROJECT
District Development Committees and the Rural Development Fund
Special Rural Development Program (SRDP)
1.        Development planning in Kenya is largely centralized despite some
recent moves toward decentralization. Major planning decisions are made at
the national level by, for example, the MFP in conjunction with operating
ministries such as the Ministry of Agriculture (MOA) or the MOW. In the
early 1970s, based on experience gained in the SRDP, part of the planning
function was decentralized to the provincial and district level.
2.        The SRDP was an experimental rural development program started in
1967 to test rural development strategies. It was implemented in 6 pilot
areas chosen to represent important types of rural areas, none of which was
as large as a district. A variety of different pilot projects were tried,
including credit for farmers and traders stocking farm inputs, livestock
marketing, extension staff training, family planning, functional literacy
and rural access roads. Perhaps the most important contribution of the
SRDP was the initial work done to improve local participation in develop-
ment planning through the establishment of District Development Committees
(DDCs). As a result, the SRDP itself can be phased out and development
planning undertaken on a district basis.
District Development Committees
3.        Each district has a DDC and its members include:
(a) the District Commissioner (Chairman);
(b) the District Development Officer (DDO) (Secretary);
(c) all District Heads of Government Departments;
(d) Divisional District Officers;
(e) Members of Parliament representing the District;
(f) the Chairman of the County Council;
(g) one County Councillor per Division; and
(h) the District KANU Chairman.l/
In addition, the DDC can co-opt any individual thought useful to the commit-
tee's work on a particular issue, for example, the branch manager of the
electricity authority for questions of electric power supply.
1/   Kenya African National Union, the political party.



ANNEX 4
Page 2
4.        DDCs meet several times a year, depending upon the amount of busi-
ness. They are to ensure that District Development Plans reflect the needs
of the local people and are well balanced, by coordinating different sector
development proposals into a comprehensive, integrated plan. They do this
in 2 ways. First, DDCs ensure that the sectoral ministries are aware of their
districts' needs and that the nat:ionally-funded programs for their districts
are well planned and coordinated. This aspect of their work includes programs
such as the RARP under the MOW and agricultural credit and extension programs
under the MOA. Secondly, DDCs themselves identify projects within their own
districts to be financed from the Rural Development Fund described below.
The Rural Development Fund
5.        In 1974/75 a Rural Deve:opment Fund was created in the MFP as a
mechanism for financing 2 rural development programs controlled by DDCs: the
District Development Grants and the Rural Works Program. For the 1974-78 Plan
period, KE8 million has been allocated to the Rural Development Fund and is
about equally divided between the District Development Grants and the Rural
Works Program. Several overseas aid agencies have shown considerable interest
in this program and the Kenya Government anticipates an adequate flow of funds.
6.        The Rural Development Fund is available to finance projects
selected by DDCs, subject to certain criteria laid down by the MFP. Through
giving the local people control over some financial resources, the Government
hopes to encourage them to play an increasingly important role in development
planning. However, the process of decentralized planning has only begun recent-
ly and the proportion of total Government expenditure controlled by DDCs is
still small. The KE8 million allocated to the Rural Development Fund for the
1974-78 Plan period represents less than 2% of the total development funds
allocated for the Plan period.
7.        District Development Grants.  The system of District Development
Grants was started in 1971 with a K100,000 allocation. Since then, it has
expanded considerably and, for the 1974-78 Plan period, a total of KE4.2
million has been allocated to this program. The main function of these grants
is to encourage the DDCs to identify and fill gaps in the sectoral programs
financed centrally through the operating ministries. If nationally financed
programs are not satisfactory, the DDCs can thus fill the gaps through their
own projects financed by the District Development Grants. The latter would
mostly be small projects such as cattle dips, training programs, small
afforestation schemes, soil conservation measures, etc. The grants could
also finance complementary investments necessary for full realization of
the benefits of particular programs, such as the RARP.



ANNEX 4
Page 3
8.        The Rural Works Program.  This program, started in 1974 following
the recommendations of the ILO Mission on Employment, 1/ has been allocated
KE4 million for the 1974-78 Plan period. The Rural Works Program implements
labor-intensive rural development projects chosen by DDCs, such as minor irri-
gation, soil conservation, bush clearance and minor road construction. Its
aim is to help construct necessary rural infrastructure and provide employment
to landless people and poor farmers, especially during the slack agricultural
seasons. The program is not based on self-help labor, but on labor hired at
market wage rates, subject to minimum wage regulations, etc. Although some
rural access roads might be developed under this program, the majority would
be financed with MOW funds through the RARP.
1/   "Employment, Incomes and Equality, a Strategy for Increasing Productive
Employment in Kenya", International Labour Office, Geneva, 1972.
June 1976






The next two pages contain:
Annex 5A - Photographs of a Track Before Construction,
and a Road Nearing Completion
Annex 5B - Photographic Comparison of Some Capital- and
Labor-Intensive Operations






Rural access track before improvement
Rural access road nearing completion






COMPARISON OF SOME CAPITAL- AND LABOR-INTENSIVE CONSTRUCTION OPERATIONS
A. Levelling
Levelling gravel by gradler                                                I eveleli  .ith hnd toIls
B. Compaction
-A,~ ~ ~ ~~~~-
Compaction c    ay ronveto aier.
e itrtnlt 'eritiT m' niarr -Lm
Comprjaction tecinntioaes.   - 2






ANNEX 6A
REPUBLIC OF KENYA
RURAL ACCESS ROADS PROJECT
Summary of Estimated Costs Per Construction Unit Year
Cost            Percent of
Item                       K3           US$      Total Cost
thousands   thousands
1.  Wages:  Permanent Staff           11.3         28.1         15.9
2.  Wages:  Casual Labor              25.3         63.0         35.5
3.  Equipment                         10.8         26.8         15.1
4.  Tools                              3.5          8.8          5.0
5.  Materials                          1.4          3.4          1.9
6.  Right-of-Way                       1.2          2.9          1.6
7.  Transport Costs (Fuel & Spares) 12.5           31.0         17.5
8.  Camp Accommodation                 2.8          7.0          3.9
9.  Cost involved to ensure ad -
quate compaction standards-/       2.6          6.4          3.6
Total            71.4        177.4        100.0
1/ Cost of providing either:
(a) Two additional light rollers with operating staff per con-
struction unit, or
(b) Manual compaction by casual labor, using locally devised
compaction tools/equipment.
Source: Revised Loan Application, July 1975 and Appraisal Mission estimates
(adjusted to mid-1976 costs).
June 1976



AIhEX R
RmPUBLIC OF KENYA
RURAL ACCESS ROSS Prmner
D.tatls of Estistd Costs P-r Construption Vnit Year
A.  Wages:  Pers.eet Steff snd Casual Labor
Anu1 WlaW                                 Total
Pemanent Staff                                                                         Nibr                                  pfts                                  Wa
Sentor  nspetor/Superintednt                                                             1/4                                1,400                                     350
Inspector                                                                                 1                                    970                                    970
Overeer                                                                                   4                                    560                                  2,240
Survey Assistant III                                                                     1/4                                   970                                    245
Driver                                                                                 8-1/4                                   320                                  2,640
Senior Cleril officer                                                                    1/8                                   750                                     95
Seeir Accoonnt  Clerk                                                                   1/8                                   750                                     95
Clericel Officer                                                                          1                                    540                                    540
Accounto Clerk                                                                            1                                    540                                    540
Storekeeper                                                                               1                                    270                                    270
Timekeeper                                                                                1                                    270                                    270
feeh-nic III                                                                              4                                    380                                  1,520
Mason                                                                                     2                                    320                                    640
Olecknkith                                                                                1                                    320                                    720
C-rpeot-r                                                                                 1                                    320                                    320
Ch.ie.n                                                                                  3/4                                   270                                    205
TOTAL          11 260
Trio1 per k1e:/             210
Appropimste                           Anneal W9ge                              Total
CocuSi Lakbr                                                                           Nunber                                Rst                                    Uaes
(IL)                                  (t)
Cle-ring cod Stripping                                                                   65                                   93.75                                 6,094
Earth-orks                                                                              105                                  93.75                                  9,844
St.ee  cnd Cant CulVOr_t                                                                 10                                  93.75                                    938
Laying Culverit                                                                          15                                   93.75                                 1,406
Eoc-vuting and Loading Grovel                                                            40                                   93.75                                 3,750
Spreading Gravel                                                                         15                                  93.75                                  1,406
}-iicellaneous                                                                           20                                   93.75                                 1.875
TOTAL          25 313
Total per km:               565
.  Equipenet
Ite-                                                                                                                 E-timated Cost (KL)
6 Tractors                                                                                                                26,978
8 Trallcrc                                                                                                                 7,977
I Truck (5 toe)                                                                                                            6, 635
2 WOtet Trailer-                                                                                                           1,870
2 WIter Ponpn                                                                                                              1,225
2-3/8 Land Rover                                                                                                           5,266
I Light Mechanical Roller                                                                                                  3.980
TOTAL          53,931
Total prr annv-/           10, 786
Total per ke:/                240
C.  Torl -
Required                   Total                Esninati d
htoc                                                Peit Cost                    Nuaber                    Coet                   Life                  Cost:  5 Years
(hk)                                                 (EL)                 ,snntkc)                    (8L)
Sho-e                                                     40                        180                       360                   12                        1,800
Wh-ebrro                                                 457                         40                        914                  12                        4,570
Pango                                                      12                        60                         36                   6                          360
Picka-e                                                    57                        40                       114                    6                        1,140
Rake                                                       34                        40                         68                   6                          680
Sledpehau-er                                               57                        15                        43                   60                           43
Aoe                                                        69                        25                         86                   6                          860
Cro-bkar                                                  91                         20                         91                  60                           91
Jeake                                                     34                        150                       255                    6                        2,550
Fork JIrbe                                                40                        100                       200                    6                        2,000
Bo- S-e                                                    71                         2                          7                  60                            7
R.ckuow                                                    59                         4                         12                  60                           12
Socket                                                     29                        15                         22                  12                          110
taroT                                                     12                         10                          6                   6                           60
Tape neucure                                             283                          6                         85                  60                           85
Spirit level                                             113                          3                         17                  60                           17
Maccc Hoscer                                               57                        25                         71                  60                           71
Yacon Chinel                                              28                          4                          6                   6                           60
Macor Trowel                                               28                         4                          6                  12                           30
Oilcan                                                     23                         4                          5                  60                            5
Pliers                                                    23                          4                         5                   60                            5
Sponeere                                                  34                          4                          7                  60
Jerry Can                                                  57                         3                          9                  30                           18
Torch                                                      34                         4                          7                  30                           14
iniv_t Mould 24"                                       5,07 9                         4                       0151                  60                        1,010
Culvert Mould 18"                                      4,796                          6                     1'439                   60                        1,439
Culvert Mould 12"                                      4,515                          2                       452                   60                          452
TOTAL   17 502
Aver.age per Year               KL  3,500
Average Cost per kI.:           or      77
I/  Assuming 45 km per - nne
2/  CLh 7 5 per da-  for en everege of 250 does work ocr seelm
3' ASsuriog 5-y-r lif1
_/  Costs bhed  -n -it lakbr force  of 270  eon
Source:   levied LoIm Application, .Sl1 1075  (cdje-std to mid-1976 costs)
i.ee 1976



REPUBLIC OF KENYA
RURAL ACCESS ROADS PROJECT
Implementaaion Schedule
Calendar Years
1976                   1  1977                         197 8   1                  9 9
A.  Technical Assistance
1)  RARP Headquarters Administration (I or 2 specialists)
a) Recruitment and contract negotiations
b)  Field service                                                                                             L                                                               _
2)  MOW Staff Training Department (10 specialists)
a)  Recruitment and contract negotiations                                                                     |                                                              l
F) Field service                                                                                           .                                                                 l
B.  Expansion of Training Facilitiesi 
Procurement of equipment for STO
C.  Rural Access Road Construction
S construction units
a)  Procurement of equipment- 3
b)  Field nperations                                                                                                             - _                     _               _        _
D.  Socio-Economic Tmpact Study                                                                                                        ____    ___                  __
E.  Rural Access Road Maintenance
1/ Expenditures incurred prior to credit effectiveness would be financed retroactively.
2/ Sources of finance for expenditures necessary after project completion have yet to be, identified.
3/ Domestically-produced hand tools will be procured on a continuing basis to allow for replacement requirements
Source:  Revised Loan Application, July 1975, and Mission Estimates
Jurte 1976



ANNEX 8
REPUBLIC OF KENYA
RURAL ACCESS ROADS PROJECT
TRAINING
A. Current Training Activities
1.        The MOW staff Training Department (STD) is responsible for the
training, retraining, and upgrading of MOW personnel. Between 1971, when
the former Kenya Highway Training Center was reorganized and expanded into
the STD, and the end of 1975 the STD trained some 1,460 technicians.
Cumulative
19'71   1972   1973   1974   1975   Totals
Overseers                           82    102      85      66     50       385
Foremen                             18      30     32      31     29       140
Inspectors                           -       -     20      40     32        92
Senior Supervisors                   -       -     15      15     17        47
Labor-Intensive Supervisors          -       -      -       -     32        32
Plant Operators                      -      68     73      59     94       294
Mechanics Grade 2                    -      50     50      24     38       162
Mechanics Grade 1                    -       -     14      24     38        76
Mechanics Instructors                -       -      -       9     11        20
Other Mechanical Personnel           - _            -      95    115       210
Total                       130    250    289    363    456    1,458
2.        Most of STD training act:ivities have concentrated on the retraining
and upgrading of road supervisors and equipment operators to meet the needs
of the classified roads. The training of mechanics has been carried out by
the U.S. consultants Raytheon under general STD supervision. Until now, much
of the program has consisted of classroom/workshop courses with some practical
field training. Including Raytheon personnel, STD staff consists of 9
expatriate instructors and 7 administrators, 14 Kenyan instructors, and 14
counterpart-instructors, and it now has the capacity to train up to 500 persons
annually, although the actual number of trainees passing their courses is
somewhat lower.
3.        In 1975, 2 pilot courses for road overseers of 1,hor-int4ncisin
units were introduced to provide experience in labor-intensive techniques
and to indicate the staff training requirements for RARP and RRGP units.



ANEX 8
Page 2
B. The Training Expansion Program
4.         Based on the recommendations of a SIDA-finance ORT study,
the MOW has prepared an expanded 5-year training program to meet increased
training demands, particularly for the RARRP. The overall cost is estimated
at US$4.6 million at 1975 prices, of which the Bank Group will finance
US$1.7 million.
5.        The program involves the training of about 2,800 new recruits
over the next 5 years and the retraining/upgrading of many of the existing
personnel. The breakdown of the skills for each program (RARP, RRGP and
classified road maintenance) and those to be taught annually in each category
are shown in Tables 1 and 2.
6.        To meet this demand, the MOW plans to:
a)   increase the current number of instructors/administrators
from 44 to 72 (22 road supervisors; 21 equipment operators;
19 mechanics; and 10 drivers);
b)   expand STD facilities through additional dormitories,
classroom/workshops, laboratories, stores, etc; and
c)   purchase (i) heavy road maintenance equipment for the training
of road supervisors and equipment operators; (ii) equipment
and tools for training of mechanics; (iii) audio-visual and
teaching aids; and (iv) vehicles.
7.        The MOW will make every effort to recruit staff skilled not
only in their respective technical fields, but also in training. In order
to provide long-term lasting benefits, the selection of Kenyan counterpart
instructors, together with the planning of their programs, will be under-
taken as soon as possible. Ideally, too, a number of suitable Kenyan
technicians should be selected for short instructor training programs
abroad.
8.        In line with the ORT report suggestion, the Bank recommends that
because of the STD Principal's heavy administrative burden, which will
increase even further under the expanded training program, the MOW should
consider restructuring the administration of STD by creating the position of
training coordinator and by recruiting a full-time deputy principal and an
administrator. This would free 7 instructors from administrative duties.
Training Production Units
9.        The ORT study recommended, inter alia, the adoption of a system
of training through production by the establishment of a small number of
Training Production Units (TPUs) for road maintenance and workshop practice
to strengthen the existing traininc Tirograr at the STD) Center.  The trainees
working in the TPUs wou d be trained under worl;ing conditions, while carr>-inc
out useful and much needed road maintenance.  Eowever, during: ne-ct-ations
the Government indicated that existing traininp methods vTere satisfactor-.
June 1976



ANNEX 8
Table 1
REPUBLIC OF KENYA
RURAL ACCESS ROADS PROJECT
Categories of Personnel to be Trained by STD, 1976-80
Road Programs
Categories           Maintenance   RRGP   RARP   Total Staff   Staff Trained Balance of
Required     or Considered Staff to be
Competent    Trained by
___________          ___________                   _              (12/31/75)       1980
Road Supervisors         670          30    370      1,070            696-2/       374
Surveyors                 -          -       22          22            -            223/
Storekeepers              32           5     74        111               2/        1113/
Equipment Oper-          745          75    444      1,264            294.-        970
ators (Equip.
& Wheeled
Tract.)                                                                2
Mechanics              1,001         170    148      1,319            468-         851
Welders                  120          15     -          135             40          9 5/
Auto-Electricians        135          15     74         224             15         2092-/
etc.
Drivers                1,100         365    296      1,761            952          809
Totals                 3,803         675  1,428      5,906          2,465        ,441
1/ These figures are estimates and are likely to change as the program
progresses. 10% attrition is included.
2/ Staff trained by STD as of 12/31/75; see para. 1.
3/ To be trained outside STD.
Source: ORT
June 1976



ANNEX 8
Table 2
REPUBLIC OF KENYA
RURAL ACCESS ROADS PROJECT
Yearly Training Output of STD for the Three Programs, 1976-80-
Categories                1976    1977    1978    1979    1980    Total
Road Supervisors            60      130      130       54       -       374
Surveyors                    8       14       -        -       -         2211
Storekeepers                36       36       39       -       -        ill.11
Equipment Operators        250      250      250      220       -       970
(Equip. & Wheeled
Tract.)
Mechanics                  170      170      170      170      171       851
Welders                     16       32       32       15       -         952/
Auto-Electricians,          14       56       56       56       27      209!
etc.
Drivers                    162      162      162      162      161      809
Totals                     716      850      839      677      359    3,441
1/ These figures are estimates and are likely to change as the program
progresses. 10% attrition is included.
2/ To be trained outside STD.
Source: ORT
June 1976



ANNEX 9
REPUBLIC OF KENYA
RURAL ACCESS ROADS PROJECT
Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
IBRD/IDA Fiscal
Year and Quarter         Cumulative Disbursement at End of Quarter
(US$ thousands)
1976/77
December 31, 1976                              900
March 31, 1977                               1,840
June 30, 1977                                2,780
1977/78
September 30, 1977                           3,680
December 31, 1977                            4,200
March 31, 1978                               4,720
June 30, 1978                                5,240
1978/79
September 30, 1978                           5,760
December 31, 1978                            6,320
March 31, 1979                               6,880
June 30, 1979                                7,440
1979/80
September 30, 1979                           7,800
December 31, 1979                            8,000
Source: Mission estimates
June 1976



ANNEX 10
Page 1
REPUBLIC OF KENYA
RURAL ACCESS ROADS PROJECTS
ECONOMIC AND SOCIAL EVALUATION
A. An Overall Assessment
1.        This overall assessment relates to the full 8-year construction
program in 22 districts, not just to the first phase financed under the pro-
ject. As detailed below, a comparison of costs and benefits indicates that
the program will yield an economic return exceeding 12%, net of social
benefits.
Project Costs
2.        Construction and maintenance costs derived from the data of Chapter
4 have been expressed in mid-1975 prices net of price contingencies. Taxes
have been deducted from costs and shadow prices have been used for valuing
foreign exchange and labor. The shadow price set for foreign exchange
is KSh9/30 = US$1. Unskilled labor used in road construction has been valued
at 50% of the wage rate to be paid under the project. The project cost data
used in the economic analysis are summarized in Tables I and 2 of this Annex.
Project Benefits
Agricultural Benefits
3.          The construction of access roads will stimulate smallholder agri-
cultural production by opening up previously inaccessible areas and by en-
couraging more intensive cultivation elsewhere. The roads would provide
greatly improved access to agricultural markets, especially important in
areas suitable for the cultivation of perishable crops such as milk, tea
and fruits and vegetables. All-weather roads would also enable farmers to
deliver products such as tea and coffee to factories in a more timely manner,
thereby improving quality. Further, improved access roads would enable
many farmers to use vehicles rather than animal or human transport or carry
produce long distances to the existing roads. The time thus saved could be
used for more productive agricultural work. In addition, the improved roads
would facilitate the transport of farm inputs, such as fertilizers and im-
proved seeds. The fact that a bag of fertilizer may have to be head-loaded
' or 3 miles before it can be used on a smallholding can be a powerful dis-
incentive to its use. Finally, the improved roads would enable agricul-
tural extension staff to reach and advise more farmers on improving farming
methods.



ANNEX 10
Page 2
4.        As the present volume of traffic on the access tracks and roads
is negligible, it has been assumed that the project would not lead to sig-
nificant road user savings.
5.        Despite the importance of the agricultural benefits mentioned
above, there is no completely satisfactory way to quantify them. The most
reliable estimate could probably be made through examining the nature of
agricultural production in the sphere of influence of each individual access
road and then estimating the agricultural benefits for each road to obtain a
national total. This approach is clearly impractical due to lack of staff
and time. The best solution appears to be to make a judgment about the rate
of growth of marketed agricultural production per RARP district with and with-
out the access roads program. Such an analysis will be done on a district-
by-district basis during the prcject and individual estimates made for each
major commodity (para. 4.04). Because it is not feasible to do this for each
RARP district individually at this stage, a rough estimate has been made of
the overall growth rate of marketed production with and without the roads in
the total area covered by the RARP.
6.        Estimated agricultural benefits from the rural access roads pro-
gram are shown in Table 3 of this Annex. The program is intended to serve
only the small-scale farming areas. It is estimated that 80% of small-
holder marketed production comes from the 22 districts included in the pro-
ject. As agricultural output statistics are not available by district, it
is not possible to obtain an accurate figure for marketed production in the
22 program districts. The latest available figure for marketed production
is a provisional 1974 estimate of KE74.6 million. (Kenya, Economic Survey
1975, Table 8.4). Eighty percent of this, Kf59.7 million, has been taken as
the base from which growth rates with and without the project have been
estimated. From 1964 to 1974, agricultural value-added within the monetary
economy in Kenya grew at an average of 5.3% annually in constant 1964 prices
(Economic Survey 1975, Table 2.2). The 1974-78 Development Plan anticipates
that marketed agricultural production will grow at 6.7% annually over the
plan period, although recent economic problems in Kenya make this doubtful.
In this analysis, it is assumed that marketed agricultural production will
grow at 5% per annum in the absence of the RARP.
7.        Improving rural access roads is just one of many things which the
Government does to improve agricultural productivity. Other agricultural
activities include extension and credit programs, farmer training and re-
search, marketing and cooperative development, construction of cattle dips
and improvement of veterinary facilities. Many of these programs are com-
plementary and it is not possible to evaluate one in isolation. It can be
stated, however, that a project to improve rural access roads would be of
significant benefit to agriculture, although not the sole determinant of
the rate of agricultural growth. However, the appraisal mission estimates
that marketed agricultural production would grow 10% faster with the RARP,
that is,the growth rate would be 5.5% per annum with the roads and 5' without



ANNEX 10
Page 3
(Table 3). Experience to date in areas covered by pilot construction
units suggest that such an increment could arise through a more intensive
use of existing farmland or a switch from subsistence crops (e.g., maize)
to cash crops (e.g., tea). While wide solid base of information supporting
this judgment is available, it is believed to be the right order of magnitude
and to provide a rough perspective in which the scale of investment proposed
under the RARP should be viewed.
8.        It has been assumed that the growth rate in marketed agricultural
output would grow a full half percentage point faster only in the year fol-
lowing completion of construction of the access roads. During the period
of construction, it has been assumed that only a proportion of the half
percentage of the increase would be obtained, the proportion being the per-
centage of the access roads completed up to the beginnning of the year in
question.
9.        The increase in marketed agricultural output which the program
should generate is shown in Table 3. As explained in the footnotes to the
Table, increased production has been converted into net economic benefits
by deducting the cost of inputs, and by making adjustments to allow for the
shadow pricing of foreign exchange and labor.
10.       The program costs and agricultural benefits summarized in Table 4
indicate about a 12% economic return. Despite reservations about the
difficulty of estimating the agricultural benefits, it does seem realistic
to conclude that the potential for and likelihood of obtaining increased
agricultural production in the smallholder areas to be served by the program
is sufficient to justify the proposed investments.
Non-Agricultural Benefits
11.       The substantial non-agricultural benefits include improved access
to health services and schools for a significant proportion of the rural
population. In addition, road construction and maintenance would provide
considerable wage employment in the rural areas. The construction work alone
is expected to provide 84,000 man-years of employment for casual labor. The
cash income received would be spent largely in the rural areas and would thus
help to promote development. Some of it would very probably be invested directly
in agriculture. Further, by eliminating the need to head-load farm produce and
other goods, considerable drudgery would be avoided. Employment opportunities
offered by the RARP and the resulting economic development may reduce migration
to the urban areas.



ANNEX 10
I'age 4
1 /
B.   Summary of the Economic Evaluation for Kakamega District
Geographic, Economic and Social Setting
12.       Kakamega District is the largest of the 3 districts whi5h cons-
titute the yestern Province of Kenya.  It has an area of 3,520 km   (inclu-
ding 264 km   of forest p eserve) and a popuLation of 763,000, an average
density of 222 persons/km . Subsistence farming is the sole means of live-
lihood for over 90% of the population. In view of the favorable soil and
climatic conditions, the District has the agricultural potential for cash
crops, such as sugar cane, cotton, coffee, tea, pyrethrum, fruits and
vegetables, as well as livestock production and dairying. Its classified
road network comprises 993 km, of which 35% are trunk and primary roads,
30% secondary roads and 35% minor roads.
13.       The lack of a dependable tertiary transport network and a reliable
marketing system effectively diszourages cash crop farming since farmers, to'
insure against famine, persist with traditional subsistence agriculture
centered around the production of staples such as maize. Further, although
the District possesses an infrastructure of administrative, social and com-
mercial service centers, such services are unavailable or difficult of access
to much of the population owing :o the lack of a reliable local road network.
The RARP aims to remove some of :hese constraints to economic and social
development by providing for the improvement of unclassified and some minor
roads and to provide employment opportunities for the local populace among
whom unemployment is widespread. It is envisaged that the program will
provide some 450 km of access roads distributed evenly across the District.
(The proposed location of roads :s shown in Map 5.)
2/
Cost of the Rural Access Roads Program in Kakamega
14.       Construction costs were calculated on the basis of 3 construction
units, each costing KE61,500, or US$172,200 per year, and each improving 45 km
of roads per year with a total annual cost of construction of KE184,500, or
1/   The object of this section is to illustrate the method of evaluation
used by the Kenya Government and to indicate the scope of future dis-
trict evaluations. The figures used (e.g., financial/economic cost ratio)
do not, therefore, always coincide exactly with those used in Sections
A and C of this Annex, which reflect a more detailed analysis.
2/   Based on pre-devaluation mid-1975 prices.



ANNEX 10
Page 5
US$515,200. The equivalent economic cost, after shadow price adjustments
and netting out taxes, was estimated to be 75% of the financial cost. Total
estimated cost for maintenance was based on an annual routine maintenance
cost of KE80 per km, or US$224. The regravelling cycle was taken to be once
every 10 years and the cost estimated at KE400, or US$1,120 per km. The eco-
nomic cost of maintenance and regravelling was estimated to be 54% of the
financial cost.
Program Benefits
15.       The main benefits comprised the value of increased agricultural
and livestock production attributable to the improvements; the value of
easier access to social services; and the income distribution effects of
the labor-intensive construction utilized.
Value-Added of Agricultural and Livestock Production
16.       Only the marketed output of small-scale farming was considered in
determining the value of increased agricultural and livestock production
attributable to the road improvements. The estimated rate of increase for
the production of agriculture (categorized into 10 crops) and livestock
(categorized into 5 items) without the improvements was extracted from the
Development Plans. Rates of increase with the road improvements represent
order of magnitude estimates and for various items of agricultural and
livestock production are on the average 0.5 of a percentage point higher for
the with as compared to the without roads case. The difference in total value
of agricultural and livestock production, between the with and without cases,
was taken as the benefits resulting from the program. These were reduced by
50% for agricultural production and 70% for livestock production to account
for production costs, taxes and shadow price adjustments.
Income Distribution Effects
17.       The utilization of labor-intensive construction techniques would
result in the local retention of a higher proportion of income generated
by the program. The cost of casual labor constitutes about 40% of total
construction costs. Since it is stipulated that this labor be hired
locally on a temporary basis, the income earned would remain in the area
and contribute to the increased monetization of the District's economy.
Value of Easier Access to Basic Social Services
1i.       At present there are large areas in Kakamega where the rural
people have to walk more than 15 km to reach an all-weather road. The
program, when completed, will bring about 90% of the population within
a maximum of 3 km from an all-weather road and provide access to market
centers, schools, administrative centers and other facilities.



ANNEX 10
Page 6
19.       In the economic analysis, an attempt was made by the Government to
impute values to the income-distribution effect of labor-intensive construc-
tion and easier access to basic social services. But in recognition of the
arbitrariness of the imputed values and problems of double counting, these
benefits were not quantified in estimating the economic return on the District
program. However, it may be possible to incorporate refined versions of the
quantitative analyses in future district evaluations as data and analytical
techniques improve.
Cost-Benefits Analysis
20.       (a)   Costs                          Construction plus maintenance
costs
(b)   Benefits                      Net increase in agricultural
and livestock production attri-
butable to road improvement
(c)   Economic return               22%
Cost-benefit streams are as given in Table 5.
C. Justification of Labor-Intensive Over
Capital-Intensive Construction for the RARP
Comparison of Costs
21.       In order to justify labor-intensive construction for the RARP,
in addition to establishing the economic viability of the program, it is
necessary to compare the economics of this type of construction with an
equivalent capital-intensive method.
22.       The labor-intensive construction for the RARP utilizes an appro-
priate mix of casual labor, small machines and tools, and mechanized equip-
ment to achieve an optimal method of construction. The casual labor
requirements are based on the following productivity figures, obtained from
the MOW/ILO/NORAD study of intermediate technology for road construction and
from subsequent experience in the field. 1/
1/   For further details, see "Revised Loan Application; Rural Access Roads
Programme", Government of Kenya, MOW, July 1975.



ANNEX 10
Page 7
Provisional MOW/ILO/NORAD
Item                             Productivity Estimate
3
Cut to crossfill                               4m3/man-day
Excavate gravel                                5m3/man-day
Load gravel                                   lom3/man-day
Spread gravel                                 15m /man-day
Cast culverts                              2 rings/man-day
Lay culverts                        0.05 culverts/man-day
Using these figures, the casual labor requirement is 1,000 man-days/km,
assuming good work organization, high quality management, average site
conditions and work on a task or piece-work basis.  However, in view of
the suboptimal construction conditions likely to be encountered, the
following conservative output values have been used in determining the
cost of labor-intensive construction:
Labor requirement   :                 1,500 man-days/km
Labor force                             270 men
Working days/year   .                   250 days
Annual output        :                   45 km/year
Average wage rate   :                    KSh7/day
(Approx. US$100/day/unit)
These figures are similar to the outputs achieved at 2 ongoing rural road
projects, in Nyeri and Vihiga Districts.
23.       The cost of capital-intensive construction was developed from
individual cost estimates of the various operations needed to construct
1 km of typical gravel road, built to the same standards as that ob-
tained with labor-intensive construction. The productivity rates and
cost figures were derived from World Bank data 1/, commercial technical
performance handbooks and discussions with MOW personnel in Kenya. The
productivity figures used in these analyses have been scaled down from
ideal estimates to reflect the construction conditions in Kenya and the
fragmentary nature of the work on rural access road sections (average
length 5-10 km).
24.       In terms of either financial or economic costs, labor-intensive
construction is the better alternative. In financial costs, the labor-
intensive method is 19% less expensive than the capital-intensive cons-
truction. The estimates used include the cost of construction, overhead
and right-of-way; only the capital costs of the works vary; overhead and
right-of-way remain constant (Tables 6 and 7).
I/   World Bank "Study of the Substitution of Labor and Equipment in Civil
Construction." Technical Memoranda (Vols. 3, 7, and 10) and other
internal unpublished data.



ANNEX 1f
Page 8
Comparison of Benefits
25.       An economic advantage of capital-intensive construction is earlier
realization of the program's benefits. Instead of the progressive build-up
of construction units associated with the 8-year labor-intensive construction
schedule, a capital-intensive program could construct equal kilometerage in
4 years.
Comparative Economic Evaluation
26.       The labor-intensive alternative is the more economically viable
construction method for the RARP. The stream of costs and benefits (Table 8)
shows that the higher construction and maintenance costs of capital-intensive
construction offset the advantage of an earlier realization of benefits to
yield a lower economic return than the labor-intensive method, 8.5% compared
with 12.5%.
June 1976



ANNEX 10
Table 1
REPUBLIC OF KENYA
RURAL ACCESS ROADS PROJECT
Rural Access Roads Construction Costs
(in 1975 prices)
Number of         Total          Economic          Km Roads        Cumulative
Construction   Constructiorn      Cost of           Completed        Km Roads
Yearl/        Units           Costs 2/    Constructionj/    Each Year4/    Completed
----K  thousand -------
2 (1975/76)         5              320.0            261.4               133             133
3 (1976/77)        18            1,152.0            941.0               511             644
4 (1977/78)        36            2,304.0          1,881.9            1,206            1,850
5 (1978/79)        60            3,846.0          3,136.6            2,150            4,000
6 (1979/80)        74            4,736.0          3,868.4            3,014            7,014
7 (1980/81)        74            4,736.0          3,868.4            3,330           10,344
8 (1981/82)        74            4,736.0          3,868.4             3,330          13,674
TOTAL        74           21,830.0        17,826.1            13,674          13,674
1/ The output of the single unit operating in the first year of the program, largely
on a pilot basis, has not been taken into account in the evaluation.
2/ Based on a total cost of Kb 64,000 per unit p.a.
3/ Economic costs are estimated to be approximately 82% of financial costs, after ad-
justirng for taxes, import duties and shadow pricing labor and foreign exchange.
The shadow wage rate for casual labor is assumed to be 50% of the market rate.
(Unskilled labor costs account for 40% of construction costs.) An upward adjust-
ment has been made to allow for a shadow foreign exchange rate 30% above the official
rate. The foreign exchange element in construction costs is approximately 27%.
4/ It is conservatively assumed for purposes of this evaluation that for the first year
a unit is brought into operation when only half the normal annual 45 km output per
unit will be achieved.
Source: Revised RARP Loan Application, July 1975, and Mission estimates.
June 1976



ANNEX in
Table 2
REPUBLIC OF KENYA
RURAL ACCESS ROADS PROJECT
Maintenance Costs _or Rural Access Roads
(KE thousand, in 1975 prices)
Total
Total           Economic
Program,       Routine                               Maintenance         Cost of
Year1/     Maintenance2/    Regravelling3/              Cost          Maintenance4/
2
3              10.6              -                     10.6               6.4
4              51.5              -                     51.5              30.9
5             198.0              -                    148.0              88.8
6             320.0              -                    320.0             192.0
7             561.1              -                    561.1             336.7
8             827.5              -                    827.5             496.5
9           1,093.9               -                 1,093.9             656.3
10           1,093.9               -                 1,093.9             656.3
11           1,093.9               -                 1,093.9             656.3
12           1,083.3             53.2                1,136.5             692.4
13           1,053.0           204.4                 1,257.4             795.3
14             997.4           482.4                 1,479.8             984.4
15             921.9           860.0                 1,781.9           1,241.1
16             852.8         1,205.6                 2,058.4           1,476.2
17             827.5         1,332.0                 2,159.5           1,562.1
18             827.5         1,332.0                  2,159.5          1,562.1
19           1,093.9               -                  1,093.9            656.3
20           1,093.9                                 1,093.9             656.3
21           1,093.9                                  1,093.9            656.3
1/  1974/75   Year 1, etc.
2/ Based on a maintenance cost of KL80 per km for the cumulative length of roads
com.pleted bu7 the end of the previous year, excluding roads dute for reeravelling.
3/ Based on a regravelling cost of Kn400 per km in the 10th year after construction.
4/ The economic cost of routine maintenance has been estimated to be 60% of the
financial cost:
Financial Cost                      100.0
Less Taxes                         -  5.0
Less Adjustment for Shadow Wage - 38.0  = 50% of 75% of costs
Plus Adjustment for Foreign        +  3.0  = 30% of 10% of costs
Exchange                         60%
For regravelling, the economic cost has been assumed to be 80% of the financial
cost, the same as for construction costs. None of the project costs for
training have been included.
Source: Mission estimates and discussions with MOW.
June 1976



ANNEX 10
Table 3
REPUBLIC OF KENYA
RIURAI ACCESS ROADS PROJECT
Agricultural Benefits from the Rural Access Roads Program
(KE thousand)
Percent                                                 Net Economic
Growth                                Net Economic        Benefits
Benefits      Rate       Benefits    Increase         Benefits       Using Shadow
P'rogram     Without       With         With        Due to       Using Shadow    Prices Based on
Year         Roadsl'    Roads2/       Roads         Roads         Prices3/        1975 Prices 4/
2          69,087      5.00          69,087        --                                -
3          72,541      5.01         72,548             7             6.1               6.7
4          76,168      5.02          76,190           22            19.3              21.0
5          79,976      5.07         80,053            77            67.6              73.7
6          83,975      5.15         84,176           201           176.4            192.3
7          88,174      5.26         88,603           429          376.5             410.4
8          92,583      5.38          93,370          787           690.6            752.8
9          97,212      5.50          98,506        1,294        1,135.5           1,237.7
10         102,073      5.50        103,923         1,850        1,623.4           1,769.5
11         107,177      5.50         109,639        2,462        2,160.4           2,354.8
12         112,536      5.50         115,669        3,133        2,749.2           2,996.6
13         118,163      5.50         122,031        3,868        3,394.2           3,699.7
14         124,071      5.50         128,743        4,672        4,088.7           4,468.7
15         130,275      5.50         135,824        5,549        4,869.2           5,307.4
16         136,789      5.50         143,294        6,505         5,533.3          6,031.3
17         143,628       5.50        151,175        7,547         6,622.5          7,221.8
18         150,809      5.50         159,490        8,681         7,617.6          8,303.2
19         158,349       5.50        168,262        9,913         8,698.7          9,481.6
20         166,266       5.50        177,516       11,250         9,871.9         10,760.4
21         174,579       5.50        187,280       12,701        11,145.1         12,148.2
1/  The most recent figure available for the value of marketed agricultural production
from small farms in Kenya is Kb74.6 million in 1974. It has been assumed that 80% of
this was produced in the 22 districts to be served by the rural access roads project
and that production would grow at 5% p.a. in the absence of the road project. This
compares with the average growth rate of 5.3% p.a. in monetary agricultural CDP actually
achieved (in constant prices) over the period 1964 to 1974 (see Kenya, Economic Survey
1975, Tables 2.2 and 8.4).
2/  It has been assumed that when the access roads have been completed agricultural output
would grow at 5.5% p.a., 10% faster than the rate of growth without the project. During
the road construction period it has been assumed that the rate of growth with roads
equals 5% + 0.5 times the proportion of the roads completed at the end of the previous year.
3/  It has been assumed that the net economic agricultural benefits are equivalent to 87.75%
of the increased output. Benefits have been reduced by 25% to allow for purchased inputs
and real labor costs involved in producing the additional output. The 25% comprises 15%
for the purchased inputs other than labor (fertilizers, seeds, etc.) and 10%o for labor.
This 10% is a rough approximation of the real cost of the additional labor used in pro-
duction.
An upward adjustment of 12.75% has been made to allow for the shadow foreign exchange
rate. Approximately 50% of output would be exported while about 50% of the value of
purchased inputs used would be foreign exchange. The upward adjustment of 12.75% is
therefore equal to the increase in the value of foreign exchange(30% x 50% of increased
output less half of the value of inputs used (1/2 of 15)). The overall adjustment is
therefore 100 - 25 (for inputs) plus 12.75 for foreign exchange = 87.75%.
4/  Net economic benefits based on 1974 prices were increased by 9' to reflect price
escalation from 1974 to 1975.
Source.  MIissioni ELti,ates
June 1976



ANNEX 10
Table 4
REPUBLIC OF KENYA
RURAL ACCESS ROADS PROJECT
Summary of Economic Costs and Net Agricultural Benefits"/
(KE thousand)
Economic Cost        Economic Cost        Total            Net            Total
Program          of                    of             Economic      Agricultural        Net
Year        Constructionl'       Maintenance_         Costs           Benefits!/    Benefits5!
2               261.4                 -                261.4            -             (261.4)
3               941.0                  6.4             947.4              6.7         (940.7)
4             1,881.9                 30.9          1,912.8             21.0        (1,891.8)
5            3,136.6                  88.8          3,225.4             73.7        (3,151.7)
6            3,868.4                 192.0          4,060.4            192.3        (3,868.1)
7            3,868.4                 336.7          4,205.1            410.4        (3,794.7)
8             3,868.4                496.5          4,364.8            752.8        (3,612.0)
9                 -                  656.3             656.3         1,237.7           581.4
10                 -                  656.3             656.3         1,769.5         1,113.2
11                 -                  656.3             656.3         2,354.8         1,698.5
12                 -                  692.4             692.4         2,996.6         2,304.2
13                 -                  795.3             795.3         3,699.7         2,904.4
14                 -                  984.4             984.4         4,468.7         3,484.3
15                 -                1,241.1           1,241.1         5,307.4         4,066.3
16                 -                1,476.2           1,476.2         6.031.3         4,555.1
17                 -                1,562.1           1,562.1         7,221.8         5,659.7
18                 -                1,562.1           1,562.1         8,303.2         6,741.1
19                 -                  656.3             656.3         9,481.6         8,825.3
20                 -                  656.3             656.3        10,760.4        10,104.1
21                 -                  656.3             656.3        12,148.2        11,491.9
1/ Based on 1975 prices.
2/ Data from Table 1, Annex 10.
3/ Data from Table 29 Annex 10.
4/ Data from Table 3, Annex 10.
5/ The economic return is above 12.5%.
Source: Revised Loan Application, July 1975, and Mission estimates.
June 1976



ANNEX 10
Table 5
REPUBLIC OF KENYA
RURAL ACCESS ROADS PROJECT
Kakamega District - Results of Economic Evaluation
Construction and
Year                    Maintenance Costs            Net Benefits
--------------(KL thousand)  ----------
1976                          15.4
1977                          51.6
1978                         118.6
1979                         144.9
1980                         150.4
1981                          19.4                       14.1
1982                          19.4                       40.7
1983                          19.4                       66.6
1984                          19.4                       92.0
1985                          19.4                      122.4
1986                          19.4                      154.1
1987                          19.4                      190.6
1988                          19.4                      231.8
1989                          19.4                      275.9
1990                          97.2                      321.3
1991                          19.4                      376.0
1992                          19.4                      436.0
1993                          19.4                      500.9
1994                          19.4                      572.3
1995                          19.4                      650.8
1996                          19.4                      736.8
1997                          19.4                      829.4
1998                          19.4                      935.2
1999                          19.4                    1,049.3
2000                          97.2                    1,174.0
Internal Rate of Return   21.5%
Source: Revised Loan Application, July 1975.
June 1976



ANNEX 10
Table 6
REPUBLIC OF KENYA
RURAL ACCESS ROADS PROJECT
Summary of Comparative Costs per km of Gravel Road Construction
(Foreign Exchange Rate: US$1 = KSh7.143)
Financial Cost                 Economic Cost
Labor-       Capital-        Labor-      Capital-
Intensive    Intensive       Intensive   Intensive
---------(U$)                  )-
1. Construction
A. Earthwork                     1,632         2,199          1,188        2,448
B. Gravelling                    1,175         1,625          1,087        1,726
C. Culverting                      334           334            267          267
D. Miscellaneous                   126           2081/           68          2221/
E. Cost to ensure
adequate compaction_/          147            -              742/         -
Sub Total           3,414         4,366          2,684        4,663
2. Overhead
A. Cost of supervision             337           337             337          337
B. Camp cost                       164           164             164          164
Sub Total             501           501            501          501
3. Construction & Overhead
(1 + 2)                  3,915         4,867          3,185        5,164
4. Construction & Overhead
plus ROW4/                 3,985         4,937          3,255        5,234
1/ 5% of (A+B+C)
2/ Based on use of casual labor and indigenous tools. This cost would increase
to US$170 if mechanical light rollers are used for compaction.
3/ Increase in construction cost as a consequence of stipulating proper and
sufficient compaction for earthworks and surfacing.
4/ ROW = Right-of-Way; ROW cost = US$70/km.
Source: Revised Loan Application, July 1975, and Mission estimates.
June 1976



ANNEX 10
Table 7
REPUBLIC OF KENYA
RURAL ACCESS ROADS PROJECT
Assumptions Underlying Evaluation of Economic Costs
A.  Shadow Pricing Factors:                   Percent of Financial Cost
1.  Unskilled labor                                    50
2.  Skilled labor                                     100
3.  Foreign exchange                                  130
4.  Materials                                         100
5.  Supervision cost                                  100
6.  Camp cost                                         100
7.  Right-of-way cost                                 100
B. Taxes
1.  Import duty on fuel (diesel)                       27
2.  Import duty on gasoline                            52
3.  Sales tax on gasoline                              23
4.  Import duty on landrover and trucks                25
5.  Sales tax on landrover and trucks                  10
(inclusive of import duty)
6.  Sales tax on construction machinery,               10
cement, nonagricultural hand tools
7.  Import duty on rollers and non-                    10
agricultural hand tools
8.  Sales tax on trailers                               2
9. No import duty or sales tax on agri-
cultural tractors and agricultural
hand tools
C. In capital-intensive operations, a larger right-of-way (ROW) would be
needed to facilitate operation of heavy construction equipment. This
would increase the cost of capital-intensive construction as a larger
quantity of earthwork would be involved. For this comparison, however,
the ROW has been kept constant for both labor-intensive and capital-
intensive construction.
Source: Mission estimates.
June 1976



REPUBLIC OF KENYA
RURAL ACCESS ROADS PROJECT
Effect of the Two Construction Alternatives on Cost-Benefit Analysis and Economic Return
(kE  thousan                    _ in  1975 prices)   .___.--___--_--
Labor Intens've Construction                                                 Plant Intensive Construction
Ecornomic Costs                  Net 3conomic Benefits                           Economic Costs                           Net Economic Benefits
Year        Construction         Maintenance           Total                                          Construction        Maintenance          Total
1.              261                  -                 261                  -                            6389                 -               6389
2               941                  6                 947                   7                           6389                 290             6679                    86
3              1832                 31                1913                 21                            6391                 580             6971                   264
4              3137                 89                3226                 74                            6391                 869             7260                   556
5              3868                192                4060                192                                                1160             1160                   969
6              3868                337                4205                 410                            -160                                1160                  1423'
7              3868                497                4365                753                                               6l0o              1160                  1922
8          -    -                  656                  6                1238                             -                  116G             1160                  24(2
9               -                  656                 656               1770                                                1160             1160                  3072
10               -                  656                 656               2355                                                1160             1160                  3728
11               -                 .692                 692               2997                              -                 2319             2319                  4447
12               -                  795                 795               3700                             -                  2319             2319                  5229
13               -                  984                 984               4469                             -                  2319             2319                  6o81
14               -                 1241                1241               5307                                                2319             2319                  7009
15               -                 1476                1476               6031                                                1160             160                   8017
16               -                 1562                1562               7222                             _16o                                1160                  9113
17               -                 1562                1562               8303                                                1160             1160                 10301            i  2
18               -                   656                656               9432                                                1160             1160                 11590            r t
19               -                  656                 656              10760                                                1160             1160                 12985               o
20               -                  656                 656              12148                                                1160             1160                 14494
Economic
Return         I                    12.5%                                                                                                         8.5%
Source:   Mission  estimates.
June 1976



3'8                                            To No,tob, 9eO                                                            40                                                          430
k,C                                                     tt AOd
m, Trw                      l  akie    \                                                    ,Mt to Andei
'  Ambwsel;
AlTO~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~N
A109                                   E '            \~
NTERNATlORALTRUNK ROADS
88                                                                                                                                                                                                     M  .>I  Q AALIN I r
,ATIOAt TRAW R AD$
C103     PAl       D 5080$
Ak.~~~~~~~N
:  ~         IE T '        .'Ntrm                                                                                                                                               /
2ZKE       N                     . ... ..r                              t    o ./ n o g 5d 
RURAL ACCES}aRS -OD 7RJC                                                         N                               'N.                                                          OCEA
FOIE  RAN  GIU  FINACC  RAI                                                              I                  I                    I           jla  ''''  "'   "'-;ohr
.' ~  ~       ~       ~       ATR    AR-   iN .\1O  N'    ..' ,'      
;   ,,  - ~~~~~-   B  ,   ...........  ,,,  '~~~~~~~~~~,.    _  !-  .  .  '   -   ;   -   -   B                                                          2         r     S  S~~~. ... ...
--- a                              T_ 'inG# i--                                                                                                                                                                                4 4i'Q< 5T
~~~~~~~~~~~~~.....  .    .. .. ... .                                                                                                                  6   39K E   f
. ~ACS, I ;    4C  A0wrl/NDS PR/E T                                             N
- fOW~Eo; BANK bo. ff~- T|MD RO                                                                                                                   ^.A ."  'M5;    ^lR O CEA N
.   1 .       . . -    A5TEF    gA                        - -                                           -A-                                   lne






IBRD 11950
3167                                                                               JANUARY 1976
I                         ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~K E N Y A       T -.&M,.
~~ l sol ug-eu-            RURAL ACCESS ROADS PROJECT                     o3sm&rab 
J '5'-           ~~FORMtER BANK GROUP FINANCED ROADS
(    0                    ~~~~~~~CENTRAL AREA,
t71   Zefie   \       GAf                                         #=51  SIOLO
1-;~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ KE gjX,
S. Moaouv \ a>t   4t                     w,_,25K    pggt        EThc    tao
3~~~~~~~~~;                                                           M  9 to 0 
z~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1 56K    Klob    
Ch-9  H,1                  huKJ '3      iTla.m                             Noos  o  u 
z   INTERNATIONAL TRUNK ROADS   C63>_Jondora   5_   _5Kanunda639 KE
+  |   RA I LWAYS   g          /                            0                  )~~~~~~~~~~~~~7 K
OCd~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.                  Nd C  L9
B8                                             N  />X~. .b?aogaJ--
C 103  PRMAYk ROADSr sh Rn                                            9, W..h






41-~~ ~~~~~~~~~                                                                                    _   vII5    L.n
L C5 t=    '    =    -   ....   -   :   -'   ,  :0
4                                                                                                  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~41~O
5  1~~~~~~~~14






ft;5aN lQ                -1                                                                                                         A
ti g 4, ] . 1 ,TLXKANDEA                                                                                                                                   6
-?                                       TRJW\~ A               : 0M5$ iAi T
-   E A                                        N T   E   R  N -\WJI  
-P ~~~~~~~~~;N ~ ~ ~
9 X;1i                   Vs ~~~~~~~A  L L  E Y                \        X          -X                              9
@X                        t   E~~~~~~~~~~4RtrNG  -G
M ERU                             
OUTH ~    ~       ~       H'
YAAl2A~~~
F ~T   I                                     A          E     
FIRO~--                                        IGA
A t   f                                  n                     0   h'T.1         |~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ko  TANA RIVIER ,
K4JI E  Y                        '7            C' O EA   5  T E  RN   ' a 0     WASI,
N O[A~~~~~~~~N
0 S ; Prf \ - 49NG7                                                                                 /      '7_ V.N<n
j                                                              =AI,?AN   ,CEAr=AI 3
Na ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~''
la~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~7'
15 ~ ~    ~     ~     ~     N'UJ                                                 7'>
5(77493     '7.  '~~~~~~~~~~  jE






IBRD 11948
340                                K E N  Y A                                                                    350                    February 1976
RURAL ACCESS ROADS PROJECT                                                         T RA NS   N Z 0 1 =A
KAKAMEGA  DISTRICT                                               k                       -(
PROPOSED  RURAL  ACCESS  ROADS                                                                    (             Hoey's Bridge
PROPOSED RURAL ACCESS ROADS                   0       5       10       15
INTERNATIONAL AND                             I                                          N G I  MI
-va~      NNATIONAL TRUNK ROADS              t          MILES                                  B U
PRIMARY AND SECONDARY ROADS           i_               __0 10      20 3D0__r U_A_S_I_N
MINOR ROADS                   |         \      ILOMETERSI                                                                          GISHU
++*++ |   " RAILWAYS                                      T \ he boundaries shown  hln -h mp do nut
(*     PROVINCIAL HEADQUARTERS                   r    nipiv endorsement or ,epsnee --   she                                iI
o      DISTRICT HEAD DUARTERS       Malaba     r      World Bank and its sffiliste. /-
0  ~OTHER TOWNS                                                                                        A       -
RIV ERS                              I roa
PROVINCIAL BOUNDARIES                    (        Bun o                        '
DISTRICT BOUNDARIES
-  -   -  INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES                                                                                                 JN -doret
BsSia@b (  m1tA)2e     
r   \  ft                    g S,   r/f?<             I <7           j      @}   s  s                                   \
.,B U S I A . -...'sot ..   g r\ \
.\KAMEGA   , S\
$( ) } ? < ) As~~~~~~~~ub` ~g\i a_   5^                                                                    N A N D I \
; / } e  Ukwala Oi~  1   /    ).-T. <-8 Kabet    > /
(\  '             f           LAKE                    \  )  W/    <?  .                                                  SUDAN-
"~~ \  'i'S  _                                   t    ie   t@'/    i'   y                          ~~)     Ares oi Mapv
2  Vf\9;'   -W                               ^   H        ^~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                                  ~      ~      ~~~~~~~~-\,a_  oK geK mega  5
\ <;,,) rW'0 / 1/ > 2. <v_ ___< tJ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~NAIROBI-) 
|I0 ) ' ^' t    Y A r                                       ANIA                                                                    I
TANZANIA 
LA 'E 



