CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 651 KE
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
(Rural Access Roads Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF KENYA
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated July 9, 1976


﻿DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated July 9, 1976, between REPUBLIC OF KENYA
(hereinafter called the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT
ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the Association).
WHEREAS (A) The Borrower has requested the Association to
assist in the financing of the Project described in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement by extending the Credit as hereinafter provided;
(B) The Borrower has also requested the Bank to provide
additional assistance towards the financing of the Project and
by an agreement of even date herewith between the Borrower and
the Bank (hereinafter called the Loan Agreement) the Bank is
agreeing to provide such assistance in an aggregate principal
amount equivalent to four million dollars ($4,000,000) (hereinafter
called the Loan);
(C) The Borrower and the Association intend, to the extent
practicable, that the proceeds of the Credit provided for in this
Agreement be disbursed on account of expenditures on the Project
before disbursements of the proceeds of the Loan provided for in
the Loan Agreement are made; and
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis inter alia
of the foregoing, to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the
terms and conditions hereinafter set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:


﻿-2-
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the
provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Development
Credit Agreements of the Association, dated March 15, 1974, with
the same force and effect as if they were fully set forth herein
(said General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit Agree-
ments of the Association being hereinafter called the General
Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the
General Conditions nd in the Preamble to this Agreement have
the respective meanings therein set forth and the following
additional terms have the following meanings:
(a) "Loan Agreement" means the agreement of even date here-
with between the Borrower and the Bank for the purpose of the
Project, as such agreement may be amended from t.ime to time; and
such term includes the General Conditions Applicable to Loan and
Guarantee Agreements of the Bank, dated March 15, 1974, as made
applicable to such agreement, all agreements supplemental to the
Loan Agreement and all schedules to the Loan Agreement;
(b) "MOW" means the Borrower's Ministry of Works;
(c) "SPB" means the Special Projects Branch of the Roads
Department of MOW;


﻿-3-
(d) "STD" means the Staff Training Department of MOW;
(e) "RARP" means the Borrower's Rural Access Roads Program,
as described in its Revised Loan Application of July, 1975; RARP
is an eight-year program (Fiscal Years 1975-1982) providing for the
construction of about 15,000 km of rural roads in 22 districts of
the Borrower, employing labor-intensive construction techniques;
(f) "Construction Unit" means a work unit established for
purposes of the RARP, comprising a locally-recruited casual labor
force of about 270, under the supervision of MOW;
(g) "RAR Engineer" means an engineer employed by MOW at
the field level to control the work of a number of Construction
Units; and
(h) "STD Training Expansion Program" means the proposed
5-year training expansion program of STD, designed to produce the
trained staff required for RARP and the Borrower's other highway
programs.


﻿ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower,
on the terms and conditions in the Development Credit Agreement
set forth or referred to, an amount in various currencies equi-
valent to four million dollars ($4,000,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from
the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule
1 to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended from time to
time by agreement between the 'o;rower and the Association, for
expenditures made (or, if the Association shall so agree, to be
made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services
required for the Projpct and to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit.
Section 2.03. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, the goods and works for the Project to be financed out of
the proceeds of the Credit, shall be procured in accordance with
the provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1981 or such
later date as the Association shall establish. The Association
shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4
of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn
and outstanding from time to time.


﻿-5-
Section 2.06. Service charges shall be payable semi-annually
on March 15 and September 15 in each year.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Credit in semi-annual installments payable on each March 15
and September 15 commencing September 15, 1986, and ending March 15,
2026, each installment to and including the installment payable
on March 15, 1996 to be one-half of one per cent (1/2 of 1%) of
such principal amount, and each installment thereafter to be one
and one-half per cent (1-1/2%) of such principal amount.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America
is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the Gen-
eral Conditions.


﻿-6-
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. The Borrower shall carry out the Project with
due diligence and efficiency smd in conformity with appropriate
engineering, administrative and financial practices, and shall
provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and
other resources required for the purpose.
Section 3.02. (a) The Borrower shall afford the Association
a reasonable opportunity to comment on: (i) the qualifications
and experience of any person proposed for appointment to the posi-
tion of RARP Superintending Engineer within SPB; and (ii) on the
functions such person shall perform.
(b) In order to assist the Borrower in carrying out Part C
of the Project, the Borrower shall, if required, employ consultants
whose qualifications, experience and terms and conditions of em-
ployment shall be satisfactory to the Association.
Section 3.03. (a) The Borrower undertakes to insure, or
make adequate provision for the insurance of, the imported goods
to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit against hazards
incident to the acquisition, transportation and delivery thereof
to the place of use or installation, and for such insurance any
indemnity shall be payable in a currency freely usable by the
Borrower to replace or repair such goods.


﻿-7-
(b) Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the
Borrower shall cause all goods and services financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit to be used exclusively for the Project.
Section 3.04. (a) The Borrower shall furnish to the Associa-
tion, promptly upon their preparation, the plans, specifications,
reports, contract documents and work and procurement schedules
for the Project, and any material modifications thereof or addi-
tions thereto, in such detail as the Association shall reasonably
request.
(b) The Borrower: (i) shall maintain records adequate to
record the progress of the Project (including the cost thereof)
and to identify the goods, works and services financed.out of the
proceeds of the Credit, and to disclose the use thereof in the
Project; (ii) shall enable the Association's accredited representa-
tives to visit the facilities and construction sites included in
the Project and to examine the goods financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit and any relevant records and documents; and (iii)
shall furnish to the Association all such information as the
Association shall reasonably request concerning the Project, the
expenditure of the proceeds of the Credit and the goods, works
and services financed out of such proceeds.
Section 3.05. The Borrower shall take or cause to be taken
all such action as shall be necessary to acquire as and when
needed all such land and rights in respect of land as shall be
required for the carrying out of the Project.


﻿-8-
Section 3.06. The Borrower shall appoint appropriately quali-
fied and experienced RAR Engineers for the purposes of the RARP.
Section 3.07. The Borrower shall, prior to commencing con-
struction under RARP in any district, carry out an economic and
social evaluation of the rural access road network proposed to be
constructed under RARP in such district, on the basis of criteria
mutually acceptable to the Borrower and the Bank.
Section 3.08. The Borrower shall, (i) by February 1, 1977, or
such later date as shall be agreed to by the Association, imple-
ment appropriate arrangements for the periodic review of the
districts scheduled for inclusion in the RARP and the allocation
of RARP funds among them, which arrangements will allow for the
views of all affected ministries of the Borrower to be taken into
account, and (ii) thereafter, cause such periodic reviews to be
carried out in accordance with such arrangements, not less fre-
quently than annually.
Section 3.09. The Borrower shall take all necessary measures
for the timely implementation of the STD Training Expansion Pro-
gram, including, without limitation: (i) the procurement of all
required training equipment and aids and the construction/acquisi-
tion of all required buildings; (ii) the employment, in consulta-
tion with the Association, of an adequate number of suitably
oualified and experienced supervisors who will assist STD training
staff in carrying out the STD's Training Expansion Program; and
(iii) the recruitment of an adequate number of suitably qualified
trainees.


﻿9
Section 3.10. For purposes of Part C of the Project the Bor-
rower shall furnish the Association with a monitoring and evalua-
tion plan.


﻿- 10 -
ARTICLE IV
Other Covenants
Section 4.01. The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be
maintained records adequate to reflect in accordance with con-
sistently maintained appropriate accounting practices the opera-
tions, resources and expenditures, in respect of the Project, of
the departments or agencies of the Borrower responsible for
carrying out the Project or any part thereof.
Section 4.02. The Borrower shall take all such measures as
are required to ensure that implementation of the RARP will not
aggrevate soil erosion in the areas to be served by the RARP.
Section 4.03. The Borrower shall ensure that the roads con-
structed under the RARP will be adequately maintained and repaired
in accordance with sound engineering and financial practices, and
that the funds, facilities, services and other resources required
therefor will be provided, as and when needed.


﻿- 11 -
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination
Section 5.01. The following event is specified as an additional
condition to the effectiveness of the Development Credit Agree-
ment within the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of the General Condi-
tions, namely, that all conditions precedent to the effectiveness
of the Loan Agreement other than the effectiveness of the Develop-
ment Credit Agreement have been fulfilled.
Section 5.02. The date October 7, 1976, is hereby specified
for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
Section 5.03. The obligations of the Borrower under Sections
4.02 and 4.03 of this Agreement shall cease and determine on the
date on which the Development Credit Agreement shall terminate
or on a date twenty years after the date of this Agreement, which-
ever shall be the earlier.


﻿'W
- 12 -
ARTICLE VI
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 6.01. The Minister of the Borrower for the time being
responsible for Finance is designated as representative of the
Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
The Treasury
P.O. Box 30007
Nairobi,
Kenya
Cable address:
FINANCE
Nairobi
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable addriess:
INDEVAS
Washington, D.C.


﻿- 13 -
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this Agree-
ment to be signed in their respective names in the District of
Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first
above written.
REPUBLIC OF KENYA
By /s/ Ernest Mungai
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ Stanley Please
Acting Regional Vice President
Eastern Africa


﻿SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds
of the Credit and of the Loan
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit and of the Loan, the
allocation of amounts of such proceeds to each Category and the
percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each
Category:
Amount of the
Credit and of the
Loan Allocated            % of
(Expressed in        Expenditures
Category              Dollar Equivalent)    to be Financed
(1) Construction Unit
equipment and vehi-
cles (excluding
hand tools)
(a) directly im-    )                       100% of foreign
ported         )                        expenditures
)    1,200,000
(b) imported but    )                       90% of local
locally pro-   )                        expenditures
cured          )
(2) Construction Unit           200,000          50%
hand tools
(3) Construction Unit         2,400,000          60%
operating costs
(4) Teaching aids             1,500,000
and mechanics'
training equip-
ment for Part B
of the Project


﻿-'15-
Amount of the
Credit and of the
Loan Allocated            % of
(Expressed in        Expenditures
Category              Dollar Equivalent)     to be Financed
(a) directly im-                             100% of foreign
ported                                  expenditures
(b) imported but                             90% of local
procured lo-                            expenditures
cally
(5) Technical services          500,000           100% of foreign
expenditures
(6) Maintenance                 600,000
(a) directly im-                             100% of foreign
ported                                  expenditures
(b) imported but                             90% of local
procured locally                        expenditures
(7) Evaluation and              400,000           90%
monitoring of the
RARP
(8) Unallocated               1,200,000
TOTAL     8,000,000
0


﻿- 16 -
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a) the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of a country other than the Borrower and for goods
or services supplied from the territory of any country other
than the Borrower; and
(b) the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of the Borrower and for goods or services supplied from
the territory of the Borrower.
3.   The disbursement percentages have been calculated in com-
pliance with the policy of the Association and the Bank that no
proceeds of the Credit and of the Loan shall be disbursed on ac-
count of payments for taxes levied by, or in the territory of,
the Borrower on goods or services, or on the importation, manu-
facture, procurement or supply thereof; to that end, if the
amount of any such taxes levied on or in respect of any item to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit and of the Loan de-
creases or increases, the Association or the Bank may, by notice
to the Borrower, increase or decrease the disbursement percentage
then applicable to such item as required to be consistent with the
aforementioned policy of the Association and the Bank.
4.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no with-
drawals shall be made:
(i) in respect of payments made for expenditures prior
to the date of this Agreement, except that with-
drawals, in an aggregate amount not exceeding the


﻿- 17 -
equivalent of $200,000, may be made in respect of
Categories (4) and (5) on account of payments made
for such exmenditures before that date but after
April 1, 1976;
(ii) in respect of expenditures under Category (3) for
the account of any Construction Unit, unless the
Association shall have first approved a social
and economic evaluation of the rural access road
network proposed to be constructed in the district
concerned, carried out in accordance with the
provisions of Section 3.07 of this Agreement, and
such evaluation demonstrates a satisfactory
economic rate of return; and
(iii) in respect of expenditures under Category (7), un-
less the Association shall have first approved the
plan required by Section 3.10 of this Agreement.
In addition, except as the Borrower, the Association and the
Bank shall otherwise agree, and until all amounts of the Credit
shall have been withdrawn or committed, no withdrawals shall be
made from the Loan Account except under commitments entered into
by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions
referred to in Section 1.01 of the Loan Agreement.
5.   Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Credit
and of the Loan or the disbursement percentages set forth in the
table in paragraph 1 above, if the Association and the Bank have,


﻿- 18 -
or after full withdrawal of the entire amount of the Credit, the
Bank has reasonably estimated that the amount of the Credit and
of the Loan which are allocated to any Category will be insufficient
to finance the agreed percentage of all expenditures in that Cate-
gory, the Association and the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower:
(i) reallocate to such Category, to the extent required to meet
the estimated shortfall, proceeds of the Credit and of the Loan
which are then allocated to another Category and which in the op-
inion of the Association and of the Bank are not needed to meet
other exnenditures, and (ii) if such reallocation cannot fully
meet the estimated shortfall, reduce the disbursement percentage
then applicable to such expenditures in order that further with-
drawals under such Category may continue until all expenditures
thereunder shall have been made.
6.   If the Association and the Bank shall have reasonably deter-
mined that the procurement of any item in any Category is incon-
sistent with the procedures set forth or referred to in this Agree-
ment, no expenditures for such item shall be financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit and of the Loan and the Association and the
Bank may, without in any way restricting or limiting any other
right, power or remedy of the Association and of the Bank under
the Development Credit Agreement and the Loan Agreement, by notice
to the Borrower, cancel such amount of the Credit and of the Loan
as, in the Association's and the Bank's reasonable opinion, repre-
sents the amount of such expenditures which would otherwise have
been eligible for financing out of the proceeds of the Credit and
of the Loan.


﻿- 19 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project will provide assistance to the Borrower in im-
plementing a part of the RARP and consists of:
A.   Equipping and operating eight Construction Units for three
years each.
B.   Implementing the STD Training Expansion Program.
C.   Evaluating and monitoring the RARP.
D.   Maintenance and repair of the roads constructed under the
RARP.
*              *              *
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 1980.


﻿- 20 -
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement
A.   International Competitive Bidding
1.   Except as provided in Part B hereof, equipment for the Proj-
ect shall be procured under contracts to be awarded in accordance
with procedures consistent with those set forth in Part A of the
"Guidelines for Procurement under World Bank Loans and IDA Credits"
published by the Bank in August 1975 (hereinafter called the Guide-
lines), on the basis of international competitive bidding.
2.   Contracts for equipment shall, to the extent practicable,
be grouped in lots of a size large enough to attract bidders in
international bidding, and as shall be consistent with sound tech-
nical and procurement practices.
B.   Other Procurement Procedures
1.   Contracts for equipment estimated to cost less than the
equivalent of $100,000 may be awarded in accordance with the
Borrower's normal procurement procedures.
2.   It is recognized that international competitive bidding may,
in some instances, be inappropriate even for equipment contracts
valued at the equivalent of $100,000 or more, due to requirements
for standardization. The Association will therefore review proposed
bidding documents with a view to determining whether international
competitive bidding procedures are appropriate or whether the Bor-
rower's normal procurement procedures should apply.


﻿-21-
C.   Evaluation and Comparison of Bids for Goods; Preference for
Domestic Manufacturers
1.   For the purpose of evaluation and comparison of bids for the
supply of goods except those to be procured in accordance with
local procedures: (i) bidders shall be required to state in their
bid the c.i.f. (port of entry) price for imported goods, or the
ex-factory price for domestically-manufactured goods; (ii) customs
duties and other import taxes on imported goods, and sales and
similar taxes on domestically-supplied goods, shall be excluded;
and (iii) the cost to the Borrower of inland freight and other ex-
penditures incidental to the delivery of goods to the place of
their use or installation shall be included.
2.   Goods manufactured in Kenya may be granted a margin of pref-
erence in accordance with, and subject to, the following provisions:
(a) All bidding documents for the procurement of goods shall
clearly indicate any preference which will be granted, the informa-
tion required to establish the eligibility of a bid for such pref-
erence and the following methods and stages that will be followed
in the evaluation and comparison of bids.
(b) After evaluation, responsive bids will be classified in
one of the following three groups:
(1) Grou A: bids offering goods manufactured in Kenya
if the bidder shall have established to the satis-
faction of the Borrower and the Association that
the manufacturing cost of such goods includes a


﻿- 22-
value added in Kenya equal to at least 20% of
the ex-factory bid price of such goods.
(2) Group B: all other bids offering goods manufactured
in Kenya.
(3) Group C: bids offering any other goods.
(c) All evaluated bids in each group shall be first compared
among themselves, excluding any customs duties and other import
taxes on goods to be imported and any sales or similar taxes on
goods to be supplied domestically, to determine the lowest evaluated
bid of each group. Such lowest evaluated bids shall then be compared
with each other, and if, as a result of this comparison, a bid
from group A or group B is the lowest, it shall be selected for
the award.
(d) If, as a result of the comparison under paragraph (c)
above, the lowest bid is a bid from group C, algroup C bids shall
be further compared with the lowest evaluated bid from group A
after adding to the c.i.f. bid price of the imported goods offered
in each group C bid, for the purpose of this further comparison
only, an amount equal to (i) the amount of customs duties and other
import taxes which a non-exempt importer would have to pay for the
importation of the goods offered in such group C bid, or (ii) 15%
of the c.i.f. bid price of such goods if said customs duties and
taxes exceed 15% of such price. If the group A bid in such further
comparison is the lowest, it shall be selected for the award; if
not, the bid from group C which as a result of the comparison
under paragraph (c) is the lowest evaluated bid shall be selected.


﻿- 23 -
D.   Procurement Without Contracting
Civil works for the Project will be carried out by the RARP
Construction Units.
E.   Review of Procurement Decisions by the Association
1.   Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final
contracts:
With respect to all contracts for equipment estimated to cost
the equivalent of $100,000 or more:
(a) Before bids are invited, the Borrower shall furnish to
the Association, for its comments, the text of the invitations to
bid and the specifications and other bidding documents, together
with a description of the advertising procedures to be followed
for the bidding, and shall make such modifications in the said
documents or procedures as the Association shall reasonably re-
quest. Any further modification to the bidding document, shall
require the Association's concurrence before it is issued to the
prospective bidders.
(b) After bids have been received and evaluated, the Bor-
rower shall, before a final decision on the award is made, inform
the Association of the name of the bidder to which it intends to
award the contract and shall furnish to the Association, in suf-
ficient time for its review, a detailed report on the evaluation
and comparison of the bids received, and such other information


﻿- 24-
as the Association shall reasonably request. The Association shall,
if it determines that the intended award would be inconsistent
with the Guidelines or this Schedule, promptly inform the Borrower
and state the reasons for such determination.
(c) The terms and conditions of the contract shall not, with-
out the Association's concurrence, materially differ from those on
which bids were asked or prequalification invited.
(d) Two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished
to the Association promptly after its execution and prior to the
submission to the Association of the first application for with-
drawal of funds from the Credit Account in respect of such contract.
2.   With respect to each contract to be financed out of the pro-
ceeds of the Credit and not governed by the preceding paragraph,
the Borrower shall furnish to the Association, promptly after its
execution and prior to the submission to the Association of the
first application for withdrawal of funds from the Credit Account
in respect of such contract, two conformed copies of such contract,
together with the analysis of the respective bids, recommendations
for award and such other information as the Association shall rea-
sonably request. The Association shall, if it determines that the
award of the contract was not consistent with the Guidelines or
this Schedule, promptly inform the Borrower and state the reasons
for such determination.


