Page  1
INTEGRATED SAFEGUARDS DATA SHEET 
CONCEPT STAGE 
Report No.:  34928 
 
Date ISDS Prepared/Updated: 01/11/2006 
 
I.  BASIC INFORMATION 
 
A.  Basic Project Data 
 
Country: Ecuador 
Project ID: P095555 
Project Name: Rural and Small Towns Water Supply and Sanitation Project  II 
(PRAGUAS) 
Task Team Leader: Franz R. Drees-Gross 
Estimated Appraisal Date: February 27, 
2006 
Estimated Board Date: May 18, 2006 
Managing Unit: LCSFW 
Lending Instrument: Adaptable Program 
Loan 
Sector: Water supply (50%);Sanitation (35%);Solid waste management (10%);Central 
government administration (5%) 
Theme: Rural services and infrastructure (P);Small and medium enterprise support 
(S);Decentralization (S) 
IBRD Amount (US$m.): 
60.00 
IDA Amount (US$m.): 
0.00 
GEF Amount (US$m.): 
0.00 
PCF Amount (US$m.): 
0.00 
Other financing amounts by source:  
 BORROWER 
0.00 
 
MUNICIPALITIES OF BORROWING COUNTRY 
45.00
45.00 
B.  Project Objectives [from section 2 of PCN] 
The development objective for phase 2 of the APL program ("the project”) is to (i) provide 
sustainable water and sanitation (WSS) infrastructure for approximately 500,000 rural 
beneficiaries and to promote its effective use; (ii) promote the delegation of water/sanitation 
and/or solid waste services to autonomous operators in 25 cantonal capitals and extend the 
coverage and quality of these services; and (iii) improve WSS sector performance by promoting 
performance-based investment financing by the national government and by strengthening sector 
institutions at the national and local level.   
 
C.  Project Description [from section 3 of PCN] 
The second phase of the PRAGUAS program is expected to comprise the following components 
(amounts in parentheses show use of loan proceeds):  
 
Page  2
Component 1: Sector Reform and Institutional Development (US$3 million)  
 
1A: 
WSS Sector Financial Policy (US$1.5 million)  
 
This sub-component (which would be implemented by MEF and was not part of the APL-1 
design) would strengthen MEF’s ability to target approximately $75 million/year in telephone 
taxes (Impuesto sobre Consumos Especiales, ICE) earmarked for the WSS sector more 
effectively and to develop coherent overall financial policies for the WSS sector.  
 
1B: 
Sector Reform and Strengthening of the SAPSyRS (US$1.5 million)  
 
Restructuring of the SAPSyRS proceeded at a slow pace over the course of APL-1, in part due 
to high turnover in ministerial and subsecretary ranks over the past 5 years. SAPSyRS’ transition 
to a normative role as a standard-setter and facilitator of sector investments carried out by 
municipalities and communities is still incomplete. APL-2 will focus on (i) strengthening the 
capacity of SAPSyRS through training and the development of technical norms; (ii) 
operationalizing the sector information system (SISASAR) developed as part of APL-1; (iii) 
sectoral planning and policy development; and (iv) strengthening the capacity of other key sector 
actors (OITS, municipalities, WSS operators, water users associations (“juntas”) etc. to assume 
their roles in the sector. This sub-component will also include funding to upgrade the physical 
working environment of the SAPSyRS.  
 
Component 2: Water Supply and Sanitation in Rural Areas (US$30.0 million)  
 
2A: 
Promotion, Community Development, Hygiene Education, Designs and Supervision 
(US$8 million)  
 
The project cycle for rural WSS investments will be similar to the one under APL-1: the project 
will be marketed to eligible municipalities (the 202 municipalities whose cantonal capitals had 
populations of 100,000 or less according to the 2001 census). This universe is somewhat larger 
than the one targeted under PRAGUAS I, which invested only in the rural areas of the 152 
smallest municipalities. Municipalities and communities willing to (i) co-finance 20% and 30% 
of RWSS investments, respectively, (ii) adopt rural tariffs that cover the cost of operation and 
maintenance (O&M) and some equipment replacement; and (iii) agree to a demand-driven 
approach, will received TA for engineering designs, community development (including training 
and hygiene education) and the supervision of works at no charge.  
 
In order to maximize the health benefits of rural water investments, a handwashing initiative 
will be integrated into the project under APL-2. Ecuador’s child mortality rate of 27 per 1,000 is 
high given the country’s general level of development and its per capita GDP. Much of this high 
child mortality rate is due to diarrheal disease and acute respiratory infections (ARIs, viral and 
bacterial pneumonias). Handwashing with soap at critical times can reduce childhood diarrhea by 
as much as 50% and childhood ARIs by 40% and will reduce the likelihood of contamination of 
household water.  
 
Handwashing will be integrated into the project using the public-private partnership model 
tested and systematized by the Global Public Private Partnership for Handwashing.  A 
Page  3
partnership of handwashing and child health stakeholders (MIDUVI, Ministry of Health, 
Ministry of Education, NGOs, women’s groups, clinician groups, soap manufacturers, media 
companies, etc) will be formed to guide and implement the initiative. Project funds will be used 
to conduct formative research to identify the deep emotional motivators for handwashing within 
Ecuadorian culture. These motivators will then be transformed into attractive, positive messages 
to encourage mothers and children to wash their hands with soap. Messages will be delivered via 
mass media (radio, television, etc) to raise awareness, and Direct Consumer Contact to allow the 
target audience to practice proper handwashing behaviors and make handwashing a habit. The 
messages will be funded through a combination of project and partnership funds.  
 
The initiative will be further supported by the World Bank’s Handwashing Secretariat which 
will conduct supervisory missions and support the monitoring and evaluation system. Once the 
high intensity campaign has changed handwashing behaviors, the initiative will be integrated 
into the ongoing work of the partners to ensure sustainability at a maintenance level.  
 
2B: 
Rural WSS Investments (US$22 million)  
 
This sub-component would finance the construction of water supply systems, on-site 
sanitation systems and -- new under APL-2 -- rural sewerage systems where soil conditions and 
population density make on-site systems unviable. Under a two-year pilot phase, new rural 
sewerage systems will be rolled out in approximately 5 rural settlements that (i) have appropriate 
physical prerequisites (population density, soil conditions, etc.); (ii) agree to PRAGUAS II 
financial rules (cost sharing and tariffs); (iii) have an established users association that has 
successfully operated a water supply system for at least 2 years; and (iv) can access needed TA 
for system maintenance from the municipality or private operators in the area. After the pilot 
phase, sewerage systems may be expanded to other (large) rural communities (primarily 
“parroquias”) up to an aggregate value of about US$3 million in overall investments.  
 
Component 3: Promotion of new management models for water, sanitation and solid waste in 
cantonal capitals (US$23 million)  
 
3A: 
Technical Assistance for the Delegation of Water, Sewerage and Solid Waste Services by 
Cantonal Capitals (US$3 million)  
 
Of Ecuador’s 219 municipalities, about 180 currently provide water (and, where applicable, 
sewerage) services through a municipal department rather than an autonomous (public, private, 
mixed-capital or cooperative) operator. Under APL-1, 34 municipalities embarked upon a 
delegation process supported by the project. As of October, 2005, 11 of these municipalities have 
established autonomous service providers, while 23 others are in various stages of picking a new 
service model from a menu of options or operationalizing the model they have selected. 
PRAGUAS I funded TA for this process on a grant basis for interested municipalities, but 
required that municipalities sign a fideicomiso (withdrawal authorization) that allows the 
national government to withhold the cost of TA from transfer payments should the municipality 
go back on its decision to delegate. Municipalities that do delegate are currently eligible for 
incentive payments that vary based on the size of the municipality, the model selected and the 
level of cost recovery achieved through tariffs according to a defined and well-publicized 
Page  4
formula. Currently, the incentive payments can only be used to finance improvements to water 
supply systems.  
 
Under the proposed APL-2 loan, municipalities that delegate successfully would be able to use 
their incentive payments for both water and sanitation investments. Given generally poor 
experiences with sewerage system operation in Ecuador, sewerage investments would only be 
authorized for a pilot group of up to 5 municipalities initially to ensure that lessons learned from 
system operation can be widely incorporated. Where sewage treatment plants (STP) are required, 
design-build-operate-and-transfer (BOT) bidding processes would be used under which some 
contractual payments would be subject to proper plant performance. Sub-component 3A would 
finance both TA for the delegation process, as well as the cost of engineering designs and 
supervision.  
 
Building on the experiences with water/sewerage system delegation under APL-1, 
municipalities would also be eligible for TA to delegate solid waste collection under APL-2. 
Low levels of solid waste collection and improper disposal in unmanaged dumps or landfills 
characterize many of Ecuador’s small and medium size towns. PRAGUAS II support would 
target the approximately 55 municipal capitals with populations between 10,000 and 50,000. In 
parallel, an IDB-financed project (the “Solid Waste Investment Project”, PIRS) would provide 
delegation assistance and investments in larger towns.  
 
Finally, under this sub-component, the project will contract successful regional operators from 
other Latin American countries (e.g.   Colombia, Argentina, etc.) to provide post-delegation TA 
to new WSS operators in Ecuador.  
 
3B 
Water and Sanitation Investments in Cantonal Capitals (US$15 million)  
 
Under APL-2, this subcomponent would finance water and sanitation investments using 
incentive payments in eligible municipalities (all except Quito, Guayaquil and Cuenca and 
municipalities receiving delegation support under other programs) that have successfully 
delegated their water and/or sanitation services to autonomous operators. Given that relatively 
few (6-8) of the 34 municipalities who began delegation processes under APL-1 are expected to 
receive project-financed incentive payments under APL-1, a substantial backlog of 
municipalities already awaits APL-2 financing. Most of these municipalities have moved from 
direct service provision to municipal water and sanitation companies with either a municipal 
majority (mayor, city counselors etc.) or a community majority (typically, neighborhood 
representatives) on the board of directors. To qualify for incentive financing, the new water 
operators must provide counterpart financing for investments equal to 50% of the works to be 
carried out. About US$10 million of the loan amount available under this sub-component is 
expected to go to sewerage investments, while about US$5 million is expected to finance water 
supply improvements.  
 
3C 
Solid Waste Investments in Cantonal Capitals (US$5 million)  
 
Page  5
Similarly, small municipalities that have delegated their municipal solid waste collection and 
disposal services to autonomous operators and have provided a sustainable source of financing 
for these services will be eligible for investment financing (office equipment, waste collection 
vehicles, landfill construction/rehabilitation etc.) under APL-2. As under sub-component 3B, 
50% counterpart financing for investments will be required.  
 
Component 4: Project Administration (US$4 million)  
 
Like the APL-1 operation, PRAGUAS II will be managed by a project management unit (PMU) 
under MIDUVI staffed by external consultants complemented by staff from the SAPSyRS. This 
component will finance the cost of salary, travel and general operating costs of the PMU. It will 
also cover the cost of a strategic communication program (being designed as part of project 
preparation) that would (i) promote the PRAGUAS project with eligible municipalities and other 
actors nationwide; (ii) support a technical dialogue with mayors, city councils and beneficiary 
populations in cities interested in service delegation in support of component 3; and (iii) promote 
appropriate hygiene behavior in rural communities and urban areas to maximize the health 
benefits derived from water and sanitation investments in support of component 2. The 
communication program will therefore be a cross-component initiative that will support 
dialogue, partici
pation and behavior change activities across all the project’s components. 
Finally, component 4 wouldalso finance updates to monitoring and evaluation (M&E) systems 
developed under APL-1, audits and other project management activities.   
 
D.  Project location (if known) 
Rural areas of Ecuador's 202 smallest municipalities as well as cantonal capitals (except for 
Quito, Guayaquil and Cuenca) in all provinces of continental Ecuador.   
 
E.  Borrower’s Institutional Capacity for Safeguard Policies [from PCN] 
No major environmental issues are expected in the implementation of this project, given the 
small scale of the water supply and sanitation (WSS) investments envisioned in rural areas. 
Minor environmental impacts (proper disposal of construction waste, erosion control, protection 
of spring catchments etc.) will be addressed by appropriate guidelines that will be incorporated 
into the technical specifications governing the work of construction contractors. MIDUVI's 
Provincial Water and Sanitation teams (Equipos Provinciales de Agua y Saneamiento, EPAS) 
have successfully applied such environmental screening criteria under the APL-1 loan.  
 
As part of APL-2 preparation, MIDUVI is seeking accreditation for environmental licencing of 
sewerage systems and sanitary landfills from the Ministry of the Environment. A sectoral 
environmental assessment of the water, sanitation and solid waste sector in Ecuador (see below) 
is being contracted which will identify ways to strengthen MIDUVI's environmental 
management capacity.   
 
F.  Environmental and Social Safeguards Specialists 
Mr Juan D. Quintero (LCSEN) 
Ms Maria Carmen Tene Sarango (LCCEC) 
Ms Ximena B. Traa-Valarezo (LCSFU) 
 
Page  6
II.  SAFEGUARD POLICIES THAT MIGHT APPLY 
Safeguard Policies Triggered
 
Yes No TBD 
Environmental Assessment (OP/BP 4.01) 
X
As stated above, no major environmental issues are expected in the implementation of this 
project, given the small scale of the water supply and sanitation (WSS) investments envisioned 
in rural areas. Cantonal capitals that delegate WSS services to autonomous operators will be 
eligible for financial incentives that they can use to upgrade/construct water supply as well as 
sewage collection and treatment systems.  
 
For rural investments, minor environmental impacts (proper disposal of construction waste, 
erosion control, protection of spring catchments etc.) will be addressed by appropriate guidelines 
that will be incorporated into the technical specifications governing the work of construction 
contractors. Appropriate environmental screening criteria (previously agreed for water and 
sanitation sub-projects for the APL-1 loan and applied since 2001) will be updated for APL-2 in 
the project Operation Manual. The screening criteria will be used by MIDUVI's Provincial Water 
&
Sanitation teams (Equipos Provinciales de Agua y Saneamiento, EPAS) to evaluate the 
technical, social, environmental, financial and economic feasibility of WSS investments prepared 
by local consultants (OITS -- organismos de intervencion tecnico-social) in conjunction with 
program communities. PRAGUAS will provide training and technical assistance to the EPAS to 
support effective use of the screening criteria.  
 
As part of APL-2 preparation, a sectoral environmental assessment of the water, sanitation 
and solid waste sector in Ecuador is presently being contracted. Environmental assessments for 
individual water, sewerage and solid waste investments in cantonal capitals will be conducted 
during project implementation once eligible municipalities have qualified for financial support 
from the project.   
Natural Habitats (OP/BP 4.04) 
 X  
Forests (OP/BP 4.36) 
 X  
Pest Management (OP 4.09) 
 X  
Cultural Property (OPN 11.03) 
X
While activities to be carried out under the project are not expected to impact any known 
cultural heritage sites, technical specifications for works and the Operation Manual will include 
“chance find procedures” to be followed in the event that culturally significant materials are 
discovered during the execution of civil works.   
Indigenous Peoples (OP/BP 4.10) 
X
Given the presence of Indigenous and Afro-Ecuadorian peoples in the project area,  O.P. 4.10 
is triggered. An Integrated Assessment (social, technical and financial) will be carried out by a 
local firm as part of project preparation. The assessment includes informed consultations with 
stakeholders and beneficiaries in a sample of rural communities which would benefit from water 
and sanitation projects, as well as a sample of urban municipal capitals likely to benefit from 
technical assistance for the creation of water enterprises, sewerage systems and solid waste 
projects. A combination of quantitative and qualitative methods will used, including (a) a 
household survey; (b) focus groups with men, women, and community leaders; (c) interviews 
with key stakeholders (mayors, water boards, water users associations, etc); and (d) interviews 
with larger/well established enterprises, to assess the demand for solid waste projects.  
 
Page  7
Safeguard Policies Triggered
 
Yes No TBD 
An Indigenous Peoples Plan is being prepared for the project. Initial consultations with the 
Consejo Nacional de Nacionalidades y Pueblos Indigenas del Ecuador (CODENPE) and the 
Coordinadora de Desarrollo Afro Ecuatoriano (CODAE) took place in October, 2005. The main 
objective of the Plan will be to coordinate the supply and demand of water and sanitation 
investment in Indigenous and Afro-Ecuadorian communities, to review the eligibility criteria, the 
participation and gender strategies of the project, and to adjust the mode of delivery of the OITS 
and community training if needed.   
Involuntary Resettlement (OP/BP 4.12) 
 X  
Safety of Dams (OP/BP 4.37) 
 X  
Projects on International Waterways (OP/BP
 
7.50) 
 X  
Projects in Disputed Areas (OP/BP 7.60) 
 X  
Environmental Category:
 
B
-
Partial Assessment 
 
III.  SAFEGUARD PREPARATION PLAN 
 
A.  Target date for the Quality Enhancement Review (QER), at which time the PAD-stage ISDS 
would be prepared:  02/23/2006 
 
B.  For simple projects that will not require a QER, the target date for preparing the PAD-stage 
ISDS:  N/A 
 
C.  Time frame for launching and completing the safeguard-related studies that may be needed.  
The specific studies and their timing
1
should be specified in the PAD-stage ISDS. 
A
sector environmental assessment for the water, sanitation and solid waste sectors in 
Ecuador is being contracted and should be carried out between January and March 2006. 
 
In addition, an ex-post social, technical and financial evaluation of 40 rural water supply 
systems (selected at random from the universe of rural systems constructed under APL-1 that 
have been in operation for at least 1 year) has been contracted and is expected to provide 
insights that will strengthen, i.a., community development activities and hygiene messages 
under APL-2.  
 
Finally, an Integrated Assessment of the universe of rural communities and cantonal 
capitals eligible for participation under APL-2 is being contracted. This assessment should be 
completed between January and March 2006.   
 
1
Reminder: The Bank's Disclosure Policy requires that safeguard-related documents be disclosed before appraisal (i) at the 
InfoShop and (ii) in-country, at publicly accessible locations and in a form and language that are accessible to potentially affected 
persons.
 
Page  8
IV.  APPROVALS 
 
Signed and submitted by: 
 
Task Team Leader: 
Mr Franz R. Drees-Gross 
12/23/2005 
Approved by: 
 
Regional Safeguards Coordinator: 
Mr Reidar Kvam 
01/09/2006 
Comments:   
Sector Manager: 
Mr John Henry Stein 
01/10/2006 
Comments:   
