Page  1
PROJECT INFORMATION DOCUMENT (PID) 
APPRAISAL STAGE 
Report No.:  AB2343 
Project Name 
Rural and Small Towns Water Supply and Sanitation Project  II 
(PRAGUAS) 
Region 
LATIN AMERICA AND CARIBBEAN 
Sector 
Water supply (50%); Sanitation (35%);Solid waste management 
(10%);Central government administration (5%) 
Project ID 
P095555 
Borrower(s) 
REPUBLIC OF ECUADOR 
Implementing Agency 
 
Republic of Ecuador 
Ecuador 
 
MIDUVI 
10 de Agosto 2270 y Cordero 
Ecuador 
Tel: 5932-2552019 
Fax: 5932-2566785 
despacho@miduvi.gov.ec 
Sub-Secretary of Water, Sanitation and Solid Waste (SAPSyRS) 
Ecuador 
 
Environment Category 
[
]
A
[X] B   [ ] C   [ ] FI   [ ] TBD (to be determined) 
Date PID Prepared 
April 20, 2006 
Date of Appraisal 
Authorization 
March 20, 2006 
Date of Board Approval 
July 6, 2006 
1.  Country and Sector Background 
 
Ecuador’s water and sanitation (WSS) sector is characterized by (i) low coverage levels 
(particularly in rural areas); (ii) low service quality and efficiency; (iii) limited cost recovery 
through tariffs and a high level of dependence on financial transfers from national and sub-
national governments; and (iv) an incomplete legal and regulatory framework that fails to 
provide incentives for improved sector performance and leads to overlapping responsibilities 
both within the national government and between different levels of government.  
 
Coverage
:
In 2001, water supply coverage stood at 82% in urban and 39% in rural areas while 
sanitation coverage reached 73% of urban and 29% of rural households. Coverage for both water 
and sanitation services tends to be lower in the 
costa
 and 
oriente
 than in the 
sierra
1
.
In addition, 
water supply coverage varies greatly by income, reaching about 90% for the top three income 
1
“Plan Nacional de Desarrollo del Sector de Agua Potable y Saneamiento Básico”, G. Yepes, B. Gómez and E. 
Carvajal, October, 2002. 
Page  2
deciles in urban areas compared with levels of only about 60% for the bottom three income 
deciles
2
.
Service quality and efficiency
.
In many small and medium size cities, water supply services are 
intermittent and water pressure is well below standard, particularly in poor outlying areas. While 
WSS service efficiency is often difficult to estimate in small municipalities (where they are often 
provided directly by the municipal government in conjunction with other services), many 
municipal water companies in medium-size cities have between 5 and 14 employees/1000 water 
connections, a number well in excess of regional best practice (below 3 employees/1000 water 
connections).  
 
Limited cost recovery through tariffs
.
A
study
3
commissioned by the government under the first 
stage of the PRAGUAS APL, concluded that nationwide, tariffs covered only about 2/3 of 
system operation and maintenance costs in 2001. National and sub-national (provincial and 
municipal) government transfers are required to cover the operation and maintenance (O&M) 
gap and to finance coverage expansion.  
 
Incomplete legal and regulatory framework
.
While Ecuador has a National Water and Sanitation 
Policy (
Política Nacional de Agua y Saneamiento
 under Executive Decree No. 2766 of 30 July, 
2002), it is set out in relatively vague terms and avoids a clear position on such sensitive issues 
as WSS investment subsidies (by national and sub-national governments) and who should 
receive them. A multitude of national and sub-national actors (
Fondo de Solidaridad
,
the 
Banco 
del Estado
 (BdE), FISE, regional development corporations, various government ministries, 
provincial and municipal governments etc.) provide financing for urban and rural water supply 
investments under different terms and with little regard for the policy-setting role legally vested 
in the Sub-Secretary of Water Supply, Sanitation and Solid Waste (SAPSyRS) of the Ministry of 
Urban Development, Housing and Territorial Development (MIDUVI). In addition, there is 
neither an independent regulator of WSS services nor a clear definition of roles and 
responsibilities between various national and sub-national actors.  
 
2. Objectives 
 
The development objective for phase II
 of the APL program (“the project”) is to (i) provide 
sustainable WSS infrastructure for approximately 285,000 rural beneficiaries and to promote its 
effective use; (ii) provide sustainable WSS services to approximately 205,000 beneficiaries in 
cantonal capitals; (iii) promote sustainable solid waste services in cantonal capitals; and (iv) 
improve overall sector performance by the national government by promoting performance-
based investment financing for the urban WSS sector. 
 
2
“
Desigualdades en el acceso, uso y gasto con el agua potable en América Latina y el Caribe
”, Ecuador,  Technical 
Report Series No. 5, Panamerican Health Organization, Washington DC, Febuary, 2001 
3
“Plan Nacional de Desarrollo del Sector de Agua Potable y Saneamiento Básico”, G. Yepes, B. Gómez and E. 
Carvajal, October, 2002. 
Page  3
3.  Rationale for Bank Involvement 
 
Over the past 4 years, the 
World Bank’s 
Rural and Small Towns Water Supply and Sanitation 
Project 
(APL-1/PRAGUAS I), has become the government’s primary vehicle for addressing the 
sector challenges outlined above.  
 
·
In terms of coverage
,
to date PRAGUAS I has provided new water supply systems for 
252,000 people and on-site sanitation for 127,000 people, approximately 5% and 3% of 
Ecuador’s total rural population of 4.7 million. Given that designs have already been 
prepared for over 600,000 inhabitants (about 13% of Ecuador’s rural population), 
coverage expansion is expected to increase rapidly under APL-2.  
 
·
To address service quality, efficiency and cost recovery
,
PRAGUAS I has provided 
technical assistance and financial incentives to municipalities interested in delegating 
their municipally-run WSS services to autonomous (public, private, cooperative etc.) 
operators. Out of 219 municipalities nationwide, 25 are currently in the process of 
delegating and 10 have completed the transition, well in excess of the APL-1 target of 5 
municipalities established jointly by the Bank and the national government in 2000. An 
initial evaluation
4
shows that the initial batch of municipalities that have delegated their 
WSS services (Cayambe (municipal company), Pedro Moncayo (municipal company 
with private operator), Pujilí (municipal company), Guaranda (municipal company), 
Caluma (mixed-capital company) and Echeandia (cooperative)) have significantly 
increased their operational efficiency and raised their tariffs to cover at least O&M costs.  
 
·
Finally, the government has taken a bold step to improve Ecuador’s incentive framework 
for WSS investments
by adopting an Executive Decree (
Decreto Ejecutivo
 No. 2562 
published on 21 February, 2005) that links national government transfers to 
municipalities under a special tax on telephone calls that is earmarked for WSS 
investments (
Impuesto sobre Consumos Especiales
,
ICE) to operator performance, 
service model and poverty indicators. In addition, a draft 
Water and Sanitation Sector 
Law
 has been prepared. Given unstable political conditions over the past several years, 
however, it has yet to be presented to Congress. 
 
While Ecuador’s legal framework is incomplete, this weakness is not expected to undermine the 
sustainability of the project’s investments in rural areas and small municipalities, which are 
executed under a demand-driven, community-and-municipality-centered project cycle. 
International experience has shown that water supply and sanitation systems are more likely to 
be sustainable over time when communities are provided with service levels they want and are 
willing to pay for and local governments are involved in the project cycle from the start. Only 
then can communities be expected to develop a sense of commitment to operate systems 
effectively and municipalities to provide technical assistance to rural communities when needed. 
Beyond community and municipal commitment, regional experience (e.g. in Paraguay) has 
demonstrated that sustainability is further enhanced when water user boards form regional 
associations that provide long-term technical assistance and training.  
4
Delegating Water and Sanitation Services to Autonomous Operators
,
Water and Sanitation Program (WSP) field 
note, February, 2005.  
Page  4
The Bank’s experience in rural water supply in Ecuador under APL-1, as well as in other South 
American countries such as Peru and Paraguay under similar projects, provides a solid basis to 
support Ecuador with the second stage of its rural and small towns water supply and sanitation 
program. Component 1
(see section A4 for details) will provide support for consolidating 
Ecuador’s incentive framework for WSS investments as well as technical assistance for 
presenting a sector law to Congress and appropriate regulations for its application. Component 2
(Water Supply and Sanitation in Rural Areas) provides for a mix of complementary activities 
designed to expand coverage in a demand-responsive way, enhance the hygiene benefits of new 
infrastructure and provide long-term support to juntas to bolster system sustainability. 
Component 3
(Promotion of new management models for water, sanitation and solid waste in 
cantonal capitals), provides technical assistance and investment finance to increase service 
quality, efficiency and cost recovery for water supply, sanitation and solid waste services 
provided in municipal capitals. Component 4
,
finally, includes a communications program to 
help build a constituency for reform in the sector.  
 
4. Description 
 
The second phase of the PRAGUAS program (APL-2) is valued at US$79 million and would be 
supported by a US$48 million loan. It is expected to comprise the following components 
(amounts show total component costs with loan proceeds in parentheses): 
Component 1: Sector Reform and Institutional Development -- US$2 million (US$2 million) 
Restructuring of the SAPSyRS proceeded at a slow pace over the course of APL-1, in part due to 
high turnover in ministerial and subsecretary ranks over the past 5 years. SAPSyRS’ transition to 
a
normative role as a standard-setter and facilitator of sector investments carried out by 
municipalities and communities is still incomplete. APL-2 will focus on (i) strengthening the 
capacity of SAPSyRS through training and the development of technical norms; (ii) 
operationalizing the sector information system (SISASAR) developed as part of APL-1; (iii) 
sectoral planning and policy development; and (iv) strengthening the capacity of other key sector 
actors (OITS, municipalities, WSS operators, water users associations (“juntas”) etc.) to assume 
their roles in the sector. Component 1 will also enhance environmental management for the 
water, sanitation and solid waste sector by (a) creating, accrediting and strengthening an 
environmental unit with the SAPSyRS; (b) financing a study to determine appropriate standards 
for sewage discharges to receiving water bodies as well as reforms to environmental norms; (c) 
developing environmental guidelines for water, sewerage and solid waste investments; (d) 
strengthening the capacity of municipalities to manage environmental impacts through training, 
updates to the project’s environmental checklist and compliance audits carried out by the 
SAPSyRS’ environmental unit. Finally, this component will also include funding to upgrade the 
physical working environment of the SAPSyRS. 
In addition, some activities under this component would strengthen MEF’s ability to target 
approximately $75 million/year in telephone taxes (
Impuesto sobre Consumos Especiales
,
ICE) 
earmarked for the WSS sector more effectively and to develop coherent overall financial policies 
for the WSS sector. 
 
Page  5
Component 2: Water Supply and Sanitation in Rural Areas 
–
US$44.0 million (US$25.0 
million) 
 
2A: 
Promotion, Community Development, Hygiene Education, Designs and Supervision 
–
US$6.5 million (US$6.5 million) 
 
The project cycle for rural WSS investments will be similar to the one under APL-1: the project 
will be marketed to eligible municipalities (the 202 municipalities whose cantonal capitals had 
populations of 100,000 or less according to the 2001 census). This universe is somewhat larger 
than the one targeted under PRAGUAS I, which invested only in the rural areas of the 152 
smallest municipalities. Municipalities and communities willing to (i) co-finance 20% and 30% 
of RWSS investments
5
,
respectively, (ii) adopt rural tariffs that cover the cost of operation and 
maintenance (O&M) and some equipment replacement; and (iii) agree to a demand-driven 
approach, will received TA for engineering designs, community development (including training 
and hygiene education) and the supervision of works at no charge.  
 
2B: 
Rural WSS Investments – US$34 million (US$17.0 million) 
 
This sub-component would finance the construction of water supply systems, on-site sanitation 
systems and -- new under APL-2 -- rural sewerage systems where soil conditions and population 
density make on-site systems unviable. Under a two-year pilot phase, new rural sewerage 
systems will be rolled out in approximately 5 rural settlements that (i) have appropriate physical 
prerequisites (population density, soil conditions, etc.); (ii) agree to PRAGUAS II financial rules 
(cost sharing and tariffs); (iii) have an established users association that has successfully 
operated a water supply system for at least 2 years; and (iv) can access needed TA for system 
maintenance from the municipality or private operators in the area. After the pilot phase, 
sewerage systems may be expanded to other (large) rural communities (primarily 
parroquias
)
up
to an aggregate value of about US$3 million in overall investments. 
 
2C: 
Strengthening of Existing Water and Sanitation User Boards (
Juntas
)
–
US$0.5 
million (US$0.5 million) 
 
This subcomponent aims at providing long term technical assistance, training and operational 
and management services to existing 
Juntas
 (Water User Boards) through the creation of 
Associations of Juntas
 at the provincial level to promote sustainability. Currently there are 
several thousand juntas in Ecuador and it has become virtually impossible for 
MIDUVI/SAPSyRS to provide post-construction assistance to them on an individual basis. 
While municipalities are being strengthened to provide post-construction TA to juntas in areas 
under their jurisdiction through municipal sanitation teams (
equipos municipals de saneamiento
,
EMS), an ex-post evaluation of systems constructed for 41 communities under APL-1 suggests 
that additional support to juntas is critical to long-term system sustainability. This sub-
component would finance basic equipment (e.g. vehicles, computers and printers, parts (pumps, 
5
As under APL-1, municipalities will be required to make their financial contribution up-front in cash before works 
are contracted. Communities will contribute at least 10% of project cost in cash and may contribute the remaining 
20% in labor and materials.  
Page  6
macro and micro-meters, valves, chlorination equipment
 
etc.) and supplies such as sodium hypo-
chloride, that each association will sell or lease to its associates at the discounted cost that the 
association can obtain by buying in bulk under a revolving fund. The project may also pay for a 
first year of an accountant, lawyer, and plumber, to provide training and technical assistance to 
the water user boards. The associations could also provide services like billing and help the 
boards on sensitive issues such as disconnecting users for non-payment. In terms of training the 
association could host specific training activities or organized study tours for its 
juntas
 according 
to their own needs and the project could co-finance those activities.    
 
2D: National 
Handwashing 
Initiative 
–
US$1.0 million (US$1.0 million) 
 
In order to maximize the health benefits of rural water investments, a handwashing initiative will 
be integrated into the project under APL-2. Child mortality in Ecuador remains high at 34 deaths 
per 1,000 
6
given the country’s general level of development and its per capita GDP. Much of 
this high child mortality rate is due to diarrheal disease and acute respiratory infections (acute 
respiratory infections, viral, and bacterial pneumonias). Handwashing with soap at critical times 
can reduce childhood diarrhea by as much as 50%
7
and will reduce the likelihood of 
contamination of household water. Handwashing with soap also has the potential to significantly 
reduce childhood respiratory infections.  
 
This sub-component will support the implementation of a National Handwashing Initiative. The 
Initiative will involve key public and private sector organizations as partners in the design and 
implementation of a communication program to promote handwashing with soap. At the outset, a 
handwashing behavioral and baseline study will be conducted. The findings from the study will 
inform the design of the communication program and messages. The communication program 
would consist of three main components: (a) mass media communication activities; (b) direct 
handwashing marketing at the district and community levels as well as in schools; and (c) 
integration of handwashing promotion into existing training and capacity-building activities in 
communities and schools. 
 
Component 3: Promotion of new management models for water, sanitation and solid waste 
in cantonal capitals 
–
US$31 million (US$17 million) 
 
3A: 
Technical Assistance for the Delegation of Water and Sewerage Services and the 
Sustainability of Solid Waste Services in Cantonal Capitals – US$3 million (US$3 million) 
 
Of Ecuador’s 219 municipalities, about 180 currently provide water (and, where applicable, 
sewerage) services through a municipal department rather than an autonomous (public, private, 
mixed-capital or cooperative) operator. Under APL-1, 35 municipalities embarked upon a 
delegation process supported by the project. As of January, 2006, 10 of these municipalities have 
established autonomous WSS service providers (though in practice the delegation of sanitation 
services has been limited), while 25 others are in various stages of picking a new service model 
from a menu of options or operationalizing the model they have selected. PRAGUAS I funded 
6
ENDEMAIN-2004. 
WHO data indicate that child mortality stood at 27 per 1,000 in Ecuador in 2003.
 
7
Curtis, V and Cairncross, S.  “Effect of washing hands with soap on diarrhea risk in the community: a systematic 
review.” Lancet. Vol 3, May 2003. 
Page  7
TA for this process on a grant basis for interested municipalities, but required that municipalities 
sign a 
fideicomiso
 (withdrawal authorization) that allows the national government to withhold 
the cost of TA from transfer payments should the municipality go back on its decision to 
delegate. Municipalities that do delegate are currently eligible for incentive payments that vary 
based on the size of the municipality, the model selected and the level of cost recovery achieved 
through tariffs according to a defined and well-publicized formula. Currently, the incentive 
payments can only be used to finance improvements to water supply systems. 
 
Under the proposed APL-2 loan, municipalities that delegate successfully would be able to use 
their incentive payments for both water and sanitation investments. Given generally poor 
experiences with sewerage system operation in Ecuador, sewerage investments would only be 
authorized for a pilot group of up to 5 municipalities initially to ensure that lessons learned from 
system operation can be widely incorporated. Sub-component 3A would finance both TA for the 
delegation process, as well as the cost of engineering designs and supervision. New to the 
proposed APL-2 loan, TA will be explicitly provided in the delegation of the sanitation services 
as well as water and the TA for engineering designs for sewerage will include a social 
component that will engage urban citizens in the planning and decision making about levels of 
sanitation services to insure household connections to sewer systems and willingness to pay for 
operations and maintenance costs. Building on the successful Bank experience in Brazil, Bolivia 
and Peru, TA (both engineering and social) will also be provided to introduce municipalities to 
lower costs sanitation solutions such as simplified/small bore sewer systems. 
 
The second phase of the PRAGUAS project will also include assistance to strengthen the 
collection and disposal of solid waste in municipalities with populations between 10,000 and 
50,000 inhabitants. Currently, there are 55 municipalities within this population range, most of 
them characterized by high rates of population growth, significant levels of poverty and an 
inadequate management of solid waste (i.a. collection usually takes place only within the 
cantonal capital (
cabecera cantonal
)
while other population centers are excluded). According to 
information compiled by the Solid Waste Management Team of the SAPSyRS, collection 
coverage in these municipalities is currently in the range of 75%, and only 17% of this solid 
waste is disposed in an effective manner.  In parallel, an IDB-
financed project (the “
Solid Waste 
Investment Project
”, PIRS) would provide technical assistance and investments in larger towns.  
 
Finally, under this sub-component, the project will contract successful regional operators from 
other Latin American countries (e.g. Colombia, Argentina, etc.) to provide post-delegation TA to 
new WSS operators in Ecuador. 
 
3B 
Water and Sanitation Investments in Cantonal Capitals 
–
US$20 million (US$10 
million) 
 
Under APL-2, this subcomponent would finance water and sanitation investments using 
incentive payments in eligible municipalities (all except Quito, Guayaquil and Cuenca and 
municipalities receiving delegation support under other programs) that have successfully 
delegated their water and/or sanitation services to autonomous operators. Given that relatively 
few (about 6) of the 35 municipalities who began delegation processes under APL-1 are expected 
to receive project-financed incentive payments under APL-1, a substantial backlog of 
Page  8
municipalities already awaits APL-2 financing. Most of these municipalities have moved from 
direct service provision to municipal water and sanitation companies with either a municipal 
majority (mayor, city counselors etc.) or a community majority (typically, neighborhood 
representatives) on the board of directors. To qualify for incentive financing, the new water 
operators must provide counterpart financing for investments equal to 50% of the works to be 
carried out. About US$ 6 million of the loan amount available under this sub-component is 
expected to go to sewerage investments, while about US$ 4 million is expected to finance water 
supply improvements. 
 
As discussed in section 3A above, sewerage investments would only be authorized for a pilot 
group of up to 5 municipalities initially to ensure that lessons learned from system operation can 
be widely incorporated. Sewerage investments will be made only in municipalities where the 
sanitation services have been delegated from the municipality and where the autonomous utility 
has agreed to charge sanitation-specific tariffs at a level that will allow for adequate operation 
and maintenance of the sewer systems. The priority for capital investments will be for extending 
existing sewer networks to low-income neighborhoods that are not currently connected but as 
appropriate, can also be used for rehabilitating existing systems that have deteriorated over the 
years do to lack of maintenance. In all cases, engineering TA, utility strengthening and capital 
investments will seek to support the provision of sanitation services that are sustainable and 
effective at protecting public health and the environment. Where sewage treatment plants (STP) 
are required, design-build-operate-and-transfer (BOT) bidding processes would be promoted 
under which some contractual payments would be subject to proper plant performance. 
 
3C 
Solid Waste Investments in Cantonal Capitals 
–
US$8 million (US$4 million) 
 
Under APL-2, a new sub-component will be introduced to promoted effective solid waste 
management in municipalities between 10,000 and 50,000 inhabitants using an incentive-based 
approach. To be eligible for investments incentives, interested municipalities will be required to 
(i) adopt effective accounting and cost recovery mechanisms; (ii) outsource some solid waste 
collection services to private or community operators; and (iii) enter into inter-municipal 
agreements to share some infrastructure, including landfills, composting facilities and transfer 
systems (both transfer stations and a transportation network) with other municipalities to achieve 
economies of scale. As under component 3B, 50% counterpart financing for investments by 
municipalities will be required. Municipal governments may use investment incentives both for 
equipment (e.g. office equipment, collection vehicles, landfill management equipment etc.) and 
civil works (landfills, composting facilities, transfer stations etc.). The actual amount of the 
investment incentive would be determined based on a formula described in Annex 4. 
 
Component 3C will initially be rolled out to a pilot group of about 5 municipalities and extended 
to other municipalities once early lessons have been incorporated. 
 
Component 4: Project Administration – US$4 million (US$4 million) 
 
Like the APL-1 operation, PRAGUAS II will be managed by a project management unit (PMU) 
under MIDUVI staffed by external consultants complemented by staff from the SAPSyRS. This 
component will finance the cost of salary, travel and general operating costs of the PMU. It will 
Page  9
also cover the cost of a strategic communication program (being designed as part of project 
preparation) that would (i) promote the PRAGUAS project with eligible municipalities and other 
actors nationwide; and (ii) support a technical dialogue with mayors, city councils and 
beneficiary populations in cities interested in service delegation in support of component 3. The 
communication program will therefore be a cross-component initiative that will support 
dialogue, participation and behavio
r
change activities across all the projects’ components. 
Finally, component 4 would also finance monitoring and evaluation (M&E) activities, including 
updates to the information systems developed under APL-1, the collection of information and 
development of reports for continued evaluation throughout the project cycle by both project 
management and the Bank’s supervision team. It will also cover audits and other project 
management activities. 
 
5. Financing 
Source: ($m.) 
BORROWER 0 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND 
DEVELOPMENT 
48 
MUNICIPALITIES OF BORROWING COUNTRY 
31 
 Total 
79 
 
6. Implementation 
 
The main implementing agency for the PRAGUAS program is the Ministry of Urban 
Development and Housing (MIDUVI) through the Subsecretariat for Water Supply, Sanitation 
and Solid Waste (SAPSyRS). Together with the Subsecretariat of Urban Development, the 
Subsecretariat of Housing and the Subsecretariat of Territorial Planning, the SAPSyRS is a 
second-level dependency of MIDUVI. A project management unit (PMU) established under 
MIDUVI will be responsible for day-to-day project implementation and coordination. 
Component 1 will be carried out directly by the SAPSyRS. Subprojects in rural areas in small 
towns (components 2A, 2B, 2C as well as 3A, 3B and 3C) will be carried out using a 
decentralized approach with key implementation roles played by municipalities and rural 
communities. 
 
7. Sustainability 
 
The sustainability of the water, sanitation and solid waste facilities to be financed under this loan 
will be supported by a comprehensive and integrated strategy that addresses the key institutional, 
financial, social, environmental and technical building blocks required for the provision of 
sustainable water as well as sanitation services. Specific supporting elements include: 
 
A. Community Willingness and Capacity to Manage and Sustain Rural Water Supply Services
:
In rural areas this will be achieved by requiring communities to demonstrate their commitment to 
service improvement upfront, including taking initiative, selecting their preferred service level 
and management option, making a cash contribution (no less than 10% of overall investment 
costs), agreeing to an adequate tariff, and undertaking organizational responsibilities (forming a 
Junta) before funding is approved. Overall, beneficiaries will finance 30% of their water supply 
Page  10
investments in cash and through community labor. PRAGUAS will strengthen community 
capacity in the areas of organization, operations and maintenance, financial management, 
hygiene and environmental education, and effective water use and disposal. New to the proposed 
APL-2 loan will be the creation of an institutional support mechanism through 
associations of 
water and sanitation boards (juntas)
 to provide ongoing monitoring of the community water 
systems as well as the management capacity of the juntas and to provide technical assistance as 
needed.  
 
B. Rural Demand, Willingness and Capacity to Manage Household On-site Sanitation
:
Key 
indicators for the sustainability of household level sanitation service is that on-site sanitation 
infrastructure  (VIP latrines, pour flush latrines with septic systems, etc.) is built, properly used 
by all family members and maintained.  In rural communities, effective hygiene promotion 
activities will be carried out during the early stages of the project development phase to inform 
households about the importance of sanitation and hygiene in protecting health and to create an 
effective demand for household level sanitation.  Informed and motivated households will then 
select a sanitation solution based on a menu of options and their willingness and ability to pay 
for the selected option (higher levels of service will require a higher household financial and in-
kind contribution). New to the APL-2 loan, community junta organization and training will also 
include guidance on having members responsible for sanitation and hygiene coupled with 
training and provision of guidance materials on household sanitation and hygiene so that 
designated junta members can monitor sanitation operations and maintenance at the household 
level as well as monitoring key hygiene behaviors (such as Handwashing and proper disposal of 
children’s faeces).  As needed, junta members will provide refresher courses to households on 
the importance of sanitation and hygiene.  
 
C. Municipal Government support to Community Management of Rural Water Systems
:
Municipal governments, too, will demonstrate their ownership by funding 20% of overall 
investment costs upfront before rural water sub-projects under their jurisdiction can be approved. 
Municipal governments will be strengthened to provide the required technical backstopping to 
juntas and small companies, without taking over direct operational responsibilities.  
 
D. Community Willingness and Capacity to Manage and Sustain Rural Sewerage Services: 
In 
more densely populated rural areas where community sewerage systems will be financed, 
sustainability will be achieved by strengthening existing water boards to add management of 
community sewerage systems to their areas of responsibilities with relevant training and 
technical assistance to be provided.  Special care will be taken during the initial phase of the 
project to insure that the sewerage technology that is chosen is within the financial, technical and 
management capacity of a rural junta to operate and manage. Sewerage systems will only be 
financed where communities agree to pay a tariff consistent with the needs for operation and 
maintenance.  
 
E. Urban (Small and Medium Cities) Water, Sanitation and Solid Waste Service Provision: 
Sustainability of urban water and sanitation services is predicated on the delegation of service 
provision responsibilities to autonomous service providers. For solid waste, clear cost-recovery 
targets, some outsourcing (to local private sector and/or community entities) and a willingness to 
achieve economies of scale by sharing landfills, composting facilities and transfer stations 
Page  11
between municipalities are factors critical to long-term sustainability. Once these conditions are 
met, then upfront and on-going technical assistance will be provided to strengthen the 
management and technical capacity of the service provider. A critical and key element of this 
will be a focus on charging and collecting tariffs that will be sufficient to operate and maintain 
services.  New to the APL-2 loan will be a professional communications campaign to both create 
a
political willingness by local authorities and the service providers to raise tariffs in parallel 
with a communications campaign to increase household willingness to pay appropriate tariffs for 
improved water, sanitation and solid waste services. 
 
8.  Lessons Learned from Past Operations in the Country/Sector 
 
An ex-post evaluation of a sample of 36 water supply and 23 sanitation systems constructed 
under the first stage of the PRAGUAS program (APL-1) was carried out in 2005 and 
complemented by a 1,752-household survey. The sample included the pilot projects (completed 
in 2001) and new systems completed at least 18 months prior to the evaluation. The purpose of 
the evaluation was to assess the technical, social and economic efficiency and sustainability of 
the WSS systems provided by PRAGUAS and to evaluate the efficacy of the technical and 
financial processes, procedures and norms of the projects located in small municipalities with 
cantonal capitals of less than 10,000 inhabitants. An evaluation of water boards was carried in 
2004 and in 2005, the institutional arrangements for the two largest components (WSS 
investments in rural areas (component 2) and small towns (component 3), respectively) were 
assessed by independent international consultants. Evaluation results and lessons learned have 
been incorporated in the project design of PRAGUAS II. Key findings and lessons include: 
 
In Rural Areas: 
 
·
Water supply systems sampled were classified as A, B, C or D based on observations know 
to correlate with long-term sustainability as follows: 
 
Category Percentage Description 
A
21% 
All physical system components fully functional. The water board meets 
regularly and tariffs are appropriately set and collected. Water is disinfected and 
service is continuous 
B
42% 
The water supply system exhibits operational problems that can be resolved 
without major investment/rehabilitation 
C
18% 
The water supply system exhibits operational problems and may also exhibit 
technical problems related to service provision. Solutions to these deficiencies 
are within the community’s technical and financial abilities.  
D
19% 
The water supply system is not operational and serious problems are evident. 
Remedying these problems requires solutions beyond the community’s technical 
and financial reach. 
Given that more than a third of systems sampled are classified as C or D, additional ex-post 
technical support to communities and water boards is required. Only 53% of systems 
surveyed provide sufficient chlorination to ensure a chlorine residual, either because 
communities try to cut operating costs or because they are unaware of proper chlorination 
procedures. 79% of spring catchments tapped by systems surveyed are not fenced in and are 
therefore subject to contamination. 
Page  12
·
As a result of the APL-1 intervention, 90% of municipalities have institutionalized a 
Municipal WSS Team (EMS) as part of the Water Supply, Sewerage, Planning and 
Community Development Unit of the municipal Public Works Department. The inclusion of 
the EMS has significantly improved the technical capacity of the municipal teams.  
 
·
The financial scheme of PRAGUAS I has proven to be socially acceptable. Ex-post 
evaluation results indicate satisfaction of municipalities and communities with the 
established contributions. Moreover, experience in Ecuador shows that communities are 
more likely to maintain projects where they made some investment, and neglect maintenance 
of donated projects. Therefore, contrary to the approach favored by some other institutions, 
PRAGUAS II will continue its tripartite financial policy: PRAGUAS (50 %), municipality 
(20 %) and community (30 % -- 10% in cash and 20% in kind).  
 
·
Monitoring and evaluation of completed projects and those under construction is weak 
–
with 
both local municipalities and the regional offices of the SAPSyRS (EPAS) giving priority to 
the development of a pipeline of new projects. A related point is that it has been difficult to 
mount an effective project management information system since the local municipalities and 
EPAS are not collecting the performance data.   
 
·
In general, community water boards are more efficient in water systems operation than in 
maintenance, administration and financial management. Water boards interviewed during the 
evaluation had not received technical assistance to create a set of norms for efficient financial 
operation of their systems and the water board training by OITS and EPAS respectively was 
not deemed satisfactory.  
 
·
The on-site sanitation alternative of Basic Sanitation Units (UBS, comprising a toilet, sink, 
and shower) is a great success in the communities assessed, as it has significantly contributed 
to improve the living conditions and self-esteem of the users. Many families have improved 
the UBS with ceramic tiles, water heaters, etc. The operation and maintenance of the 
sanitation systems lies with individual households without any support from the water 
boards, OITS, EPAS and EMS. In the more concentrated rural areas, many communities 
expressed an interest in piped sewerage as an option to be considered. 
 
·
Procurement processes and contract administration by local municipalities that contract out 
essential community organization, engineering design and construction of water supply and 
sanitation systems to local private sector actors was found to be cumbersome and time-
consuming for the local municipality, the private sector and the PRAGUAS PMU.  
 
·
Hygiene Promotion
.
An enabling social context exists for the promotion of handwashing 
with soap. Findings from the ex-post evaluation demonstrate a high level of awareness of 
handwashing as a socially approved practice, with more than 70% of respondents reporting 
that handwashing is a common practice in their household prior to eating and after 
defecation. 
8
While household level data on soap use were not available at the time of 
8
It should be noted that overreporting is common on self-reported handwashing behavior.  
Page  13
writing, findings from the ex-post evaluation show that the majority of school children do not 
wash their hands with soap after using school sanitary facilities.
9
In Municipal Capitals: 
 
·
The combination of technical assistance and financial incentives for service delegation were 
effective in creating autonomous operators in a large number of municipalities. Nonetheless, 
the range of models actually rolled out (mostly municipal companies with either a municipal 
or community majority in the board of directors) was quite limited. This appears to be 
explained by the fact that local consultants advising municipalities on the range of available 
models (“consultorías de apoyo a la delegación”, CADS) lack experience with any model 
other than municipal companies.  
 
Based on these lessons, the APL-2 loan has adapted the design of the project in the following 
key areas: 
 
In Rural Areas
:
·
Improve “on the job” training of water boards and community members and promote the 
creation of associations of water boards
(see component 2C) that they can play a key role in 
providing technical assistance, training and other support to the water boards after 
construction of projects has been completed. In addition, tighten specifications for several 
system components (sedimentation tanks and filters) that have often been under-dimensioned 
(apparently to cut costs) and others (valves, household water meters and accessories) whose 
quality has been inconsistent. Also tighten requirements for the protection of spring 
catchments. Include a “community supervisor” (“veedor social”) to strengthen community 
oversight of construction contractors.  
 
·
Improve the PRAGUAS monitoring and evaluation systems, with user-friendly information 
systems that allow the utilization of the baseline and diagnostic data for monitoring of the 
social plan by the OITS, municipality, water board and community.  
 
·
Capacity-building activities should adopt a strengthened emphasis on the promotion of 
healthy hygiene habits and the appropriate use of sanitary facilities. Inadequate maintenance 
of sanitary facilities, owing to insufficient hygiene knowledge, has been a problem 
encountered in PRAGUAS I beneficiary communities. 
 
In Municipal Capitals
:
·
Strengthen/revise the financial incentive framework for delegation of cantonal WSS services 
in order to achieve more autonomous service models (including those involving the private 
sector). Successful regional private sector operators from other Latin American countries will 
9
The most common reason indicated for not using soap was that it was not available.  
 
Page  14
be contracted under APL-2 to provide delegation assistance to larger municipalities and TA 
to new operators. 
 
·
Develop a communications strategy to garner consumer support for sustainable tariff levels 
and models that ensure the sustainability of infrastructure investments and public services.  
 
9.  Safeguard Policies (including public consultation) 
 
Safeguard Policies Triggered by the Project
 
Yes
 
No
 
Environmental Assessment
(
OP
/
BP
4.01) 
[X ] 
[ ] 
Natural Habitats (
OP
/
BP
4.04)
 
[
]
[X ] 
Pest Management (
OP 4.09
)
[
]
[X ] 
Cultural Property (
OPN 11.03
,
being revised as OP 4.11)
 
[X ] 
[ ] 
Involuntary Resettlement (
OP
/
BP
4.12)
 
[
]
[X ] 
Indigenous Peoples (
OP
/
BP
4.10)
 
[X ] 
[ ] 
Forests (
OP
/
BP
4.36)
 
[
]
[X ] 
Safety of Dams (
OP
/
BP
4.37)
 
[
]
[X ] 
Projects in Disputed Areas (
OP
/
BP
7.60)
*
[
]
[X ] 
Projects on International Waterways (
OP
/
BP
7.50)
 
[
]
[X ] 
10. List of Factual Technical Documents 
 
·
Curtis, V and Cairncross,
 S., “Effect of washing hands with soap on diarrhea risk in the 
community: a systematic review.” Lancet. Vol. 3, May 2003. 
 
·
Delegating Water and Sanitation Services to Autonomous Operators, Water and 
Sanitation Program (WSP) field note, February, 2005. 
 
·
“Desigualdades en el acceso, uso y gasto con el agua potable en América Latina y el 
Caribe”, Ecuador,  Technical Report Series No. 5, Panamerican Health Organization, 
Washington DC, Febuary, 2001. 
 
·
“National Plan for the Development of the Potable Water and Basic Sanitation Sector”, 
G. Yepes, B. Gómez and E. Carvajal, October, 2002. 
 
·
Project Appraisal Document for the First Phase of the Rural and Small Towns Water 
Supply and Sanitation Program (PRAGUAS) Program, September 20, 2000. 
 
·
Project Appraisal Document. 
 
·
World Bank Country Assistance Strategy for the Republic of Ecuador, April 29, 2003. 
 
*
By supporting the proposed project, the Bank does not intend to prejudice the final determination of the parties' claims on the 
disputed areas
 
Page  15
11. Contact point 
Contact: Franz Drees-Gross 
Title: Task Manager/Sector Leader 
Tel: (202) 458-7735 
Email: fdrees@worldbank.org 
Contact: Franz R. Drees-Gross 
 
12. For more information contact: 
The InfoShop 
The World Bank 
1818 H Street, NW 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
Telephone:  (202) 458-4500 
Fax:  (202) 522-1500 
Email: pic@worldbank.org 
Web: http://www.worldbank.org/infoshop
 
