Page  1
INTEGRATED SAFEGUARDS DATASHEET 
APPRAISAL STAGE 
 
I.  Basic Information
 
Date prepared/updated:  05/05/2006 
Report No.:  AC2320
1. Basic Project Data  
 
Country:  Ecuador 
Project ID:  P095555 
Project Name:  Rural and Small Towns Water Supply and Sanitation Project  II 
(PRAGUAS) 
Task Team Leader:  Franz R. Drees-Gross 
Estimated Appraisal Date: March 20, 2006 
Estimated Board Date: July 6, 2006 
Managing Unit:  LCSFW 
Lending Instrument:  Adaptable Program 
Loan 
Sector:  Water supply (50%);Sanitation (35%);Solid waste management (10%);Central 
government administration (5%) 
Theme:  Rural services and infrastructure (P);Small and medium enterprise support 
(S);Decentralization (S) 
IBRD Amount (US$m.): 
48.00 
IDA Amount (US$m.): 
0.00 
GEF Amount (US$m.): 
0.00 
PCF Amount (US$m.): 
0.00 
Other financing amounts by source:  
 BORROWER 
0.00 
 
MUNICIPALITIES OF BORROWING COUNTRY 
31.00
31.00 
Environmental Category: B - Partial Assessment 
Simplified Processing 
Simple [] 
Repeater [] 
Is this project processed under OP 8.50 (Emergency Recovery) 
Yes [ ] 
No [X] 
2. Project Objectives 
B.  Project Objectives [from section 2 of PCN]  
 
The development objective for phase II of the APL program (“the project”) is to(i) 
provide sustainable WSS infrastructure for approximately 285,000 rural beneficiaries and 
to promote its effective use; (ii) provide sustainable WSS services to approximately 
205,000 beneficiaries in cantonal capitals; (iii) promote sustainable solid waste services 
in cantonal capitals; and (iv) improve overall sector performance by the national 
government by promoting performance-based investment financing for the urban WSS 
sector.   
 
3. Project Description 
C.  Project Description [from section 4 of PAD]  
 
Page  2
The second phase of the PRAGUAS program (APL-2) is valued at US$79 million and 
would be supported by a US$48 million loan. It is expected to comprise the following 
components (amounts show total component costs with loan proceeds in parentheses):  
 
Component 1: Sector Reform and Institutional Development -- US$2 million (US$2 
million)  
 
Restructuring of the Subsecretariat of Water Supply, Sanitation and Solid Waste 
(SAPSyRS) proceeded at a slow pace over the course of APL-1, in part due to high 
turnover in ministerial and subsecretary ranks over
 the past 5 years. SAPSyRS’transition 
to a normative role as a standard-setter and facilitator of sector investments carried out by 
municipalities and communities is still incomplete. APL-2 will focus on (i) strengthening 
the capacity of SAPSyRS through training and the development of technical norms; (ii) 
operationalizing the sector information system (SISASAR) developed as part of APL-1; 
(iii) sectoral planning and policy development; and (iv) strengthening the capacity of 
other key sector actors (OITS, municipalities, WSS operators, water users associations 
(“juntas”) etc.) toassume their roles in the sector. Component 1 will also enhance 
environmental management for the water, sanitation and solid waste sector by (a) 
creating, accrediting and strengthening an environmental unit with the SAPSyRS; (b) 
financing a study to determine appropriate standards for sewage discharges to receiving 
water bodies as well as reforms to environmental norms; (c) developing environmental 
guidelines for water, sewerage and solid waste investments; (d) strengthening the 
capacity of municipalities to manage environmental impacts through training, updates to 
the project’s environmental checklist and compliance audits carried out by the SAPSyRS’ 
environmental unit. Finally, this component will also includefunding to upgrade the 
physical working environment of the SAPSyRS.  
 
In addition, some activities under this component would strengthen MEF’s ability to 
target approximately $75 million/year in telephone taxes (Impuesto sobre Consumos 
Especiales, ICE) earmarked for the WSS sector more effectively and to develop coherent 
overall financial policies for the WSS sector.  
 
Component 2: Water Supply and Sanitation in Rural Areas – US$44.0 million (US$25.0 
million)  
 
2A: 
Promotion, Community Development, Hygiene Education, Designs and 
Supervision – US$6.5 million (US$6.5 million)  
 
The project cycle for rural WSS investments will be similar to the one under APL-1: the 
project will be marketed to eligible municipalities (the 174 municipalities who had 
populations of 50,000 or less according to the 2001 census). This universe is somewhat 
larger than the one targeted under PRAGUAS I, which invested only in the rural areas of 
the 152 smallest municipalities. Municipalities and communities willing to (i) co-finance 
20% and 30% of RWSS investments , respectively, (ii) adopt rural tariffs that cover the 
cost of operation and maintenance (O&M) and some equipment replacement; and (iii) 
Page  3
agree to a demand-driven approach, will receive TA for engineering designs, community 
development (including training and hygiene education) and the supervision of works at 
no charge.  
 
2B: 
Rural WSS Investments 
–
US$34 million (US$17.0 million)  
 
This sub-component would finance the construction of water supply systems, on-site 
sanitation systems and -- new under APL-2 -- rural sewerage systems where soil 
conditions and population density make on-site systems unviable. Under a two-year pilot 
phase, new rural sewerage systems will be rolled out in approximately 5 rural settlements 
that (i) have appropriate physical prerequisites (population density, soil conditions, etc.); 
(ii) agree to PRAGUAS II financial rules (cost sharing and tariffs); (iii) have an 
established users association that has successfully operated a water supply system for at 
least 2 years; and (iv) can access needed TA for system maintenance from the 
municipality or private operators in the area. After the pilot phase, sewerage systems may 
be expanded to other (large) rural communities (primarily parroquias) up to an aggregate 
value of about US$3 million in overall investments.  
 
2C: 
Strengthening of Existing Water and Sanitation User Boards (Juntas) – US$0.5 
million (US$0.5 million)  
 
This subcomponent aims at providing long term technical assistance, training and 
operational and management services to existing Juntas (Water User Boards) through the 
creation of Associations of Juntas at the provincial level to promote sustainability. 
Currently there are several thousand juntas in Ecuador and it has become virtually 
impossible for MIDUVI/SAPSyRS to provide post-construction assistance to them on an 
individual basis. While municipalities are being strengthened to provide post-construction 
TA to juntas in areas under their jurisdiction through municipal sanitation teams (equipos 
municipals de saneamiento, EMS), an ex-post evaluation of systems constructed for 41 
communities under APL-1 suggests that additional support to juntas is critical to long-
term system sustainability. This sub-component would finance basic equipment (e.g. 
vehicles, computers and printers, parts (pumps, macro and micro-meters, valves, 
chlorination equipment etc.) and supplies such as sodium hypo-chloride, that each 
association will sell or lease to its associates at the discounted cost that the association 
can obtain by buying in bulk under a revolving fund. The project may also pay for a first 
year of an accountant, lawyer, and plumber, to provide training and technical assistance 
to the water user boards. The associations could also provide services like billing and 
help the boards on sensitive issues such as disconnecting users for non-payment. In terms 
of training the association could host specific training activities or organized study tours 
for its juntas according to their own needs and the project could co-finance those 
activities.  
 
2D: 
National Hand washing Initiative – US$1.0 million (US$1.0 million)  
 
Page  4
In order to maximize the health benefits of rural water investments, a hand washing 
initiative will be integrated into the project under APL-2. Child mortality in Ecuador 
remains high at 34 deaths per 1,000   given the country’s general level of development 
and its per capita GDP. Much of this high child mortality rate is due to diarrheal disease 
and acute respiratory infections (acute respiratory infections, viral, and bacterial 
pneumonias). Hand washing with soap at critical times can reduce childhood diarrhea by 
as much as 50%  and will reduce the likelihood of contamination of household water. 
Hand washing with soap also has the potential to significantly reduce childhood 
respiratory infections.  
 
This sub-component will support the implementation of a National Hand washing 
Initiative. The Initiative will involve key public and private sector organizations as 
partners in the design and implementation of a communication program to promote hand 
washing with soap. At the outset, a hand washing behavioral and baseline study will be 
conducted. The findings from the study will inform the design of the communication 
program and messages. The communication program would consist of three main 
components: (a) mass media communication activities; (b) direct hand washing 
marketing at the district and community levels as well as in schools; and (c) integration 
of hand washing promotion into existing training and capacity-building activities in 
communities and schools.  
 
Component 3: Promotion of new management models for water, sanitation and solid 
waste in cantonal capitals – US$31 million (US$17 million)  
 
3A: 
Technical Assistance for the Delegation of Water and Sewerage Services and the 
Sustainability of Solid Waste Services in Cantonal Capitals – US$3 million (US$3 
million)  
 
Of Ecuador’s 219 municipalities, about 180 currently provide water (and, where 
applicable, sewerage) services through a municipal department rather than an 
autonomous (public, private, mixed-capital or cooperative) operator. Under APL-1, 35 
municipalities embarked upon a delegation process supported by the project. As of 
January, 2006, 10 of these municipalities have established autonomous WSS service 
providers (though in practice the delegation of sanitation services has been limited), 
while 25 others are in various stages of picking a new service model from a menu of 
options or operationalizing the model they have selected. PRAGUAS I funded TA for 
this process on a grant basis for interested municipalities, but required that municipalities 
sign a fideicomiso (withdrawal authorization) that allows the national government to 
withhold the cost of TA from transfer payments should the municipality go back on its 
decision to delegate. Municipalities that do delegate are currently eligible for incentive 
payments that vary based on the size of the municipality, the model selected and the level 
of cost recovery achieved through tariffs according to a defined and well-publicized 
formula. Currently, the incentive payments can only be used to finance improvements to 
water supply systems.  
 
Page  5
Under the proposed APL-2 loan, municipalities that delegate successfully would be able 
to use their incentive payments for both water and sanitation investments. Given 
generally poor experiences with sewerage system operation in Ecuador, sewerage 
investments would only be authorized for a pilot group of up to 5 municipalities initially 
to ensure that lessons learned from system operation can be widely incorporated. Sub-
component 3A would finance both TA for the delegation process, as well as the cost of 
engineering designs and supervision. New to the proposed APL-2 loan, TA will be 
explicitly provided in the delegation of the sanitation services as well as water and the 
TA for engineering designs for sewerage will include a social component that will engage 
urban citizens in the planning and decision making about levels of sanitation services to 
insure household connections to sewer systems and willingness to pay for operations and 
maintenance costs. Building on the successful Bank experience in Brazil, Bolivia and 
Peru, TA (both engineering and social) will also be provided to introduce municipalities 
to lower costs sanitation solutions such as simplified/small bore sewer systems.  
 
The second phase of the PRAGUAS project will also include assistance to strengthen 
the collection and disposal of solid waste in municipalities with populations between 
10,000 and 50,000 inhabitants. Currently, there are 55 municipalities within this 
population range, most of them characterized by high rates of population growth, 
significant levels of poverty and an inadequate management of solid waste (i.a. collection 
usually takes place only within the cantonal capital (cabecera cantonal) while other 
population centers are excluded). According to information compiled by the Solid Waste 
Management Team of the SAPSyRS, collection coverage in these municipalities is 
currently in the range of 75%, and only 17% of this solid waste is disposed in an effective 
manner. In parallel, an IDB-
financed project (the “Solid Waste Investment Project”, 
PIRS) would provide technicalassistance and investments in larger towns.  
 
Finally, under this sub-component, the project will contract successful regional 
operators from other Latin American countries (e.g.  Colombia, Argentina, etc.) to 
provide post-delegation TA to new WSS operators in Ecuador.  
 
3B 
Water and Sanitation Investments in Cantonal Capitals – US$20 million 
(US$10million)  
 
Under APL-2, this subcomponent would finance water and sanitation investments using 
incentive payments in eligible municipalities (all except Quito, Guayaquil and Cuenca 
and municipalities receiving delegation support under other programs) that have 
successfully delegated their water and/or sanitation services to autonomous operators. 
Given that relatively few (about 6) of the 35 municipalities who began delegation 
processes under APL-1 are expected to receive project-financed incentive payments 
under APL-1, a substantial backlog of municipalities already awaits APL-2 financing. 
Most of these municipalities have moved from direct service provision to municipal 
water and sanitation companies with either a municipal majority (mayor, city counselors 
etc.) or a community majority (typically, neighborhood representatives) on the board of 
directors. To qualify for incentive financing, the new water operators must provide 
Page  6
counterpart financing for investments equal to 50% of the works to be carried out. About 
US$ 6 million of the loan amount available under this sub-component is expected to go to 
sewerage investments, while about US$ 4 million is expected to finance water supply 
improvements.  
 
As discussed in section 3A above, sewerage investments would only be authorized for a 
pilot group of up to 5 municipalities initially to ensure that lessons learned from system 
operation can be widely incorporated. Sewerage investments will be made only in 
municipalities where the sanitation services have been delegated from the municipality 
and where the autonomous utility has agreed to charge sanitation-specific tariffs at a level 
that will allow for adequate operation and maintenance of the sewer systems.  The 
priority for capital investments will be for extending existing sewer networks to low-
income neighborhoods that are not currently connected but as appropriate, can also be 
used for rehabilitating existing systems that have deteriorated over the years do to lack of 
maintenance. In all cases, engineering TA, utility strengthening and capital investments 
will seek to support the provision of sanitation services that are sustainable and effective 
at protecting public health and the environment. Where sewage treatment plants (STP) 
are required, design-build-operate-and-transfer (BOT) bidding processes would be 
promoted under which some contractual payments would be subject to proper plant 
performance.  
 
3C 
Solid Waste Investments in Cantonal Capitals 
–
US$8 million (US$4 million)  
 
Under APL-2, a new sub-component will be introduce to promote effective solid waste 
management in municipalities between 10,000 and 50,000 inhabitants using an incentive-
based approach. To be eligible for investments incentives, interested municipalities will 
be required to (i) adopt effective accounting and cost recovery mechanisms; (ii) outsource 
some solid waste collection services to private or community operators; and (iii) enter 
into inter-municipal agreements to share some infrastructure, including landfills, 
composting facilities and transfer systems (both transfer stations and a transportation 
network) with other municipalities to achieve economies of scale. As under component 
3B, 50% counterpart financing for investments by municipalities will be required. 
Municipal governments may use investment incentives both for equipment (e.g. office 
equipment, collection vehicles, landfill management equipment etc.) and civil works 
(landfills, composting facilities, transfer stations etc.).  
 
Component 3C will initially be rolled out to a pilot group of about 5 municipalities and 
extended to other municipalities once early lessons have been incorporated.  
 
Component 4: Project Administration – US$4 million (US$4 million)  
 
Like the APL-1 operation, PRAGUAS II will be managed by a project management unit 
(PMU) under MIDUVI staffed by external consultants complemented by staff from the 
SAPSyRS. This component will finance the cost of salary, travel and general operating 
Page  7
costs of the PMU. It will also cover the cost of a strategic communication program (being 
designed as part of project preparation) that would (i) promote the PRAGUAS project 
with eligible municipalities and other actors nationwide; and (ii) support a technical 
dialogue with mayors, city councils and beneficiary populations in cities interested in 
service delegation in support of component 3. The communication program will therefore 
be a cross-component initiative that will support dialogue, participation and behavior 
change activities across all the projects’ components. Finally, component 4 would also 
finance monitoring and evaluation (M&E) activities, including updates to the information 
systems developed under APL-1, the collection of information and development of 
reports for continued evaluation throughout the project cycle by both project management 
and the Bank’s supervision team. It will also cover audits and other project management 
activities.   
 
4. Project Location and salient physical characteristics relevant to the safeguard 
analysis 
D.  Project location (if known)  
 
Rural areas of Ecuador's 174 smallest municipalities (those with populations of less than 
50,000 as per the 2001 census) as well as cantonal capitals (except for Quito, Guayaquil 
and Cuenca) in all provinces of continental Ecuador.   
 
5. Environmental and Social Safeguards Specialists 
Ms Ximena B. Traa-Valarezo (LCSFU) 
Mr Juan D. Quintero (LCSEN) 
Ms Maria Carmen Tene Sarango (LCSFW) 
 
6. Safeguard Policies Triggered
 
Yes No 
Environmental Assessment (OP/BP 4.01) 
X
Natural Habitats (OP/BP 4.04) 
 X 
Forests (OP/BP 4.36) 
 X 
Pest Management (OP 4.09) 
 X 
Cultural Property (OPN 11.03) 
X
Indigenous Peoples (OP/BP 4.10) 
X
Involuntary Resettlement (OP/BP 4.12) 
 X 
Safety of Dams (OP/BP 4.37) 
 X 
Projects on International Waterways (OP/BP
 
7.50) 
 X 
Projects in Disputed Areas (OP/BP 7.60) 
 X 
II.  Key Safeguard Policy Issues and Their Management 
A. Summary of Key Safeguard Issues 
1. Describe any safeguard issues and impacts associated with the proposed project. 
Identify and describe any potential large scale, significant and/or irreversible impacts: 
Safeguard Policies Triggered  
 
Environmental Assessment (OP/BP 4.01)  
 
Page  8
Rural Areas: No major environmental issues are expected in the implementation of this 
project, given the small scale of the water supply and sanitation (WSS) investments 
envisioned in rural areas. For rural investments, minor environmental impacts (proper 
disposal of construction waste, erosion control, protection of spring catchments etc.) will 
be addressed by appropriate guidelines that will be incorporated into the technical 
specifications governing the work of construction contractors. Appropriate environmental 
screening criteria (previously agreed for water and sanitation sub-projects for the APL-1 
loan) will be updated for APL-2 in the project Operation Manual. The screening criteria 
will be used by MIDUVI's Provincial Water & Sanitation teams (Equipos Provinciales de 
Agua y Saneamiento, EPAS) to evaluate the technical, social, environmental, financial 
and economic feasibility of WSS investments prepared by engineering consulting 
companies and social consultants (NGO’s and others) in conjunction with program 
communities. PRAGUAS will provide training and technical assistance to the EPAS to 
support effective use of the screening criteria.  
 
Small Cantonal Capitals: The project may finance sewage collection and treatment as 
well as solid waste infrastructure (landfills, transfer stations etc.) on a pilot basis in small 
municipalities that strengthen the management and cost recovery of their water, sanitation 
and solid waste services. Environmental assessments for individual water, sewerage and 
solid waste investments in cantonal capitals will be prepared during project 
implementation once eligible municipalities have qualified for financial support from the 
project.  
 
As part of APL-2 preparation, a sectoral environmental assessment of the water, 
sanitation and solid waste sector in Ecuador has been prepared.  
 
Natural Habitats (OP/BP 4.04)  
 
Forests (OP/BP 4.36)  
 
Pest Management (OP 4.09)  
 
Cultural Property (OPN 11.03)  
 
While activities to be carried out under the project are not expected to impact any 
known cultural heritage sites, technical specifications for works and the Operation 
Manual will include “chance find procedures” to be followed in the event that culturally 
significant materials are discovered during the execution of civil works.  
 
Indigenous Peoples (OD 4.20)  
 
Given the presence of Indigenous and Afro-Ecuadorian peoples in the project area, O.P. 
4.10 is triggered. An Integrated Assessment (social, technical, financial and economic) 
has been carried out by a local firm as part of project preparation. The assessment 
includes informed consultations with stakeholders and beneficiaries in a sample of rural 
communities as well as a sample of small urban municipal capitals. A combination of 
quantitative and qualitative methods has been used, including a household survey and 
consultations with community water boards and municipal water and sanitation teams 
(“equipos municipals de saneamiento”, EMS).  
 
Page  9
An Indigenous Peoples Plan (IPP) has been prepared for the project. Extensive 
consultations with the Consejo Nacional de Nacionalidades y Pueblos Indigenas del 
Ecuador (CODENPE) and the Coordinadora de Desarrollo Afro Ecuatoriano (CODAE) 
have taken place over the past half year and several activities to be carried out under the 
APL-2 loan have been agreed. These include:  
 
•
Elaboration and production of bilingual materials (manuals, posters, brochures) 
for community training by Social Consultants accompanying indigenous communities 
throughout the different phases of the PRAGUAS water and sanitation project cycle.  
 
•
Promotion campaign for ‘hand-washing’ in Kichwa and Shuar.  
 
•
Elaboration and production of bilingual materials for training of indigenous 
cabildos and water boards in financial, administrative, technical and social management 
of water and sanitation systems with an intercultural focus.  
 
•
Socialization/ training through in-situ workshops with Alternative Municipalities 
and Juntas Parroquiales,  
 
•
Inclusion of a module for the ex-post evaluation of water, sanitation and solid 
waste projects at the end of PRAGUAS II on a sample of projects benefiting Indigenous 
and Afro-Ecuadorian communities.  
 
Involuntary Resettlement (OP/BP 4.12)  
 
The Bank’s “Involuntary Resettlement” policy will not be triggered. Sites requiring 
involuntary resettlement will be ineligible for project financing.  
 
Safety of Dams (OP/BP 4.37)  
 
Projects on International Waterways (OP/BP 7.50)  
 
Projects in Disputed Areas (OP/BP 7.60)   
 
2. Describe any potential indirect and/or long term impacts due to anticipated future 
activities in the project area: 
No significant indirect or long-term adverse impacts are expected in the project area.  On 
the contrary, the project is expected to have a significant positive impact on human 
welfare and the environment.   
 
3. Describe any project alternatives (if relevant) considered to help avoid or minimize 
adverse impacts. 
Not applicable   
 
4. Describe measures taken by the borrower to address safeguard policy issues. Provide 
an assessment of borrower capacity to plan and implement the measures described. 
The Borrower's capability to manage the environmental impacts of water, sanitation and 
solid waste investments has been assessed and an institutional strengthening program 
Page  10
(including the environmental accreditation of the SAPSyRS) has been incorporated into 
Component 1.  
 
To strengthen social management capabilities (on indigenous and other issues), the 
project will finance activities identified under the Indigenous People's Plan (IPP).  In 
addition, a new Social Director will be added to the project implemetation unit.   
 
5. Identify the key stakeholders and describe the mechanisms for consultation and 
disclosure on safeguard policies, with an emphasis on potentially affected people. 
Municipal authorities and community groups in a sample of eligible municipalities have 
been consulted as part of project preparation and are on integral part of the project cycle.   
 
B. Disclosure Requirements Date
 
Environmental Assessment/Audit/Management Plan/Other: 
Date of receipt by the Bank 
04/05/2006 
 
Date of "in-country" disclosure 
02/07/2005 
 
Date of submission to InfoShop 
04/11/2006 
 
For category A projects, date of distributing the Executive 
Summary of the EA to the Executive Directors 
 
Indigenous Peoples Plan/Planning Framework: 
Date of receipt by the Bank 
04/03/2006 
 
Date of "in-country" disclosure 
05/09/2006 
 
Date of submission to InfoShop 
04/04/2006 
 
*
If the project triggers the Pest Management and/or Cultural Property, the 
respective issues are to be addressed and disclosed as part of the Environmental 
Assessment/Audit/or EMP. 
If in-country disclosure of any of the above documents is not expected, please 
explain why: 
In-country disclosure of the Indigenous Peoples Plan is scheduled for May 9, 2006.   
C. Compliance Monitoring Indicators at the Corporate Level (to be filled in when the 
ISDS is finalized by the project decision meeting) 
 
OP/BP/GP 4.01 - Environment Assessment 
 
Does the project require a stand-alone EA (including EMP) report? 
Yes 
If yes, then did the Regional Environment Unit or Sector Manager (SM) 
review and approve the EA report? 
Yes 
Are the cost and the accountabilities for the EMP incorporated in the 
credit/loan? 
Yes 
OPN 11.03 - Cultural Property 
 
Does the EA include adequate measures related to cultural property? 
Yes 
Does the credit/loan incorporate mechanisms to mitigate the potential 
adverse impacts on cultural property? 
Yes 
Page  11
OP/BP 4.10 - Indigenous Peoples 
 
Has a separate Indigenous Peoples Plan/Planning Framework (as 
appropriate) been prepared in consultation with affected Indigenous Peoples? 
Yes 
If yes, then did the Regional unit responsible for safeguards or Sector 
Manager review the plan? 
Yes 
If the whole project is designed to benefit IP, has the design been reviewed 
and approved by the Regional Social Development Unit or Sector Manager? 
Yes 
The World Bank Policy on Disclosure of Information 
 
Have relevant safeguard policies documents been sent to the World Bank's 
Infoshop? 
Yes 
Have relevant documents been disclosed in-country in a public place in a 
form and language that are understandable and accessible to project-affected 
groups and local NGOs? 
Yes 
All Safeguard Policies 
 
Have satisfactory calendar, budget and clear institutional responsibilities 
been prepared for the implementation of measures related to safeguard 
policies? 
Yes 
Have costs related to safeguard policy measures been included in the project 
cost? 
Yes 
Does the Monitoring and Evaluation system of the project include the 
monitoring of safeguard impacts and measures related to safeguard policies? 
No 
Have satisfactory implementation arrangements been agreed with the 
borrower and the same been adequately reflected in the project legal 
documents? 
Yes 
D. Approvals 
 
Signed and submitted by: 
Name 
Date 
Task Team Leader: 
Mr Franz R. Drees-Gross 
05/05/2006 
Environmental Specialist: 
Mr Juan D. Quintero 
03/28/2006 
Social Development Specialist 
Ms Ximena B. Traa-Valarezo 
03/28/2006 
Additional Environmental and/or 
Social Development Specialist(s): 
 
Approved by: 
 
Regional Safeguards Coordinator: 
Mr John Henry Stein 
03/28/2006 
Comments:   
Sector Manager: 
Mr John Henry Stein 
03/28/2006 
Comments:   
