Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFIaAL USE ONLY
Rqet NO. T-6424-KH
TECHNICAL ANNEX
KINGDOM OF CAMBODIA
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
NOVEMBER 10, 1994
Country Operations Division
Country Department I
East Asia and Pacific Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their ofircial duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EOUIVALENT
(October 1994, official rate)
Riel 2,630 = 1 US dollar
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
ABBREVIATIONS
ADB        Asian Development Bank
CDC        Cambodian Development Council
CIB        Cambodian Investment Board
CJ         Council of Jurists
CMEA       Council of Mutual Economic Assistance
CRDB       Cambodian Rehabilitation and Development Board
EMT        Economic Management Team
ESAF       Enhanced Structural Adjustment Facility
FCBD       Financial Cooperation and Public Debt
ICB        International Competitive Bidding
ICORC      International Committee for the Reconstruction of Cambodia
ICSID      International Centre for Settlement of Investment Disputes
IDA        International Development Association
IDF        Institutional Development Fund
IMF        International Monetary Fund
ITC        Interministerial Technical Committee on Administrative Reform
LCB        Local Competitive Bidding
MEF        Ministry of Economy and Finance
MIGA       Multilateral Investment Guarantee Agency
MoP        Ministry of Planning
NBC        National Bank of Cambodia
PHRD       Policy and Human Resources Development Fund of the Japanese Government
PIB        Public Investment Budget
PIP        Public Investment Program
PMU        Project Management Unit
SDR        Special Drawing Right
SSCS       Secretariat of State for Civil Service
STF        Systemic Transformation Facility
UNCTAD   United Nations Conference on Trade and Development
UNDP       United Nations Development Programme
USAID      United States Agency for International Development
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Credit and Project Summary   .              ..........................................                                  2
1. BACKGROUND  ........................1......................... 
A. Introduction . ..........................................  1
B. The Institutional Setting  ..........                  .........................                    2
C. Institutional and Organizational Issues  ..........................    5
11. PROJECT DESCRIPTION .......................                                                                         7
A. Public Expenditure Control                 ........................                                 8
B. Public Investment Management  ..............................   13
C. Foreign Debt Management                ...............             ..................   24
D. Personnel Management               ................              ...................   28
E. Legal Assistance for Private Sector Development  ...................   32
F. Training  .       ............................................    37
G. The Study Fund  ................. .......................   44
111. PROJECT MANAGEMENT AND  IMPLEMENTATION   ......................   45
IV. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION  .....................  50
A. Agreements ........................................... 50
B. Recommendation   ...........                     ............................   51
ANNEXES  ...................................................                                                           52
Annex I        Project Implementation Plan   ..........................   52
Annex IIA    Summary of Project Costs   ...........................   55
Annex IIB   Summary of Project Costs by Component ..................   56
Annex III   Main Job Descriptions ..............................   57
bThis document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
| official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.






KINGDOM OF CAMBODIA
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
Credit and Project Summnar
Borrower:           Kingdom of Cambodia.
Beneficiary:        Not applicable.
Poverty:            Not applicable.
Amount:             SDR 11.6 million (US$17 million equivalent).
Terms:              Standard IDA terms with a 40-year maturity, including 10 years of grace.
Commitnent          0.50%  on undisbursed credit balances, beginning 60 days after signing,
Fee:                less any waiver.
Financing           Government             US$1.7 million equivalent.
Plan:               IDA                    US$17 million equivalent.
Total                  US$18.7 million equivalent.
Net Present         Not applicable.
Value:
Technical           No. T-6424KH.
Annex:
This report is based on the findings of pre-appraisal and appraisal missions that visited Cambodia in May and July 1994.
The report was prepared by Guy Darlan (Task Manager) assisted by Su-Yong Song (Public Finance), Yoshio Sanaka (Public
Investment), David Steedman and Nilmadhab Mohanty (Civil Service), Maurice Gervais (Training), Mostafa El-Erian and
Eric Haythorne (Private Sector Development). Michael Ward, Janme Sinha, and Annie Green reviewed the manuscript and
provided comments on substance or form. The project was prepared under the supervision of Khalid Ikram, Division Chief,
EA1C2, and Callisto Madavo, Director, EAI.






- 1 -
KINGDOM OF CAMBODIA
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
TECHNICAL ANNEX
I. BACKGROUND
1.1        This Technical Annex describes the International Development Association's ("IDA" or
"World Bank") effort to support the implementation of the Kingdom of Cambodia's ("Cambodia")
economic reforms, and to help develop the institutions and strengthen those organizations which are
essential to the reconstruction and economic recovery process as well as the development and efficient
operation of a market economy and the private sector in that country. The program of economic
reforms will be described in the Statement of Development Policy which is being prepared by the
Government of Cambodia ("Government") in the context of the Economic Recovery Credit operation
which is currently under preparation.
A. Introduction
1.2        After numerous years of war and internal conflict, the Government has undertaken the
task of rebuilding the country. This requires implementing a series of reforms to effect the transition
from a command economy to a market-based system and provide the proper macroeconomic
framework for economic recovery and growth, as well as the development of private sector activity.
From 1989 onwards, the Government carried out a series of initial reforms in the following areas: (i)
economic liberalization (restoration of private property and liberalization of prices); (ii) public
enterprise reform, privatization, and private sector development; and (iii) trade reform and exchange
rate adjustment. Although the results of the initial market-oriented reforms were globally positive,
these reforms have yet to yield their full benefits, mainly because of the country's extremely weak
institutional and implementation capacity. The Government intends to address these institutional
deficiencies in areas critical to Cambodia's economic recovery.
1.3        The Project will assist Cambodia's transition to a market economy by helping to
implement the Government's economic reform program. This will be done, first, by strengthening
the economic management team ("EMT") and, second, by helping put in place the foundations for an
environment which is conducive to private sector development. Strengthening the EMT will involve:
(i) reinforcing the EMT units which have already been set up under the initial phase of the
Government's reform program (e.g., the Budget Department in the Ministry of Economy and Finance
("MEF")); (ii) assisting those units which have been established only very recently (e.g., the
Cambodian Development Council, ("CDC")); (iii) setting up those units which have yet to be
established (e.g., the Debt Unit in MEF); and (iv) reorganizing and strengthening those units which
were not considered a priority so far but will play a critical role in the implementation of the



- 2 -
economic recovery program (e.g., budget and project monitoring units in key line ministries.) In
turn, assisting in building the foundations of an enabling environment for private sector development
will involve: (i) establishing a legal reform unit and providing legal advisory services for key
Government institutions; (ii) putting in place an Official Journal for regular publications of laws and
regulations; and (iii) establishing a system for publishing judicial decisions.
1.4        To achieve these objectives, IDA Credit financing will be made available to mobilize
consultants' services, prepare and implement training programs, and provide equipment and works in
support of the policies to be carried out in the following areas: (i) public expenditure control; (ii)
public investment management; (iii) foreign debt management; (iv) public sector personnel
management; and (v) private sector development. The proceeds of the Credit will also finance sector
studies to improve policy design in other sectors, mainly Agriculture, Education, Energy,
Environment, Health, Statistics, and feasibility of electronic cash transfers to provinces.
1.5        The Project's overall administration and management will be the responsibility of a
Project Management Unit ("PMU") established within MEF. The PMU is expected to benefit from
the experience of two prior/on-going project units under the Emergency Rehabilitation Project (IDA
Credit No. 2550-KH) and an Institutional Development Fund ("IDF") operation. The total Project
cost will be US$18.7 million equivalent, of which the IDA Credit will finance US$17 million
equivalent and the Government US$1.7 million equivalent. Co-financing arrangements have been
agreed upon in principle with the UNDP, France, and USAID and will be finalized during Project
negotiations. The Project is expected to be implemented over a six (6)-year period, with the Project
Completion Date scheduled for December 31, 2001. Summary of Project costs and Project costs by
components and by type of expenditure are presented in Annex IIA and IIB.
B. The Institutional Setting
1.6        In Cambodia, the economic management team is composed of the CDC, the MEF, the
central bank (National Bank of Cambodia ("NBC")), and the Ministry of Planning ("MoP"). Project
monitoring units in key line ministries can also be considered part of the extended EMT. Under the
Public Sector Management component of the Project, ministries and agencies which will be supported
are: MEF, CDC, and key sectoral ministries. Depending on the amount of resources available from
other sources, the Secretariat of State for Civil Service ("SSCS") and the Interministerial Technical
Committee on Administrative Reform ("ITC") could also be supported under that component. NBC
is receiving substantial support from the IMF, UNDP, and the Asian Development Bank (ADB), and
the MoP is being supported by ADB; they will, therefore, not receive assistance under this Project.
Under the Legal Assistance for PSD component of the Project, the main agencies to be supported are
the Council of Jurists ("CJ") and the ITC, which are both attached to the Council of Ministers.
The Ministry of Economy and Finance
1.7        The principal functions of MEF are the following:
(a)   Budget: formulate finance laws and regulations governing the national budget, and the
budgets and special funds of public organizations; execute the national budget and
exercise financial control over it; exercise financial supervision of local and provincial
public organizations; and approve public transactions and awards;



- 3 -
The Ministry of Economy and Finance
1.7        The principal functions of MEF are the following:
(a)   Budget: formulate finance laws and regulations governing the national budget, and the
budgets and special funds of public organizations; execute the national budget and
exercise financial control over it; exercise financial supervision of local and provincial
public organizations; and approve public transactions and awards;
(b)   Finance: oversee the mobilization of internal and external resources necessary for the
Treasury to meet its obligations; participate in concluding and reviewing agreements
with foreign countries, economic groups, and international organizations with regard to
the provision of financial assistance; and administer the internal and external public debt;
(c)   Taxes: formulate fiscal policies of the State, including local and provincial public
organizations; prepare tax legislation and related regulations, and take the necessary
measures for their implementation;
(d)   Custom Duties: formulate custom codes, prepare custom duties and import tax
legislation and related regulations, and take the necessary measures for their
implementation; and
(e)   Public Enterprises and Privatization: exercise financial control over public enterprises;
implement Government policies on public enterprise reform with the technical ministries
concerned; and implement the disposition of the privatization program.
1.8        Hence, activities under the fiscal management, public investment budgeting, and foreign
debt management components of the Project will be carried out by MEF, or otherwise under its direct
responsibility. MEF has benefitted from the early support provided to Cambodia under the UN Peace
Accords mandate. That support continued under World Bank and other ongoing aid programs. As a
result, MEF is in a much more enviable situation than any other public ministry in Cambodia when it
comes to capacity. However, much remains to be done in strengthening capacity in areas already
covered (e.g., the current budget), and in building new capacity in areas that were not priorities
during the first phase of rehabilitation but must now be urgently addressed (i.e., public debt and the
capital budget).
The Cambodian Development Council
1.9        Overall responsibility for implementation of the Government's reform program is
entrusted to the CDC. The CDC was established recently (December 1993) as a committee of
ministers responsible for orientation, strategic decisions, and overall coordination of Government
action in the field of reconstruction and development. The CDC is headed by the First Prime
Minister and includes the ministers in charge of Rehabilitation & Development, MEF, and MoP.
Other key ministers who are not members of the CDC, such as the Secretary of State for Civil
Service, are invited to participate in its deliberations whenever issues concerning administrative
reform are discussed.



- 4 -
1.10       The CDC's main tasks are as follows:
(a)   Public Investment: prioritize the country's needs in the field of reconstruction and
development on the basis of clear project selection criteria (this responsibility includes
strategic planning);
(b)   Aid Coordination: direct and coordinate foreign aid so that it matches the country's
public investment needs; and
(c)   Private Investment: provide information, assistance, and administrative services to
prospective private investors.
The CDC functions through two technical bodies, namely the Cambodian Rehabilitation and
Development Board ("CRDB"), responsible for public investment, and the Cambodian Investment
Board ("CIB"), responsible for private investment.
1.11       As mentioned above, the CDC was only established recently. Hence, it has very limited
manpower and capacity. It cannot perform its tasks without an efficient planning and programming
system that would provide it with the needed information. It is of prime importance, therefore, that
the main components of a planning, programming, budgeting, and implementation ("PPBI") system be
properly developed in coordination between CDC, MEF, MoP, and line ministries for the effective
management of the public investment program. Also, the CIB will need support in performing its
tasks.
The Ministry of Planning
1.12       Since the creation of the CDC, the role of MoP has been put into question. In principle,
MoP is responsible for preparing a list of projects for CDC's review and approval, coordinate with
line ministries and provinces to prepare and follow up of the public investment program, and gather
statistics needed for overall planning. This ministry is presently still involved in routine tasks which
have little impact on the Government's rehabilitation program however. Efforts will have to be made
to bring this ministry in synchronization with MEF, CDC, and line ministries. However, given the
assistance provided to MoP by the ADB, no support will be given to it under this Project.
The Secretariat of State for Civil Service
1.13       Despite its large size, until recently the Cambodian administration had no overall
department responsible for the civil service. Under pressure from both the World Bank and the IMF
during the PFP negotiations in February 1994, this hiatus has been filled with the establishment of the
SSCS within the Council of Ministers. This set up means that the Secretary of State will be under the
supervision of a Senior Minister. However, it is still unclear what precise structure the SSCS will
rely on to perform its tasks. This issue needs to be resolved by the Government as quickly as
possible.
.14       The Government has also recently established the ITC with responsibility for the
coordination of the administrative reform program. Both the SSCS and ITC will receive support from



- 5 -
UNDP. If needed however, complementary assistance will be provided to both the SSCS and ITC
under the Project.
Line Ministries
1.15       Line ministries such as Agriculture, Health, Education, Public Works & Transport,
Industry & Energy are responsible for various aspects of public investment programming and
management: namely, project identification and formulation, feasibility studies, design, procurement,
project monitoring, and project implementation. The staff in line ministries have very limited skills to
perform these functions. The Project will assist the key line ministries in performing their project
monitoring and other PIP functions.
The Council of Jurists (attached to the Council of Ministers)
1.16       The CJ was established on March 10, 1994. The CJ is responsible primarily for:
assisting line ministries in preparing draft laws, regulations and decisions; reviewing and advising the
Government on the various legislation, laws and decisions already in effect; giving legal opinions to
the Council of Ministers on draft laws, decisions, treaties, conventions and other international
agreements submitted to the Council of Ministers for consideration; and otherwise ensuring that laws
and regulations are adopted and applied by governmental bodies in accordance with applicable legal
procedures.
1.17       Having been established just recently, and given the tremendous legal reform needs
facing Cambodia today, especially in the economic and financial areas needed for a successful
transition to a market economy and private sector development, in order to be able to properly carry
out its mandate the CJ needs legal advisory and technical assistance expertise. The Project will,
therefore, assist in strengthening the legal advisory and technical capacities of the CJ, especially
insofar as economic and financial legal matters are concerned.
C. Institutional and Organizational Issues
1.18       The main generic institutional and organizational issues to be addressed under the Project
can be summarized as follows:
(a)   the institutional foundations (laws, regulations, rules, procedures and related institutions)
are often lacking and most organizations must be built from the ground up;
(b)  the dominant feature of the Cambodian administration is its weak capacity and the lack
of professional experience of most of its staff. The experience gap is mainly due to the
blatantly inadequate middle management skills (ages 30 to 40) resulting from total lack
of or poor education from 1970 to 1990;
(c)  the number of Government staff is disproportionate, partly as a result of the absence of
policies and guidelines on selection and hiring; and most Government employees do not
work the minimum time requirement because of very low pay which has to be
supplemented elsewhere;



- 6 -
(d)   budget allocations for current expenditures and logistical support are grossly insufficient
for all Government ministries and agencies, resulting in deteriorating working conditions
and underpayment of employees; and
(e)   in spite of recent efforts, the roles and functions of various departments and committees
are still generally not clearly defined, which results in unclear demarcation lines and
relationships between and among agencies.



- 7 -
II. PROJECT DESCRIPTION
2.1        In Cambodia, the capacity building needs are overwhelming and cannot all be addressed
at once. Strict priorities must be established and adhered to. Given the Government's goal to reach
financial stabilization at the earliest possible time, thereby facilitating the establishment of a market
economy, the Project's primary focus will be on improving public finance management, and its
secondary focus will be on helping build an enabling environment for private sector development.
2.2         Public Sector Management. The reduction of the budget deficit is at the center of the
Government's stabilization efforts. The objective is to eliminate the deficit of the current budget (i.e.,
the gap between current expenditures and current revenues) by 1996 (it stands at 2.3 percent of GDP
in 1994), and to reduce the overall budget deficit (i.e., including capital expenditures which are
expected to be financed almost entirely from the external sources) from 7.2 percent of GDP in 1994
to a more manageable level of about 6 percent by 1996. The medium-term agenda for fiscal
consolidation takes account of the following factors. First, reforms are needed in the tax system and
administration to raise the revenue-to-GDP ratio very substantially over time given its current low
level, and to reduce reliance on import duties in the face of an expected fall in customs revenues
owing to a sharp decline in imports in transit to neighboring countries. Customs collections represent
about 60 percent of government revenues. Second, current expenditures will have to be constrained
in total over the 1994-96 period, at the same time that the outlays for health, education, and other
social services are being increased substantially. Third, the civil service will need to be restructured
and downsized to improve the efficiency of public administration and to reduce the burden on the
budget. For the latter purpose, military expenditures will need to be reduced as well. Fourth,
subsidies from the budget will need to be reduced through public enterprise reform and privatization.
Fifth, a substantial increase is likely in counterpart expenditures associated with foreign aid projects,
although some donors may be willing to finance part of the local costs. Finally, the Government's
capital spending, which averaged only 0.5 percent of GDP during 1990-92, is projected to increase to
6.5 percent by 1996 as the Government's reconstruction program gathers pace. This acceleration will
need to be managed carefully to ensure that external funds are directed to areas of high priority and
economic return, and with due attention to problems of the absorptive capacity of the economy.
2.3        Under the Project, assistance will be provided to help the Government implement the
program summarized above. Assistance will focus on strengthening capacity and preparing action
plans to be executed in the following areas of public sector management: expenditure control, in the
framework of budget management and Treasury management; investment management, as it relates to
public investment programming and budgeting, and strategic planning; debt management; and
personnel management, in the specific field of voluntary departure schemes and other social safety
nets. During Project negotiations, agreement has been reached with the Government that: (i) the
Government will appoint all the necessary counterpart personnel responsible for implementing that
component under the Project; and (ii) not later than June 30, 1995, the Government will prepare
separate action plans for implementing the Project activities for the various areas of public sector
management under that component (mentioned above), and thereafter these plans will be reviewed and
updated not later than March 31 annually.
2.4         Private Sector Development. In parallel, as part of an agenda expected to bear fruit in
the longer term, the Government plans to work toward restoring the external balance and aim to



- 8 -
reduce the current account deficit triggered by the overwhelming trade deficit. This would be
accomplished by raising the overall efficiency and productivity levels, raising savings relative to
consumption (a process which should start with reducing Government dissaving), and promoting
exports. These reforms will focus on providing more appropriate incentives for the productive sector
by further deregulating the markets for domestic goods, liberalizing the trade regime, removing the
constraints on labor mobility, removing obstacles to savings and investment, and reforming the
financial sector.
2.5         Starting immediately, implementation of these reforms will focus on helping establish an
enabling environment conducive to private sector development ("PSD"). The principal objective of
the PSD component of the Project will be to help re-establish and strengthen certain legal institutional
capacities and procedures which are essential to the efficient operation of a market economy and the
development of private sector activity (e.g., Official Journal; judicial codification).
A. Public Expenditure Control
Background
2.6         Cambodia's present fiscal system has its roots in the centrally planned framework
established after 1979. The administration that came to power in 1979 organized the reconstruction
of the country in the framework of a command economy. The State was responsible for all economic
sectors. In the initial years of central planning, the state budget was centralized as part of the national
Plan. After 1985, budget management and monitoring was shared by two ministries, the MoP and
the Ministry of Finance at the time ("MEF"). Problems that arose included the following:
(i)  Inadeguate coordination of budget preparation and control. Budget preparation
was the responsibility of the MoP, which determined the key elements of
expenditures including the wage bill and public investment. Expenditure
monitoring and control remained the responsibility of the MEF and was an ex post
rather than interactive ongoing process within the fiscal year. While the release of
funds through Treasury accounts at the central level was controlled, actual
payments were not. Similarly, control at the provincial and municipal levels
focused, as at the central level, on the release of funds.
(ii) Excessive decentralization. Budget authority became decentralized along with
economic activity. While authorization was given to particular spending agencies
to carry out specific activities within predetermined limits, the approach remained
too aggregative to serve as a basis for designing expenditure plans and
consequently for the implementation and monitoring of those plans.
(iii) Deficiencies in budget nomenclature. Budget nomenclature distinguished
expenditures according to their nature and function (e.g., construction, operating
costs, etc.) and were further subdivided by ministries and PEs under their
authority. In addition, the classification between current and capital expenditures
was not maintained. Budget nomenclature did not evolve to accommodate
expenditure control and the format did not allow for a direct and precise economic



- 9 -
analysis of administrative operations. This problem also extended to the revenue
side as receipts were not classified by type and purpose.
(iv) The lack of a unified budget in the context of an overall macroeconomic
framework. The absence of a macroeconomic framework complicated the task of
establishing spending priorities and controls linked to state revenues. The lack of
a unified budget contributed to the degradation of the budgetary practice in the
face of a persistent gap between revenues and expenditures.
2.7        The underlying weaknesses of Cambodia's budget structure and implementation became
apparent with the loss of aid from the former Soviet Union and other CMEA countries. By 1990, the
country was in a deep fiscal crisis with monetary financing covering close to two thirds of the fiscal
deficit.
The Government's Program
2.8        The challenge in the area of public expenditure control is to stabilize current
expenditures at a level that meets macroeconomic requirements and accommodates the minimum
provision of basic services, while reorienting the Government's spending priorities from military to
civilian needs. To secure the required substantial increases in outlays for health, education, and other
social services, savings are expected in the near term from cutbacks in subsidies for state-owned
enterprises. Subsequently, a medium-term restructuring of the Government service will be required,
including demobilization and retraining of troops.
2.9        With the assistance of the World Bank (through activities funded by the IDF Grant), the
Government has taken initial measures in 1993/94 to improve budget management; however, the
Government must pursue its efforts in the years ahead. An important first step was the adoption of an
Organic Budget Law in December 1993, which provides clear rules and procedures for the proper
allocation and use of public funds. In particular, the law provides for annual presentation of the
budget to the National Assembly, and clearly establishes the authority of the central Treasury over all
revenue collected by Government agencies. In addition, the budget presentation includes a new
nomenclature consistent with contemporary accounting and budgetary standards. The budget law also
gives MEF authority to freeze and subsequently cancel budget expenditures, should this be required
by macroeconomic and budgetary developments. There are also provisions to ensure correct and
transparent procedures and to prevent fraud, while also establishing competitive bidding as the
principle for expenditures for the public procurement of goods.
2.10       On the basis of the new budget law, the Government has already taken significant steps
to improve management of public funds. Efforts include bringing off-budget ministerial expenditures
back within central control, and off-budget social spending within the overall budgetary framework.
In addition, adequate budget monitoring and control mechanisms are being put in place through the
establishment of: public procurement procedures; audit and inspection procedures; and Treasury cash
and debt management functions. This is intended to help ensure that public funds are spent in a
transparent and efficient manner. However, although the Government has made considerable
headway in establishing a more modern and appropriate budget and accounting system, there is much
to be done with respect to consolidating system changes.



- 10 -
Project Support
2.11       To secure the support needed in addressing budget management issues over the medium
term, the Project will extend assistance beyond the life of the IDF funded activities scheduled to
disburse fully before the end of 1994. While the IDF funded operation has been providing support
for the conception and delivery of new systems of budget management and Treasury management, the
Project will provide support for the implementation of these new systems. Project activities will aim
at: (i) strengthening the budget preparation capacity of MEF, technical ministries, and provinces; (ii)
strengthening budget monitoring and control mechanisms; (iii) strengthening Treasury cash
management functions, including cash forecast capacity; and (iv) training administrators of the
technical ministries and provinces to understand and apply the new procedures, and training treasurers
to understand the new expenditure and accounting system.
1. Budget Management
2.12       Concerning budget management, activities to be supported under the Project will
include, inter alia:
-  development of macroeconomic analysis capacity and the effective use of such
techniques for the preparation of annual budgets. This activity will be conducted in the
Economic Unit of MEF (paras. 2.53);
-  strengthening budget preparation capacity at the line ministry and provincial levels;
-  ensuring that the tasks related to budget management are fully integrated in the planning-
programming-budgeting cycle. This activity will seek to: (a) develop the budget into the
primary instrument for implementation of the country's recovery program, (b) integrate
the current expenditure budget and the three (3)-year Public Investment Program
("PIP"), and (c) help rationalize the process of allocating budgetary resources for
development;
-  improving the budget implementation system and techniques, including transfer of funds,
monitoring and control of public expenditures, and adherence to budget provisions. This
includes finalizing the institutional (regulatory and procedural) framework for
expenditure control and establishing the team of financial controllers;
-  reorganizing MEF's Budget Department, including its branches in the provinces;
-  strengthening the channels of communication between MEF and line ministries,
including helping to establish budget management units in other ministries;
-  preparing and conducting training programs in relation with all activities supported under
the budget management component of the Project. Given the central role of MEF and
its relatively good capacity in comparison with other ministries, training programs will
be organized mainly along extension methods, with MEF used as the base. The School
of Finance will be the venue for most of the training programs.



- 11 -
2.13        To carry out the program described above, the Project will finance the following, inter
alia:
-  a resident Senior Public Finance adviser ("SPF") for a period of twenty-four (24)
months. At the end of the two (2) -year period, the long-term contract will be replaced
by five (5) short-term visits that would take place over a period of two (2) more years.
These visits will be particularly needed during crucial periods of budget preparation;
-  a resident Senior Budget and Treasury adviser ("SBT") for a period of twenty-four (24)
months. At the end of the two (2)-year period, the SBT's long-term contract will be
replaced by short-term visits under the same conditions as the SPF's.
-  five (5) resident Budget Technicians ("BT") to support the two (2) senior advisers,
especially in training budget officers, Treasury accountants, and financial controllers in
Phnom Penh and in the provinces. It is estimated that the budget technicians will be
needed for a period of three (3) years. The Project will seek to recruit at least two (2)
expatriate Cambodians as budget technicians;
-  training programs prepared by the SPF and SBT; and
-  office equipment to be identified by the SPF and SBT.
2. Treasury Management
2.14        Concerning Treasury and cash management, activities to be supported under the Project
will include, inter alia:
-  monitoring of the Treasury's financial situation and preparing monthly financial
statements (Tableaux des Operations Financiere ("TOFE"));
-  establishing a system for projecting monthly revenues and expenditures;
-  organizing the administrative and accounting rules and procedures for revenue collection
and expenditure operations;
-  developing the legal, regulatory, and procedural framework for public accounting.
Among other things, this activity will include: (a) reorganizing Treasury accounts in line
with the new budget nomenclature and establishing new rules for managing these
accounts; and (b) operationalizing the system in the central and provincial
administrations;
-  improving the centralization of accounting operations at the provincial level. This
activity will be carried out in connection with adapting the regulatory and procedural
framework so as to improve the communication of information between the central
Treasury and its provincial correspondents;



- 12 -
- establishing an accounting system for foreign currency operations, and developing the
regulatory framework for these operations. This activity will include fully integrating
foreign currency operations in Treasury accounts, and transferring the responsibility for
managing these accounts to the central bank, NBC;
- reorganizing the Treasury along functional lines: revenue collection, expenditure
management, accounting, etc.;
- developing the computerization program started in 1993; and
- preparing and conducting training programs in relation with all activities supported under
the Treasury management component of the Project. The School of Finance will provide
technical support and, when required, will be used as the venue for training.
2.15       To carry out the program described above, the Project will finance the following, inter
alia:
-  a resident Treasury & Public Accounting Expert ("TPA") for a period of twenty-four
(24) months. The TPA will work under the supervision of the SBT (para. 2.13);
-  training programs prepared by the SBT and TPA; and
-  office equipment to be identified by the SBT. This will include improving the sanitary
conditions in the money counting office of the Treasury in Phnom Penh; the current
conditions pose serious health concerns for the predominantly female employees. The
main objective will be to install specially-designed tables with a dust-collecting system in
that office.
Training
2.16       Given that a large number of the staff targeted for training belong to agencies other than
MEF, training will in large part be organized along extension techniques, using the T&V system.
The MEF Budget Department will play the role of nucleus in this T&V system. The team of advisers
and technicians presented above (paras. 2.13 and 2.15) will, with the support of the School of
Finance, be responsible for preparing and carrying out the training programs.
Duration
2.17       It is expected that Project support to both Budget and Treasury management will be
extended over the entire life of the Project. However, the provision of external consulting services
will be limited to three (3) years, (as explained in para. 2.13). The School of Finance will then be
responsible for follow-up and sustainability.
Agreements Reached During Project Negotiations
2.18       During Project negotiations, the Government has agreed that: the experts' counterpart
staff will be assigned to the Project by an official decision signed by the Minister of Economy and
Finance. This will be a condition of disbursement of Credit proceeds for financing the



- 13 -
implementation of the training programs and logistical support to both the Budget Department and
Treasury.
Summary and Cost of Project Support
(a)   Budget Management
-    SPF: (i) resident contract: twenty-four (24) person/months; (ii) short-term visits: five (5)
person/months;
-    SBT: (i) resident contract: twenty-four (24) person/months; (ii) short-term visits: five (5)
person/months;
-    Five (5) BTs: one hundred eighty (180) person/months;
-   Training programs: US$250,000 equivalent; and
-    Office equipment: US$75,000 equivalent.
b) Treasury Management
-   TPA: twenty-four (24) person/months;
-    Training programs: US$150,000 equivalent;
-    Money counting office: US$50,000 equivalent; and
-   Office equipment: US$15,000 equivalent.
B. Public Investment Management
Background
2.19       Over the next several years, Cambodia's public investment needs for rehabilitation and
reconstruction are considerable. The medium-term framework projects a sharp increase over time in
gross domestic investment, from an estimated 15 percent of GDP in 1993 to just over 20 percent by
1996. While much of the increase would take place in the public sector to meet the immediate
infrastructure needs, an increase in private investment would also be expected.
2.20       The dependence of the country on the donor community for economic and social
rehabilitation is virtually total. It is expected that the donor community will sustain the current level
of assistance to Cambodia throughout the 1994-96 period. On the other hand, the Government is
expected to shoulder an increasing share of the cost of rehabilitation and reconstruction and to prepare
for the time when the usual cost-sharing arrangements for LDCs are put into effect. The sustained
rise in investment would therefore need to be associated with a substantial increase in national
savings, primarily as a result of improved tax efforts and restraints on current spending. The country
will also have to rely to a larger extent on inflows of foreign private investment.



- 14 -
2.21       Also, Cambodia should prepare contingency plans that would address a deterioration in
the economic outlook, an unexpected drop in donor assistance, or any other similarly adverse event.
To the extent that the availability of foreign savings is less than envisaged and the Government is
unable to mobilize sufficient resources to compensate the unavailability of such savings, the targeted
increase in investment would be smaller, with adverse implications for future growth. At the present
time, the demands of stabilization would have to take precedence over those of growth. Thus, in the
face of a shortfall in external resources, the Government would have to ensure that the shortfall is
matched by a cutback in investment, rather than returning to monetary financing of the budget. These
cuts in investment expenditures would be made on the basis of prioritized objectives and policies. An
economically rational framework would therefore be prepared within which to make judgements on
cuts.
2.22       Cambodia's current planning, programming, and budgeting systems are not well suited
to the pursuit of rational public expenditure policies. In the framework of the 1994 budget,
improvements were made. The Government needs to take additional measures however.
The Government Program
2.23       The degree of success of the Government's reconstruction program and the rate at which
it will be implemented will depend heavily on improving investment programming at the national
level. To properly mobilize the resources needed to sustain the recovery process, it is necessary that
the various government agencies work together to establish investment priorities for the relevant
sectors and identify investment and budget requirements. In this context, the Government has already
decided to:
-  integrate the annual budget exercise into a three-year programming and budgeting
process based on estimates of resource availability and prioritization of investments;
-  create a specialized unit in the General Budget Department of MEF to manage public
investment expenditures and the resources needed to finance these expenditures within
the framework of the national budget. The new unit is called the Public Investment
Budget ("PIB") unit; and
-  establish the CDC.
2.24       Next, the Government will adopt and start to implement an action plan to improve public
investment programming, involving the CDC, the MoP, the MEF, and line ministries. However, for
the Government to succeed, the institutional shortcomings need to be addressed as a matter of
urgency. In this respect, the Government must build up its capacity for macroeconomic analysis;
inter-agency communication; strategic planning; project preparation, negotiation, and monitoring; aid
coordination; and financial resource management.
*    Developing macroeconomic analysis. The capacity for macroeconomic analysis must
exist to forecast major expenditure commitments and revenue developments and
coordinate them closely with budget management so that the budget's impact on the
economy can be analyzed. Such techniques must be introduced and the personnel
trained for their use.



- 15 -
*     Developing strategic planning. The Government needs to address the planning and
policy formulation shortcomings of ministries and agencies involved in implementing the
country's reconstruction program. This effort will include developing capacity to
undertake long-term sector strategy studies to guide policy formulation, planning, and
investment.
*     Investment programming. The degree of success of the reconstruction program and the
rate at which it will be implemented will depend on improving investment programming
at the national level. To properly mobilize the resources needed to sustain the recovery
process, it is necessary that the various Government agencies work together to establish
investment priorities for the relevant sectors and identify investment and budget
requirements. A system of rules, procedures, and organizational arrangements based on
the three (3)-year rolling programming method needs to be developed and implemented.
*     Improving budgeting. To ensure that the resources needed to finance public investment
are managed properly, the Government will establish within MEF a specialized unit to
manage the public investment budget. This unit would be given the capacity to monitor
public investment operations in order to help ensure the timely disbursement of
counterpart funds.
*     Improving proiect preparation, management, and monitoring. The information flow
from spending ministries to MEF must be timely and contain analysis by main economic
aggregates (wages and salaries, interest, etc.), if not by detailed breakdown of
expenditures. The same reporting requirements must be extended to extra-budgetary
accounts. A move to full investment budget classification meeting international
standards is not an immediate necessity; it will progress gradually with the
reorganization of other features of public expenditure management. However, broad
groups of economic transactions need to be identified in the short run to allow the
appropriate analysis. The requirements described here demand developing the requisite
capacity in line ministries to document project progress and maintain a computerized
project MIS. The project MIS to be established in line ministries will have to be fully
compatible with the PIB unit's project database. It will also require developing capacity
in line ministries to gather the necessary information on projects implemented in
provinces.
*     As far as the PIB unit of MEF is concerned, the PIP preparation and monitoring task
will require developing capacity in MEF to: (a) ensure that projects included in the PIP
have been adequately recorded and are fully financed, particularly in terms of local costs
and recurrent expenditures, and (b) collect and use information on the status of projects
through the information system to be developed between the PIB unit and LM/MoP.
This task will require strengthening the accounting literacy of the staff of the PIB unit as
well as line ministries. Periodic budget reviews will also help project monitoring by the
PIB unit. Financial monitoring of projects will require taking corrective measures in
case of disparity between initial budget allocations and actual budget disbursements.
*    Developing the accounting system. The capacity of MEF to undertake the complex
accounting that corresponds to the requirements of a market economy can only be built
up over time. Strengthening the accounting literacy of the concerned units in MEF and



- 16 -
in line ministries will have to begin in the short run to enable the development of the
required information and control mechanisms. A new national accounting system has
just been introduced in 1994. However, there are serious doubts that this system is best
suited to serve the purpose of sound economic analysis and it may have to be
reconsidered.
*    Improving contract management and procurement. Here the concern is to procure goods
and services according to rules and procedures that will maximize cost-effectiveness,
assure transparency and minimize corruption.
*    Improving government coordination. The Government recently established the CDC.
Headed by the First Prime Minister, the Council is a committee of ministers responsible
for orientation, strategic decisions, and overall coordination and arbitrage on matters
related to public and private investments. The CDC will be made fully operational and
its organic texts will be drafted. Also, the division of labor between the CDC, the
MEF, the MoP, and the line ministries will be made clearer through the promulgation of
official texts.
*    Improving aid coordination. In order to avoid the duplication of efforts, to ensure that
the available financing is in fact allocated to support the Government's priority program,
and also so as to improve the coordination of the various technical assistance programs,
consultation among donors is important. After the periodic assessments of the
macroeconomic situation by MEF, an estimate will be made of the overall resources
required from external sources, together with a judgment on the division of these
resources between budget support and project financing. In this context, it will be
desirable to examine some sectoral and project possibilities in more detail. This will be
achieved at meetings of sector coordination groups to be held in Phnom Penh from time
to time, with representation from the major donors and the relevant agencies of the
Government. As far as the vehicle for aid coordination outside Cambodia is concerned,
the International Committee on the Reconstruction of Cambodia ("ICORC") will
continue to serve this purpose until a Consultative Group arrangement is adopted.
2.25       A good public investment management system starts with a clear delineation of
responsibility between the various government agencies concerned. Based on the current budget law
and the Government's National Programme To Rehabilitate and Develop Cambodia, responsibilities of
individual agencies and the steps leading to the adoption of the public investment program and budget
can be described as follows.
Step I     Before the start of the annual budget preparation process, MEF prepares the medium-
term macroeconomic forecast. On the basis of that forecast, MEF then formulates the
macroeconomic framework (including crude assumptions on economic growth) within
which the investment budget will be prepared.
The mid-year budget review, starting in August, is coordinated with the preparation of
the macroeconomic forecast for the following cycle and the budget consultations for the
following fiscal year. The mid-year budget review provides the basis for the annual
review of the PIP. CDC, line ministries and agencies, and MoP will play a role in
preparing the PIP.



- 17 -
Step 2      Once the macroeconomic framework is adopted by the Government, CDC issues
guidelines to MoP and line ministries for preparation of the three (3)-year PIP, with
detailed instructions for the first year (i.e., the PIB). CDC's guidelines to line ministries
include spending limits and criteria for project selection; they are based on previously
formulated sectoral policy objectives and strategies. In sectors where policies have yet
to be clearly formulated, CDC instructs the concerned ministries to prepare strategic
studies to guide policy formulation, planning, and investment.
The main criteria for project selection are: (i) rate of return; (ii) number of beneficiaries;
and (iii) capacity for implementation.
Step 3      Under MoP's technical coordination, line ministries and agencies identify
investments/projects and budget requirements. Investments are given a priority ranking.
The proposed PIP is then presented by MoP to CDC and discussed. If needed, it is sent
back to MoP/the line ministry with instructions for modifications. This iterative process
continues until the PIP is approved by the CDC.
Step 4      CDC sends the three (3)-year PIP to MEF for inclusion into the budget. The first year
of the three (3)-year investment program appears in the form of the PIB for the current
fiscal year and constitutes binding guidelines for capital expenditures.
Step 5      The final draft of the national budget is sent to the National Assembly for adoption no
later than December 1. Once the budget is adopted, implementationlmonitoring begins.
2.26        The National Public Investment Management System (NPIMS). The regulatory and
procedural system that will govern the NPIMS must be developed as a coherent whole. To avoid
incompatibilities and contribute to a clearer delineation of responsibilities among government
agencies, the NPIMS must be used as the basis for the strengthening of individual ministries under
different donor-financed technical assistance projects, namely: (i) the World Bank technical assistance
project for MEF's PIB, CDC's strategic planning function, and selected line ministries' project units;
(ii) ADB for MoP and selected line ministries; and (iii) UNDP for CDC's aid coordination function
and the Ministry of Health. To ensure proper coordination, a master plan for the NPIMS will be
prepared before PIM strengthening activities are carried out under these different technical assistance
projects. The master plan, coupled with the budget law, will form a clear and sound legal basis for
delineation of responsibilities among government agencies in the area of public investment
management. The master plan will be financed by a Japanese grant (PHRD) administered by the
World Bank. The schedule calls for the master plan to be available by the end of December 1994.
Once approved by the Government, the master plan will be made available to interested ministries and
donors to be used as guidelines in strengthening the individual ministries' PIM capacities.
2.27        The NPIMS master plan will be developed on the basis of the division of labor between
the different ministries and agencies. (This division of labor is summarily described in para. 2.25.)
The master plan will include an overview description of the main transactions and flows of
information that are likely to take place between ministries and agencies in the context of public
investment management, including planning, programming, budgeting, and
monitoring/implementation. It will make recommendations concerning the accounting system to be
used for budget and project accounting. It will also describe the information interfaces to be built
between the various correspondents in the national PIM system. Furthermore, the master plan will



- 18 -
recommend computer applications, including the basic features of each of these applications and
justifications for choosing them. The master plan will specify: (a) the areas of computerization, and
(b) the action plan for computerization including priority application systems requiring immediate
attention. It will describe the conceptual model of the suggested computerized NPIMS.
Project Support
2.28       Under the Project, Public Investment Management will refer to all activities directly
related to public investment (i.e., planning, programming, budgeting, and monitoring). The Project
will address the following needs: (i) development and delivery of a computerized public investment
management system in MEF, CDC, and selected lines ministries; (ii) establishment of the PIB unit in
MEF; (iii) strengthening of Project monitoring units in selected line ministries (budget units will be
strengthened in the context of activities to be carried out under the Budget Management component of
the Project (paras. 2.12 and 2.13)); (iv) development of strategic planning and aid coordination
capacity in CDC; and (v) strengthening of macroeconomic analysis capacity in MEF. This assistance
will be provided in coordination with other technical assistance providers.
1. System Development
2.29       The Project will help develop the computerized PIM system in MEF, CDC, and selected
line ministries, based on the guidelines contained in the NPIMS master plan. Specifically, the project
will finance the services of consultants to develop and install: (a) the PIB management system in
MEF, (b) the information system in CDC, and (c) the Project monitoring system in selected line
ministries. This will be done in two steps.
2.30       First, the project will recruit a team made up of an Organizational Expert in PIB
management and PIP monitoring and a Computer System Engineer ("CSE"). Based on the NPIMS
master plan, this team will prepare a detailed implementation plan for the establishment of the PIB
unit in MEF and for the establishment and/or strengthening of project monitoring capacity in CDC
and the selected line ministries. The implementation plan will include (a) specific recommendations
pertaining to the organizational and staffing plans, modus operandi, and logistical support for MEF,
CDC, and the selected line ministries, and (b) bidding documents on the basis of which the
computerized management systems will be developed and delivered. The person recruited as CSE
will have to be independent of equipment suppliers. Proper attention will be paid so as to ensure
that, during and after system delivery, the concerned technical staff and managers will be trained and
acquire the skills needed to use, run, and maintain the system.
2.31       Second, the Project will finance the contracts of the System Suppliers who will have
been selected through competitive bidding. During delivery of the computerized system in MEF,
CDC, and line ministries, the CSE will be responsible for surveillance to ensure that the delivery and
installation of the hardware and software are done according to specifications and that the staff are
properly trained. This will be done during follow-up, short-term visits.
2.32       Agreements Reached During Proiect Negotiations. The Government will provide the
office space and the personnel recommended in a timely manner. The personnel will be assigned to
the Project by an official decision issued by the responsible ministers. The entry on duty of key



- 19 -
personnel will be a condition of delivery of the computerized management system to the PIB and line
ministries units.
2.33       Summary and Cost of Proiect Support. The following will be financed in support of
system development in MEF, CDC, and line ministries:
-  Organizational Expert (master plan): three (3) person/months;
-  Computer System Engineer, six (6) person/months (several short-term missions);
-  System Supplier: budget allocation US$300,000 equivalent (with US$1,000,000
equivalent cofinancing from other donors) including training (exact cost will be
determined by the Supplier's offer).
2. Public Investment Budget Unit
2.34       The Project will help establish the PIB unit in MEF and provide it with all the support
needed, in addition to the computerized system mentioned in the preceding section. The PIB's tasks
will require developing capacity to: (a) ensure that projects included in the PIP have been adequately
recorded and are fully financed, particularly in terms of local costs and recurrent expenditures, and
(b) collect and use information on the status of projects through the information system to be
developed between the PIB unit and MoP/the line ministry. This task will require strengthening the
accounting literacy of the staff of the PIB unit as well as line ministries.
2.35       In the course of the fiscal year, the unit will manage the investment budget. This task
will include taking appropriate dispositions in a timely fashion for the disbursement of counterpart
funds and management (mobilization and disbursement) of external resources channeled through the
budget. Financial monitoring of projects also will require taking corrective measures in case of
disparity between initial budget allocations and actual budget disbursements.
2.36       To carry out this program, the Project will finance the following, inter alia:
-  a resident Public Investment Budgeting Adviser ("PIBA") for a period of twenty-four
(24) months. At the end of the two (2)-year period, the long-term contract will be
replaced by short-term visits that would take place over a period of one (1) more year.
These visits will be needed particularly during the crucial periods of budget preparation.
The PIBA will work closely with the Senior Public Finance Adviser responsible for
overall budget management and, in the conduct of training programs, will receive
support from the Budget Technicians (para. 2.13). The PIBA will coordinate the work
of the four PIP Specialists (mentioned in para. 2.41) and will also be assisted by them.
-  training programs prepared by the PIBA; and
-  office equipment to be identified by the PIBA.



- 20 -
2.37       Duration. It is expected that Project support to PIB will be extended over the entire life
of the Project. However, the provision of external consulting services will be limited to three (3)
years. The School of Finance will then become responsible for follow-up and sustainability.
2.38       Actions Agreed During Negotiations. The Government will provide the office space and
the personnel recommended in a timely manner. The personnel will be assigned to the PIB unit by an
official decision issued by the Minister of Finance. The entry on duty of key personnel will be a
condition of implementation of the delivery of the computerized system and the provision of logistical
support.
2.39       Summary and Cost of Project Support. The following will be financed under support to
MEF's PIB:
- PIBA: (i) resident contract: twenty-four (24) person/months; (ii) short-term visits: five
(5) person/months;
-  Training: budget allocation US$100,000 equivalent; and
-  Office equipment: budget allocation US$50,000 equivalent.
3. Project Units in Line Ministries
2.40       Given the weak capacity at the line ministry level, special efforts will be made to
develop simple procedures and regulations for public investment programming and project
monitoring. The institutional development work will commence at the beginning of the Project with
the preparation of manuals and textbooks. Workshops will then be held to confirm with users the
applicability of the textbooks and handbook contents to the line ministries' particular situation in
Cambodia. At the beginning of the second year, an organizational and staffing plan will be developed
for selected the line ministries' accounting units, project units, and budget, procurement, and awards
committees. In the meantime, the textbooks and handbooks will be finalized for use in more
extensive training. Potential trainers and trainees will be identified. Extensive training will be held
in the second half of the second year.
2.41       The Project will thus finance the services of a team of consultants over a period of two
(2) years:
- A Project Management Specialist will train selected line ministry staff on contract
management and procurement and asset management, as well as coordinate the
institutional development effort during the first two years. His/her work on contract
management and procurement will include topics on supplier accreditation and database;
procurement planning and scheduling; pre-qualification, bidding, awarding, negotiation,
arbitration, and evaluation of contracts and bids; donors' approval requirements;
selection of a procurement method; receiving, inspection, storage, insurance, returns,
and damaged items; payment modes and terms; and storage and issuance. Asset
management will include asset control and maintenance; asset repair, improvement,
replacement, and disposal; and asset depreciation;



- 21 -
- A Programming and Budgeting Specialist will train selected line ministry staff on
programming and budgeting. This will include topics on the importance of
programming; criteria for prioritization; cost estimation and justification of projects;
fund sourcing; budgeting for new and on-going projects and for the rehabilitation,
maintenance, and operation of completed projects for both central and provincial levels;
process of obtaining funds from national budget and international funding agencies or
non-governmental organizations under loans, grants, technical assistance or other modes;
and steps and standard processing time in the budget execution process;
- A Project Accountant will train selected line ministry staff on project accounting,
including guidelines and procedures; accounting and monitoring forms and report
formats; monitoring records on payments, bill of quantity, quality control records, and
clearing; monitoring methods such as supervision, progress reporting, quality control,
and quantity surveying; and project inspection and payments, including criteria for
expenditure decisions;
- A General Accountant/Auditor will train selected line ministry staff on general
accounting and government audits. General accounting will include budget control and
accounting for expenditures for all levels from the project level, provincial level, and
line ministry level; and fixed assets accounting, including periodic inventory.
2.42        The project will also assist selected line ministries in organizational development. A
team of two (2) Organization Specialists will be recruited on short-term contracts to help define the
functions and responsibilities, draw up position and functional organization charts, prepare job
descriptions, and staffing plans of line ministries' budget and project units. The functions to be
addressed in this context include procurement and government auditing. This team will be fielded at
the most opportune moment(s), after consultation between the Government and the World Bank.
2.43        Training. The experts will determine if the line ministries' staff need training in basic
accounting concepts, language proficiency, and basic software tools such as word processing and
financial tools before embarking on the specialized systems. Actual training of the line ministries'
staff on these basic subjects, however, will be undertaken by the teachers in the School of Finance.
2.44        The experts will conduct workshops and training of line ministries' staff in their
respective specialized systems, such as investment budgeting, general accounting, project cost
accounting and monitoring, and government audits. During the second year, there will be continued
implementation and training assistance by at least one expert in each system. For organizational
development of selected units, there will be seminars to orient the concerned officers and staff of their
duties and responsibilities. Starting from the third year, training assistance will be continued by the
School of Finance.
2.45        Agreements Reached During Negotiations. The Government will inform all concerned
staff on the purpose and nature of the technical assistance, emphasizing the importance of their
support and cooperation to the success of the Project. It will also provide office space for the Project
and counterpart personnel. For best results, counterpart personnel should be attached to the Project
on a full time basis by an officially issued decision. Ideally, the counterpart personnel selected would
have a college degree and at least five (5) years of experience, but in the Cambodian context there is
very little hope that such requisites could be met. The Government will ensure that staff is available



- 22 -
for needed interviews and to provide required data and information. It will also provide translators
for translating textbooks and other data from English to Khmer and vice versa. For efficiency in
training, compulsory attendance of the concerned staff will be required.
2.46        Summary and Cost of Project Support. The following will be financed under support to
line ministries:
- Project Management Specialist, twenty-four (24) person/months;
- Project Accountant, twenty-four (24) person/months;
- Government Accountant/Auditor, twelve (12) person/months (with twelve (12)
person/months cofinancing from other donors);
- Programming and Budgeting Specialist, twelve (12) person/months (with twelve (12)
person/months cofinancing from other donors); and
- Two (2) Organization Specialists, twelve (12) person/months (six (6) each)
4. Strategic Planning and Aid Coordination
2.47        Under its project CMB/94/002, UNDP will provide essential support to CDC, mainly in
the area of aid coordination; but it will also strengthen the Council's overall capacity. The Project
will focus its attention on developing the strategic planning capacity of CDC.
2.48        Aid Coordination. During the transitional period, up to November 1993, aid
coordination fell largely outside the scope of the national authorities. Thus, at a time of
unprecedented interest in Cambodia, the Government has limited experience and no well-developed
institutional mechanisms for effective aid coordination and management. The recent establishment of
the CDC is a crucial step to correct this situation. The CDC, however, is still in the process of
trying to operationalize its mandate. In terms of staffing, apart from the directorate level, recruitment
is processing at a very slow pace given the scarcity of qualified personnel. Functional offices have
been assigned to CDC, but the agency is still short of basic office equipment, despite some donations
by bilateral donors. The UNDP support program will provide both direct and capacity-building
support in strengthening CDC in assuming its role within the Government and in relation to its
development partners. The objectives set out under that project can be summarized as follows: (i)
provide support to CDC in preparing the programming of pledges made at ICORC and other fora, in
line with the priorities contained in the Government's own action plan, and assist the Government in
obtaining concerted donor support for its rehabilitation and development program; and (ii) assist CDC
in its lead role in ensuring optimal allocation and use of external resources.
2.49        The World Bank supports these objectives and, under the Project, will provide assistance
complementary to UNDP's in the area of aid coordination. It was agreed that activities under the
Project will be specified after preparation of the UNDP operation. Those activities are likely to
include financing an Aid Coordination Adviser who will assist in organizing the CDC as a lean
agency to coordinate Government activities in the area of foreign aid mobilization. The adviser will
also recommend ways to manage the study fund (paras. 2.122-2.126).



- 23 -
2.50        Strategic Planning. The Project will also support the strategic planning function to be
assumed by CDC. This will require developing or strengthening CDC's capacity to perform the tasks
linked to the strategic function, such as: (a) preparing a vision for Cambodia's economic future; (b)
preparing guidelines to be addressed to MoP and line ministries for the preparation of the three (3)-
year PIP; and (c) in sectors where Government policies have yet to be clearly formulated, drafting
terms of reference for strategic studies to be monitored by line ministries. Specifically, the Project
will finance:
(i) a consulting firm of international reputation to assist CDC in developing a vision
for Cambodia's economic future. The work of the consultant will help determine
orientations in private as well as public sector investment;
(ii) carefully selected expatriate Cambodians (or other internationally-recruited)
experts to support CDC's strategic function (both in CIB and CRDB);
(iii) office equipment in complement to that provided by other donors;
(iv) strategic studies in specified sectors.
2.51        Summarv and Cost of Project Support. The following will be financed under support to
strategic planning:
-  Studies on vision for the economic future: US$350,000 equivalent;
-  Aid Coordination Adviser: twenty-four (24) person/months;
-  Two (2) resident consultants for one (1) year renewable: twenty-four (24)
person/months;
-  Two (2) short-term consultants: six (6) person/months;
-  Office equipment: US$50,000 equivalent; and
-  Strategic studies: to be financed under the Study Fund.
5. Macroeconomic Analysis
2.52        MEF must develop its capacity for forecasting major expenditure commitments and
revenue developments and coordinate them closely with budget management, and for preparing the
macroeconomic framework. To be able to do so, it will need to develop the necessary skills in
macroeconomic analysis. That function has been entrusted to the Economic Unit.
2.53        Currently, the Economic Unit is placed under the Minister of Finance's Cabinet office.
In time, under the Project, it will be developed into a separate unit. The unit is presently headed by a
French-trained Cambodian econometrician recruited and paid irregularly under a private contract. It
is composed of eight (8) college-educated civil servants working full-time for the Unit, of which four
(4) were trained in the former Soviet Union. It has four (4) PCs, one (1) printer, no photocopy



- 24 -
machine, and no separate office space. For the moment, the Unit is essentially doing statistical data
collection and analysis: weekly price index, monthly business survey, cash flow situation and forecast,
and adjusting IMF macroeconomic framework by incorporating recent developments.
2.54       The project will finance the following activities, inter alia:
-  maintaining the Cambodian expert as the Unit's technical adviser for the duration of the
Project;
-  building a database by centralizing the information available throughout MEF;
-  developing a macroeconomic model;
-  training in revenue forecasting, economic analysis, and macromodeling; and
-  office equipment: (photocopier, five (5) personal computers and other computer
equipment and software).
2.55       Summary and Cost of Project Support. The following will be financed under support to
the Economic Unit:
-  Cambodian Technical Adviser: seventy-two (72) person/months;
-  Build a database: US$75,000 equivalent;
-  Develop a macroeconomic model: US$75,000 equivalent;
-  Training: US$10,000 equivalent;
-  Office equipment: US$50,000 equivalent.
C. Foreign Debt Management
Background
2.56       The Government no longer holds records on its external debt in convertible currencies
contracted before 1979, and it has little experience in debt management and no specialized agency for
that purpose. Also, no legal and regulatory framework for debt creation and management is in place.
Furthermore, the Government is aware that debt reporting to the World Bank in accordance with the
World Bank's format is the responsibility of all member countries of the World Bank and the
international financial community, and that it is a prerequisite for the approval of World Bank
lending.



- 25 -
The Government Program
2.57        Henceforth, the Government's objective is to maintain a cautious approach to the
contracting of public external debt on commercial terms over the medium term. Such borrowing
should not be undertaken except in highly exceptional cases to finance potentially high return
investments of a purely commercial nature. In addition, the Government should strictly limit short-
term public sector borrowing and the guarantee or contracting of such borrowing on commercial
terms. Concessional external debt should continue to be contracted only after careful review, taking
into account economic viability and prospective returns. Reflecting this cautious approach to
contracting external debt coupled with efforts to promote foreign direct investment, a relatively low
debt service burden is expected to be maintained over the medium term, while total external
indebtedness relative to GDP would be kept within prudent limits.
2.58        To implement its debt policy the Government has decided to centralize all aspects of
foreign public debt management in a new unit to be created in MEF. That unit, called Financial
Cooperation and Public Debt ("FCBD") unit, will be part of the Department of External Finance of
the ministry. Its main missions are to: (i) develop, with other interested agencies such as the CDC, a
regulatory framework for debt creation and management; this will involve establishing a clear set of
rules for debt creation, data registration, and debt monitoring; (ii) participate in the preparation and
negotiation of international financial agreements involving the Cambodian government; (iii) participate
in the programming and monitoring of external financial resources obtained through these agreements;
(iv) supervise and, when warranted, countersign withdrawals on foreign loans; (v) monitor and
project the country's foreign debt; (vi) monitor the guaranteed debt contracted by public enterprises
and centralize its management; and (vii) prepare agreements for credits extended by the national
budget or the Treasury to public enterprises, and monitor the reimbursement of these credits.
Project Support
2.59        The Project will assist in: (i) developing the institutional and legal framework for the
management of Cambodia's public external debt, and (ii) establishing the new debt office in the MEF.
This program will include building capacity for debt reporting to the World Bank.
2.60        First, the Project will finance the services of an international consulting firm to do the
following:
-  create a system for the inventory of Cambodia's foreign debt and prepare that inventory;
-  assist the Government in preparing for debt rescheduling negotiations, either in the
framework of the Paris Club or bilaterally;
-  develop a system of rules, procedures, and organizational arrangements for the
centralization of international financial agreements, and their implementation and follow-
up;
-  develop a system of rules, procedures, and organizational arrangements for data
registration, monitoring, and repayment of the country's direct and guaranteed debt; this
will include the development of a suitable debt accounting system;



- 26 -
prepare for debt reporting in accordance with the World Bank's format (support under
this activity has already begun with a seminar in June 1994 carried out by World Bank
staff, International Economics Department ("IEC"), on debt reporting and management;
IEC will continue to supervise this activity);
2.61        To perform its mission, the firm will provide an Institutional Expert in Debt
Management ("IEDM") for short-term visits over a period of two (2) years. Also, to supply the
expert with the needed backing in areas requiring highly specialized skills, the firm will be expected
to field short-term missions (two (2)) over the two (2) year period. One such mission will be to help
the Government prepare for Paris Club meetings.
2.62        Second, the project will finance a short-term mission (two (2) person/months) by an
Organizational Expert in public debt management. That mission will prepare a master plan for the
establishment of the FCPD unit. The master plan will include recommendations pertaining to: (a) the
unit's organizational and staffing plan, modus operandi, and logistical support, and (b) a computerized
debt management system. Once discussed between the Government and the World Bank, the
recommendations of the master plan will lead to the preparation of a detailed program of activities for
the establishment of the unit and the delivery of the debt management system under the Project.
Special attention will be accorded for the preparation and implementation of training programs for
local staff.
2.63        Implementation of the master plan recommendations will translate into the following
activities and steps:
(a)   Computerized debt management system
-    design of the debt management system by a consultant independent of equipment
suppliers (the Computer System Engineer ("CSE")); the CSE will present at least two
(2) system options tailored for Cambodia;
-    preparation of bidding documents by the CSE, once the design has been approved by
Government and the World Bank; the bidding documents will specify, among other
things, that: (a) the accounting system developed under the institutional development
phase (described in para. 2.60) will have to be accommodated in the system, and (b) the
bidding offers must include a detailed training program for the concerned technical staff
of the FCPD unit and for other MEF officials likely to use the system;
-    conception and delivery of the system by the supplier selected by competitive bidding
(the System Supplier). It is expected that, for Cambodia, pre-defined system
configurations could be of interest. In which case, suppliers of such systems (UNCTAD
and the Commonwealth Secretariat) will be invited to bid;
-    surveillance by the CSE during system delivery;
-    implementation of training programs during and after system delivery to ensure that the
concerned technical staff and managers will acquire the skills needed to use, run, and
maintain the system.



- 27 -
(b)   Other organizational arrangements (to be implemented under the supervision of the
IEDM).
implementation of the organizational and staffing plan;
implementation of training programs other than those identified under the computer
system component; such programs will aim at developing capacity to perform the tasks
identified under the institutional development phase, namely: inventory of Cambodia's
foreign debt; debt rescheduling negotiations; centralized management of international
financial agreements; monitoring and repayment of the country's direct and guaranteed
debt; and debt reporting to the World Bank. The School of Finance will be used as the
main venue for training;
provision of logistical support (filing cabinets, computers, high- capacity photocopiers,
etc) to facilitate centralization of financial agreements in the FCPD unit.
Duration
2.64       It is expected that Project support to debt management will be extended over the entire
life of the Project. However, the provision of external consulting services will be limited to two
years starting from the IEDM's arrival. The School of Finance will then be solely responsible for
follow-up and sustainability.
Actions Agreed During Negotiations
2.65       The Government will provide the office space and the personnel recommended under the
Master Plan in a timely manner. The personnel will be assigned to the Project by an official decision
issued by the Minister of Economy and Finance. The entry on duty of key personnel identified under
the Master Plan will be condition of implementation of all the other aspects of the Master plan, in
particular, the preparation and delivery of the computerized management system and the provision of
logistical support to the FCPD unit.
Summary and Cost of Project Support
-  IEDM: six (6) person/months;
-  Support to the IEDM, four (4) person/months;
-  Organizational Expert (Master Plan), two (2) person/months;
-  Computer System Engineer, six (6) person/months (several short-term missions);
-  System Supplier: budget allocation US$300,000 equivalent;
-  Office equipment: budget allocation US$25,000 equivalent;
-  Training programs, other than those included in Supplier's contract: budget allocation
US$15,000 equivalent.



- 28 -
D. Personnel Management
Background
2.66        The current state of the Cambodian public administration is an important factor in the
country's limited implementation capacity. The administration retains a number of organizational
features inherited from a command economy's concept of the state role and from the need to respond
to security problems. These features are not consistent with the country's current requirements,
which are aimed at producing the maximum results possible with the limited means available. The
size of the administration (close to 160,000 civil servants, or about 2 percent of the population) is
much larger than public management norms would recommend, which leads to the problems of
duplication and conflict of assignments within the administration and is the root cause of current
overstaffing.
2.67        At present, the organization of the civil service subsumes all categories of state
personnel within a single system: the various branches of the administration, the state-owned
enterprises, the political parties, the mass organizations, and the trade unions. The size of the
administration also increases coordination requirements, slows decision-making, and dilutes the
authority of the state when it is confronted with endemic implementation problems. This framework
prevents effective monitoring of the administration's policies and transforms control mechanisms into
mere formalities. Furthermore, since resources are spread thin, key departments (Education, Health,
Finance, etc.) lack minimum staffing, and a number of civil servants lack the basic equipment and
supplies for their duties. Civil service salaries are not sufficiently motivating, despite the 10 percent
wage increase of April 1992 and the 20 percent wage increase of November 1993. The wage scale
structure, the civil service staff rules, and the career perspectives offered are not conducive to
dedication.
The Government Program
2.68        The Government has been working since June 1993 in collaboration with the UNDP on
the preparation of a wide-ranging public sector reform. The final steps to approve the program are
expected to be taken shortly by both sides; in the meantime two (2) UNDP supported advisors are
already doing the groundwork in Phnom Penh before the formal launching of activities during the fall
of 1994.
2.69        The program will be placed under the authority of the Council of Ministers and will
operate from the Secretariat of the ITC; the executive secretary and staff of the latter will be the
working counterparts of the technical assistance staff provided by the Project.
2.70        The program is ambitious and broad in scope and is scheduled to last until late 1997. It
has been organized around five (5) general thrusts:
(i) Restructuring the public sector: rationalizing the organization of the
Government; redefining the mandates and responsibilities of the various ministries
and agencies; legal reform to put an appropriate legal framework for public sector
activities in place, codify texts and re-establish the Official Gazette; judicial
reform.



- 29 -
(ii)  Strengthening the management of line ministries: administrative simplification,
rationalization and standardization of procedures; creation of information systems;
intensive training of senior managers; improvement of responsiveness to public
needs and enhanced service delivery. The program will be started in pilot
ministries and then adapted as needed for the rest of the Government.
(iii) Civil service management reform: establish control over the civil service by
controlling recruitment and other personnel movements, carrying out a census,
eliminating irregularities, establishing a reliable data base and a payroll system;
develop a strategy for reducing the size of the civil service through departure
programs and the provision of packages; preparation of detailed ministerial
staffing plans and matching of posts and individuals. Capacity-building in the
SSCS and in ministerial personnel units in order to equip the Government with a
functioning personnel management system. Reform of all the key systems and
functions: career management, remuneration, evaluation, training and the pension
plan. The Government also intends to reform the military along similar lines.
(iv) Human resource development for the public sector: training needs identification
and development of a training policy; setting up of an administrative training
center; implementation of the program.
(v) Strengthening provincial administration: establishment of the legal context,
including the definition of the rights and responsibilities of the different
jurisdictions and the legal status of provincial personnel; capacity-building in the
Ministry of the Interior and in three (3) pilot provinces.
Project Support
2.71        The Government and the World Bank have worked closely with UNDP and other donors
in defining this agenda and some of the latter are expected to provide funding and technical advice;
France, for example, is interested in contributing assistance in the preparation of legal texts and the
European Union has expressed interest in helping finance technical assistance to improve civil service
management.
2.72        The Government has asked the World Bank to participate in the funding of component
(iii) (para. 2.70) by providing advisory services to help plan and design a strategy to reduce the
number of staff in the civil service and the public enterprises. As mentioned in paras. 2.66-2.67, the
size and cost of the public sector and of the wage-bill are excessive. The combined civilian and
military wage-bill accounts for 41 percent of the recurrent budget, the civilian alone for about 29
percent.
2.73        Given the World Bank's expertise in financial management, its concern with the budget
and the wage-bill and the Project's emphasis on technical assistance for economic and financial
management, it is appropriate for the World Bank to finance this sensitive dimension of the economic
transition. The Project will, therefore, provide support necessary to design alternative strategies to
reduce the size of the civil service, improve remuneration levels for a renewed and smaller service
and provide departure packages for those leaving the civilian civil service and the public enterprises.
In defining a series of options for the reduction of public sector employment, a team of technical



- 30 -
advisors will be recruited under the Project and will work closely with officials from the MEF, the
SSCS and the ITC.
2.74        The following program of work will be undertaken:
(i)  determine as accurately as possible given the state of the data, the size,
composition and profile of public sector employment -- defined as the civilian civil
service and public enterprises;
(ii)  oversee the creation of a simple database on the size and cost of public sector
employment and use it as the basis of a dynamic tool which may be used to model
the differential impact of various departure and restructuring scenarios;
(iii) on the basis of parallel studies on the shape and structure of the government and
of individual ministries undertaken within the context of the administrative reform,
begin to define the size, profile and cost of the new structures;
(iv)  in the light of (iii), determine the options and tradeoffs facing the Government as
it studies: (a) what kind of public sector it needs in order to meet its development
priorities, and (b) what size of public service it can afford if it is to provide
salaries and benefits which ensure a decent living wage and which are competitive
-- especially for professional and technical personnel -- with the private sector;
(v)  help the Government implement running controls on the opening and closing of
positions, recruitment and other personnel actions required to maintain control
over the establishment and of the wage-bill and to meet the related benchmarks of
the IMF program;
(vi)  design optional approaches to the reduction in public sector employment. Based
on the priorities identified for the reformed civil service in terms of functional
areas and staff skills, develop redundancy packages designed to meet the stated
objectives. Work also with those responsible for the public enterprise sector and
reform of the military to identify the numbers of staff needed and plan appropriate
departure schemes which are congruent with those intended for the civil service.
PE audits and studies on reform of the military will need to be carried out in this
context. (Note: the carrying out of actual restructuring of state-owned enterprises
and the army is not included under the Project).
2.75        In undertaking this assignment, the team of technical advisors will help the Government
factor the following considerations into its strategic planning:
(i) the need to determine, based on the existing profile of the civil service (age, level,
skills, etc.) and the new sectoral requirements, which categories of personnel
should be encouraged to retire or leave; exempt as necessary any groups identified
as particularly important to retain;
(ii) collect any available data on household incomes and expenditures; if necessary,
design and carry out a sample survey in order to ascertain the amount and



- 31 -
composition of their family incomes and expenditures; this information will prove
useful in designing appropriate incentive packages;
(iii) ascertain the level of private sector remuneration in the professional and technical
job markets of Cambodia and neighboring countries; and
(iv) propose a new remuneration policy on the basis of the data and analysis for both
the civil service and the PE sector;
2.76        After analyzing this information, it should prove possible to design and cost a phased
departure and renewal program for the public service over several years. Optional strategies will be
modeled which take into account both the technical variables and the political reality of the local
context. Scenarios for reconfiguring the profile of the civil service according to identified needs will
be developed and will include some or all of the following elements:
-  early retirement, either optional or obligatory for certain categories of staff;
-  voluntary departure for targeted classes and/or categories.
-  retrenchment; and/or
-  recruitment in order to ensure that key skills are brought into Government at the same
time as the downsizing is implemented.
2.77        In addition to departure bonuses and/or enhancod retirement packages, a broader social
safety net will be developed and studies undertaken to plan the transition to a capitalized pension plan
for civil servants and to a fully fledged national retirement and social security system. During the
transitional period before a permanent social security system is in place, departing staff will be
offered, in addition to departure packages, other facilities and opportunities such as: retraining
programs, credit facilities for establishing small businesses, labor market information and other
employment services and support to companies for training and apprenticeship initiatives.
2.78        The work will also include the costing and budgeting of various scenarios and the
determination of options for paying the costs of the departure program. If it does not prove possible
to cover the latter from the Government's recurrent budget, donor grants will be sought out for the
purpose of paying off redundant staff. In any case the costs of the departure program and their impact
will need to be taken into consideration during the annual economic and budget planning cycles and
monitored closely during implementation, since the wage-bill is both an important macro-economic
variable and a significant percentage of the recurrent budget. An instrument will be developed for
this purpose which will model different hypotheses and scenarios for the evolution of the wage-bill,
the reduction in the number of civil servants, the introduction of a new remuneration policy, etc.
2.79        Duration. It is expected that the study phase for the departure schemes will last twelve
(12) to eighteen (18) months. Then, on the basis of the recommendations, the Government and the
World Bank will identify activities to be carried out under the implementation phase. Other studies,
such as those on the pension and social security system, will take longer to complete.



- 32 -
2.80       Summary and Cost of Project Support. The following will be financed under this
component:
-  technical advisers from a consulting firm: twenty-four (24) person/months (with twelve
(12) person/months cofinancing from other donors);
-  resident PE sector adviser: twenty-four (24) person/months;
-  audits of public enterprises and studies on the military: US$100,000 equivalent (with
US$300,000 equivalent cofinancing from other donors);
-  short-term support missions (e.g., audits of PE's, compensation specialist, pension
expert): eighteen (18) person/months; and
-  implementation phase: to be financed by the Study Fund.
E. Legal Assistance for Private Sector Development
Background
2.81       Historical Background. Given the recent history of Cambodia, the country's existing
legal and regulatory framework in general, and its capacity to enforce existing laws and regulations in
particular, is exceedingly weak. Starting in 1975 under the Khmer Rouge regime, all aspects of what
was the then prevailing legal system and commercial private sector were physically destroyed: law
libraries, the University of Phnom Penh Law School, all registry offices, Government ministries,
courts and their records, businesses, property rights, etc. The Khmer Rouge regime sought the total
eradication of the past and the complete restructuring of Cambodian society. Nearly all industries
were abandoned or placed under state control, institutions were destroyed and cadres were eliminated
physically. Money was abolished and the private ownership of land and rigidly collectivized all
agriculture. Following the ouster from power of the Khmer Rouge regime in December 1979, and for
the ensuing twelve (12) years, Cambodia was subjected to a political and judicial system similar to
that of socialist regimes, with strong centralization of power and a socialist economic system.
2.82       On October 23, 1991, the "Agreements on a Comprehensive Political Settlement of the
Cambodian Conflict" (the "Paris Accords") were signed by the various political factions in Cambodia,
including the Khmer Rouge, providing for democratic elections following an interim period of United
Nations peacekeeping supervision in accordance with the Peace Accords mandate. The election of the
new Cambodian National Assembly took place in May 1993 with no single party obtaining a clear
majority, and a coalition FUNCINPEC-CPP Government was subsequently appointed. On September
21, 1993, the present Cambodian Constitution was ratified by the National Assembly, giving rise to
the Kingdom of Cambodia as a constitutional monarchy and liberal democracy - with separation of
executive, legislative and judicial powers - aimed at the establishment and on-going encouragement of
a market economy.
2.83       The Existing Constitutional Framework. The Constitution establishes a system of
government based upon an elected constitutional monarchy and the separation of powers between the
executive, the legislature and the judiciary. By the terms of the Constitution, the King is Head of



- 33 -
State with responsibility for reigning over - but not governing - Cambodia. The King is elected by
the Royal Throne Council which is composed most notably by the Speaker of the Assembly and the
Prime Minister. The King appoints the Prime Minister on the recommendation of the Speaker of the
Assembly and exercises essentially a role symbolic of national unity and continuity.
2.84        The Constitution expressly provides for the adoption of a multi-party democratic political
regime and a free market economic system. The National Assembly is composed of 120 members
elected for 5 years. As the legislative body, it is empowered to adopt laws, approve the national
budget and ratify and annul treaties and international conventions. According to the Constitution, the
senior level of the executive branch of government is comprised of a Prime Minister, Deputy Prime
Minister and a Council of Ministers, although since 1993 there have been two (co-) Prime Ministers
and two Deputy Prime Ministers, representing the two major political factions. Pursuant to the
Constitution, the judiciary is independent. The Constitution also provides for a Constitutional Council
which is to be charged with interpreting the Constitution and opining upon the constitutionality of
both proposed and enacted laws.
2.85        Although today there does exist a body of law, however imprecise, and much on-going
preparation of new laws and regulations aimed at completing and improving the existing legal
framework, the evolution of the State to one in which the rule of law prevails, the remaining part was
reduced in importance by the much more rapid growth of the emerging private sector, with which the
enterprise sector competes on product and factor markets. Reliable data on the private sector are not
available, owing to the lack of systematic enterprise registration, reporting, and surveys. Yet in
Phnom Penh and other urban centers, the mushrooming of dynamic private businesses is evident, in
particular in construction, commerce, cottage industries, and miscellaneous services. State enterprises
are also withdrawing from downstream activities and are even leaving areas such as the retail
distribution of power (in Phnom Penh) to private wholesalers. Foreign investors have bought or
leased most of the privatized enterprises: most of these are medium-scale industrial ventures. An area
in which foreign investment is particularly booming is tourism.
2.86        However, in spite of encouraging developments, the private sector still faces a number
of major physical constraints. For example, infrastructure bottlenecks hamper the rapid growth of an
efficient private sector. The power supply is frequently interrupted, and it has become very costly,
which causes private businesses to operate generators. Transport suffers from security problems, and
equipment wears out quickly on Cambodia's roads.
2.87        In addition to such constraints, the legal environment specifically for business and
investments is glaringly deficient. Only a few relevant laws have been passed, including the Foreign
Investment Decree-Law of 1989. Many other critical areas of commercial and business laws (for
example, companies, contracts, bankruptcy, mortgages, insurance, labor, accounting, and mining) are
absent. For existing laws, transparent implementation regulations are scarce and are not easily
accessible. Most regulations (including those on taxes, land, and foreign investment) are thus
negotiable on the enterprise level, and private business is not, on the whole, governed by the rule of
law. Under the current legal system, potential future advances tend to be limited by the rather
restrictive and, at the same time, insufficiently clear investment code. Moreover, there is little
recognition of companies or provision for their proper functioning. The secure establishment of
private companies, which would require the provision of limited liability, the recognition of the
private ownership of property, the transfer of assets and other forms of collateral, and a reasonably



- 34 -
free access to land, is not adequately provided for. This state of affairs provides considerable
flexibility but also fosters non-transparency, insecurity, and lack of legal rights and guarantees.
2.88       An additional constraint is that the accounting system in Cambodia was tailored to a
centrally planned economy and is of little use to private businesses in the current market environment.
The lack of a meaningful and reliable accounting system not only deprives enterprises of an important
management tool but also affects the collection of taxes, which are hence commonly estimated and
negotiated. In sum, the country has yet to introduce an environment suitable for a private-sector-
driven market economy.
The Government Program
2.89       The Government's medium-term program to develop a suitable enabling environment for
the development of private sector activities includes, inter alia: introduction of a new national
accounting system; enactment of economic and financial laws, including provisions for bankruptcy;
enactment of implementing regulations to the investment law which was accepted at the July 1994
session of the National Assembly; streamlining the foreign investment regime and ensuring that the
twin objectives of fiscal revenue and external competitiveness are served; adoption of legislation to
implement the provisions of the MIGA and ICSID conventions, with a view to providing security for
foreign investors; organization of the CDC's Cambodian Investment Board ("CIB") as a "one-stop"
service agency to provide information, assistance and administrative services to prospective investors.
Project Support
2.90       The Project will focus on assisting Cambodia to develop certain fundamental elements of
a suitable enabling legal environment for the development of private sector activities. The principal
objectives will be to: (i) assist in the re-establishment and strengthening of certain key legal
institutional capacities and procedures which are required for developing the economic and financial
legal framework necessary for private sector development in Cambodia; and (ii) provide the
Government (specifically, the Council of Jurists, the Interministerial Technical Committee, and the
Ministry of Commerce) with the assistance of qualified legal advisers. The PSD component of the
Project will provide legal advisory services, training and related equipment for implementing the
following principal activities on the basis of an implementation program to be agreed upon with the
Government.
(a)   preparing a diagnostic study to determine: (i) the process and status of development to
date of Cambodia's economic and financial laws; (ii) the degree of compatibility of the
various economic and financial legal texts currently in force or under consideration for
adoption; and (iii) Cambodia's medium-term economic and financial legal reform
priority agenda. This activity will be carried out in conjunction with similar ongoing
efforts which are being financed by other donors, such as the UNDP-financed
preparation of a compendium of existing laws which is currently under implementation;
(b)   carrying out a comprehensive legal training needs assessment. This activity will be
carried out in coordination with other international and bilateral institutions involved in
similar activities in Cambodia;



- 35 -
(c)   formulating, on the basis of the findings and recommendations of the legal diagnostic
study and the training needs assessment, a time-based master plan which clearly sets out
the specific economic and financial legal priority drafting and training measures to be
implemented under the Project; and
(d)   re-enforcing the Government's institutional capacities and official procedures for
publishing, on a regular basis, Cambodia's Official Journal in the Khmer, French and
English languages, and for disseminating it more effectively throughout Cambodia; and
establishing an automated system for the systematic reporting, codification, and
publication of the decisions of Cambodia's higher courts (Supreme Court/Courts of
Appeal), and for the development of a system of jurisprudence and doctrinal writings.
2.91        To carry out the PSD component activities described above, the Project will finance the
following activities, inter alia, on the basis of the implementation program to be agreed upon with the
Government:
-  a Resident Legal Advisor (RLA-CJ) and qualified legal staff, for an initial period of two
(2) years, to help manage the legal advisory unit to be established by the Project under
the responsibility of the Council of Jurists;
-  a Resident Legal Advisor (RLA-ITC), for an initial period of two (2) years, to provide
legal advisory services to the Interministerial Technical Committee on Administrative
Reform;
-  a short-term Legal Specialist (LS-DS) assisted by qualified legal staff, for a period of
four (4) months, to carry out the legal diagnostic study;
-  a short-term Legal Specialist (LS-LTNA) assisted by qualified legal staff, for a period of
six (6) months, to carry out the legal training needs assessment;
-  an Institutional Specialist (IS-OJ) assisted by qualified technical staff and translators, for
a period of up to twelve (12) months, to re-establish the Official Journal and train
Government personnel in its administration and continued operation;
-  an Institutional Specialist (IS-CJ) assisted by qualified legal staff, for a period of twelve
(12) months, to establish a system for codifying the decisions of the higher courts of
Cambodia and for developing a body of jurisprudence.
-  Note: Logistical support to CDC's Cambodian Investment Board will be provided under
the Public Investment Management Component (Strategic Planning) of this Project.
Training
2.92        Training under the PSD component will be carried out according to a time-based master
plan to be developed on the basis of both the recommendations of the legal training needs assessment
and the Government's legal reform priority agenda. Training interventions will be selective and
carried out in coordination with other similar ongoing efforts. Training will also be provided to



- 36 -
sustain the legal institutional building activities to be implemented under this component (the
establishment of the Official Journal and system of codification).
Duration
2.93       It is expected that Project support to the PSD component activities will be extended over
the entire life of the Project.
Actions Agreed During Negotiations
2.94       During negotiations, agreement has been reached with the Government that:
(i) The Government will establish a legal advisory unit attached to the Council of
Jurists as a condition of disbursement of the Credit proceeds allocated to the PSD
component of the Project. The Unit will be maintained throughout the Project in
a manner satisfactory to IDA, and would be responsible for assisting the Council
in reviewing and finalizing all economic and financial legal texts drafted by line
ministries and other governmental institutions, and would otherwise help
coordinate the legal drafting activities of these ministries and institutions;
(ii) The Government will adopt officially, not later than December 31, 1995, a
medium-term agenda for the enactment of economic and financial legislation, all
in accordance with its economic policy priorities; and
(iii) The Governmnent will carry out, not later than June 30, 1995, an action plan for
carrying out the PSD component activities.
Summary and Cost of Project Support
-   RLA-CJ: twenty-four (24) person/months
-   RLA-ITC: to be financed from other donors
-   LS-DS: four (4) person/months, plus support
-   LS-LTNA: six (6) person/months, plus support
-   IS-OJ: twelve (12) person/months, plus support
-   IS-CJ: twelve (12) person/months, plus support
-   Training programs: US$125,000 equivalent
-   Equipment and materials, including printing equipment for Official Journal: US$150,000
equivalent (with US$200,000 equivalent cofinancing from other donors).



- 37 -
F. Training
2.95       The Government appears determined to move from a centrally planned to a market-based
economy, and to create suitable institutions and instruments for macroeconomic management.
However, some of the tasks are unfamiliar to those in the Government administration who have to
execute them. Hence, there is a need to mount a major effort to help build capacity and reform the
institutional framework. This requires a large and sustained investment of resources in technical
assistance and training. The Government intends to recruit high caliber expertise with a commitment
to training nationals and the ability to transfer economic management skills. The Project will help the
Government implement this strategy by helping ensure a strong quality control of the technical
assistance product and accelerate the process of transferring responsibility and accountability for
management of the economy to Cambodians.
Focus on Public Finance ManagementL
2.96       The reform of Cambodia's public finance management system is a major step in adapting
public sector management practices to the requirements of a market economy. The reform of the
management system is driven by the new budget law, promulgated in December 1993, which
establishes a comprehensive framework for public finance management and accountability. The
system which is being implemented is an adaptation of the French public finance management system
which emphasizes a-priori controls over expenditures and the centralization of Treasury operations.
Its complexity needs to be absorbed by Cambodian staff who have yet to shift to a market-based
public finance management system. Thus, to be sustainable, it will require a major effort to
strengthen and upgrade local skills in the public finance complex (i.e., MEF, the budget and Project
units within line ministries, and the provincial and municipal financial offices).
2.97       An important constraint on capacity building is the basic weaknesses of Government
staff. Staff weaknesses originate from a collapse of higher education in the mid-1970s, further
weakening of average capacities as a result of politically-motivated recruitment, and low staff salary
levels. Thus, the challenge is to achieve a quantum jump in staff capacity to match the requirements
of the new financial management system. For this reason, the Project will support a major training
effort to strengthen basic staff capacity as well as to provide focused knowledge transfer to enable
local staff to absorb the specific features of the new management system.
Staff Upgrading Programs
2.98       The strategy for upgrading local skills and capacity consists of four (4) complementary
programs: (i) basic preparatory training in essential generic skills; (ii) specialized short- or medium-
term courses in topics relevant to public finance management; (iii) on-the-job training of counterpart
staff and of other staff employed in units which are being created or strengthened with the assistance
I' Although the Project covers several aspects of economic management and private sector
development, this section is limited to training which falls in the public finance domain. Other
concerns -- for instance, strategic planning, legal training, etc. -- are addressed under the relevant
Project components.



- 38 -
of the Project; and (iv) in exceptional cases, training abroad. Categories (i) and (ii) will be
coordinated and/or undertaken by the staff of the School of Finance, with guidance provided by the
external advisors, while categories (iii) and (iv) will be managed by a Training Coordinator financed
under the Project, in conjunction with the specific training programs of external advisors financed by
the Project. The Training Coordinator will liaise very closely with the adviser provided by France to
act as the Deputy Director of the School. The French technical assistance will be essentially
responsible for helping in the development of school policy, regulatory framework, and curriculum.
2.99        Basic Preparatory Training. Courses taught will include basic accountancy, computer
literacy, language training, mathematics, finance and economics. In particular, attention will be given
to ensuring that the accounting skills of staff are reinforced. While courses will generally be taught in
the School of Finance (basic finance and economics), some training will be contracted out to local
private training institutes (computer literacy, languages, basic accounting).
2.100       Specialized Short- and Medium-Term Courses. Such courses which may be given either
on an intensive full-time basis for several weeks or for a few hours each day for a longer period, will
provide applied general training in generic functions of the public finance management system. For
example, officials dealing with the budget system and its controls will be trained in the concepts,
principles and procedures of public budgeting, accounting and auditing procedures; other training
specific to resource mobilization will also be undertaken (tax laws, tax assessment, inspection,
customs clearances and management); as well as computer techniques applied to public finance
management. In addition, senior staff in the financial complex will be introduced to macro-economic
concepts relevant to financial management (e.g., the role of deficit management, inflation, credit and
borrowing policies, etc.). The ministry's training facility will organize and coordinate basic training
programs, some of which will be contracted out to the private sector (basic accountancy, language
skills, computer literacy). Currently, the identification of basic training requirements, the
development of training modules, and limited training are being carried out with French and USAID
technical assistance. However, physical facilities for staff training are very limited (private villas
have to be rented around Phnom Penh to be used as classrooms) and there is a need to provide
expanded capacity on a permanent basis for staff in-service training.
2.101       On-the-Job Training. Two types of training, which will be carried out by project-
financed advisors, supplemented by MEF higher-level staff, are envisaged under this heading: (a)
training of counterparts who will be assigned to the advisors before their arrival in their duty stations;
and (b) an on-site outreach program in the financial complex through a training and visit (T&V)
scheme. Both programs will focus on the specific financial management systems being introduced by
the project. Each advisor will prepare an annual training program concerning counterpart and T&V
activities, as part of their annual performance programs acceptable to the Bank.
2.102       The Project will help the Government implement this strategy by helping to ensure that
the best possible quality control of the training will be carried out by international experts. All
training will be conditioned upon preparatory steps which are crucial to ensuring that the various
functional units supported under the Project are ready to receive and profit from the training
activities: (a) potential candidates for the various positions will have been identified and several
counterparts selected for each external advisor; (b) the units will have been reorganized, staffing plans
prepared and, when required, the necessary facilities and equipment installed; (c) a training plan,
based on a thorough assessment of the needs of the local staff will have been prepared.



- 39 -
2.103       Training Abroad. Priority will be given to training the largest number of Cambodians
locally. However, in special cases, training abroad may be justified. Proposals for each external
training program to be financed under the Project will be targeted to assuring the replacement of
external advisors. External training proposals on a case-by-case basis, including their justification and
costs, will be submitted to IDA for its comments/approval.
Training Support Requirements
2.104       The School of Finance. To provide an adequate infrastructure in support of the massive
upgrading of public finance management staff, the Project will support the construction and equipment
of a small training facility (the School of Finance, under MEF's responsibility), with a capacity to
train approximately 600 staff members per year. The estimated physical space required is about
2,000 square meters, at a unit cost of about US$350 per square meter (total cost of the building:
about US$800,000 equivalent). Equipment requirements, including a generator and a computer lab,
are estimated at about US$200,000 equivalent. The infrastructure will include a conference facility
for about 150 people for major seminars and conferences, a library, rooms for visiting teachers, and
offices for the school's management and teaching staff. Studies to produce detailed architectural
plans, specify the equipment configuration and produce bidding documents are financed by UNDP.
USAID has indicated its willingness to participate in building the school.
2.105       It is expected that in the initial stages of the Project, the faculty of the school will consist
mainly of the external advisors financed by the Project, supplemented by resident and short-term
trainers financed by other donors. As suitable Cambodian trainers are identified and their skills
upgraded, the teaching staff will take over some of the basic training duties carried out by
consultants as the latter are phased out. Together with other donors, the Project will support the
upgrading of skills of the School's teaching staff.
2.106       During the Project, at least three external training experts will be supported by external
donors: (a) the French Government has committed itself to finance two (2) advisors/trainers, one (1)
of whom is already in place. They will focus on preparing and coordinating basic preparatory
training and specialized short- and medium-term courses coordinated and/or taught in the School of
Finance; (b) as noted in para. 2. 101, a Training Coordinator financed under the Project will
coordinate the on-the-job training system being extended by Project advisers; (c) other donors have
indicated their willingness to support the School of Finance through the provision of short-term
seminars and the training of trainers (UNDP, France, USAID). To ensure that training objectives are
met, the Project will provide stand-by support on a selective basis to compensate for eventual
shortfalls by other donors.
2.107       The Training Coordinator will be attached to the School of Finance and will ensure that
an effective on-the-job training program is carried out during the life of the Project. This person will
coordinate and supervise on-the-job training throughout the financial complex. In particular, he will:
(a) compile, analyze, and appraise annual training programs prepared by Project advisers and review
the effectiveness of completed programs; (b) assist advisors/consultants recruited under the Project in
the assessment of training needs and the formulation of programs; (c) provide pedagogical backup and
training materials to advisers/consultants; (d) coordinate training programs prepared under the Project
with other training programs supported by the School of Finance; (e) carry out limited training
programs; and (e) assess the training performance of project advisors/consultants in the training of
their counterparts and the implementation of T&V activities.



- 40 -
2.108       Members of the Government and other high-ranking officials will be asked to make
presentations on subjects related to both the Government's reform program and their own
responsibilities in implementing the program.
Sustainability
2.109       Over the life of the Project, it is expected that between 2,000 and 3,000 person/years of
in-country training would be carried out under the various programs supported by the Project.
2.110       As the Project evolves and external advisors are withdrawn from MEF, the School of
Finance will become the main instrument available to the MEF to reduce the reliance on external
consultants for public finance management. Training assessments will be carried out periodically by
the School of Finance and the external advisors supported by the Project to improve the targeting of
training needs and curricula development. Before the departure of external consultants, an evaluation
of the effectiveness of the training programs, including training provided by the School of Finance,
will be carried out. The evaluation will provide an in-depth assessment of the transfer of knowledge
to Cambodian staff, the need for continued external advisory assistance and measures to be taken to
ensure that the School of Finance is able to assume the responsibility for sustaining capacity building
within the financial complex. Assuming that the evaluation provides positive results, the Project will
then proceed with the phasing out of resident advisors and will shift its emphasis from on-the-job
training to more generic upgrading of skills in the School of Finance. In case of negative results,
corrective measures will be applied. Before the Project ends, the necessary steps will be taken to
make the School of Finance a well established and fully funded program of the MEF.
Specific Training Programs, By Component
Budget Management
2.111       The new budget law, approved by the National Assembly in December 1993, establishes
the legal framework for public finance management in Cambodia. The new public finance
management system, including management rules and procedures is now being implemented with the
help of an expatriate advisory team. A major effort is required to enshrine these methods within the
routine operation of the MEF, to install the relevant hardware and software, to operationalize these
systems and to prepare national staff in their maintenance and use.
2.112       A focused training program will be prepared annually to raise capacities within MEF,
line ministries and provincial governments to implement the new budget system. The seven (7)
advisors financed by the Project will be charged with carrying out a program to train their
counterparts and senior staff in MEF. Together with senior MEF staff members, who are on the
whole better prepared than their counterparts in line ministries and provincial offices, they will also
provide on-the-job training support to line ministries and provincial offices. Basic courses in budget
management will also be offered at the School of Finance on a regular basis and will be adapted to
requirements as they evolve.



- 41 -
2.113       Presently identified training priorities include:
(a) at all levels of Government, training in basic budget systems, including: expenditures,
revenues and their classification, objectives and uses of the classification of expenditures
and revenues, etc.
(b) at all levels of Government, training in budget preparation processes, including stages in
budget formulation and the respective roles of the MEF, the line ministries and their
provincial offices; procedures and computerized formats used in budget preparation;
(c)  for selected teams of ministerial and provincial officials, training in the principles and
procedures of budget implementation, including expenditure control, and the formats for
fiscal reporting;
(d) at all levels of Government, training in the national and international procurement of
goods and services in conformity with the budget law and the procurement code;
(e)  for selected teams of internal accountants and auditors, training in the relevant systems
and the need for timely information on commitments and disbursements, receipts, cash
balances and debt transactions.
(f) for selected staff, training in the interrelationships between budgeting and investment
planning and programming: e. g., the integration of annual current expenditures and the
three year PIP; methods of rationalizing the allocation of resources as part of the budget
preparation exercise, etc.
Treasury
2.114       The new financial management system includes a central Treasury Department organized
along the French model. As such, the Treasury receives all Government revenues and executes all
payments to Government staff, suppliers and creditors. It maintains the Government's accounts, and
is the primary focal point for monthly reporting to the Government on all financial transactions. The
Treasury Department maintains treasury units at all levels of Government.
2.115       As in the case of budget management, the Treasury Department initiated its reform in
1994, with the assistance of a team of external advisors. To ensure that the new Treasury system will
be implemented in a sustainable fashion, a focused on-the-job training program will be implemented
by the external advisors financed under the Project and MEF senior staff. Basic and complementary
training will be provided by the School of Finance. On-the-job training will emphasize the
implementation by the Treasury of the newly developed public accounting system, applied informatics
for treasury operations, management and controls of cash transactions, and reporting formats,
including flash reports by decentralized treasury units and monthly reports to be integrated into the
table of Government financial operations. As presently identified, other topics, which will be taught
in short, intensive courses are:



- 42 -
(a) role and functions of the Treasury in the public financial management system.
(b) the nature of accounting operations at the central and provincial levels and the need for
maintaining central accounts.
(c) the role and functions of the central and commercial banks and their interface with the
Treasury.
(d) nature of Government securities and the principles and procedures of the management of
debt and cash.
(e) operations of the foreign exchange market and the accounting system and regulatory
framework for foreign currency operations.
Public Investment Management
2.116       The training needs analysis and subsequent training initiatives will be spearheaded by the
Public Investment Budget unit of the MEF in close collaboration with the School of Finance. In
addition, this unit will work with the line ministries to reinforce their capacities in this area. As the
PIB unit in MEF and its correspondents in CDC and line ministries are established, staff will be
identified and training plans developed in the following areas:
(a) maintenance and trouble shooting of the computer systems developed for the PIP
preparation and monitoring; selected training in specialized software;
(b)  sectoral planning and investment programming and the reconciliation of tradeoffs among
sectors based on national priorities;
(c) investment analysis and programming methods;
(d) preparation of the annual investment budget and the three-year investment program.
(e) public investment monitoring: ensuring that projects are properly recorded, funded and
evaluated.
Macroeconomic Analysis
2.117       A program of specialized on-the-job training and short-term courses by resident and
visiting experts. This program will be tailored to the specific needs in this area and carried out over
a period of several years in order to upgrade the skills of the staff as the nature of their
responsibilities evolve.
External Debt Management
2.118       The Master Plan for the establishment of the Financial Cooperation and Public Debt unit
will cover key items such as the organization and staffing plans and the choice of a computerized debt
management system. The successful preparation and implementation of training programs in this



- 43 -
highly specialized area will be key to establishing national capacity to manage and refine the system
over the medium term. Once staff have been selected within the MEF and/or recruited from
elsewhere in the Government or outside, they will receive appropriate preparatory training as required
in order to bring them up to the level necessary to be trained in debt management concepts and
systems.
2.119      Subsequently specialized on-the-job training and short, intensive courses will be provided
in the following areas:
(a)  computerized debt recording, reporting and management system; the bidding documents
will specify in detail that the supplier of the hardware and software will be expected to
provide such training as an integral and central component of the contract. Training will
cover trouble-shooting and routine maintenance of the system as well as its technical
applications; and
(b)  technical training in the potential and applications of the system, including: (i) inventory
of outstanding debts, debt recording, intensive schooling in the related accounting and
nomenclature methods; (ii) the systematic recording, maintenance and follow-up of
international financial contracts and agreements; (iii) tracking, monitoring and repayment
of the direct and guaranteed debt; (iv) establishing a debt recording system to meet the
requirements of the annual report on debt to the World Bank. Specialized staff from the
Bank have already started to train Cambodian officials in this area and will continue to
do so; and (v) training in the technicalities and methods of international debt negotiations
within the framework of the Paris Club and bilaterally.
2.120                  During Project negotiations, agreement has been reached with the
Government that all training activities to be carried out under the Project will be carried out in
accordance with terms of reference and arrangements which are acceptable to IDA.
Summary and Cost of Proiect Support
2.121      The following will be financed under the Training component:
-  Training Coordinator: seventy-two (72) person/months
-  School building, including construction surveillance: US$830,000 equivalent
-  School equipment: (expected to be financed by other sources)
-  In-country training programs: US$600,000 equivalent
-  Scholarships abroad: two (2) scholarships/year, starting in year two; to be financed from
other donors
-  Training of trainers: US$200,000 equivalent
-  Training under specific project components: (budget is included under each component).



- 44 -
G. The Study Fund
2.122       The Credit will also include funding of additional studies for which the terms of
references can not be clearly defined at this stage, but would be formulated during Project
implementation. Activities to be financed under this component will result from recommendations
contained in master plans and other studies financed in the design phase of the technical assistance
program.
2.123       The Government would specifically agree that prior to undertaking any technical
assistance, training or studies, or acquiring any equipment to be financed under this component, it
would submit detailed proposals to the Bank for its approval. Once approved, the TORs would
receive Bank clearance prior to financing. Finally, as part of the annual project review process,
particular attention would be paid to activities undertaken under this component.
2.124       During negotiations, agreement has been reached with the Government that all studies to
be financed under the Study Fund component of the Project will be subject to eligibility and selection
criteria, and will be otherwise carried out and supervised under terms of reference and arrangements,
which are acceptable to IDA.
2.125       Limited resources will be set aside to finance studies in areas not connected to the
Project but deemed to be of primary importance to the Government rehabilitation program. Examples
of such studies include, inter alia, studies in transport sector strategy, environment assessment,
poverty assessment and household surveys, financial markets development, commerce and industry,
and the feasibility of electronic cash transfers to provinces.
2.126       The Aid Coordination Adviser recruited under the Project to assist in organizing the
CDC will recommend ways to organize and manage the Study Fund.



- 45 -
III. PROJECT MANAGEMENT AND IMPLEMENTATION
3.1         Project Management Unit. A Project Management Unit ("PMU") will be established in
the MEF and staffed satisfactorily; thereafter, throughout Project implementation, the PMU will be
maintained with satisfactory staff, resources, and overall terms of reference. The PMU will include a
limited number of staff and have a structure and mandate allowing it to act quickly and efficiently to
meet Project management needs and facilitate project implementation. Specifically:
- the PMU will operate under the authority of a Project Coordinator who will officially
communicate on the Government's behalf with IDA. The Coordinator will retain his/her
existing official responsibilities. It will therefore be necessary for him/her to delegate
responsibility for day-to-day management of the Project to an Administrator and an
Adviser;
- the Project Administrator will work full-time for the Project and be responsible for the
preparation of biannual reports which will set out in detail the concrete achievements (or
the slippages) made under the Project and compare these to projected achievements for
the period, give a calendar of actions for the next six (6) months and specify the
measures needed to fulfill it. The biannual reports will contain a description of the
financial situation of the Project (amounts disbursed and outstanding, monitoring of
counterpart and other co-financing, etc.)
- a Project Adviser will be recruited, possibly among resident advisers working under the
Project. In that capacity, the Adviser will work under the direct authority of the
Coordinator and will be specifically responsible for: (a) coordination of the work
programs of the team of consultants recruited under the Project, and (b) supervision of
training programs prepared by the team of consultants. If necessary, a Procurement
Adviser could also be recruited to assist, particularly during the Project start-up years
when the workload related to the recruitment of consultants will be particularly heavy;
- the Administrator will be assisted by a Project Accountant recruited on a full-time basis
to manage the project office and keep Project records; and
- the PMU will also recruit support personnel --secretaries, chauffeurs-- or other staff as
may be necessary for the efficient operation of the PMU.
3.2         The PMU will be provided with the financial and material resources necessary to carry
out its mandate in the most effective way. Generally speaking, the Government's contribution to the
Project will consist of financing salaries of civil servants assigned to the Project and covering
incremental operational costs. For example, the Government will provide satisfactory office space,
office furniture, and maintenance services. In addition, and as may be necessary and available, the
Government will provide other resources, such as vehicles and office supplies. The Government's
contribution will count towards the Government's minimum counterpart contribution of US$1.7
million to the Project. The credit will finance the salaries of non-civil servants recruited by the
PMU, and technical equipment such as computers. In complement to the Government's contribution,



- 46 -
the Credit could also finance vehicles, office furniture, office supplies, and limited construction works
linked to the installation of the technical equipment.
3.3        Coordination. Coordination with government agencies involved in implementation of the
Project will be the responsibility of the Project Coordinator. Within each participating ministry or
agency, one or several designated officials will be responsible for liaison with the PMU to coordinate
Project activities in that ministry or agency; they will be designated as Project Component Directors
("PCD"). The list of PCDs is provided in the table that follows.
Project Components            Implementing    |        Project Component
Agency                Directors (PCDs)
Budget Management                  MEF                 Director of Budget
Department
Treasury Management                MEF                 Director of Treasury
Department
Macroeconomic Analysis             MEF                 Head of Economic Unit
Public Investment                  MEF, Line           Director of External
Budgeting                          Ministries          Finance Department, with
Correspondents in Line
Ministries' Project Units
External Debt Management           MEF                 Director of External
Finance Department
Aid Coordination and               CDC                 CRDB Secretary
Strategic Planning for                                 General
public investment
Strategic Planning for             CDC                 CIB Secretary General
private investment
Personnel Management               Council of          Executive Secretary
Ministers (ITC)     of ITC
Legal Assistance for PSD           Council of          - CIB Secretary General
Ministers           - Head of the Council
(CJ)                   of Jurists
- Representative of MOC
Training (for public               MEF                 Director of the
finance)                                               School of Finance



- 47 -
3.4        Administrative Arrangements for Implementation. The Project Coordinator, the PCDs,
the Project Administrator, the Project Advisor, and the Training Coordinator (see para. 2.98) will
make up the Project Implementation Team. This team will meet regularly under the chairmanship of
the Project Coordinator, with the Project Administrator acting as technical secretary for the meetings.
The main purpose of these meetings will be to help: (i) focus the implementing agencies' attention on
the Project objectives; (ii) keep the implementation of Project activities on track; (iii) take corrective
measures whenever necessary; and (iv) prepare for upcoming World Bank review missions.
3.5        Training. A seminar in relevant Bank procedures and practices (including procurement),
financed from the proceeds of the Credit, will be organized in Phnom Penh as part of the Project
start-up activities. This seminar will address the needs of the PMU staff (especially the Project
Administrator and Project Accountant) and PCDs. It will focus, among other things, on Project
management objectives and techniques and on agreed methods for recruitment and periodic evaluation
of technical assistance. If needed, similar training activities could be repeated during the life of the
Project.
3.6        Project Implementation and Review. To ensure close Project monitoring by the
Government and the Bank, the Project will be carried out on the basis of the overall Project
Implementation Plan (see Annex I) and corresponding rolling annual work programs, with
benchmarks, to be reviewed and updated with the Bank by March 31 in each year, beginning in 1995.
The work program for the first year of the Project was finalized during negotiations. Similarly, a
comprehensive mid-term review of the Project will be carried out by June 1997 and the necessary
remedial measures will be implemented thereafter.
3.7        Procurement. All procurement of goods and services to be financed under the Credit
will be in accordance with Bank Guidelines. Under the Credit, procurement will cover goods, works
and consultants' services. Contracts for computer systems for the public investment and foreign debt
management components of the Project, estimated to cost US$300,000 equivalent per contract, up to
an aggregate amount estimated to cost US$600,000 equivalent, will be awarded through International
Competitive Bidding (ICB), using the Bank's standard bidding documents. A preference for domestic
manufacturers would be accorded under ICB. Contracts for equipment, materials, civil works (for
building the School of Finance), and vehicles in excess of US$50,000 equivalent per contract, but less
than US$200,000 equivalent, and up to an aggregate amount of US$900,000 equivalent, will be
awarded on the basis of local competitive bidding (LCB) in accordance with procedures acceptable to
IDA, since LCB is deemed to be the most efficient and economical way of procuring these goods and
works which, by their very nature and scope, are unlikely to attract international competition.
Contracts for equipment, materials, civil works and vehicles estimated to cost less than US$50,000
equivalent per contract, up to an aggregate amount of US$600,000 equivalent, will be awarded on the
basis of local shopping after solicitation of quotations from no fewer than three suppliers eligible
under the Bank Guidelines. The above procurement arrangements are summarized in the Table that
follows.



- 48 -
SUMMARY OF PROPOSED PROCUREMENT ARRANGEMENTS
(in US$ million equivalent)
Project Elements              Procurement Methods
ICB       LCB      Other a/   N.B.F. b/    Total
Advisers, Consultants, Studies                           13.4                    13.4
(13.4)                  (13.4)
Equipment, Materials, Vehicles     0.6        0.3        0.4                     1.3
(0.6)     (0.3)      (0.4)                   (1.3)
Civil Works                                   0.6        0.2                     0.8
(0.6)     (0.2)                   (0.8)
Training c/                                              1.5                     1.5
(1.5)                   (1.5)
Salaries & Incremental                                               1.7         1.7
Operating Costs                                                     (0.0)       (0.0)
Total                              0.6        0.9        15.5        1.7         18.7
(0.6)     (0.9)      (15.5)      (0.0)       (17.0)
A/ Includes shopping and consultancy services.
b/ Non-Bank Financed (government and cofinancing contribution).
c/ Reflects cost of logistical support to training. Other training
expenditures are included under IDA financing of consultants.
Note: Figures in parentheses are the respective amounts to be financed by IDA.
3.8        The selection of individuals and firms (where appropriate firms would be selected to
ensure cohesiveness and backstopping of services) for consultancy assignments will be in accordance
with the Bank's Guidelines for Use of Consultants (August 1981). IDA and the Government attach
high priority to mobilizing national consultants to the extent feasible. Contracts to be awarded for
consultancy assignments are expected to aggregate up to an amount not to exceed US$12,000,000
equivalent. The terms of reference of all consultancy assignments will be subject to IDA's prior
review. Given the limited amount of qualified Cambodian experts, most contracts for local
consultants are expected to be awarded through direct contracting procedures acceptable to IDA. As
far as international consultants are concerned, most contracts will be awarded on the basis of selective
lists of experts, due to the highly specialized nature of services involved and the limited number of
qualified experts available. In addition, direct contracting will be considered for the two incumbent
senior advisors at MEF, currently being financed by an IDF grant, to maintain the continuity of
technical assistance in Budget and Treasury management at MEF. The recruitment of consulting
firms -- as opposed to individuals -- will be seriously considered, especially in public investment
management and personnel management, because it may provide a more effective implementation of
the services, and also prove to be more efficient.



- 49 -
3.9        As a general matter, the knowledge and experience of the project implementation
agencies in international commercial practices and the Bank's procurement procedures is limited.
Therefore, all procurement activities under the Project will be coordinated by the PMU, which will be
assisted by qualified procurement consultants. Moreover, although standard bidding documents will
be used under the Credit, in order to ensure compliance with the Bank's procurement Guidelines, all
contracts awarded through ICB, as well as the first two contracts under LCB and local shopping
procedures will be subject to IDA's prior review. The consultancy assignments shall be coordinated
by the PMU, which will also be assisted by procurement consultants. Documentation and contracts
for consultancy assignments with consulting firms valued at or above US$100,000 equivalent, and
with consulting individuals valued at or above US$50,000 equivalent, will be subject to IDA's prior
review and approval, including all contracts for single-source selection of consulting firms and
assignments of a critical nature as determined by IDA. All other contracts will be subject to
selective subsequent review by IDA.
3.10       Disbursement. The Credit is expected to disburse over a six (6)-year period. The
Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 2000, with an Credit Closing Date of June 30,
2001. Full documentation will be required for civil works contract above US$100,000 equivalent,
equipment, materials, vehicles above US$50,000 equivalent, consulting firm contracts above
US$100,000 equivalent, and individual consultants above US$50,000 equivalent. Disbursements for
contracts below these amounts, as well as for all training expenditures will be made on the basis of
Statements of Expenditures (SOEs). The supporting documentation for SOEs will be retained at the
PMU and will be made available for review by IDA supervision missions and independent auditors
acceptable to IDA.
3.11       To facilitate payment of eligible small expenditures, a Special Account will be
established at the National Bank of Cambodia under terms and conditions satisfactory to IDA. The
Special Account will be opened in the name of the Borrower and will be administered by its
authorized representatives. Two (2) signatories will be required to effect any transaction from the
Special Account. This Account will be maintained in US dollars with an authorized allocation of
US$1 million equivalent, and would be used for all expenditures both local and foreign of less than
US$100,000 equivalent. Replenishment applications would have to be submitted on a monthly basis
or when amounts withdrawn are equal to one-third (1/3) of the authorized allocation, whichever
occurs first.
3.12       Reporting and Monitoring. The PMU will prepare an annual report summarizing
progress in all key Project areas of activity and defining a work program with monitorable outputs for
the following year. This will include, in particular, progress reports on training programs. The
PMU will also submit a Project Completion Report to the Bank not later than six (6) months after the
Closing Date of the Credit.
3.13       Summary and Cost of Project Support. The following will be financed for project
management and implementation:
-  Project adviser: seventy-two (72) persons/months
-  Office equipment, vehicles and miscellaneous: US$140,000 equivalent



- 50 -
IV. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION
A. Agreements
4.1         During negotiations, agreement has been reached between IDA and the Borrower on the
following principal understandings, in addition to the standard requirements applicable to all World
Bank (IDA) Credits:
(i)  the Project Management Unit (PMU) will be established and staffed satisfactorily;
thereafter, throughout Project implementation, the PMU will be maintained with
satisfactory staff, resources, and overall terms of reference;
(ii)  the Project will be implemented on the basis of a Project Implementation Plan (see
Annex I) and corresponding annual work programs to be reviewed and updated
annually; the annual work program for the first year of the Project was formally
adopted during negotiations;
(iii)  under the Public Sector Management component of the Project, separate action
plans, prepared on the basis of terms of reference specified in the corresponding
Project annual work program, will be carried out, not later than June 30, 1995,
for expenditure control, investment management, debt management and personnel
management, and thereafter these plans will be reviewed and updated annually;
(iv)  all of the Government's necessary counterpart personnel responsible for
implementing the Public Sector Management component of the Project will be
officially appointed well prior to the arrival of pertinent technical advisers or the
delivery of major. computerized management systems;
(v)  the Private Sector Development component of the Project will be implemented on
the basis of an action plan to be finalized during negotiations, and thereafter to be
reviewed and updated annually;
(vi)  a Legal Advisory Unit, attached to the Council of Jurists, will be officially
established, and thereafter maintained throughout Project implementation with
satisfactory membership (including a resident legal adviser) and resources;
(vii)  not later than December 31, 1995, the Government will adopt an official statement
specifying priority economic and financial laws and regulations to be enacted
during the medium term;
(viii)  all studies --notably those to be financed by Credit proceeds allocated to the Study
Fund-- and training activities financed by the Credit will be subject to satisfactory
terms of reference, and trainee selection and supervision criteria; and



- 51 -
(ix) not later than June 30, 1997, a mid-term review of the progress achieved by the
Government, in implementing the Project will be carried out, and thereafter all the
necessary remedial actions will be taken by the Government.
B. Reconunendation
4.2        With the above agreements, the proposed Technical Assistance Project is suitable for an
IDA Credit of SDR 11.6 million (US$17 million equivalent) to the Kingdom of Cambodia, at IDA's
standard terms with a 40-year maturity including 10 years of grace.



An3a I
Prject bnppemetko Plan                                                                  Pw  I of 3
Projct|                           Key Project                Target                                         Work Program
Objectves               |            Activities                 Date                               Key Deliverables                                Target Date
Public ExDendfture Control (Budaet and Trasury Manaaement)
Strthn:                               Recri:
-Budget preparation capacity          -Public Finance Adviser (SPF)        Jan 1995   Prepare annual training programs for counterpart staff                      Mar 31
-Expenditure control                  -Budget and Treasury Adviser (SBT)   Jan 1995   Prepare annual T&V programs for counterpart staff in LM and provinces       Mar 31-
-Treasury cash management             -5 Budget Technicians (BTs)         Jan-Jun 95  Finalize the institutional framework for expenditure control              Dec 31, 1996
-Treasury & Public Acc. Expert (TPA)    Mar 1995   Establish first team of financial controllers                         Dec 31, 1995
Provide:                                         Prepare annual budget review conferences                                    Sep 30-
-Office Equipment                    1995/96   Finalize system for projecting monthly revenues and expenditures          Dec 31,1995
Finallize rules and procedures for revenue collection and expenditure
operation                                                               Dec 31, 1995
Reorganize Treasury accounts in line with new budget nomenclature         Dec 31, 1995
Establish new rules for managing Treasury accounts                        Dec 31, 1996
Public Investment Manaaement
-Strengthen PIP management            PIP Unit and PIP System Developmnent
-Develop public investment budgeting  Recruit/Select:                                 Establish PIB unt, with staff appointed                                    Dec 31, 1995
L.n
-Strengthen project units in LMs      -PIB Adviser                         Mar 1995   Prepare training programs for counterpart staff                              1995/96
-Strengthen aid coordination          -PIB Organization Expert             Mar 1995   Prepare T&V programs for counterpart staff in LM                             1995/97
-Strenghen strategic planning         -Comp System Engineer (CSE)          Jun 1995   Deliver computer system and train staff to use and maintain R               Mar 1996
-Develop macro analysis capacity      -System Suppliers                    Nov 1995  CSE to monitor delivery of computer system and training                     Jan-Mar 96
Provide:                                        Deliver office equipment and fumiture                                      Apr-Dec 95
-Office Equipment                    1995/96
Proiect Units in Line Ministries
Recruit:                                         Develop procedures for project monitoring                                June 30,1996
-Project Mgmt Specialist             Jan 1996   Prepare manuals and textbooks                                             Oct 31, 1996
-Programming Specialist              Jan 1996   Conduct workshops to train staff in project monitoring                     1996/97
-Project Accountant                  Jan 1996   Deliver computer system in interface with PIB system in MEF                Mar 1996
-General Accountant/Auditor          Jan 1996   Train staff to use computer system                                         June 1996
-2 Organization Specialists
Strategic Planninc and Aid Coordination
Recruit:
-Aid Coordination Adviser            Jan 1995   Establish the study fund                                                  Jun 30, 1995
-Consultant for vision for future   Jun 1995   Prepare and implement training programs                                        ++
-Expatriate Cambodians                1995     Submit vision" study to Govemment                                         Mar 31, 1996
Provide:                                        Deliver computer system in inerface wvith PIB system in MEF                 Mar 1996
-Office equipment                    1995/96   Deliver office equipment                                                     1995/96



Annex I
Project Implementation Plan                                                           Page 2 of 3
Macroeconomic Analysis
Recruit:                                        Prepare training program in forecasting, economic analysis, etc.         Dec 31,1995
-Adviser to MEF's Economic Unit     Jan 1995   Establish a database                                                    Dec 31, 1996
Provide:                                        Develop macroeconomic model                                              Mar 31, 1997
-Office Equipment                    1995/96   Deliver office equipment                                                   1995/96
Debt Manaaement
-Develop institutional framework     Recruit/Select:                                 Develop institutional framework for debt management                        1995/96
for extemal debt management        -Institutional Expert in Debt Mgmt.  Mar 1995   Prepare action plan for extemal debt reporting                             Mar 1995
-Strengthen capacity for debt reporting  -Organization Expert (Master Plan)  Jun 1995   Prepare the master plan for new debt unit                             Oct 31, 1995
to World Bank                      -Computer System Engineer (CSE)      Dec 1995  Prepare training programs (other than comp) for debt management           Dec 31,1995
-System Suppliers                   Jun 1996   Fully implement new organizational and staffing plan of Debt uni         Dec 31,1996
Provide:                                        Delilver computer system and train staff to use and maintain it          Jun 30, 1997
-Office equipment                              CSE to monitor delivery of computer system and training                    1996/97
Deliver office equipment                                                   1995/97
Personnel Manaaement
-Assist in administrative reform     Recruit:                                        Conduct PE audits to determine redundant employees
-Develop strategy for reducing the   -Consulting firm                     Apr 1995  Collect data on household income and expenditures                         Dec 31, 1995     k'
size of the civil service and PE   -PE Adviser                          Jan 1995   Proprose a new civil service renumeration policy                         Jun 30, 1996
sector                                                                             Submit departure scheme proposals to Govemment                           Dec 31,1996
Study the cost of departure schemes                                     Dec 31, 1996
Study new pension plan and social security systems                       Jun 30,1997
Leaal Assistance for PSD
-Develop certain key eements of      Recruit:                                        Establish a legal reform unit in Council of Jurists                      Jun 30,1995
enabling legal environment for PSD  -Legal Adviser to CJ                           Adopt official statement on priority economic and financial laws         Dec 31,1995
-Strengthen capacity for legal        -Legal Adviser to ITC                          Carry out legal diagnostic study                                         Dec 31, 1995
drafting and training               -Legal experts for diagnostic study and        Carry out legal training needs assessment                                Jun 30, 1996
training needs assessment (CJ/MoJ/MoC)      Prepareicarry out time-based master plan for legal drafting and training  Dec 31,1996
-Legal experts for legal drafting and          Prepare and carry out action plan to re-establish Official Joumal        Dec 31, 1995
training master plan (CJ/MoJ)               Prepare and carry out action plan to establish system for codifying
-Legal specialists for Offcial Joumal            judicial decisions                                                    Dec 31. 1996
and jurisprudence (COM/MoJ)                  Formulate action plan for developing a body of jurisprudence             Jun 30,1997
-Inatitutional Sp t (CJ)                       Deiver offe, computer, and printing equiment and train staff
Prvide:                                          to ur and maktan It                                                       19958
l  Officke m  pUn    0 mW_t



Annex I
Project Implementation Plan                                                           Paae 3 of 3
Trainina for Public Finance Management
-Provide a suitable venue and        Recrud                                          Finalize study and plan for training facility building                     Jan 1995
environment for training           -Training Coordinator                Sep 1995  Complete construction of training facility                                 Jan 1996
Build:                                          Prepare courses for staff to be trained at the facility
-Training facility                    1995     Monitor training activities of Project consultants
Study Fund
-Finance pniority studies/activities  Recruit:                                       Aid Coordinator to prepare rules for study fund management               Jun 30,1995
not clearly identified at appraisal or  -Aid Coordinator Adviser in CDC  Jan 1995   Prepare TORs for studies/activities to be financed by Fund                  +
in areas not covered under Project                                                Ensure best possible use of studies
Proiect Management Unit
Appointrecruit:                                 Establish Special Account at NBC                                           Jan 1995
-Project Coordinator                Oct 1994   Hold regular meetings of Project Implementation Team
-Project Administrator              Nov 1994  Organize first seminar for PMU staff and PC Ds                              Mar 31
-'Project Accountant                Nov 1994  Hold annual rreviews of Project with World Bank                             Mar 31^
-Project Adviser                    Nov 1994  Hold mid-term review of Project with World Bank                           Jun 30,1997
-Support Staff                      Jan 1995   Update annual work programs and prepare annual progress reports            Dec 31^
Provide:                                        Send annual Project audits to the Bank                                        '            n
-Office equipment and fumiture      Jun 1995   Submit Project Completion Reports to the Bank                                ...
_  -Vehicles                             +       Submit plan for future operation of the Project                              .
Notes:
The Target Date is the dat by wtdc the acton should take pace
* Yly occtreno
ReguqWy den    as needed
Not lr than 6 mwh ar te closing Dae of the Crew
+ When needd
++ Pemm



Annex IIA
- 55 -
SUMMARY OF PROJECT COSTS
(in US$ thousands)
Total                 %
I. PUBLIC SECTOR MANAGEMENT                                        10,260.5                54.9
A. Public Expenditure Control                               3,472.7                 18.6
1. Budget Management                                     2,901.7                15.5
2. Treasury Management                                     571.0                 3.1
B. Public Investment Management                             4,467.4                 23.9
1. System Development                                      525.0                  2.8
2. Support to MEF's PIB Unit                               611.3                  3.3
3. Support to MEF's Economic Unit                          642.0                  3.4
4. Support to Line Ministries                             1,398.1                 7.5
5. Support to CDC                                         1,291.0                 6.9
C. Foreign Debt Management                                    790.0                  4.2
D. Personnel Management                                     1,530.4                  8.2
II.  LEGAL ASSISTANCE FOR PSD                                       1,508.8                 8.1
III. TRAINING                                                      2,696.8                 14.4
IV. THE STUDY FUND                                                  1,200.0                 6.4
V.  PROJECT MANAGEMENT AND IMPLEMENTATION                           1,333.9                 7.1
VI. SALARIES AND INCREMENTAL OPERATING COSTS                        1,700.0                 9.1
TOTAL PROJECT COSTS                                           18,700.0               100.0



Annex IIB
SUMMARY OF PROJECT COSTS BY COMPONENT
AND BY TYPE OF EXPENDITURE
(in US$ thousands)
Computers
International International        Equipment
Resident   Short-term   National  Furniture                    Civil            Total
Component                                 Consultants  Consultants Consultants  Vehicles Training a  Studies Works  Other    Costs
I.  PUBLIC SECTOR MANAGEMENT                      4,589.0     3,000.0     1,080.0   1,066.5    525.0                           10,260.5
A. Public Expenditure Control                  2,034.7      250.0       648.0     140.0    400.0                             3,472.7
B. Public Investment Management                2,173.9     1,150.0      432.0     601.5     110.0                            4,467.4
C. Foreign Debt Management                                  450.0                 325.0      15.0                             790.0
D. Personnel Management                          380.4     1,150.0                                                           1,530.4      l
II. LEGAL ASSISTANCE FOR PSD                        383.8       850.0                150.0      125.0                           1,508.8
III. TRAINING                                      1,025.0       41.0                          840.8           790.0            2,696.8
IV. THE STUDY FUND                                                                                    1,200.0                   1,200.0
V. PROJECT MGMNT AND IMPLEMENTATION               1,197.9                            136.0                                      1,333.9
VI. SALARIES AND INC. OPERATING COSTS                                                                                 1,700.0   1,700.0
TOTAL PROJECT COSTS                            7,195.7    3,891.0     1,080.0   1,352.5   1,490.8  1,200.0  790.0  1,700.0  18,700.0
a/ Reflects cost of logistical support to training. Other training expenditures are included under IDA financing of consultants.



- 57 -
ANNEX III
MAIN JOB DESCRIPTIONS
During Project appraisal, terms of reference for the following consultancy positions were prepared.
They are available in the Project file.
Public Finance (Expenditure Control)
* Senior Public Finance Adviser
* Senior Budget and Treasury Adviser
Public Investment Management
* Design of the master plan of the NPIMS
* Public Investment Budgeting Adviser
* Organizational Expert in Public Investment Management
* Computer System Engineer
- Public Investment Programming
- Project Manager Specialist
- Programming and Budgeting Specialist
- Project Accountant
- General Accountant/Auditor
- Organizational Specialists
Foreign Debt Management
* Institutional Expert in Debt Management
* Organizational Expert in Debt Management
* Computer System Engineer
* System Supplier
Personnel Management (Civil Service Reform)
* Technical Advisers on Civil Service Reforn
Legal Assistance To PSD
* Senior Resident Legal Adviser (Council of Jurists)
* Senior Resident Legal Adviser (Interministerial Committee)
* Short-term Legal Adviser (Diagnostic study)
* Short-term Legal Adviser (Legal training needs assessment)
* Legal Adviser (Official Journal)
* Legal Adviser (Codification of legal decisions)
Training
* Training Coordinator



