Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 2664 KH
(Technical Assistance Project)
between
KINGDOM OF CAMBODIA
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated December 16, 1994
CREDIT NUMBER 2664 KH
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated December 16, 1994, between KINGDOM OF CAMBODIA (the "Borrower") 
and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the "Association").
WHEREAS: (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and 
priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested the 
Association to assist in the financing of the Project; and
WHEREAS: (B) The Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the 
foregoing, to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set 
forth in this Agreement.
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit 
Agreements" of the Association, dated January 1, 1985, with the last sentence of 
Section 3.02 deleted (the "General Conditions") constitute an integral part of this 
Agreement.
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
Page  2
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings:
(a)
"CDC" means the Council for the Development of Cambodia, established 
pursuant to the Borrower's Law on Investment of the Kingdom of Cambodia, as 
promulgated on August 5, 1994;
(b)
"CJ" means the Borrower's Council of Jurists, established pursuant to the 
Borrower's Prime Ministerial Sub- Decree No. 13, dated March 10, 1994;
(c)
"COM" means the Borrower's Council of Ministers, established pursuant to 
the Borrower's Decree dated November 1, 1993;
(d)
"Fiscal Year" means the twelve (12)-month period corresponding to any of 
the Borrower's fiscal years, which period commences on January 1 and ends on December 
31 in each
calendar year;
(e)
"ITC" means the Borrower's Inter-ministerial Technical Committee on 
Administrative Reform, established pursuant to the Borrower's Prime Ministerial 
Sub-Decree No. 23, dated May 9,
1994;
(f)
"LRU" means the Legal Reform Unit to be established by the Borrower 
within the CJ, pursuant to the provisions of Section 3.05 (a) of this Agreement;
(g)
"MEF" means the Borrower's Ministry of Economy and Finance;
 
(h)
"MOC" means the Borrower's Ministry of Commerce;
 
(i)
"MOJ" means the Borrower's Ministry of Justice;
 
(j)
"NBC" means the National Bank of Cambodia, the Borrower's central bank;
 
(k)
"PMU" means the Project Management Unit established by the Borrower 
within the MEF, pursuant to the MEF's Decision No. 289 (Prakas), dated November 28, 
1994;
(l)
"Project Agencies" means, collectively, the Borrower's ministries and 
other governmental departments and agencies charged with assisting the MEF in carrying 
out the Project,
which Project Agencies are referred to in the Annex to Schedule 2 to this Agreement;
(m)
"Project Implementation Plan" means the Borrower's Plan for implementing 
the Project, which Plan is referred to in Section 3.01 (b) of, and set forth in 
Schedule 5 to, this Agreement; and
(n)
"Special Account" means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of 
this Agreement.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Development Credit Agreement, an amount in 
various currencies equivalent to eleven million six hundred thousand Special Drawing 
Rights (SDR 11,600,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the Credit 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for 
expenditures made (or, if the
Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and 
services required for the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement and to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit.
(b)
The Borrower may, for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain in 
dollars a special deposit account in NBC on terms and conditions satisfactory to the 
Association, including
appropriate protection against set-off, seizure or attachment. Deposits into, and 
payments out of, the Special Account shall be made in accordance with the provisions 
of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
Page  3
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 2001, or such later date as the 
Association shall establish. The Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of 
such later date.
Section 2.04. (a)  The Borrower shall pay to the Association a commitment charge 
on the principal amount of the Credit not withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be 
set by the Association as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of 
one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum.
(b)
The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date sixty (60) days 
after the date of this Agreement (the "Accrual Date") to the respective dates on which 
amounts shall be withdrawn by the Borrower from the Credit Account or cancelled; and 
(ii) at the rate set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the Accrual Date, or at 
such other rates as may be set from time to time thereafter pursuant to paragraph (a) 
above. The rate set as of June 30 in each year shall be applied from the next payment 
date in that year specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
(c)
The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as the 
Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of any kind imposed 
by, or in the territory of, the Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this 
Agreement for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions, or in such other 
eligible currency or currencies as may from time to time be designated or selected 
pursuant to the provisions of that Section.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge at the 
rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of 
the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be payable 
semiannually on May 1 and November in each year.
Section 2.07. (a) Subject to paragraphs (b) and (c) below, the Borrower shall 
repay the principal amount of the Credit in semi-annual installments payable on each 
May 1 and November 1 
commencing May 1, 2005 and ending November 1, 2034. Each installment to and including 
the installment payable on November 1, 2014 shall be one percent (1%) of such 
principal amount, and each installment thereafter shall be two percent (2%) of such 
principal amount.
(b)
Whenever (i) the Borrower's gross national product per capita, as 
determined by the Association, shall have exceeded seven hundred ninety dollars ($790) 
in constant 1985 dollars for five (5) consecutive years and (ii) the Bank shall 
consider the Borrower creditworthy for Bank lending, the Association may, subsequent 
to the review and approval thereof by the Executive Directors of the Association and 
after due consideration by them of the development of the Borrower's economy, modify 
the terms of repayment of installments under paragraph (a) above by requiring the 
Borrower to repay twice the amount of each such installment not yet due until the
principal amount of the Credit shall have been repaid. If so requested by the 
Borrower, the Association may revise such modification to include, in lieu of some or 
all of the increase in the amounts of such installments, the payment of interest at an 
annual rate agreed with the Association on the principal amount of the Credit 
withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, provided that, in the judgment of the 
Association, such revision shall not change the grant element obtained under the 
above-mentioned repayment modification.
(c)
If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant to paragraph (b) 
above, the Association determines that the Borrower's economic condition has 
deteriorated significantly, the Association may, if so requested by the Borrower, 
further modify the terms of repayment to conform to the schedule of installments as 
provided in paragraph (a) above.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is hereby specified 
for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry 
out the Project through the MEF and the Project Agencies with due diligence and 
Page  4
efficiency and in conformity with appropriate administrative, economic, financial, 
managerial, public service and technical practices, and shall provide, promptly as 
needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources required for the Project.
(b)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section, 
and except as the Borrower and the Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower 
shall carry out the Project
in accordance with the Project Implementation Plan set forth in Schedule 5 to this 
Agreement.
Section 3.02. Without limitation upon the provisions of Article IX of the 
General Conditions, the Borrower shall:
(a)
prepare and furnish to the Association, not later than six (6) months 
after the Closing Date, or such later date as may be agreed for this purpose between 
the Borrower and the
Association, a plan, of such scope and in such detail as the Association shall 
reasonably request, for the future operation of the Project;
(b)
afford the Association a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with 
the Borrower on said plan; and
(c)
thereafter, carry out said plan with due diligence and efficiency and in 
accordance with appropriate practices, taking into account the Association's comments 
thereon.
Section 3.03. (a) The Borrower shall, until completion of the Project, at all 
times: (i) maintain the PMU in the MEF with the necessary staffing, functions and 
resources; (ii) ensure that the PMU is headed by a qualified Project Coordinator 
acceptable to the Association, and is staffed by qualified personnel in adequate 
numbers; and (iii) promptly provide all funds, facilities, services and other 
resources required to enable the PMU to duly carry out all its functions and
responsibilities.
(b)
The PMU shall be responsible primarily for the general oversight and 
overall management, administration and coordination of the day-to-day implementation 
of the Project,
including, inter alia, the procurement of all goods, works and services required 
therefor.
(c)
The Borrower shall cause the PMU to prepare, in accordance with 
guidelines acceptable to the Association, and furnish to the Association for review 
not later than June 30 and December 31 in each Fiscal Year a semi-annual report on the 
progress achieved by the Borrower in carrying out the Project and all financial 
expenditures incurred in connection therewith.
Section 3.04. For the purposes of carrying out Part A.1 of the Project, the 
Borrower shall: (a) appoint all of its required counterpart personnel, with terms of 
reference and resources satisfactory to the Association, well prior to the arrival of 
the necessary consultants or the delivery of the requisite computerized management 
systems; and (b) ensure that each Project Agency carries out its respective action 
plan based on the corresponding annual work program under the
Project Implementation Plan, and, thereafter, shall revise and update such plans in 
consultation with the Association not later than March 31 in each Fiscal year, 
beginning with the Fiscal Year ending December 31, 1995.
Section 3.05. For the purposes of carrying out Part B of the Project, the 
Borrower shall: (a) not later than June 30, 1995, establish within the CJ, and 
thereafter maintain until completion of the Project, a legal reform unit (the "LRU") 
with terms of reference and resources satisfactory to the Association, to be headed at 
all times by a resident legal advisor possessing the necessary qualifications and 
experience, and who shall be assisted by competent staff in adequate numbers 
possessing appropriate legal skills; and (b) not later than December 31, 1995, 
formally adopt an official statement on the priority economic and financial laws and 
regulations to be enacted during the period 1995-1998 for the further development of 
its market-based economy and private sector activities.
Section 3.06. In respect of all studies and training programs to be carried out 
under Part C of the Project, the Borrower shall furnish to the Association for prior 
approval: (a) the terms of reference for carrying out, financing and monitoring said 
studies; and (b) the terms of reference of said training programs, as well as the 
schedule for their implementation and the criteria for selecting the trainees and 
Page  5
supervising their training.
Section 3.07. Without any restriction or limitation upon any of the provisions 
of the General conditions or of this Agreement: (a) not later than June 30, 1997, the 
Borrower shall
conduct, on the basis of terms of reference acceptable to the Association, a 
comprehensive mid-term review of the progress achieved to date by the Borrower in 
implementing the Project; and (b) promptly thereafter, taking into account the 
Association's recommendations pursuant to such review, the Borrower shall carry out 
the Project with due diligence and efficiency and shall take all remedial measures 
needed to achieve the objectives thereof.
Section 3.08. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, procurement of 
the goods, works and consultants' services required for the Project, and to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, shall be governed by the provisions of 
Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained records 
and separate accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting 
practices the operations, resources and expenditures in respect of the Project of the 
departments or agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying out the Project, or 
any part thereof.
(b)
The Borrower shall:
 
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section, including those for the Special Account, for each Fiscal 
Year audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing principles 
consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the 
Association;
(ii)
furnish to the Association, as soon as available, but in any case 
not later than six (6) months after the end of each such year, a 
certified copy of the report of such audit by said auditors, of 
such scope and in such detail as the Association shall have 
reasonably requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Association such other information concerning said 
records, accounts and the audit thereof as the Association shall 
from time to time reasonably request.
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Credit 
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall:
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with paragraph 
(a) of this Section, records and separate accounts reflecting such 
expenditures;
(ii)
retain, until at least one (1) year after the Association has 
received the audit report for the Fiscal Year in which the last 
withdrawal from the Credit Account or payment out of the Special 
Account was made, all records (contracts, orders, invoices, bills, 
receipts and other documents) evidencing such expenditures;
(iii)
enable the Association's representatives to examine such records; 
and 
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual 
audit referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the 
report of such audit contains a separate opinion by said auditors 
as to whether the statements of expenditure submitted during such 
Fiscal Year, together with the procedures and internal controls 
involved in their preparation, can be relied upon to support the 
related withdrawals.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination
Page  6
Section 5.01. The date one hundred twenty (120) days after the date of this 
Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General 
Conditions.
Section 5.02. The obligations of the Borrower under Articles III and IV of this 
Agreement shall cease on the date on which this Agreement shall terminate or on the 
date twenty (20) years
after the date of this Agreement, whichever shall be the earlier.
ARTICLE VI
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 6.01. The Minister of Economy and Finance of the Borrower is designated 
as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General 
Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Minister of Economy and Finance
Ministry of Economy and Finance
92nd Street
Phnom Penh
Kingdom of Cambodia
Telex:
(583) 17770101 CMPP
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
 
INDEVAS
248423 (RCA),
Washington, D.C.
 82987 (FTCC),
 64145 (WUI) or
197688 (TRT).
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
Phnom Penh,
Kingdom of Cambodia, as of the day and year first above written.
KINGDOM OF CAMBODIA
By /s/ Keat Chhon
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ Arnaud Guinard
Authorized Representative
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
Page  7
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the amounts of the Credit to each Category 
and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
                                 Amount of the
                                    Credit              % of
                                   Allocated        Expenditures
                                 (Expressed in          to be
          Category              SDR Equivalent)       Financed
(1) Civil works under               522,000         90%
    Part A (2) of the
    Project
(2) Goods                           847,000         100% of foreign
                                                    expenditures,
                                                    100% of local
                                                    expenditures
                                                    (ex-factory
                                                    cost) and 90%
                                                    of local
                                                    expenditures for
                                                    other items
                                                    procured locally
(3) Consultants'                 7,953,000          100%
    services
(4) Training                       978,000          100%
(5) Studies                        782,000          100%
(6) Unallocated                    518,000
    TOTAL                       11,600,000
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
 
(a)
The term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of any 
country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of any country
other than that of the Borrower; and
(b)
The term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of the 
Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower.
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement.
4.
The Association may require withdrawals from the Credit Account to be made on 
the basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures under contracts for: (a) works 
not exceeding the equivalent of one hundred thousand dollars ($100,000); (b) goods not 
exceeding the equivalent of fifty thousand dollars ($50,000); (c) consulting firms not 
exceeding the equivalent of one hundred thousand dollars ($100,000); (d) individual 
consultants not exceeding the equivalent of fifty thousand dollars ($50,000); and (e) 
all training costs; all under such terms and conditions as the Association shall 
specify by notice to the Borrower.
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objective of the Project is to assist the Borrower in formulating and 
implementing institutional reforms for: (i) improving the management of its public 
sector finances; and (ii) establishing an enabling environment for private sector 
development.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Borrower and the Association may agree upon from time to time to 
achieve such objectives:
Page  8
Part A:
Public Sector Management
 
1.
Provision of technical assistance to aid the Borrower implement its public 
sector management reform program by:
(a)
Strengthening the Borrower's institutional capacity for controlling its 
public expenditures by: (i) developing the necessary capabilities for macroeconomic 
analysis and preparation of national and provincial annual budgets; (ii) integrating 
budget management procedures into an annual planning-programming-budgeting cycle; 
(iii) improving the systems for budget implementation, control and supervision; (iv) 
developing a system for the supervision of treasury operations and preparation of 
monthly financial statements; (v) establishing a system for projecting monthly 
treasury revenues and expenditures; (vi) formulating administrative and accounting 
rules and procedures for revenue collection and expenditure operations; (vii) 
developing a legal and regulatory framework for public accounting; (viii) improving 
the centralization of accounting operations at the provincial level; and (ix) 
establishing an accounting system for  foreign currency operations.
(b)
Strengthening the Borrower's institutional capacity for planning, 
programming and managing its public investments by: (i) establishing a public 
investment budgeting unit in the MEF;
(ii) developing a computerized public investment management system in said unit; (iii) 
formulating procedures and regulations for public investment management and project 
monitoring; (iv) enhancing the strategic capacity of the CDC; and (v) developing the 
macro-economic analysis capability of the MEF.
(c)
Strengthening the Borrower's institutional capacity for managing its 
foreign debt by: (i) developing the necessary institutional and legal framework, and 
related procedural and organizational arrangements, for external debt management and 
reporting; and (ii) establishing a public debt management unit in the MEF.
(d)
Strengthening the Borrower's institutional capacity for civil service 
management reform by designing alternative strategies and formulating related options 
for remodelling the
Borrower's civil service, and increasing its efficiency as well as that of its public 
sector enterprises.
2.
Constructing and equipping a training center and related facilities, to be 
attached to the MEF, with a capacity for training, recycling and upgrading the skills 
of about six hundred (600) trainees annually in public finance management. 
3.
Provision of computer hardware and software, vehicles and office automation 
equipment, materials and databases, in respect of the activities referred to in 
paragraph 1 hereinabove.
Part B:
Legal Technical Assistance for Private Sector Development.
 
1.
Carrying out a legal diagnostic study to determine: (a) the process and status 
of development to date of the Borrower's economic and financial laws and regulations; 
and (b) the degree of compatibility of the various economic and financial laws and 
regulations currently in force within the Borrower's territory.
2.
Conducting a legal training needs assessment to determine the Borrower's 
priority legal training needs and recommend the appropriate programs necessary to meet 
such needs.
3.
Based on the findings and recommendations of the study and assessment referred 
to in Paragraphs 1 and 2 hereinabove, and the Borrower's official statement of 
priority economic and
financial laws referred to in Section 3.05 (b) of this Agreement, preparing and 
carrying out a time-based master plan for: (a) the drafting and revision of priority 
economic and financial laws and regulations; and (b) the preparation and offering of 
legal training workshops for judges, lawyers, civil servants and other professionals 
of the Borrower.
4.
Establishing an automated system for publishing on a regular basis: (a) the 
Borrower's Official Journal in the Khmer, French and English languages; (b) the 
decisions of the Borrower's higher courts and related jurisprudence and doctrinal 
writings; and (c) a trademark gazette by the MOC.
5.
Provision of computer hardware and software, and office automation equipment, 
Page  9
materials and databases, in respect of the activities referred to in paragraphs 1, 2, 
3, and 4 hereinabove.
Part C:
Training, Studies and Institutional Strengthening.
 
1.
Carrying out of training programs (both locally and abroad) and workshops in 
respect of the activities referred to in Parts A and B hereinabove.
2.
Provision of legal advisory services to the CJ, COM, MOC, MOJ and LRU.
 
3.
Carrying out of: (i) a study on the development of the Borrower's financial 
markets; and (ii) selected sector policy studies in respect of the following sectors 
of the Borrower's economy, inter alia: agriculture, commerce, education, energy, 
environment, health, industry, statistics and feasibility of electronic cash transfers 
to provinces.
4.
Provision of technical assistance and training to the PMU in carrying out its 
Project management, coordination, implementation, supervision and procurement 
responsibilities.
5.
Provision of equipment and materials, including computer hardware and software 
and office and training equipment, in respect of the activities referred to in 
paragraphs 1, 2, 3 and 4 hereinabove.
*  *  *  *  *  *
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 2000.
ANNEX TO SCHEDULE 2
The following governmental departments and agencies of the Borrower shall be 
responsible for assisting the MEF in carrying out the Project.
    Part of the Project                        Department/Agency
    Part A (1) (a)                                   MEF
    Part A (1) (b)                                   MEF/CDC
    Part A (1) (c)                                   MEF
    Part A (1) (d)                                   COM/ITC
    Part A (2)                                       MEF
    Part A (3)                                       PMU
    Part B (1)                                       CDC/CJ/MOC/MOJ
    Part B (2)                                       CDC/CJ/COM/MOJ
    Part B (3)                                       COM/CJ/MOJ
    Part B (4)                                       COM/MOC/MOJ
    Part B (5)                                       PMU
    Part C (1)                                       PMU
    Part C (2)                                       CJ/COM/MOC/MOJ
    Part C (3)                                       MEF
    Part C (4)                                       PMU
    Part C (5)                                       PMU
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I.
Procurement of Goods and Works
Page  10
Part A:
International Competitive Bidding
 
1.
Except as provided in Part C hereof, goods shall be procured under contracts 
awarded in accordance with procedures consistent with those set forth in Sections I 
and II of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published 
by the Bank in May 1992 (the  "Guidelines"), and in accordance with the following 
additional procedures:
(a)
When contract award is delayed beyond the original bid validity period, 
such period may be extended once, subject to and in accordance with the provisions of 
Paragraph 2.59 of the
Guidelines, by the minimum amount of time required to complete the evaluation, obtain 
necessary approvals and clearances and award the contract. The bid validity period may 
be extended a second time only if the bidding documents or the request for extension 
shall provide for appropriate adjustment of bid price to reflect changes in the cost 
of inputs for the contract over the period of extension. Such an increase in the bid 
price shall not be taken into account in the bid evaluation. With respect to each 
contract made subject to the Association's prior review in accordance with the 
provisions of Part D.1. of this Section, the Association's prior approval will be 
required for: (i) a first extension of the bid validity period, if the period of 
extension exceeds sixty (60) days, and (ii) any subsequent extension of the bid 
validity period.
(b)
In the procurement of goods in accordance with this Part A, the Borrower 
shall use the relevant standard bidding documents issued by the Bank, with such 
modifications thereto as the Association shall have agreed to be necessary for the 
purposes of the Project. Where no relevant standard bidding documents have been issued 
by the Bank, the Borrower shall use bidding documents based on other internationally 
recognized standard forms agreed with the Association.
Part B:
Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
 
1.
In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures described in Part 
A.1. hereof, goods manufactured in the territory of the Borrower may be granted a 
margin of preference in accordance with, and subject to, the provisions of paragraphs 
2.55 and 2.56 of the Guidelines and paragraphs 1 through 4 of Appendix 2 thereto.
Part C:
Other Procurement Procedures
 
1.
Local Competitive Bidding. Contracts for goods (including vehicles) and works 
estimated to cost the equivalent of less than two hundred thousand dollars ($200,000) 
but more than fifty thousand dollars ($50,000) per contract, up to an aggregate amount 
equivalent to nine hundred thousand dollars ($900,000), may be procured under 
contracts awarded on the basis of competitive bidding, advertised locally, in 
accordance with procedures satisfactory to the Association.
2.
Shopping. Contracts for goods (including vehicles) and works estimated to cost 
the equivalent of fifty thousand dollars ($50,000) or less per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount equivalent to six hundred thousand dollars ($600,000), may be awarded 
on the basis of comparison of price quotations obtained from at least three (3) 
suppliers eligible under the Guidelines, in accordance with procedures acceptable to 
the Association.
Part D:
Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
 
1.
Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final contracts:
 
(a)
With respect to each contract to be procured pursuant to the provisions 
of Part A.1 hereof and with respect to the first two (2) contracts to be procured 
pursuant to the provisions of
Parts C.1 and C.2 hereof, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 4 of Appendix 1 
to the Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for such contract are to be made out of 
the Special Account, such procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two 
conformed copies of the contract required to be furnished to the Association pursuant 
to said paragraph 2 (d) shall be furnished to the Association prior to the making of 
the first payment out of the Special Account in respect of such
contract.
(b)
With respect to each contract not governed by the preceding paragraph, 
the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall 
apply. Where payments for such contract are to be made out of the Special Account, 
Page  11
such procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed copies of the 
contract together with the other information required to be furnished to the 
Association pursuant to said paragraph 3 shall be furnished to the Association as part 
of the evidence to be furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of Schedule 4 to this 
Agreement.
(c)
The provisions of the preceding subparagraph (b) shall not apply to 
contracts on account of which withdrawals from the Credit Account are to be made on 
the basis of statements of
expenditure.
2.
The figure of fifteen percent (15%) is hereby specified for purposes of 
paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.
Section II.
Employment of Consultants
 
1.
In order to assist the Borrower in carrying out the Project, the Borrower shall 
employ consultants whose qualifications, experience and terms and conditions of 
employment shall be
satisfactory to the Association. Such consultants shall be selected in accordance with 
principles and procedures satisfactory to the Association on the basis of the 
"Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by The World Bank 
as Executing Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981 (the "Consultant 
Guidelines").
2.
For complex, time-based assignments, the Borrower shall employ such consultants 
under contracts using the standard form of contract for consultants' services issued 
by the Bank, with
such modifications as shall have been agreed by the Association. Where no relevant 
standard contract documents have been issued by the Bank, the Borrower shall use other 
standard forms agreed with the Association.
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Section, the provisions of 
the Consultant Guidelines requiring prior Association review or approval of budgets, 
short lists,
selection procedures, letters of invitation, proposals, evaluation reports and 
contracts shall not apply to: (a) contracts for the employment of consulting firms 
estimated to cost less than the equivalent of one hundred thousand dollars ($100,000) 
each; or (b) contracts for the employment of
consulting individuals estimated to cost less than the equivalent of fifty thousand 
dollars ($50,000) each. However, this exception to prior Association review shall not 
apply to: (i) the terms of reference for such contracts; (ii) single source selection 
of firms; (iii) assignments of a critical nature as reasonably determined by the 
Association; (iv) amendments to contracts for consulting firms raising the contract 
value to the equivalent of one hundred thousand dollars ($100,000) or more; or (v) 
amendments to contracts for the employment of consulting individuals raising the 
contract value to the equivalent of fifty thousand dollars ($50,000) or more.
SCHEDULE 4
Special Account
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
 
(a)
The term "Eligible Categories" means Categories (1), (2), (3), (4) and 
(5) set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(b)
The term "Eligible Expenditures" means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project, and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Credit, allocated from time to time to the Eligible Categories 
in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
(c)
The term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equivalent to one 
million dollars ($1,000,000) to be withdrawn from the Credit Account and deposited 
into the Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule; provided, 
however, that, unless the Association shall otherwise agree, the Authorized Allocation 
shall be limited to an amount equivalent to three hundred thousand dollars ($300,000) 
until the aggregate amount of withdrawals from the Credit Account, plus the total 
amount of all outstanding special commitments entered by the bank pursuant to Section 
5.02 of the General Conditions shall be equal to or exceed the equivalent of five 
million dollars ($5,000,000).
Page  12
2.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for Eligible 
Expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.
After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special 
Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Association a request or requests for a deposit into the Special Account of an 
amount or amounts
determined by the Association to be required to pay for Eligible Expenditures during 
the four (4) months following the date of each such request, which amount shall not 
exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such request 
or requests, the Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the 
Credit Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount or amounts as the 
Association shall have determined to be so required.
(b)
(i)
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the Association requests for deposits into the Special 
Account at such intervals as the Association shall specify.
(ii)
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the Association the documents and other evidence 
required pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment 
or payments in respect of which replenishment is requested. On the 
basis of each such request, the Association shall, on behalf of 
the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit into 
the Special Account such amount as the Borrower shall have 
requested and as shall have been shown by said documents and other 
evidence to have been paid out of the Special Account for Eligible 
Expenditures.
All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Association from the Credit Account under 
the respective Eligible Categories, and in the respective equivalent amounts, as shall 
have been
justified by said documents and other evidence.
4.
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the Borrower 
shall, at such time as the Association shall reasonably request, furnish to the 
Association such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made 
exclusively for Eligible Expenditures.
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Association 
shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account:
(a)
If, at any time, the Association shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Credit Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph 
(a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement;
(b)
If the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Association, within 
the period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of the 
audit reports required to be furnished to the Association pursuant to said Section in 
respect of the audit of the records and accounts for the Special Account;
(c)
If, at any time, the Association shall have notified the Borrower of its 
intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals 
from the Credit Account pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the General 
Conditions; or
(d)
Once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the eligible 
Categories, less the amount of any outstanding special commitment entered into by the 
Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to the 
Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of 
the Credit allocated to the Eligible Categories shall follow such procedures as the 
Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be 
made only after and to the extent that the Association shall have been satisfied that 
all such amounts remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such 
notice will be utilized in making payments for Eligible Expenditures.
Page  13
6.
(a)
If the Association shall have determined, at any time, that any payment 
out of the Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not 
eligible pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the 
evidence furnished to the Association, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from 
the Association: (A) provide such additional evidence as the Association may request; 
or (B) deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Association shall
so request, refund to the Association) an amount equal to the amount of such payment 
or the portion thereof not so eligible or justified.  Unless the Association shall 
otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Association into the Special Account shall 
be made until the Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, 
as the case may be.
(b)
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any amount 
outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for 
Eligible Expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, 
refund to the Association such outstanding amount.
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund to the 
Association all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.
(d)
Refunds to the Association made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) 
of this Schedule shall be credited to the Credit Account for subsequent withdrawal or 
for cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, 
including the General Conditions.
SCHEDULE 5
Project Implementation Plan
PLEASE SEE ORIGINAL FOR IMPLEMENTAION PLAN
