Documeat of
The World Bank
FOR OMCAL USE ONLY
Report No. 12400
PROJECT COMPLETION WV ORT
ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
EL DIKFHILA PORT PROJECT
(LOAN 2183-EGT)
OCTOBER 13, 1993
MICROGRAPHICS
Report No:        12400
Type: PCR
Infrastructure Operations Division
Country Department II
Middle East and North Africa Region
Th doeument bas a restricted distribution and may be ued by reipiets only in te perfonmns  of
thdr offiCial duis. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosd witout World Bank authoriation.



ABBREVIATIONS
APA  Alexandria Port Authority
dwt   Deadweight tonnage
ER    Egyptian Railways
GWE   General Warehouse of Egypt
IMC   Organization for Industrial
and Mining Complexes
NTS   National Transport Study
TPS   Transport Planning Authority
UASC United Arab Stevedoring Company
Currency Equivalents
Official Foreian Exchange Rate
1 Egyptian Pound (LE)   - US $1.43
1 US Dollar ($)        x  LE  0.84
Rate for Commercial Bank Transactions
I Egyptian Pound (LE)   - US $1.20
1 US Dollar ($)         - LE  0.84
Fiscal Year
July 1 to June 30



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
THE WORL BANK
Wahngton. D.C. 2043
U.SA
O£fu. of Dt -cewnOeaal
Operatiow Evaluation
October 13, 1993
EMORANIDW TO-M-E EXECT,IVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT:    Project Ccxhpletion Report on Egypt
ER-Dikhe2la Port Pro4ect (Loan 2183-EGT)
Attached is the "Project Completion Report on Egypt -- El-Dikhe$.La
Port Project (Loan 2183-EGT) prepared by the Middle East and North Afl-ica
Regional Office. Part It contains the Borrower's comments.
Government prepared a port development plan in 1981 and assigned high
priority to the construction of a new port at El-Dikheila because throughput at
Alexandria would soon exceed capacity. The Loan (US$132 million of June 1982)
was to finance construction of commercial port faclities at El-Dikheila;
construction of a jetty for iron-ore carriers to serve a planned steel mill
nearby; and facilitation of the institutional and administrative transition into
what was envisaged to become the Alexandria - El-Dikheila port complex.
The project waS completed in December 1991, instead of June 1986,
largely because of land acquisition problems which postponed commencement of
construction by about three years. While the main breakwater, mineral jetty and
entrauce channel were completed in time to colncide with the comencement of
steel plant operations, traffic has been considerably less than forecast 1.4
Million tons compared to 5-8 million tons projected foE  1990. Total project cost
was reduced to 59 percent of the appraisal estimate, by the cancellation of some
of the equipment and technical assistance and by the devaluation of the Egyptian
pound. On balance, the re-estimated economic rate of return was 8.6X, as against
22.6Z estimated at appraisal.
Planned institutional improvements (the elimination of lighterage in
particular) have not materialized; the project did not include specific
institutional development and/or training components. The PCR notes that the
Port Authority has made progress in improving the financial viabWility of its
operations.  Overall, the project outcome is rated as unsatisfactory and its
institutional impact as negligible.   Significant benefits should, however,
materialize with completion of the commercial berths and expansion of the steel
plant planned for the year 2000. These benefits ara likely to be sustainable.
The PCR summarizes comprehensively, lucidly, and forthrightly the
planning and implementation experience. The project may be audited together with
the Port Said Expansion and Rehabilitation Project.
IThis dorut has a restricted distributfon a-d may be used by recipients orly in the performance of
thei r off icfiat dutfies. Its contenits may not atherwi e be di sctosed wi thout Wortd Bank authorfization.
1.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~. .



FOR OMCIL USE ONLY
ARAB REPUBLIC OP E¢YPT
PROJECT COIPLITION REPORT
EL DIRHEILA PORT PROJECT
Table of Contents
Paste No.
EVALUATIMON SUNARY ..... ... ................*......................                       I
Objectives ....... *v................... i      
Implemantation Experience .....................................*.                          i
Project Results ..........               .................................
Project Sustainability ................  **........             ...... ........... ...    iii
Findings and Lessons Learned ................. .....................    ii
AfI:    ROCT RVIs  FROM BAN'$ PERSPECTIVE ......................                           1
roject Identit ..........................................................                  1
Backg round ........ ...................................................                   1
Introduction ............ ..... .. ..  .. . .. .. ........................ 
Sector Development Objectives ................ ............... ... 1
Policy Context .................................................                   2
Linkage, between Project and Macro Policy Objectives ............                  2
Project Objectives and Description ...................................                    2
Project Objectives             ........................         . .... * ....      2
Project Components .... ... .......... .........................                   2
Project Design and Organization ...... 3.**# ..... # ...                    ... ***..    3
Project Implementation.... S .                 0     .. .... ..               ......      5
Loan Effectiveness and Project Start-up .......................                    5
Construction ..............O......* ....................                           5
Costs and Schedule ........... ...... O ...............                            5
Project Results             ...................................                 ........  5
Project Sustainability ................................................... .               8
Borrwe  Performance ........................... #.....................                     9
Project Relationship ........................................ * ...............   11
Consulting Services .......................................................... 11
Project Documentation and Data.         ,*  ....... ............                         12
Findings and Lessons Learned ...............                                             12
This document ha a sticted dstibution ad maY be ud by ripients o"in On thepfonnra
of their offcial dudie Its contents may not otherwis be diclosed without WorMl 3uk authoraon.



Table of Co-vents Cont'd/...
Pane N,o.
PART IIs  PROJECT REVIEW FROM BOnROWER'S PERSPECTIE  .................. 14
Relationship betwen the Bank and the Bocrower........................  14
Loan Cancellations ........                                                14
Commitment Charges on Cancelled Loan Proceeds.............     ....        15
Project Delays end Groce Period Extension .............................    15
Consulting Services                         ................     *         15
Tariff Revisions ..............  ......... ................................. 19
PART III: TABLES AND CHARTS
Table 1 - Ralated Bank Loans and/or Credits .......................        18
Table 2  - Project Timetable ... .............................             19
Table 3  - Category Allocations After Loan Cancellations
and Final Disbursed Amounts...#*#**................... 20
Table 4  - Disbursement Information ...............................       21
Table 5  - Comparison of Appraisal and Actual Project Costs ........      22
Table 6  - Key Performance Indicators .............       ............    23
Table 7  - Actual and Forecasted Traffic by Port and Commodity.
1986 and 1990        ...     ...   ....... . . ........ .     24
Table 8 - Actual Traffic at Alexandria and El Dikheila Ports,
by Commodity. 1982-90 ...............     .........           25
Table 9  - Actual and Forecast Traffic at Alexandria and
and El Dikheila Ports, by Commodity, 1986 and 1990....        26
Table 10 - Economic Re-evaluation of Project Costs and Benefits .....     27
Table 10.1 Nineral Jetty Economic Incremental Evaluation of
Project Costs and Benefits ............................       28
Table 10.2 Commercial Port Facilities Economic Incremental
Evaluation of Project Costs and Benefits ..............       29
Table 10.3 Mineral Jetty Economic Re-evaluation of Project Costs
and Benefits .......... .......        ...... .              30
Table 10.4 Commercial Port Facilities Economic Re-evaluation of
Project Costs and Benefits... ......................         31
Table 11 - Alexandria Port Authority Actual and Projected
Consolidated Income Statement and Selected Financial
Ratios, 1984-90 ....... 0........*. *4....444.                32
Table 12 - Alexandria Port Authority Actual and Projected
Condensed Balance Sheet and Selected Financial
Ratios, 1984-90 ..................................... 33
Table 13 - Studies and Tec'.Mical Assistance ........................     34
Table 14 - Status of Covenants (As of September 91)................       35
Table 15 - Use of Bank Resources...* ..................                   38
Table 16 - Mission Data    .........       ... **.** .............        39
Chart 1 - Actual Disbursement Relative to Loan ....................       40
Chart 2  - Original (*) and Actual (z) Implementation Program ......      41
Chart 3  - Alexandria Port Authority, Center Department For
Financial and Commercial Affairs, Organization Chart..        42
Chart 4  - Map - Layout of El Dikheila Port



ARAB REPU8LI O3 EGOTF
EL DIKN$IL& PORT '1pJBCT. I=AN 2183-ROT
PREFACE
This is the Project Completion Report (PCR) for the E1 Dikheila Port
Project in Egypt, for which Loan 2183-RGT in the amount of US$132.0 million
was approved on April 19, 1982. The loan was closed on June 30, 1991 with
$76.6 million cancelled. The last disbursement was on September 30, 1991.
The PCR was jointly prepared by the Infrastructure Operations Division
of the Middle East and North Africa Regional office (Preface, Evaluation
Summary, Parts I and III), and the Borrower (Part II).
Preparation of this PCR was started during the Bank's August 1991
supervision mission of the project, and is based, inter alia, on the Staff
Appraisal Reports the Loan, Guarantee, and Project Agreements; supervision
reports; correspondence between the Bank and the Borrower; and internal Bank
memoranda.



- ii. -
ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGY=T
EL DIUESTLA PORT PROJECT. LOAN 21_3-Ig
WMOJE- COMPLETION REPORT
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Objec_tives
1.    The objectives of the project were to (a) provide appropriate commercial
port facilities at El Dikheila for forecast traffic, particularly
containerized traffic; (b) provide a jetty at which large ore carriers would
serve the steel mill; and (c) facilitate the future orderly expansion and
development of the Alexandria/El Dikheila port complex.
implementation Exoerience
2.   Although the loan was approved on June 17, 1982, it was only signed on
may 4, 1983 and became effective on September 23, 1983 due to land acquisition
problems.  Overall, the closing date for the loan was extended five times and
the project was completed five years later than anticipated. Much of the
delay in project execution stemmed from reluctance by the military authorities
to release land for the project, despite the Government's assurances at loan
effectiveness that the land would be made available as required. As a
consequence, the commencement of construction was delayed by about three years
and the layout of the port as constructed had to be modified from the one
described in the staff appraisal report to take account of land limitations,
and to minimize delays in implementation. The new area layout resulted in
berths of the same effective length and should not materially affect port
operations. The additional delay of about 2 years resulted from delays in the
award and implementation of contracts.
3.    The aforementioned delay might have been reduced if a more precisely
defined agreement between the Government and the Military had been obtained
for the release of land prior to loan signature. There had been an
understanding at negotiations that there would be timely availability of the
requisite land since there was no suitable alternative site. Unfortunately,
this understanding was not based on a clear agreement with the military and
timely availability did not in fact occur (para. 5.02).
Project Results
4.    Results of the project are disappointing.  Even though, after the three-
year delay in project implementation, the mineral jetty, main breakwater and
entrance channel were completed in time to coincide with the commencement of
the steel plant operations, these facilities now service deep-drafted ore
carriers delivering only 1.2 million tons of pellets annually (para. 6.06)
which is considerably less than the 3.0 million tons anticipated at appraisal.
5.    Implementation of the commercial port facilities component of the
project has also been disappointing. One general cargo berth became
operational in June 1990 (some 4 years behind appraisal schedule, Chart 2),



- iii -
and likewise, a second generel cargo berth became operational in December
1991. The container berth, due to delays in installation of gantry rails,
construction of customs and ancillary facilities and acquisition of back-up
gantry cranes, is not expected to become operational until January 1994.
These delays have resulted in a loss of project benefits anticipated from the
reduction in waiting and service time for general cargo and container vessels,
and has postponed the transition to larger, more efficient vessels and the
concomitant benefits. Further, even the available capacity at the general
cargo berths is extremely underutilized due to the failure of APA to curb
lightering operations by amending the present mandatory requirement to
discharge certain cargoes using lighters rat:er than directly at the berth.
6.   Actual traffic at the Alexandria/El Dikheila port of 13.8 million tons
in 1990 represented less than 70 percent of the projected traffic volume of
20.8 million tons. The decline in traffic reflects the general decline in
traffic within Egypt's port subsector. The largest shortfalls were in bulk
cargo traffic resulting from specific circumstances and problems encountered
in other sectors. For example, the short-fall in pellets were the result of
postponing expansion of the steel complex from 1990 to 2000. In the case of
cement, the traffic in all Egyptian ports fell because of a government decree
curtailing cement imports. Traffic in 1991 declined further, with the total
for Alexandria/ El Dikheila being only 12.7 million tons, and results for 1992
did not show any significanttimprovement.
7.    Reasons for the decline in general cargo traffic include: (a) import
restrictions imposed during the mid-1980s in response to worsening
macroeconomic conditions; (b) continued languishing of exports; (c) slowdown
of economic growth which averaged 8.5 percent annually during 1980-85 to an
average annual growth rate of 2.6 percent during 1986-90; and (d) in the case
of Alexandria/El Dikheila, the diversion of traffic to the newly built Port of
Damietta, the need for which was the subject of some disagreement between the
Bank and the Government. It is unfortunate that the worsening macroeconomic
performance coincided with the implementation of the project. However, it is
unlikely that the depth and duration of the recession, largely triggered by
the decline in oil revenues and growing foreign debt could have been
anticipated at appraisal.
8.    For El Dikheila Port itself, the results are even more disappointing: as
opposed to an appraisal forecast for 1990 of 5.8 million tons, actual traffic
in 1990 was 1.4 million tons, and in 1991 was 1.3 million tons. While there
was some improvement in 1992 due to an increase in traffic at the mineral
berth from handling of coal (not originally envisaged), the continued use of
lighterage has kept general cargo volumes at the new berths depressed.
9.    The economic re-evaluation of the project, results in an economic rate
of return of 8.6 percent as compared to the appraisal estimate of 22.6 percent
(Table 10). The difference is due primarily to the loss of project benefits
associated with the delayed completion of the commercial port facilities and
the reduced projected traffic volumes for both the mineral jetty and
commercial berths (para. 6.06). On an incremental basis, i.e. excluding
breakwater costs which are common to both facilities, the EIRR for the mineral



_ iv -
jetty of 6.7 percent is substantially below the SAR estimate of 19.6 percent
and indicates that the mineral jetty was not economically justified based upcri
actual traffic volumes to date (para. 6.08). Thus, if the mineral jetty had
not been constructed and all of the breakwater costs had to be included as
part of the commercial berths, the EIRR for the commercial berths would be 9.9
percent, as opposed to 11.7 percent on an incremental basis, indicating that
commercial berths component of the project was also not justified (para.
6.09).  Even these low rates of return assume that lightening operations will
be reduced sufficiently in 1994 to allow more traffic to be discharged
directly at the newly constructed berths. Whether APA will be able to
accomplish this in the face of opposition f=om the owners of the large
lightening fleet and their labor force, remains to be seen.
Proiect Sustainability
9.    With the completion of the commercial berths at E1 Dikheila, project
benefits should be sustainable throughout the anticipated project life.
Sufficient capacity exists both at the mineral jetty and commercial berths to
accommodate current and projected traffic volumes, including an expansion of
the steel plant, originally anticipated for 1990, but now not planned until
2000 (para. 7.01).
Findinas and Lessons Learned
10.   Findings and lessons to be learned from the project are:
(a)   During preparation of the project the Bank should have paid more
attention to the macro-economic environment of Egypt'as external
trade, in particular to the importance of import traffic to
overall port development strategy, and should have satisfied
itself that the development strategy in the ports sector was
consistent with overall capacity needs in the sector (para 2.01).
(b)   Greater attention should have been given to ensuring that suitable
arrangements were in place to effect the transfer of the land
which was being used by the military, including the relocation of
existing military facilities (para. 5.02).
(c)   Although it was recognized at the time of appraisal that the
overriding constraint in the transport sector was the inadequacy
of the various transport agencies, especially in planning and
operational activities, the project description did not include
specific institutional development and/or training components
(para. 2.03), and as a result important opportunities for
institutional development were missed, for instance in the
rationalisation of lighterage in the port.
(d)   More attention could have been given to APA's future financial
viability at the time of appraisal (para. 4.03). Financial
planning conducted during the project by APA and the Bank was,
however, successful in identifying an impending severe



deterioration in APA's financial performance and permitted the
development and implementation of a financial plan which corrected
the situation (para. 9.03).
te) The Bank should have conducted a Procuremenit Workshop in Egypt for
the various implementing agencies at the beginning of the project,
since many agencies, stafh had minimal knowledge of the Bank's
procurement procedures (para. 8.03).
(f)   Procurement of major items of equipment became protracted due to
extended evaluation procedures, and the reluctance of the Borrower
to use consultants to assist with bid evaluatior.s (para. 9.02).
.



AB REPUBLIC OF  QX\PT
EL DIFE IL_ PORT PROJECT. LOAN 2183.-RT
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
PART I.g PROJ=T REVIEW FROM BANK'S PRRSPE=TIVE
1.   Proiect Identity
Project Names                       El-Dikheila Port Project
Loan Numbers                        2183-EGT
Regional Vice President Unit:       Middle East and North Africa
Country:                            Egypt
Sectors                             Transportation
2.   BAckaround
Introduction
2.01        Based on the findings of several country-wide port studies and
Phase II of the National TransPort Study (NTS), which formulated a five-year
transport plan for the period :i.983-87, the Government had prepared a port
development program in 1981. This program gave the highest priority to the
construction of a new port at El-Dikheila, since the throughput of the
adjacent Alexandria Port was over 14.7 million tons in 1980 and expected to be
18 million tons in 1981. However, Alexandria Port could not be expanded
because it was encircled by the city. The new port also complemented the
construction of a steel mill in El-Dikheila which required the import of iron
ore pellets. Bank identification missions visited gypt in January and May
1980, and in September 1980, the Government expressed interest in receiving
Bank assistance for the construction of the El-Dikhei'a Port. The appraisal
mission took place in May 1981 and project negotiations were completed in
April 1982. The Government's port development program also provided for the
construction of a new port in Damietta and rehabilitation of port facilities
at Port Said. Investments in Damietta Port were not encouraged by the Bank,
as it was felt that these could lead to excess capacity in the ports sector;
however, Government was able to mobilise bilateral financing for that project.
Sector Development Objectives
2.02        At the time of project preparation, Government plans for the
development of the transport sector called, with the exception of the
construction of the Nl-Dikheila and Damietta ports, for better utilization of
existing facilities through rehabilitation, better operational arrangements,
and strengthening of maintenance facilities. The NTS recommended appropriate
levels of user charges and tariff structures. The Government subsequently
made good progress in improving the maintenance of ports, roads, and railways,
although it has been inhibited due to shortage of local funding. Taxes on
fuels and rail tariffs were increased significantly during the next three
years, though additional increases were necessary and were addressed in the
government's Economic Reform and Structural Adjustment Program, which was
supported by a Structural Adjustment Loan.



-2-
Policy Context
2.03        The rapid economic growth which Egypt experienced in the 1970. and
early 1980s created a heavy demand on the transport sector. As a consequence,
the Government: embarked on a progrart to expand and improve the road network
and to expand port facilities. The El-Dikheila project was part of this
program. Although it was recognized in the SAR that the over-riding
constraint in the transport sector was the inadequacy of the various transport
agencies, especially in planning and operational activities, the project
description did not inolude specific institutional development and/or training
components. It is noted, however, that these activities improved in all modes
in later years. In particular, the Alexandria Port Authority (the Borrower)
and the Egyptian National Railways made significant progress in improving the
efficiency and financial viability of their operations.
Linkaces Between Proiect and Macro Policy Obiectives
2.04        one of the Government's principal macro policy objectives at the
time of appraisal (and still today) is the promotion of non-oil exports in
order to diversify foreign exchange earnings. Modern port facilities were
considered essential to facilitate competitive export development. The
development of the transport sector would also enhance employment, another
Government objective, since it contributes about 5 percent of GDP and
generates income and promotes employment through various activities such as
construction, manufacturing, commerce, insurance and freight forwarding.
However, the dominance of imports in overall port traffic and its implications
for project risk related to macro-economic factors, were not recognised at the
time of project formulation. Subsequent balance of payments problems and
attempts to reduce the level of imports were to have strong negative
consequences on project performance.
3.    Protect Ob_ectives and Description
Prolect Obiectives
3.01        The main objectives of the project were tot
(i)   provide appropriate commercial port facilities at El Dikheila for
forecast traffic, particularly containerized traffic,
(ii)   provide a jetty at which large ore carriers would serve the steel
mill, and
(iii)   facilitate the future orderly expansion and development of the
Alexandria/El Dikheila port complex.
Protect Componenta
3.02        The project, at appraisal, consisted of:



-3-
(a)   Civil Works and Dredoino:
(i)  a 2-km main breakwater of natural rock rubble with concrete
block armour,
(li)  a 660 m long mineral jetty,
(iii) a 4 km long dredged entrance channel,
(iv)  two concrete blockwork commercial quays, one about 600 m for
container traffic, and the other about 820 m for general
cargo, and
(v)  a large stockyard for ore and scrap steel for the steel mill
with space for other prospective commodities.
(b)   Ecuipment:
(i)  cargo-handling equipment for the container berths (3
container quay cranes and yard equipment for the operation
of the port terminal, the freight station and rail transfer
area),
(ii)  cargo-handling equipment for the general cargo berths (quay
and mobile cranes and forklift trucks),
(iii) cargo-handling equipment for the mineral berth (two rail
mounted gantry crane unloaders and associated conveyor and
handling equipment),
(iv)  floating plant, including three tugs, launches, and
workboats, and
(v) miscellaneous equipment such as fire-fighting, navigation
lights, and beacons.
(c)   Enaineerinq Services:
(i) detailed engineering and supervision of project execution,
and
(ii) a study of the continued modernization of Alexandria Port
and its integratioi with El Dikheila Port.
4.    Proiect Desian and Organization
4.01        Overall, the project was well engineered.  An unforeseen problem
arose, however, during a 1988 storm when unexpectedly large wave action
occurred in what was normally reasonably sheltered waters. Re-occurrence of
such wave action on other than isolated occasions could make cargo handling at
the berths at El-Dikheila difficult. The design was based on a computer



simulation model rather than a physical hydraulic simulation model, which
would have been considerably more expensive. Additional protection works have
been provided at the outer ends of Moles A and B, and the Alexandria Port
Authority (APA) has decided to observe during a period of three years the
conditions during storms at the mole berths and at the newly protected ends
before proceeding with any further model testing. APA ' is entered into a
contract with the Shore Protection Department of the Mi.iistry of Transport
for the necessary observations and measurements to be taken. No subsequent
problems of the same severity have been experienced, and it seems likely that
they might well occur only on a cyclical basis of 7 to 11 years frequency. It
would appear that costs to APA relating to loss of a few days ship working
time at infrequent intervals will be minimal as compared with the capital cost
of extending the outer breakwater to counter the effect of such storms.
4.02        The Industrial and Mining Complexes (IMC), a large public sector
construction/management organization, was the executing agency for the
development of all port facilities at El-Dikheila. On completion of
construction, the port facilities were handed over to APA and became an
integral part of the Port of Alexandria. APA continues its policy of
delegating stevedoring and warehousing responsibility at the timber and
general cargo quays to its agencies, United Arab Stevedoring Company and
General Warehouses of Egypt, and established an agency to ensure unified
operations of all container facilities. In addition, APA operates the mineral
jetty and stockyard for the El-Dikheila steel mill. Except for some initial
problems related to the steel mill's reimbursement for APA's services, which
have been satisfactorily resolved, these arrangements were suitable and not
the reason for delays in project execution.
4.03        More attention could have been given to APA's future financial
viability at the time of appraisal. In particular, the Ministry of
Transportation, Communications and Marine Transport (MTCT) did not allow APA
to increase its tariffs and charges for services rendered, and the Government
required foreign exchange earned by the port to be converted at the much lower
official rate. These problems, together with the decline in traffic, resulted
in a precipitous decline in APA's finances during the project and necessitated
interventions during project implementation to correct the situation. During
the last three years of project implementation this situation was corrected,
various tariffs and charges were increased, and APA's financial viability has
improved (para. 9.03).
4.04        The Bank loan of $132 million was to finance the acquisition of
equipment for the container and general cargo berths, equipment for the
mineral jetty and stockyard, floating plant, and other miscellaneous
equipment. After loan cancellations, final disbursements totalled $55.2
million, only 42 percent of the original loan amount.   Nearly $37.7 million
was cancelled from the loan categories for equipment at the container and
general cargo berths, $6.3 million was cancelled from the loan category for
floating equipment, and $33.1 million was cancelled from unallocated loan
funds. Reasons for the loan cancellations include the decline in port traffic
(para. 6.03 et seq.), and the willingness of cargo handling agencies to



finance from their own resources any additional mobile equipment as and when
the need arose (para. 10.02).
5.    Project Imnlementation
Loan Effectiveness and Proiect Start-ug
5.01        Although the loan was approved on June 17, 1982, it was only
signed on May 4, 1983 and became effective on September 23, 1983 due to the
land acquisition problems.
Construction
5.02        Much of the delay in project execution stemmed from reluctance by
the military authorities to release land for the project. As a consequence
the beginning of construction works was delayed by about three years and in
order to minimize consequent delays to quay construction, the layout of works
and the sequence of construction was changed (Map 23324) from that shown in
the Appraisal Report (Map 15905). The revised layout should not, however,
affect port operations to any material extent. The aforementioned delay might
have been reduced if a more precisely defined agreement between the Government
and the Military had been obtained for the release of land.
Costs and Schedule
5.03        Total project costs at US$279.6 million were considerably lower
than the appraisal estimate of US$475.1 million. Most of the reductions in
cost were due tot (i) the cancellation of some of the equipment and technical
assistance procurements planned under the project; and (ii) the devaluation of
the Egyptian pound which significantly reduced the US Dollar equivalent of the
local costs for the project.
5.04        The project was completed in December 1991, more than five years
later than the planned completion in June 1986, and the closing data had to be
extended five times to accommodate this delay. The planned completion date in
June 1986 was less than three years from the planned loan effectiveness data
of October 1983, and the delay in completion may be partly attributable to an
overly optimistic implementation schedule of less than three years.
Experience worldwide is that projects of similar magnitude and complexity in
the transport sector normally require a five-year period for implementation,
and the Bank's standard disbursement profiles indicate disbursement periods of
between 6 to 8 years as typical for the transport sector.
6.    Proiect Results
6.01        Results of the project are disappointing.  Even though, after the
three-year delay in project implementation, the mineral jetty, main breakwater
and entrance channel were completed in time to coincide with the commencement
of the steel plant operations, these facilities now service deep-drafted ore
carriers delivering only 1.2 million tons of pellets annually which is
considerably less than the 3.0 million tons anticipated at appraisal. The



- 6 -
stockyard was extended to provide increased buffer storage capacity to
accommodate other commodities such as coal and this has allowed the port to
handle some coal to fill the gap left by the reduction in pellet imports.
Thus the mineral jetty and related components were successfal in providing the
required facilities on time, but the economic rate of return has been
disappointing (see para. 6.07) owing to the significant shortfall in traffic.
6.02        Implementation of the commercial port facilities component of the
project has also been disappointing. One general cargo berth became
operational in June 1990 (some 4 years behind schedule, Chart 2), and
likewise, a second general cargo berth became operational in December 1991.
The container berth, due to delays in installation of gantry rails,
construction of customs and ancillary facilities, and acquisition of back-up
gantry cranes, is not expected to become operational until January 1994.
These delays have resulted in a loss of project benefits anticipated from
reductions in waiting and service time for general cargo and container vessels
at Alexandria Port, and has postponed the transition to larger, more efficient
vessels and the concomitant benefits.
6.03        At appraisal in November 1981, dry bulk and general cargo traffic
at the combined Alexandria and El Dikheila ports was projected to be 18.2
million tons in 1986, increasing to 20.8 million tons by 1990 and reaching
23.1 million tons by 2000. The projections were based on production/
consumption derived estimates of total traffic at Egyptian ports, with an
assessment of the likely levels of allocated traffic for Alexandria/ El
Dikheila (Table 7). Actual traffic at Alexandria Port increased annually from
1981 through 1984 reaching 20.9 million tons that year. From 1984 through
1989, traffic at the combined ports of Alexandria/El Dikheila declined
steadily to a low of only 12.0 million tons in 1989 (Table 3). Ironically,
the 1986 actual traffic of 18.7 million tons was within 2 percent of the
appraisal projected levels. However, with the deterioration of traffic,
actual traffic of 13.8 million tons in 1990 was 70 percent of the projected
traffic volume of 20.8 million tons (Table 9). Traffic in 1991 declined
further, with the total for Alexandria/El Dikheila being only 12.7 million
tons, and results for 1992 did not show any significant improvement.
6.04        The decline in traffic at the Alexandria/El Dikheila port reflects
the general decline in traffic within Egypt's port subsector. At appraisal,
traffic for all ports was projected to increase from a 1981 base of 25.0
million tons to 34.2 million tons in 1990, while traffic actually registered a
decline to 22.8 million tons in 1990 (Table 7). Reasons for the decline
include: (a) import restrictions imposed during the mid-1980s in response to
worsening macroeconomic conditions; (b) continued languishing of exports; (c)
slowdown of economic growth which averaged 8.5 percent annually during 1980-85
to an averaga annual growth rate of 2.6 percent during 1986-90; and (d) in the
case of the Alexandria/ E1 Dikheila Ports, the diversion of traffic to the
newly built Port of Damietta, the need for which had been the subject of some
disagreement between the Bank and the Government. It is unfortunate that the
worsening macroeconomic performance coincided with the implementation of the
project. However, it is unlikely that the depth and length of the recession,



-7-
largely triggered by the decline in oil revenues and growing foreign debt
obligations could have been anticipated at appraisal.
6.05        As shown in Table 7, the difference of 6.9 million tons in
projected versus actual 1990 traffic for the Alexandria/El Dikheila ports
consists primarily of a shortfall of bulk commodities: cement, grains, coal
and pellets. Actual 1990 traffic for these 4 bulk commodities totaled 5.6
million tons, slightly more than half of the projected volume of 10.6 million
tons. The shortfalls in bulk cargo traffic largely resulted from specific
circumstances and problems encountered in other sectors. For example, the
short-fall in pellets were the result of problems encountered by the steel
complex. In the case of cement, the traffic in all Egyptian ports fell
because of a government decree curtailing cement imports. Actual general
cargo traffic of 6.7 million tons in 1990, was 0.9 million less than the
projected volume of 7.6 million tons, however this shortfall of 12 percent was
modest compared to those of the bulk commodities.
6.06        For the El Dikheila Port, actual 1990 traffic of 1.4 million tons
represented only 24 percent of the projected 5.8 million tons. In 1991
traffic declined further to 1.3 million tons, but there was some improvement
in 1992 due to an increase in traffic at the mineral berth from handling of
coal (not originally envisaged). The projected increase in iron pellet
traffic to 3.0 million tons in 1990 has not occurred as the steel complex
expansion program has been delayed to 2000, and the 2.1 million tons of
general cargo projected for the container and commercial berths has not been
realized. General cargo traffic at the newly constructed berths has not
developed largely due to the failure of APA to reduce the extent of lightering
operations which are a source of employment both for labour and the large
lightering fleet in the port. APA regulations still require that certain
categories of cargo be lightered, and considerable resistance from labour and
lighter owners is expected if APA seeks to amend the present regulations.
6.07        The economic evaluation of the project results in an economic rate
of return of 8.6 percent as compared to the appraisal estimate of 22.6 percent
(Table 10). The difference is due primarily to the loss of project benefits
associated with the delayed completion of the commercial port facilities and
the reduced traffic volumes projected for both the mineral jetty and
commercial berths.   It is interesting to note that actual project costs of
US$251.9 (in economic terms, valued at 1983 prices) were 34 percent below the
appraisal estimate of US$382.3 million (in 1981 prices). The lower economic
costs reflect the cancellation of much of the equipment to be procured and the
devaluation of the Egyptian pound, which more than offset the increased costs
due to implementation delays and the corresponding inflation. As anticipated
at appraisal, project benefits for the mineral jetty consist of the savings in



cost for importing pellets for the steel plant1, while benefits of the
commercial berths consist of reductions in ship waiting time, ship service
time and cargo handling and damage associated with the reduction of lightening
at the Alexandria port. For the commercial berths it was assumed that the
waiting time of 1,824 days in 1990 would be eliminated by 1994, by when it is
expected that APA will be able to rationalise lightening at the port, and that
the turnaround time for lightered traffic would be reduced by two-thirds.
6.08        Separate economic evaluations were prepared for the mineral jetty
and commercial berths based upon an incremental cost approach. For these
incremental analyses, costs only directly related to the individual components
are included, and thus do not include the cost of the main breakwater. The
EIRR for the mineral jetty of 6.7 percent is substantially below the SAR
estimate of 19.6 percent and indicates that the mineral jetty would not be
economically justified based upon actual traffic volumes (Table 10.1).
Traffic and benefits at the mineral jetty were 60 percent below those of the
SAR as the proposed steel complex expansion projected for 1990 in the SAR has
been postponed until 2000.
6.09        The incremental EIRR for the commercial berths is 11.7 percent,
which indicates that the commercial berths were only marginally justified as
an incremental project component, and even this is largely due to the
reduction in project costs due to the cancellation of equipment purchases
(Table 10.2).  If the mineral jetty had not been constructed and all of the
breakwater costs were included as part of the commercial berths, the EIRR for
the commercial berths would be 9.9 percent, which would have been below the
rate of return threshold.  Even these low rates of return assume that
lightening operations will be reduced sufficiently in 1994 to allow more
traffic to be discharged directly at the newly constructed commercial berths.
Whether APA will be able to accomplish this in the face of opposition from the
owners of the lightening fleet, and their labor force, remains to be seen.
6.10        There has been no adverse environmental impact recorded or
reported as attributable to the implementation of the project.
7.    Prolect Sustainabilitv
7.01        With the completion of the commercial berths at El Dikheila, the
project benefits should be sustainable throughout the anticipated project
life. Sufficient capacity exists both at the mineral jetty and commercial
berths to accommodate current and projected traffic volumes, including an
expansion of the steel plant, originally anticipated for 1990, but now not
planned until the year 2000.   A potential risk to project sustainability was
the deterioration of APA's financial performance during FY 1987 and FY 1988,
lI/The alternative to constructing the mineral jetty, as discussed in the SAR,
was to ship pellets in large carriers of 150,000 dwt to an intermediate point
in the Mediterranean and arrive in Alexandria in smaller self-unloading
vessels-of about 35,000 dwt. The final deliveries to the steel complex would
be carried out by barge after lighterage operation at anchor.



- 9 -
which if not corrected could have reduced APA's ability to maintain project
facilities and equipment to desired levels (para. 9.03). However, the
situation has been alleviated as new port tariffs were implemented and
existing tariffs were increased. As a result of the measures implemented,
APA's net income increased from LE 6.5 million in FY 1988 to LE 20.6 million
in EY 1989 and to LE 23.2 million in FY 1990. A process has also been
established to periodically review the adequacy of port tariffs based on
results of a new cost accounting system.
8.    Bank Performance
8.01        In general, the Bank's performance was satisfactory.  The project
was somewhat complex in that It was in two distinct but related parts, the new
mineral berth and the new commercial berths. The primary emphasis was on the
mineral jetty construction so that it was available to provide adequate and
timely supplies of iron ore to the new steel works already under construction,
and as a result, the new commercial berths assumed (albeit unintentionally) a
secondary role.
8.02        There is no doubt that the Bank should have insisted upon a more
specific time-bound agreement between the Government and the Military for the
release of the whole of the land designated for port use. However, there are
limits to which the Bank could dictate to the Government what it needed to do
and the Government was not firm enough in defining clearly to the Military the
port requirements to obtain a clear and unequivocal agreement on which areas
were to be handed over and particularly when they were to be handed over. The
effect of the delays is clearly demonstrated in Chart 2 by the 5-year gap
between proposed implementation program and the actual timing of construction
due to the need to replan the layout of the berths for the restricted land
availability.
8.03        Much Bank supervision time had to be devoted to resolving
procurement problems, both from Headquarters and in the field. In retrospect,
the Bank should have conducted a Procurement Workshop in Egypt for the various
agencies at the beginning of the project, since many agencies, staff had
minimal knowledge of the Bank's procurement procedures. This Procurement
Workshop for agency project staff is an important issue to be borne in mind in
any future project. The lack of familiarity with Bank procedures undoubtedly
contributed to delays in procurement of equipment and floating plant with
repeat bidding needed in three instances.
8.04        The Bank should have formulated a clear and implementable plan for
the phasing out of lightening operations which were the basis for much of the
anticipated benefits from the construction of the commercial berths. Lack of
such a plan and related agreements have resulted in a significant reduction in
the benefits from the commercial berths component of the project.
9.    Borrower Performance
9.01        To a large degree, implementation problems of the project were
attributable to the delays incurred. While there are numerous reasons for



- 10 -
each of these delays, the Borrower could have avoided much of the delay (and
indeed prevented the loss of some of the designated land) by taking a more
dynamic approach to quick resolution of the land acquisition issue, and also
taken steps to accelerate the construction rate since the delays affected the
rate of return of the project as a whole.
9.02        The two agencies involved with the project, APA and IMC, both
performed reasonably well after the initial familiarization problems with Bank
procedures, and the acceptance, particularly by IMC, that Bank procurement
guidelines and procedures took precedence over those of the Egyptian
Government in Bank-financed projects. Procurement of major items of equipment
became protracted due to extended evaluation procedures, and later, because of
the Borrower's reluctance to use the consultants to assist with the bid
evaluations.   As a result, there was frequent need for the Bank to request
additional information and clarifications on many of the submissions. At the
start of the project, the consultants BCEOM were closely involved in the
bidding and evaluation processes, but, following financial disputes between
IMC and the consultants, the latter's involvement steadily reduced, and
eventually was largely limited to work on the Port Master Plan.
9.03        The Borrower responded effectively, during project implementation,
to the deterioration in APA's financial performance. Due to the substantial
decline in overall port traffic, increasing costs, and a temporary
disagreement between the steel complex and the port authority over port
charges, APA's financial performance in FY 1987 and 1988 deteriorated
substantially (Tables 11 and 12). Net income, which had been LE 42.6 million
in 1984 fell to LE 7.4 million in 1987 and to LE 6.5 million in FY 1988.
Analyses indicated that further deterioration would occur unless measures were
implemented to increase substantially port revenues while trying to maintain
costs In nominal terms. The Borrower, working with the Bank, developed and
implemented a plan to: (a) increase several existing port tariffs, i.e.,
mineral jetty tariffs, wharfage, quay cleaning, and land rents; (b) introduce
a new tariff for wharfage of transit containers; (c) improve collection of
anchorage dues and mineral jetty tariffs; (d) reduce depreciation rates for
equipment and civil works to be consistent with the useful life of the assets;
and (e) convert port revenues collected in US dollars at the prevailing
exchange rate rather than at a lower artificial rate stipulated by the Central
Bank. As a result of the measures implemented, APA's net income increased
from LE 6.5 million in FY1988 to LE 20.6 million in FY 1989, and to LE 23.2
million in FY 1990.
9.04        The Borrower has complied or is complying with all loan covenants
specified in the Loan Agreement (Table 14). Throughout the project, the
Borrower demonstrated an understanding of the rationale underlying the
covenants.
9.05        Additional to the project, the Borrower is extending berths on
Moles A and B inshore by 570 m and 500 m respectively using its own financial
resources to complete the continuous berth lengths envisaged under APA's
future development plan. Despite the fall-off in port traffic, the Borrower
has been reluctant to delay this further development and in seeking to



- 11 -
complete the works in accordance with the timeframe originally envisaged, even
though such expansion in capacity may now be premature.
10.   Proiect Relationship
10.01       Delays in land acquisition has already been referred to above, and
must be pinpointed as the major weakness in the project design and
implementation. These delays had an adverse effect on the rate of return of
the project, particularly as some anticipated project benefits were lost as a
result of the overall 5-year delay in project completion.
10.02       Fortunately, the close liaison between the project agencies and
Bank missions enabled the project to be tailored to match the changed needs of
the port by reducing the amount of equipment to be procured (para. 4.04). This
was accomplished through improved utilization of mobile cargo-handling
equipment owned by cargo handling agencies and their willingness to finance
from their own resources any additional mobile equipment as and when the need
arose.   This corporate cooperation also enabled the reduction of the Bank
loan and hence the overall cost of the project.
10.03      Many agencies who are not experienced in Bank procurement
procedures have welcomed supervision missions at times of intensive bidding
and bid evaluation, particularly for large items of equipment or plant. While
there is the ever-present need to keep within a Bank Divisional budget, it
would seem to be money well spent on the Borrower's behalf if, more
flexibility was available to send procurement advisory missions during such
intensive periods of procurement activity.
11.  Consulting Services
11.01      Consulting services for construction supervision, and preparation
of the Port Modernization Study Parts I and II were provided by a French
consulting firm BCEOM (Table 13). An on-going study of wave action at El
Dikheila is being conducted by the Shore Protection Department of NOT. A cost
accounting system study was prepared by APA with the assistance of a local
consultant. The services provided by the French consulting firm were
generally satisfactory, and the revised Port Master Plan prepared under the
Port Modernization Study provides a sound basis for future port investments.
The final cost of consultants' services was greater than the appraisal
estimate due to the additional supervision and design time required for needed
revisions in port layout, and the impact of inflation on the cost of
consultants services attributable to the overall delay in project
implementation. As discussed in para. 9.02, due to financial disputes between
IMC and the BCEON consultants, the role of supervision consultants in the
project was limited principally to finalization of the Port Master Plan. The
cost accounting system study was completed successfully by the APA and its
recommendations have been implemented.



- 12 -
12.   Pr2oect Docuientation and Data
12.01       Generally, the SAR was comprehensive and set out a clear picture
of the project and its proposed implementation. It could not however have
anticipated the land acquisition delays, although, in retrospect, the rate of
implementation, bearing in mind the volume of procurement, might be seen as
somewhat optimistic.
12.02       The cost of preparation of a PCR depends very much upon the degree
to which significant changes in the project content or cost are recorded in
adequate detail in the reports and files. For this project, critical
information on the reasons for loan cancellation was not readily available
from Bank files and were obtained from personal records of former Bank staff.
However, for other matters, the Bank 4.'les provided a comprehensive record of
project progress and implementation.
13.   Findings and Lessons Learned
13.01       Findings and lessons to be learned from the project are:
(a)   During preparation of the project the Bank should have paid more
attention to the macro-economic environment of Egypt's external
trade, in particular to the importance of import traffic to
overall port development strategy, and should have satisfied
itself that the development strategy in the ports sector was
consistent with overall capacity needs in the sector (para 2.01).
(b)   Greater attention should have been given to ensuring that suitable
arrangements were in place to effect the transfer of the land
which was being used by the military, including the relocation of
existing military facilities (para. 5.02).
(c)   Although it was recognized at the time of appraisal that the
overriding constraint in the transport sector was the inadequacy
of the various transport agencies, especially in planning and
operational activities, the project description did not include
specific institutional development and/or training components
(para. 2.03), and as a result important opportunities were missed
for institutional development were missed, for instance in the
rationalisation of lighterage in the port.
(d)   More attention could have been given to APA' future financial
viability at the time of appraisal (para. 4.03). Financial
planning conducted during the project by APA and the Bank was,
however, successful in identifylng an impending severe
deterioration in APA's financial performance and permitted the
development and implementation of a financial plan which corrected
the situation (para. 9.03).
(e)   The Bank should have conducted a Procurement Workshop in Egypt for
the various implementing agencies at the beginning of the project,



- 13 -
since many agencies' staff had minimal knowledge of the Bank's
procurement procedures (para. 8.03).
(f)   Procurement of major items of equipment became protracted due to
the extended evaluation procedures, and to the reticence of the
Borrower to use consultants to assist with the bid evaluations
(para. 9.02).



- 14 -
PART II.  PROJECT REVIEW PROM L     W' S PMSPIC=
14. Relationsh_p between the Bank and the Borrower
14.01       Since the loan agreement was signed in 1983. the Authority has
welcomed several World Bank missions to Alexandria. We would like to extend
recognition to the World Bank experts who visited with us for their high level
of professional expertise in their fields of specialization.  Through the
contacts we had with them. we have benefited and acquired significant
experience throughout the loan implementation period. We have also highly
appreciated the spirit of friendship and amity they demonstrated and admired
the atmosphere of teamwork which characterized our dealings with the Bank. in
the context of both our bilateral meetings end our contacts wherein the Bank
had a major positive impact on the progress and success of the project. We
should also indicate that, as a result of the fruitful cooperation between us
and the Bank in the context of the loan agreement, a new modern port on the
'editerranean has come into existence as a natural extension of a much older
port where both will play a constructive role serving Egypt's national
economy.
15. Loan Cancellations
15.01       Loan No. 2183 of 1983 started at a total value of US$132 million.
Several reductions in the value of the loan amount throughout its duration
decreased its total value to US$55.3 million at the loan closing date. The
justifications for those reductions are summarized below:
(a)   The general feeling that the interest rate of 11.6 percent charged
on the loan was much higher than the prevailing rate of 5 percent
in the world financial markets adversely affected the Authority's
partner companies who had planned to use resources from the loan
to purchase the necessary equipment. Companies such as the United
Arab Shipping and Stevedoring Company and the Egyptian Warehouses
Company decided to either use their own resources to finance
equipment procurement or to look for other appropriate alternative
financing sources.
(b)   The interest rate charged on other similar IBRD loans,
particularly Loan No. 1239 extended to the Alexandria National
Steel Company at the same time as the El-Dikheila Port loan. was
8.5 percent. This was one of the issues discussed by the
Authority's Board of Directors at their fourth meeting in 1983.
We believe that the Bank should review the question once again
with a view to possibly reducing the previously agreed
interest rate and the 0.75 percent commitment charge on the
unwithdrawn amount of the Loan; both rates should be less than
stated, particularly since the purpose of the loan is to render
economic assistance.



- 15 -
(a)   The Authority succeeded in procuring the necessary equipment from
suppliers at lower costs than originally projected and planned. as
a result of a downswing in the world market for the kind of
equipment requested at the time of the tender.
(d)   The existence of a strong industrial base in Egypt helped several
Egyptian companies and their foreign partners to participate in
procurement and manufacturin3 operations, which resulted in a
decrease in the foreign currency component of equipment
procurement costs as part of equipment costs were financed in
local currency.
(e)   The growth in port traffic was at much lower rates than projected
by the foreign consulting firm's study. The study predicted a
continuation of the traffic growth attained in the early 1980s
which was not borne out in reality and led us to review some of
our equipment procurement requirements which were based on the
consulting firm's inaccurate projections.
16.   Commitment Charges on Cancelled Loan Proceeds
16.01       The Authority paid substantial commitment charges on the US$132
million original loan amount, whereas the final amount of the loan received by
the Authority was substantially less than that, ';st by half.  The
Authority's financial burden has thereby been doi. led. over and above the high
interest rate indicated above. We believe that the Bank. recognizing the
financial burden imposed on the Authority in this connection, can consider
some appropriate method to reduce the high commitment charge if that is
possible under Bank policy rules, or consider this situation one of the
important lessons for the future.
17.   Proiect Delays and Grsce Period Extension
17.01       Concomitant with the substantial financial burden borne in
connection with repayment of the loan, there were delays beyond the deadline
for project completion, which consequently delayed the projected economic
benefits from the operation of the equipment. Ur.der such circumstances, if
the Bank is convinced of the seriousness of the reasons for the aforesaid
delays and the circumstances which gave rise to them at the El-Dikheila Port
Project, it can possibly extend the duration of the grace period so as to
reduce the borrower's financial burden by not requiring loan repayments prior
to actual generation of economic benefit pending the operation of all
completed major project facilities.
18.   Consulting Services
18.01       We would like to point out that payments made from the loan for
consultancy studies requested by the Bank have represented an additional
economic and financial burden and increased the total cost of the project.
This is especially true in the context of the Arab Republic of Egypt where
consultancy studies could have been conducted by local consultants or local



- 16 -
consulting firms or Egyptian specialized study centers affiliated with
Egyptian universities and research centers. We still believe that the local
firms could have produced more accurate, more useful and more appropriate
studies than those produced by the foreign consultants.
18.02       While we wish to express our respect and appreciation for the
studies we obtained from the foreign consulting firm We dealt with, in light
of the experience we had, we would like to affirm the fact that local
expertise in a country such as ours would have been more appropriate to our
local conditions. The use of local consultants would have guaranteed for us
ongoing and easy access to those experts during the various stages of actual
project execution to solve many of the problems hampering project execution.
Moreover. such studies could have been paid for in local currency and in
lesser amounts than actually paid.
18.03       We would like to emphasize the need for Bank assistance to the
developing countries in terms of drawing-up contracts with consulting firms.
Expertise in drawing-up such contracts has a crystal-clear impact on project
execution, especially in case of problems arising during the project execution
process. Ambiguous terms which are not specific. and sometimes perplexing.
render their reliability difficult as a basis for arriving at a fair ruling.
Hence, we would like to suggest that Bank legal experts should produce a model
contract for consultants which would serve as a guide to help developing-country
borrowers in future.
19.  Tariff Revisions
19.01      We highly appreciate the Bank's interest in developing borrowers'
revenues, as these represent undisputedly the financial resources which guarantee
achievement of fiscal responsibility of the borrower. W. also believe that the
continuous pressure exercised by the Bank through most of its missions to amend
the current tariffs and raise the rates is not a prudent means of raising our
ports' revenues. On the contrary, we believe that any random increase in tariff
rates would lead to decreased revenues as a result of such rates becoming
prohibitive in comparison with the rates currently applied at ports in
neighboring countriesa. Such prohibitive tariffs, if introduced, would adversely
affect the port's competitiveness. While we agree with the Bank that we should
review the tariff system currently in force at the Alexandria and El-Dikheila
Ports, we would like to see that done through a careful and accurate study to be
carried out at the right time so that its objectives can be achieved without any
adverse results. We cannot view port revenues merely as revenues, but should
study the side effects that may arise from increasing current tariffs on the
entire national economy.



- 17 -
ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
EL DI1tIILA PORT PROJECT
LOAg 21§3E
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
PART III



- 18 -
EDPCRRLN                                                         TABLE 1
ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
EL DIKHEILA PORT PROJECT
LOAN 2183-EGT
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
Related Bank Loans and/or Credits
Loan/Credit                                       Year of
Title                 Purpose                 ApDroval            Status
Alexandria Port   To alleviate port                1976       PCR issued June
Project           congestion, improve                         30, 1987.  PPAR
(Loan 1239-EGT)   the productivity of                         dated June 1988.
general cargo
operations, and
provide for future
traffic.
Port Said Port    To reduce excessive             1985        PCR issued
Expansion and     lightening, rehabilitate                    June 29, 1992
Rehabilitation    existing facilities,
Project           provide modern cargo
(Loan 2569-EGT)   handling equipment,
and strengthen manage-
ment practices.
17Sep91



- 19 -
ZDPCRPRT                                                                 TABLE 2
ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
RL DKHEILA PORT PROJECT
L-PAN 2183-EGT
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
Prolect Timetable
Date              Date
Item                   Pi~~~~Eanzned     Revised             Actual
-   Identification
01/27/80
Preparation                                                         05/23/80
10/30/80
-  Appraisal Mission                                                    04/27/81
Appraisal Update                                                    11/13/81
-  Loan Negotiations                                                    04/19/82
B Board Approval                                                        06/17/82
L Loan Signing                                                          0S/04/83
=  Loan Effectiveness              09/11/83          09/30/83           09/23/83
-   Loan Closing                   12/31/86          06/30/91           06/30/91
-   Project Completion             06/30/86          06/30/91           12/31/91
dentification:
The project was originally identified by the Government in the 1970s.. A study of El-
Dikheila Port was completed early in 1978 by BCEOM (French Consultant).  In June 1978, Bank
recommended the preparation of a National Port Development Plan as a basis for decision
on port location and scope. Bank identification mission in January 1980 reported that
long-term port facilities development program had been formulated.
LoanL Closir.a:-
The loan closing date has been extended five times. Delays were primarily due to reasons
beyond the responsibility of Alexandria Port Authority, since major delays were due to the
Egyptian Army not vacating the land needed for the port expansion as planned, and to
consequent delays in the ordering and delivery of goods and supplies. it should also be
noted that the original implementation schedule, less than three years, was overly
optimistic.
IS: \egt\paOS6\pcr\edpczPrt



-20 -
ARM  RBPUBLIC OP ZGYPT                                   TAML  3
BL OIrZL& PORT PROJcr  LWAN 2183-ESB
PROJECT COMPLaTION REPORT
CABOaRY A,LocAT?OMS AESER LAN CANMULLATIONS
AM PNAL DISBURSED ANfOMNT  (US Dollars)
_ .__......__.__.............___.___...................___. ....__._.... _ ____.__................................. _.... ......_._.... __.....  __.....
CATZGORIY            oR l          REV58ED       REV5SED      RSVS         REVIS8D        REVSED         ACTtAL
ALLOCATION  JLzAKTs6o ALLocACATIN   ALSLCAION ALOCATION               ALLCCA5IRN  DISEDR"SUEW
AT ARPRASAL (JtA. 1986)  (JML. 1986)   (P58 1988)   (AUG 1989)    (AUG 1990)
. . . . .__._.............. ......................... ... .... .. .... ... ..... ........ .. . .............. .... ...... ... .... ..  ...
(1)  Equlpient under
Part e  () and          42,800,000  42.000.000    25,000,000  12,800,000        7,800,000      4,700,000      S,050,993
(2) of the
pxojeo
(2)  squlpment under         38,000,000  28,000.000    20,000,000  37,600,000    36,s99,000    36,017,000    35,971,400
Part B() and (4)
of the Project
(3)  Eqipipent under         16000,000  16,000,000    16,000,000  17,650,000    14,650.000    11,300,000           9,847,141
Part a(5)
of the Pro1ect
(4)  Coatiltants'               900.000   1,900,000       1,900,000   2,200,000      2,200,000      2,200,000      2,574,993
Services under
Part C of
tbe Project
(5)  Fee under Section        1,9S0,739   1,950,739       1,9S0,739   1,95o,739      1,9S1.000      1,951,000      1,950,739
2.09 of. ths
Agreenemt
(6)  Unallocated             33,149,361   7,149,261       7,149,261      999,261              0              0              0
TOTAL           132,000,000  97,000,000    80,000,000  73,200,000    63,200,000    S6,168,000    55,395.266
MODrT OP LOWA  CANCBLL8D                  35,000,000    17,000,000   6,800,000    10,000,000         7,032,000        772,734
-lVATMV  CANCELLAMUN                      35,000,000    S2,000,000  58,800,000    68,800,000    7S,832,000    76,604,734
DIECATAL.UE1



_ 21_
ARAM RBPIWLC OF NamPT               TABLE 4
EL DZIHLTA PORr PROJECT (lWA  21S3-gST)
PROJECT COMPLETION RFPCQT
DISB_RSDEET INFOdMATXON (In US Dollar Millions)
QaUT8R             APPRAISAL     RBVISD WAN           ACTUAL        t OF ACTUAL
ABSOLU     CUMULATIVE  AMOUNTS     ABSOLUTE  CUMUlATI  LOAN AMUNT
Sep 1982
Dec 1982
Mar 1983
Jun 1983             2.30     2.30        132.00
Sep 1983            19.80    22.10        132.00       1.95       1.95        1.48 %
Dee 1983            15.40    37.50        132.00                  1.95        1.48 %
Mar 1984             3.50    41.00        132.00                  1.95        1.48 %
Jun 1984             3.50    44.50        132.00                  1.95        1.48 S
Sep 1984            15.40    59.90        132.00                  1.9S        1.48 %
Dec 1984            16.50    76.40        132.00       0.10       2.05        1.S5 %
Mar 1985            14.20    90.60        132.00       0.01       2.06        1.56 S
Jun 1985            17.70   108.30        132.00       1.88       3.94        2.98 %
ep 1985             20.00   128.30        132.00       0.10       4.04        3.06 %
Dec 1985             3.70   132.00        132.00       0.30       4.34        3.29 8
Mar 19S6                    132.00         97.00       6.59      10.93       11.27 8
Jun 1986                    132.00         97.00       3.58      14.51       14.96 *
Sep 1986                                   80.00       2.4s      16.96       21.20 8
Dec 1986                                   80.00       7.91      24.87       31.09 8
Mar 1987                                  80.00        2.51      27.38       34.23 8
Jun 1987                                   80.00       2.81      30.19       37.74 %
Sep 1987                                  80.00        0.37      30.56       38.20 8
DeC 1987                                  80.00        1.39      31.95       39.94 S
Mar 1988                                   73.20       0.56      32.51       44.41 8
Jun 1988                                   73.20       0.32      32.83       44.85 8
Sep 1988                                   73.20       0.16      32.99       45.07 8
Dec 1988                                  73.20        0.58      33.s7       45.86 8
Mar 1989                                   73.20       2.23      35.80       48.91 8
Jun 1989                                   73.20       0.59      36.39       49.71 S
Sep 1989                                   63.20       0.49      36.88       58.35 8
Dec 1989                                   63.20       1.55      38.43       60.81 8
Mar 1990                                   63.20       1.55      39.98       63.26 8
Jun 1990                                   63.20       2.41      42.39       67.07 8
Sep 19i0                                  56.20        1.54      43.93       78.17 8
Dec 1990                                   S6.20       3.75      47.68       84.4 S
Mar 1991                                   56.20       2.08      49.76       88.54 S
Jun 1991                                   56.20       S.05      54.81       97.53 S
Sep 1991                                   55.40       0.59      55.40      100.00 8
NOTE. Column 4 shows the cumulative loan amount after the cancellation of parts
of the loan as requested by the Borrower and agreed by the Bank.
Cancelled amount US$ 3S.0 million effective   Jan. 1986
Cancelled amount US$ 17.0 million effective   Jul. 1986
Cancelled amount US$ 6.8 million effective    Feb. 1988
Cancelled amount US$ 10.0 million effective   Aug. 1989
Cancelled amount US$ 7.0 million effective    Aug. 1990
Cancelled amount US$ 0.8 million effective    Sep. 1991
Last Disbursement Date: 09/30/91
BDDISTAS.NX1



- 22 -
EOPCCOB                                                                              TABLE S
M   EPALIC OF EGYPT
......................
EL DIKHEILA PONT PROJECT (LOAN 21t3-EGT)
PROJECT CIPLET IoN REPORT
COWARISO OF APPRAISAL AND ACTIUL PROJECT COSTS
In Cwermnt USt  tli enm
........................ ................................................ t.,,........... ......
ApprlSa Estlat.  Actual Costs                    Totml*
Item Decription        Govt.   1 3D    Gcvt.   150   AppyraIs   Actu t  DI ft/co   Percen
1. CIVIL KS
& DREING
Main Dreakmst.r           25.3     4.8    29.9       0.0    30.1      299      -0.2    -0.7
NineM Berth &
Acess Chanmel           27.2    22.8    75.9       0.0    50.0      15.9    25.9    51.8
Cococlal Berths           35.2    28.8    85.5       0.0    64.0      85.6    21.6    33.7
Sboresorkes & Ase.        45.4    24.9    26.3       0.0    70.3      26.3   -44.0   -62.6
Subtotat             133.1    81.3   217.6       0.0   214.4    217.7       3.3      1.5
I . ESJIPHEMT
Comarc^at Berths           2.2    42.1      3.0      4.r    44.3       7.7   -36.6   -82.6
Mineral Gerth              0.8    14.3      1.8    33.7    15.1       35.5    20.4   135.1
StockVard                  2.6    23.8      0.0      2.7    26.4       2.7   -23.7   -8998
Floating Plant             0.8    16.2      1.9      9.8    17.0      11.7    -S.3   -31.2
s1ttl                   6.4    96.4      6.7    50.9   102.8       57.6   -45.2   -44.0
MII. EGINIEERING I
COSLTING
Services                   7.8     6.8      0.0      2.3    14.6       2.3   -12.3   -84.2
SUBTOTAL              147.3   184.5   224.3    53.2   331.8    27.5   -54.3   -16.4
IV. CONTINGENCIES
Phlicat                   21.8    22.8      0.0      0.0    4.6        0.0   -44.6  -100.0
Price                     55.8    40.9      0.0      0.0    96.?       0.0   -96.?  -100.0
Subtotel               77.6    63.?      0.0      0.0   141.3       0.0  -141.3  -100.0
TWAL                224.9   248.2   224.3    53.2   473.1    277.5  -195.6   -41.3
Front-nd Fee
on WBak Loan                     2.0               2.0      2.0      2.0      0.0      0.0
RamD TOTAL                226.9   24.2   224.3    5S.2   45.1    279.6  -19M.5   -41.1



23 -
EDPCRKPI                                                  .TABLE 6
ARAB REPUBLIC OF LGYPT
EL -IKHEILA PORT PROJECT LOAN 2183-EGT
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
Key Performance Indicator
Actual
Item                               'Appraisal   At           Achievement
General Cargo           Units        Taraet      05/81        to 08/91
Unloading               Tons Per    14.0         12.8            12.8
gang hour  -
Loading                              17.0        15.1            15.9
Unloading lumber                     28.0        22.3            22.3
Cement                               25.0        19.1            19.1
Equipment
Availability             t         95          75              85
Mineral Pier oDerations
Ship Unloaders          Tons per    1,000        --             800
hour
Stackers                   n         1,000       --             800
Reclaimers                             960       --             800
Equipment
Availability                          97       -               97
Container oDerations
Container Crane         Boxes per       20       --              20
hour
Equipment
Availability                          95       --              95
Average Dwell Time      days            --       --               7
m: \egt\paOS6\pcr\edpcrkpi



JM  REPWLIC OF EGTPT                                                                            TAKLE 7
EL DIKIEILA PURT PROJECT (LU    2183-1OT)
POJC       PE iC  REPOT
.,...._....,...._.........
Table 7. Actubt wid Forcasted Traffic by Port an  eaondity, 1986 an  1990 (Tons 000s)
.... ..... __.... .... ,*,........................... .,....... ._...._.__.....   _,_...........................................
Alexandria                                                               AlmandrlI
Codity                                end      Dalett        Port                                              ond       "Maette    Port
El Olki.                 Said        Sual      Safe"      Total          El Olkl.                 Said        Sue       Safag       Total
........................................................ ................................................................................................................................ .................................. ............................
Actuat lTrffic -- 196                                         Apprafsal Forect of Traffic -- 1906
.............. .............. .,...... _.. .. ,..... .........    .. .............. ................ ._..... ,.......... _.........,__
Genra  Careo                           5,368         --          43      109             2      7,311           6,700       1,500      1."90         50         200    10,800
Grains bl                              4,200          78      2,017       1,032        935      8,262           3,000       1,500      1,000         0OO      1,000       7.300
Cemet                                  4,24S         19M      1,04          S67        451      6,552           2,000         00         400         100         100      3.000
Tibe                                   1,178                                                         8 .  ...  ...  1.176  1,300  300     --o                             1,6Q
cost                                   1.163         .-.        ---          --         --      1,183           2,900         .-.         ---        -           *       2,900
Or.a.Plipha*t t fert.                    412         ---         *--        ---        169         581             400        ---         100                   300         6lO
Pellets                                  134          --        *--         *--        *--         13t          1,300         *--         *-      -        ---   *1.300
StEelanSCraP                           1.420         *--        123         *--        *--      1,743             200               -20 *-                         -        2C
Other C                                  624         -.-        160         113        399       1,496             400         --.        360        300         --       1.060
TOTAL TRAFFIC                         19,16          273      4.217      2,630       1,956    28,440           18,200       3.700      3,760       1.700      1,400    2S,960
Actual Treffic -- 1990                                        Appraisal Forecast of Trafffe -- 1990
neral Cargo                            6,M           101        540       1.180          7      8,SS3           7,600       2,500      2.200         850        550    13,7m0
Grains hI                              1,946      2,07        1,636         662      1,152      7.473           3.300       1.700      1,200       1,000      1,000       8,200
Cent                                     .1                      71          33                    105          1,250         200         20         354         .-.      2,000
tIf*br                                 1.036         141        ---         --         --       1,177           1,600         400         --         ---         --       2,000
Coal                                   1,389                      --          2        10       1,549           3,100         ..-         -*.        -*-        ---       3.10
Om, Ploapate A Fert.                     841          10         .--         t1        30B       1,250             100        *      --     -                    670        770
Pellets                                1,242         .-         1---                   ---      1,242           3,000         ---         -*         ---         ---      3,000
Steel snd  ¢rap                           85           6         30         ---         1- t2t                     200        *--    ~ --            ---         --1        200
Other c/                                 Sa         1         247         14S        359       1,345             600        200         260        200         ---      1.260
TOtAL TRAFFIC                         13,8&5      2,349       2,524      2,083       2,014    22,815           20,750       5,000      3,860       2,400      2,220    34,230
..... ....... ._.. .................. ....................................... ................................. ..............................................................**_. .._  ...... .............  ... ...... --  
a.  Excludes petrotm  and otber tlquid bulk coiwodities.
b.  Includes eihat, mize flour  nd animl feed.
c.  Inctudes cotton,sugar, met/filh/pouttry and satt.
Sources PA for Alexandrfa ard El Plkhoelt  traffic, Ninistry of  eNwne Trport for other ports, ad Staff Appraisal Report 542-EGT.
ELD T7.wkl



ARAS REPUBLIC OP BGYPT                               TABLE 8
EL DIRHEILA PORT PROJBCT (LOAW NO. 2183-BGT)
PROJECT COMIP tIO REPORT
Table 8. Actual Traffic at Alexandria and B1 Dikheila Ports, by Commodity. 1982-90
(Millions of tons)
-- - - - -- - - - -- - - - -- - - - -    I-------------------------------------------------------------------------------____ ______ ______
Commodity                       1982     1983     1984     198S     1986     1987    1988    1989       1990    1991
Dry Bulk, Bagged and General Cargo
General cargo                     5.9      6.7     7.4       7.1      7.0     6.4      S.9      6.3      7.4    7.1
cement                           4.8      5.4      6.0      5.4      4.2      2.0      1.3      0.1       --      --
Mineral ores a/                   0.1      0.4      0.4      0.4      0.4      1.1     1.6      0.1      1.6    1.3
Coal                             1.2      1.3      1.2      1.2      1.2      1.3      1.3      1.3      1.4    1.3
Pertiliger                        0.2      0.3      0.4      0.7     0.4      0.4      0.6      0.6      0.6    0.6
Timber                            1.1      1.3      1.4     1.5      1.2      1.3      1.0      1.0      1.0    1.0
Grains                            3.8     4.3      4.1      3.8      4.3      3.5      2.9      2.6      1.8    1.3
Subtotal                     17.1    19.7    20.9    20.1    18.7    16.0    14.6    12.0    13.8   12.6
Liquid 8ulk
Petroleum quay                   4.8      S.4      5.4      4.8      4.6      S.5      6.0      6.5      6.9     7.2
Petroleum ArAMI                  4.9      S.3      4.8      4.5       --       --       --                --      --
Edible oils                      %.3      0.3      O.S       0.5     0.4      0.5      0.7      O.S      O.S     0.6
Molasses                          0.1     0.1       0.1      0.1      0.1     0.1      0.1      0.2      0.1    0.2
Subtotal                     10.1    11.1    10.8        9.9      S.1      6.1      6.8      7.2      7.S    8.0
TOTAL TRAPFIC                   27.2    30.8    31.7    30.0    23.8    22.1    21.4    19.2    21.3   20.6
a. Includes 0.1 million tons of scrap iron in 1990.
Source: APA.
ELD T8.W11



ARAB REPJL tC OF EGYPT                                                        TALE 9
........... ................ . 
EL DIKtEILA PMT PROJECT (LOM  10. 21 -3EGT)
....... .................. ............................... _
PROCT COPLETION MRRT
.........................
Tloe 9. Actul ad  Forecat Traffic at Alexnria and El Dikhoflt  Ports, by Codity, 1986 Wm  1990
(itllons of to)
.................................... ............................................................................................ *. .........
1986 Actual               1986 Apaisl  Forecast                     190 Actua                 1990 Appraisal Foreat
C o    dlty               ...................... _ ,,                                          ........................    ........................
Atex.  Ofi khelo Total            Alex.  Olkheilt  Total            Alex.  Dlkheils Total             Alex.  Dilthela Total
General  cargo                 7.0         --      7.0           5.0        1.7      6.7           7.3       0.1       7.4           5.8       2.1       7.6
Cement                         4.2         -.      4.2           2.0         --      2.0           0.0                   I-          1.3                 1.3
Crafn                          4.3         --      4.3           3.0         --      3.0           1.8         -       1.8           3.3         --      3.3
Timer                          1.2          -       1.2          0.9       0.4        1.3          1.0                  1.0          1.0       0.6       1.6
coal                           1.2         --       1.2          2.9         --      2.9           1.4         --      1.4           3.1         --      3.1
Pellets                        0.0       0.1       0.1            i-.3                1.3          0.0       1.2       1.2                     3.0       3.0
Other bl                       0.6         -       0.6           0.6       0.2        10           0.9       0.1        1.0          0.7       0.1       0.8
Total                         18.5       0.1      18.6          14.6       3.6      18.2          12.4       1.4      13.8          1S.2       5.8      20.7 ?'
....... ............ ........ ................_. ..... ......... _,_................... ...... ........... ..................
*. Excltds petrolt.  an  other liquid bulk commodities.
b   includes 1 l   nwal  ores, fertilIfer, scrap an  miscllaeous other coditfes.
Surce: APA and Staff Appraisal Report No.37 -E T.
EL) T9.WK1



AMaa RRpvsLXC OF BG?PT                                              TAM   10
BL DIGIWBXLA PORT POJECT (WAN 2183-BGT)
PROEC  COlPLRTIO) REPORT
Table 10.  acomic Re-evaluation of Project Costo and Benfits
(%n 1983 prices, 0$ millions)
Project Costs                                 projct Bensfits
____ _ __ ______ _ ____ ___ _--    _ ................. I _  _ -- --------------------------- -------  ------          o
"ainte-                              Ship        Ship      Cargo                                       Project
Year  Invest-    nance    Total          mineral    Waiting     Service     Handling Savings   Freight                  Benefits
aent 5/              Costs         jetty        Time       Tie         Oost   on Car"go    Rate      Total
aenefits b/ savings c/ Saving. 4/  avinas e/ Damage f/ Saving. g/ Bmnefit
1983        2.0        --       2.0            --          --          --          --                   --      0.0         -2.0
1984       80.9        --      S0.9                        --          --          --                           0.0        -80.o
19as      100.4        --    100.¢              --         --          --          --                  --       0.0       -100.6
1986       49.7        --      49.7                                                                             1.2        -4-.6
1987       2S.S       2.0      27.5            6.7         _-          __          __                  __       6.7        -20.0
l9B8        0.3       2.0      10.3           10.6         --          --          --                          10.6          0.3
1989       10.4       2.0      12.4            0.0         --                -               --                10.0         -2.4
l990       16.6       2.0      17.6            9.9         --          --          --                  --       9.9         -7.7
1991       10.7       4.0      14.7           10.7                                                     --      10.7         -4.0
1992         --       4.0       4.0           10.7                                                     --       10.7         6.t
1993         --       4.0       4.0           10.7                                                     --      10.7          6.7
1994         --       4.0       4.0           10.7       14.S        14.4         1.1      2.0         2.0     44.8         40.8
199S         --       4.0       4.0           10.7      1.0         14.8         1.1      2.1         2.1     46.9         41.9
1996         --       4.0       4.0           10.7       15.s        16.3         1.2      2.1        2.1      46.9         42.9
1997         --       4.0       4.0           10.7       15.9        16.7         1.2      2.2        2.2      48.0         44.0
1998         --       4.0       4.0           10.7       16.4        16.2         1.2      2.3        2.3      49.1         46.                     1
1999         --       4.0       4.0           10.7       16.9        16.7         1.3      2.3        2.3      60.3         46.3
2000         --       5.8       6.8           2.4        17.4        17.2         1.3      2.4         2.4     67.1         61.3                    1
2001         --       S.0       5.8           26.4        17.9       17.7         1.4      2.C         2.s    64.3          62.6
2002         --       5.8       S.*           26.4        18.6       18.2         1.4      2.5         2.5     69.6         63.0                    6
2003         --       6.8       s.8           26.4        19.0      l.8          1.4      2.4         2.6     70.9        46.1
2004         --       S.8       6.8           26.4       19.6        19.4         1.S      2.7         2.7     72.2         66.4
2005         --       s.8       5.8      .   26.4         20.2       19.9         1.S      2.8         2.8     73.6         67.0
2006         --       5.8       S.8           26.4       20.8        20.5         1.6      2.9         2.9     76.0         69.2
2007         --       6.8       S.8           24.4       21.4        21.1         1.6      2.9        2.9      76.6         70.7
200a         --       5.8       5.8           26.4       22.1        21.8         1.7      3.0         3.0     70.0         72.2
2009         --       6.8       6.8           26.4       22.7        22.4         1.7      3.1        3.1      79.6         73.s
2010         --       S.8       5.8           26.4       23.4        23.1         1.8      3.2        3.2      81.1         76.3
2011         --       5.8       6.8           26.4       24.1        23.8         1.0      3.3        3.3      92.7         76.90
RMoonic Rate of Return           8.64
Note: Pxcject benefit, for the wineral jetty are bamed on actual pellet traffic through 1990 and asdu"s no growth in thio traffie
through l999. For 2000-2011, pellet traffic le projected at 3.0 million tone annually based upon expansion plans for the steel conpl
Bonefito other than those for the mineral jetty, are bosed upon traffic growth of 3 percent annually from 1990 levels.
a. xcludes deferred revenue expenses ($90.6 million in financial torn.) reported by INC as local project costa. The deferred revenm
are payments owed by INC to APA for uo of the mineral jetty.
b. Savings of $8.80 per ton for pellets unloaded as per appraisal based upon shipment of pelleto in 1So,000 dwt carriers to
an interoediate point in the tediterrean and by feeder to Alexandria in 30,000 dwt eelf-unloadera, with final delivery to
steel couplex by barge after lighterage operation at nchor.
o. Based on reduction of waiting tine with operation of new general cargo terminal. In 1990 total average waiting days for dxy bulk
end general cargo was 1824 days, average daily vesel operating ccots in port oaoumod at $10,000.
4. Based on impzoved turn-around tics due to reduction in lightering; in 1990. nhipdays for lightered cargo totaled 2,698 daya.
This would be reduced by 1B00 days with the new facility.
e. Saving. of $2 per ton applied to reduction in lightered traffic estimated at S40,000 ton" in 1990.
. sased upon 2 percent of value of lightered tonnage as per apprasaal report.
g. Based on the use of larger, deep draft vessels at now facility and the tranwfer of approximately a million tons of
container and general cargo traffic to the new facility and aosociated freight rate osving. of $2 per ton.
ELD TIOL.WKI



ARAm  RBPUBLIC OP RGYPS                    TABLB 10.1
BL DIKICZLA PORT PROJBCT (WAM 2183-DOT)
PRO.7BCT CoUlDTZON RBPOR?.
Table 10.1. Mineral -etty:   Bconoeda Incremental Bvaluaticn of Project Coste and BenefitB
(In 1983 prices, uS$ millions)
,____________.______________________________________________________________
Project Coate         Project Benefits
I*ineral      .et
Inveot-   Mainte-   Total          Jetty     Total       Project
Year   ent a/    nance    Costs        Benefits b/ Benefits    Benefits
1983        1.0        --       1.0             --      0.0         -1.0
1984       37.6        __      37.6            --       0.0        -37.6
1985       49.1        --      49.1            --       0.0        -49.1
1986       29.0        --      29.0           1.2    . 1.2         -27.8
1987       10.5       2.0      12.5           6.7       6.7         -5.8
1988        2.4       2.0       4.4          10.6      10.6          6.2
1989        5.3       2.0      .7.3          10.0      10.0          2.7
1990        8.0       2.0      10.0            9.9      9.9         -0.1
1991        4.8       2.0       6.8          10.7      10.7          3.9
1992         --       2.0      .2.0          10.7      10.7          8.7
1993         __       2.0       2.0          10.7      10.7          8.7
1994         --       2.0       2.0          10.7      10.7          8.7
1995         __       2.0       2.0          10.7      10.7          8.?
1996         __       2.0       2.0          10.7      10.7          8.7
1997         --       2.0       2.0           10.7     10.7          8.7
1998         --       2.0       2.0           10.7     10.7          8.7
1999         --       2.0       2.0           10.7     10.7          8.7
2000         --       2.9       2.9          26.4      26.4         23.5
2001         --       2.9       2.9          26.4      26.4         23.5
2002.        --       2.9       2.9           26.4     26.4         23.5
2003         --       2.9       2.9           26.4     26.4         23.5
2004         --       2.9       2.9           26.4     26.'         23.S
:05         --       2.9       2.9           26.4     26.t         23.S
20b*         --       2.9       2.9           26.4     26.4         23.5
2007         --       2.9       2.9           26.4     26.4         23.s
2008         --       2.9       2.9           26.4     26.4         23.5
2009         --       2.9       2.9          26.4      26.4         23.5
2010         -r       2.9       2.9           26.4     26.4         23.5
2011         --       2.9       2.9           26.4     26.4         23.5
Bconomic Rate of Return          6.79
__________________________________________________.._________________________
Note% Pxoject benefits for the mineral jetty are based on actual pellet traffic
through 1990 and assumes no growth in this traffic through 1999. For 2000-2011,
pellet traffic is projected at 3.0 million tone annually based upon expansion plans
for the steel complex.
a. 8xcludes deferred revenue expenses and cost of main breakwater. Includes
all costs for construction of mineral jetty, and SO percent of costs of
shore works, engineerng and consulting and front end fee.
b. Savings of $8.80 per -on for pellets unloaded as per appraisal based
upon shipments of pellets in 150,000 dwt carriers to an intermediate point
in the Mediterrean and by feeder to Alexandria in 30,000 dwt self-unloaders,
with final delivery to steel complex by barge after lighterage operation at anchor.
m:\egt\paOS6\pcr\el tioll.wkI



ARAB RBPUBLIC OP EGYPT                                                  TABLB 10.2
BL DIKHBILA PORT PRO"lCT (LOAN 2183-8GT)
PROJBCT COMPLRON RBPORT
Table 10.2. Co=mercial Port Facilities: BEonomic Incremental Evaluation of Project Costa and Benefitc
(in 1s93 prices, US$ millions)
Project Costs                       Project Benefits
----------------------__________    ----------------------------_---___--_-----------                          Not
Mainte-                   Ship         Ship       Cargo                                         Project
Year   Invest-     nance      Total        Waiting      Service     Handling    Yreight    savings                Benefits
ment a/               Costs           Time        Time         Cost        Rate    on Cargo   Total
Savings b/  Savings c/  Savings d/  Savings e/  Damage   Benefits
-------------_---------_----_-_---------------,-----------_---__-------------__-----_---------------.-----------_----_---
1983         1.0         --       1.0             --           --          --           --                0.0          -1.0
1904        28.9        --       28.9             --           --          --          --                 0.0        -28.9
1985        36.5        --       36.5             --           --          --          --                 0.0        -36.5
1986        20.1        --      20.1              _-           __          __          __                 0.0        -20.1
1987        15.0        --       2S.0             --           --          --          --                 0.0        -15.0
1988         5.8        --        5.8             --           --          --          --                 0.0         -s.8
1989         5.1        --        5.1             --           --          --          --                 0.0         -S.1
1990         1.7        --        7.7                                                                     0.0         -7.7
1991         S.9       2.0        7.9                                                  --                 0.0         -7.9
1992           -       2.0        2.0                                                  --                 0.0         -2.0
1993          --       2.0        1.0                                                   --                0.0          -2.0
1994          --       2.0        2.0           14.6         14.4         1.1         2.0       2.0      34.1         32.1
1995          __       2.0        2.0           IS.0        14.8          1.1         2.1       2.1      35.1         33.1                                     NO
1996          --       2.0        2.0           15.         15.3         1.2         2.2       2.1      36.2         34.2
1997          --       2.0       2.0            15.9        15.7          1.2         2.2       2.2      37.3         35.3
1998          --       2.0        2.0           16.4        16.2.         1.2         2.3       2.3      38.4         36.4
1999          --       2.0        2.0           16.9         16.7         1.3         2.3       2.3      39.5         37.5
2000          --       2.0        2.0           17.4         17.2         1.3         2.4       2.4      40.7         38.7
2001          --       2.0        2.0           17.9         17.7         1.4         2.S       2.5      41.9         39.9
2002          --       2.0        2.0           18,5         18.2         1.4         2.5       2.5      43.2         41.2
2003          --       2.0        2.0           19.0         18.8         1.4         2.6       2.6      44.5         42.5
2004          --       2.0        2.0           19.6         19.4         1.s         2.7       2.7      45.         43.8
2005          --       2.0        2.0           20.2         19.9         i.5         2.8       2.8      47.2         45.2
20a6          --       2.0        2.0           20.8         20.5         1.6         2.9       2.9      48.6         46.6
2007          --       2.0        2.0           21.4         21.1         1.6         2.9       2.9      50.1         48.1
2008          --       2.0        2.0           22.1         21.8         1.7         3.0       3.0      51.6         49.6
2009          --       2.0        2.0           22.7         22.4         1.7         3.1       3.1      53.1         51.1
2010          --       2.0        2.0           23.4         23.1         1.8         3.2       3.2      54.7         52.7
2011          --       2.0        2.0           24.1         23.8         1.8         3.3       3.3      56.3         54.3
Boonomic Rate of Return           11.7%
Note: Project benefits are based upon traffic growth of 3 percent annually from 1990 levels.
a. Bxeludes deferred revenue expenoes and cost of breakwater. rncludes all
costa for construction of commercial berths and equipment, 50 perent of shore woLts,
engineering and consulting tnd front end fee.
b. Based on reduction of waiting time with operation of now general cargo terminal. Xn 1990 total average waiting
days for dry bulk and general cargo was 1824 days; average daily vessel operating costs in port assumed at $10,000.
c. Based on improved turn-around time due to reduction in lightering; in 1990, ohipdays for lightered cargo
totaled 2,698 days. This would be reduced by 1,800 days with the new facility.
d. Savings of $2 per ton applied to reduction in lightered traffic estimated at 540,000 tons in 1990.
e. Based on the use of larger, deep draft vessels at new facility and the transfer of approximately 1 million tone of
container and general cargo traffic to the new facility and associated freight rate savings of $2 per ton.
m \egt\pa056\pcr\e;l t021 .wkl



ARM  RRPUB=IC OP ROYPM                      TABLE 10.3
EL DIKHBILA PORT PROJBCT (LOAN 2183-SBT)
*RonCT OOMPUns   REPORT
Table 10.3. Mineral Jetty:   Economic Re-evaluation of Project CootB and Benefits
(In 1983 prices, U8$ millions)
--------------------------------------------------------------__--------_---
Project Costa          Project Benefits
Mineral                   bet
invest-    Mainte-   Total          Jetty     Total        Project
Year  sent at      nance    Costs       Benefits bJ Benefits    Benefits
1983         1.0        --       1.0             --       0.0         -1.0
19B4        52.0        --      52.0             --       0.0        -52.0
198S        64.1        --      64.1             --       0.0        -64.1
1986        29.6        --      29.6            1.2       1.2        -28.4
1957        10.5       2.0      12.5            6.7       6.7         -s.8
1988         2.4       2.0       4.4           10.6      10.6          6.2
1989         5.3       2.0       7.3           10.0      10.0          2.7
1990         8.0       2.0      10.0            9.9       9.9         -0.1
1991         4.a       2.0       6.8           10.7      10.7          3.9
1992          --       2.0       2.0           10.7      10.7          8.7
1993          --       2.0       2.0           10.7      10.7          8.7
1994          --       2.0       2.0           10.7      10.7          a.7
1995          --       2.0       2.0           10.7      10.7          a.7
1996          --       2.0       2.0           10.7      10.7          8.7
1997          --       2.0       2.0           10.7      10.7          B.7
1998          --       2.0       2.0           10.7      10.7          8.7
1999          --       2.0       2.0           10.7      10.7          8.7
2000          --       3.8       3.8           26.4      26.4         22.6
2001          --       3.8       3.8           26.4      26.4         22.6
2002          --       3.B       3.8           26.4      26.4         22.6
2003          --       3.8       3.8           26.4      26.4         22.6
2004          --       3.8       3.8           26.4      26.4         22.6
2005          --       3.8       3.8           26.4      26.4         22.6
2006          --       3.8       3.8           26.4      26.4         22.6
2007          --       3.3       3.8           26.4      26.4         22.6
2008          --       3.8       3.8           26.4      26.4         22.6
2009          --       3.8       3.6           26.4      26.4         22.6
2010          --       3.8       3.8           26.4      26.4         22.6
2011          --       3.8       3.8           26.4      26.4         22.6
Economic Rate of Return           5.1%
Note: Project benefits for the mineral jetty are based on actual pellet traffic
through 1990 and assumes no growth in this traffic through 1999. For 2000-2011,
pellet traffic i projected at 3.0 million tons annually based upon expansion plans
for the steel complex.
a. Excludes deferred revenue expenses and moot of main breakwater. Includes
all costa for construction of mineral jetty, and 50 percent of costs of
shore works, engineering and consulting and front end fee.
b. Savings of $8.80 per ton for pellets unloaded as per appraisal basod
upon shipments of pellets in 1S0,000 dwt carriers to an intermediate point
in the nediterrean and by feeder to Alexandria in 30,000 dwt self-unloaderc,
with final delivery to steel complex by barge after lighterage operation at anchor.
m:\egt\paoS6\pcr\el t1031.wkl



ARAB RBPUBL1C OF EoYPT                                             TIBLB 10.4
BL D I IBl& P    PROTECT (LOAN 2183-EST)
,PRoJ8CT OOIPIETON R8QORT
Table 10.4. COMMercial Port Facilities: Economic Re-evaluation of Project Costs and Benefit.
(in 1983 pries, US$ millions)
Project costs                                   Project Benefitr
Bhip        SUip       Cargo
Waiting     Service     Handling    freight      Saving.                    Net
Invest-    Mainte-    Total           Tine        Tiue        Cost         Rate      on Cargo    Total        Project
Year   meat a/     nance      Costs       savings b/ savings c/ Savings d/ Savingsoe          Damage    Bene1its     Benefite
1983         1.0        --       1.0              --           --          --          --                    0.0          -1.0
1904        43.3        --      43.3              --           --          --          --                    0.0         -43.3
1985        51.5        -        S- 1.            - -          --          --          --                    0.0        -S1.S
1906        20.7        --       20.7             --           --          --          --                    0.0         -20.7
1987        15.0        __       1S.0             --           --          --          --                    0.0         -15.0
1.98        5.         --        5.8             --           --          --          --                    0.0          -s.a
1989         5.1        --        S.1             --           --          --          --                    0.0          -5.1
1990         7.7        --        7.7             --           --          --          --                    0.0         -7.7
1991         5.9       2.0        7.9               .--                                                      00           -7.9
1992          --       2.0       2.0                                                   --                    0.0          -2.0
1993          --       2.0       2.0                                                   --                    0.0          -2 2
1994          ;-       2.0       2.0            14.6        14.4          1.1         2.0          2.0      34.1         32.1                       1
1995.         --       2.0       2.0            19.0        14.8          i.1         2.1         2.1       36.1         33.1                      W
1996          --       2.0       2.0            1S.S        1S.3          1.2         2.1          2.1      36.2         34.2
1997          --       2.0       2.0            15.9        15.7          1.2         2.2          2.2      37.3         35.3                      I
1998          --       2.0       .2.0           16.4        16.2          1.2         2.3          2.3      38.4         36.4
1999          --       2.0        2.0           16.9        16.7          1.3         2.3          2.3      39.M         37.5
2000          --       2.9        2.9           17.4        17.2          1.3         2.4          2.4      40.7         37.0
2001           -       2.9        2.9           17.9        17.7          1.4         2.5          2.5      41.9         39.0
2002          --       2.9        2.9           IR.S        18.2          1.4         2.5          2.5      43.2         40.3
2003          --       2.9        2.9           19.0        18.B          1.4         2.6          2.6      44.5         41.6
2004.         --       2.9        2.9           19.6        19.4          1.5         2.7          2.7      45.8         42.9
2005          --       2.9        2.9           20.2         19.9        L.           2.8          2.8      47.2         44.3
20d6          --       2.9        2.9           20.8        20.5          1.6         2.9          2.9      40.6         45.7
2007          --       2.9        2.9           21.4        21.1          1.6         2.9          2.9      60.1         47.2
2008          --       2.9       2.9            22.1        21.8          1.7         3.0         3.0       51.6         48.7
2009          --       2.4        2.9           22.7        22.4          1.7         3.1          3.1      S3.1         60.2
2010          --       2.9        2.9           23..4      .23.1          1.8         3.2        . 3.2   5 4.7           61.0
2011          --       2.9        2.9           24.1        23.8          1.8         3.3          3.3      66.3         53.4
Economic Rate of Return            9.9S
Note: Project benefits are based upon traffic growth of 3 percent annually fron 1990 levels.
a. Excludes deferred revenue expenses and cost of breakwater. Includes all
costo for construction of comaercial berths and equipment, 50 perent of shore works,
engineering and consulting and front end fee.
b. Based on reduction of waiting tine with operation of new general cargo terminal. In 1990 total average waiting
days for dry bulk and general cargo was 1824 dayst average daily vessel operating costs in port assumed at $10,000.
c. Based on improved turn-around tine due to reduction in lightering; in 1990, shipdays for lightered cargo
totaled 2,698 days. This would be reduced by 1,800 days with the new facility.
d. savings of $2 per ton applied to reduction in lightered traffic estimated at 540,0(0 tons in 1990.
a. Based on the use of larger, deep draft vessels at new facility and the transfer of approximately 1 million tons of
container and general cargo traffic to the new facility and associated freight rate savings of $2 per ton.
m:\egt\pa0o6\p6 r\el tl041.wkl



AIW REmLIC oF Ea"                                                           TWLE t
EL  IEILAVW P Rt JEC   (LORU  2183-EST)
........................................
PROJECT COILETION RPT
Tle 11. Atexendris  rt P  Autwity Actual  mid Projected Ceonolidated Irne Statement wa  Selected Finmnciol  etice, 1964-90 (L.A. 000s)
(Ffical Year Starting July 1, Ending Am 30)
Actual Adited In2re Statement                               Appraial Projocted Incm  Statent
Item                          ......................................................... .......................................................
1964    195    196"    1987    198    "969    1990          1984    1985    19"6   1967    198    1969    1990
........................................................ ...................................................... ...., 
k. lperating Revens            55,767 49,478  48491  46,287 56,672 83,819  98,364           55,061  54,511  67,448  87,U 101.179 117,389 142.#94
1. Opratinr Expenditures        8,137  6,330  9,646   9,280  11,249  12.241  13,600         11,032  12,409  16,265 29,454  37,756  43,591  52,865
C. gr    Operating Inrm        47.630  41.14*  36845  3V.OOT 45,423  71,578   4,7          44.029  42,102 49,163  57,994   3.421  73,796 90,062
). Se    ition                  4,613   7,34   9,012  17,"6  25.591  29,26  22,609          1S,34   17,506  27,678  38,93 42,004  45,349  49,028
I. met Operting Income         42,817  33.?74  29,633  19,359  19,632 42.340 62,175         28,662  24,S94 21,485  19,031  21.417  26.449 41,034
Oefore Interest
F. interest Charges             2,577  2,970   5,715  11,070  14,41? 21,263  22,036          6,037  10,002  13,168  13,587  12.783  11,971  11,151
a. Met Opweating Income        40,240  30,804  24,048  8,289   5,415  21,077  40,139        22,64S  14.592  6,317   S,444   S,634  16.478 29,683
N. met Non-operting Incore    2,345       (45)    260    (909)  1,072   (469)(16,947)          ...     ..      ..      ..
1. Net Income                  42.5S5  30,759  24,308  7,360  6,467 20,601 23.192           22,645  14,592   8,317  5,444   6.634  16,478 29,683
Finefal Ratios
.............................. 
peratins Ratio oI                23.2   31.7   38.5    56.2   65.0   49.5   36.6              47.9   S4.9   68.1   78.2   78.8    75.8   71.3
teturn an Net Fixed Assets b/   106.0   42.1    40.3   15.6   16.9   22.2   15.8              35.8   31.5    S.4       4.9     5.7     7.8    11.7
>ebt Service Coverage c/          6.0     6.6     2.9     1.5     1.3     1.6    2.1          4.6      3.1     2.9    2.6      2.9     3.5     4.4
................................................ ..............................................................................................
lote: Consolidated nco me statements In Engitsh were prepared by AP making the netessary coowrsions from APF's orfgfnal Arabic accounts.  Sam
Inconsistencies rewion betveen the Income statement and the balane sh et that era attrfbutabte to the use of different epprodchea for the
>oewersfon to English sccounta.
k. Operating expenses plus depreciation as a percent of operating revenues.
n. Not opaWtfng income before Interest as a percent of net fixed assets.
a. Gross operating income davided by principal tnd interest pwyents for long-term debt.
ources AP and Staff Appraisal Report No. 37Y9e-EGT.
CLD T11.WK1



__ r_h       r o. -                                                                   *   12
IL 0OILt9  PU T  tV   t (1    2t0*Et)t
........................................
.........................
TAMt  2. tU_1andIe Port Autboltys Acbetl nd Projoet  Condolued Wom, I_teat aid btieted   rawlct latles, 190449  L.S 1. W0#*s
(ftl  Cet_ SVtetiu  My t. _dt am  0)
.........  .........................,.    ............................................................................... ..................................
Actualt Aeitad Mahet geat                                         Apprle  Pojected blent. bet
I t,,                              .............................................                     ................................
1986   1"as    9964        "BY7    96       "of9    990           10       "IS       946    1?    1"OR    1909    1990
.....................................................................................................................................................................
urrnt 
..............
Cob                                  07.160    5,53   90.4    10,042   11.690  47,544   45,461         29.607   43.0      7,6    69.647   66.326  60.73    95.6
Asc_s*s    lvsb                      2.4    2B."S   24.04    2644  14.5"   93             5.            91 Ur   9,065 an          14.573   %,06    14 23.024
Lwentarles;                          4          6 s                                                                      i     I 9    455    94   11.245   1.r 7  1   U1122   1r   23.439  24.611   25.2   2.1S
Totat Curren  A..t              51.100   30. 620  n9425  44,1   19302  1O1    1 1t9m6              50.226  A4L620 an    9    99M   1009.61   1 ,39  144,a3
Plr ewislal lawaa_                  29,142   37,191   34,733    2 Q.622  41.4    40o,0   32,62          3.990   3'9  3,9     50   3.9       3.s90    3;."9    S3"9
fixsd Assets
Land. lIftfatut. &Atdlug  a   36,36   74.09   75.22   ff,7   tS,9    122,350 s3.5S
lrsmportotto W      tlt             20.455   29.1tn   29.1      r it  n7.6    x7O7     4&.9
Oter t   a  ssets                    6.1    14.400  ". 09 5413  2a. 3   12.60    5,17s
S6tetsl                          71.13   117.66   129.342  we'd"1  W0774   WOW62   197v9           200.920216.492  164,6176 592S51422.9   046.37   693.111
La ss  oprelatin                     30730)  S3.742    6.20   64,11   9"         18.3 9SU,9           120,042  13.3t0   WOW2  20.990    4."9   22.342  341OW
3t1 fixed hoee                       40.4080,946   74.11W  124.440  l17.S3  MOSS  392.416              6OW       B.942  36        W7.9  375.914  344,03S  351.01
Osferred Uiergus                        ...2...           ...0...1...               ...      ...        2.          01 15.                            M W       ...
v     loNt Ine Pwnas                 3,1    1445    S,AO   59.993   21.11         5,94   3,M4.        15067  242,510  917,473)    .-..         .        .        -
Total U,.Crreat Aset               92.445  193,891  M3A4N   MOS   179,417  WOW63   429,403            241.21   346.751  WON.03   39.114  38.72    MO6,39   35.1
Tota  1at                           74.61    MOM52   1MO.SS  22.41M  34A,919 30.161  MOM20            29.404  411,4*9  473.93   MOW63   490.525  496.529  500.432
Currant tIabilitIes
...................
Ac_oit. P      #al ae 961t    10.s2    9.7s4    9473 m                     n79) 21.474  MOMS            2.24    2.20    7r74    9.405   5.2          S.531    sOO
Other   u    tlsltl*as b             59.909   27.031 269    3.442    2.574   1749s    9.M               3.52        M     3.675    3.763   3a.t   S.90    4t074
total Curr*  Li It                US"   36,213  3                                                              s 10 t7S  2  29     994  S.641  s5  1 414   13.71    9.129   9.493    9.8a
..............
&Mcl twu                            34.91    40,59   A.49   10,0   7n.2t     3,890   SS,047              na.    u.s.       P.O.      e.*    n.e.    n.s
for.Ign Legu                        43.34    65,614   61.462   MO,39W   2,21 2t8,S20  13.91e. e.    n.e.    ".s.    n.e.    ne.    D..
holts                          90,24   MO,913   MAI4  2.947  300,05  2MO4S  MOWS                  92,733  19,.ss 14t,340  02,t49  922,43  193.455  1MOW47
Ttl  clebiltgee                     U46.9  144.2641.s2M   241,322  MOW,sts  MA9N390 4MA.2              9039   1Wd9  ts2,r64  145Q.O  131.902  122,9    9.29
Cap0tl md  eswvs 4t   rth)    25,204  20,40   20,151   2OO60               001  47,772   "2           191,06  271,7T   314       3411,0   53,909   0.14  301,1S6
tota LlabIl*tl,             s m,d We worth  74,6    W   n,62v  2,462  s3,919  w,62  54,201            m9.4   411.431  467,590  40.2   461,091  W19.092  4,9
Pluileld Ratio
................... ............. 
Current  attIo @1                       9.9      1.0     1.1      2.4    92.9       3.5    .OA             .9    11.1       r.5      7       #2.0    153.     14.6
eabe ftt gattll 4V                      3.5      ,7       3.41    7.7      4.9      6.2      3.           0.5      6.1      0.4      0.4      0.3     0.5      0.3
Ott/qadty porsents                    1T73      791        1M    6/1     W/O    W14    72               32/474    36      31/9    207       24M74    24/rn    21/yr
........................................................................................................................................ ...................
N*: noe   ..    h elium abeta   ae preP ta  &oil,b by MA mkiu  tlb  _acam    boub'rale  free MAPa  origia  Arabie
aecuma.  ts iusZisletiaS reNoin bs -   tlb  balc  e t and incI   stat t that Wor ottributabte to tbs use of different
for th  esutrnmt  to the _gtli  atsewa.
a. lre... lnPt  1990 rnleted to I r_a  trawn otr . 61   Wte  Port assate from INC.  d th  corroapendlns tiability owed to lgt.
b. tlcIet  suplus dttibuston and "urrWnt prti  of 1t#r debt.
c. Current  at    divided by currat iatblti .
E. ton m debt divided by cap4tal sd rasrues.
SGUrc: SPA Md StalEf AWpratl epert fo. 3Me-U.
ELD T12.WK1



ARNO MUBlIC OF EBT                                                        TABM  13
EL DIMIIA PORT PROtW      S (WM 2183-.T)
PROMCT C0S6=00 REPORT
Table 13. studies and Tcbaiel Aseistane
TYe of Study                         Prpose of Study                            Statust                    mpact of study
L. Ports odersnixation 8tudy         To provide AP and the                      Study comleted 09/86S    Provided the        for futue port
*ove inent with specific.                 updated 03/OS.            deelopment. subject to its belng
engineering end planning                                            updated a- deme necessay.
proposalk for the contined
wodernisatio  Of the port of
Ale2 ria. Incluing the
integration of Dikhoia port.
2. Wave action Study                 To collect data and .mitor                  n-going, Will be           lts of study being conducted by thes
wave effects at moles A & B.              completed in 1993.         hoProtection Departmnt of the Ministry          t
of Transport will be used to evalute
requirements, if any, for additioasl wavo
protection.
3. coot aceutin  system study       Establish cost accounting                  COMpleted 06/89.          Ala has imlemented the cost accoanting
eystem  ich WM" identify                                            sytes in 8 cost centers ad the reults
prodctive and adainistrative                                        will be used to eoview port tariffb every 3
cost centers.                                                       yearS.
4. Revied Port waster Plan           TO provide APA witb an                     Updated 12/07.            Upating of original 1977 Water Plan.
outline port layout plan with                                       tatest updating givea  r     _omeoded
recommended phase of                                                alternative layouts for 1995. 2006
development to 2010.                                                and beyond. lwyout for 199S accepted
in principle by APA.
no T13.1Kl



-35-
TAnwLE 14
Page 1 of 3
ARAB REPUBLC OF EGYPT
EL DIKHEILA PORT PROJeCT LAN M2183-NOT
LOAN 2183-RGT
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
STATUS OF COVENANTS (AS OF DCEMB=R 9912)
Loan                                         Deadline
Agreement                                      for
Reference           Subject                  Compliance         Status
Main Text of Loan Acreement
1.  Sec. 2           Completion of               June 1986          Completed 12/31/91
project
2.  Sec. 2.04        Loan Closing date           December 1986      Extended five
12/31/86                                      times at
Borrower's request
Act. Date 6/91.
3.  Sec. 3           Commence loan repay-        March 1986         Complied with 3/86
ment by APA
4.  Sec. 4.02(a)     Provide to Bank pro-        June 1983          Complied with -see
gram for settlement of                        4.02(b).
APA's accounts receivable
5.  Sec. 4.02(b)     Easure implementation of  NID                 Existing system
of APA's accounts receiv-                     allows 3-months
able settlement program                       for settlement
as agreed with Bank.                          with court action
where necessary
after 4 months.
6.  Sec. 4.02(c)     Ensure settlement of        N/D               Special conditions
APA's accounts receiv-                        to be included in
able within 3 months                          future contracts
of billing.                                   between APA and
customers.
7.  Sec. 4.03(a)     Take action to effect APA  July 1983           Implemented by law
tariff system on basis                        24/83.  Nov. 1983
of ships GRT.



-36-
Table 14
Page 2 of 3
Loan                                          Deadline
Agreement                                       for
Reference        subject                      Compliance        Status
8.  Sec. 4.03(b)      Enact port tariff system    Jan. 1986      Complied with,
for APA to achieve fin-                    6/88
ancial objectives of
project with ANSDI.
9.  Sec. 2.03WA)     APA to undertake port         Dec. 1983     Report completed
modernisation study                         9/86.
as under,Part C.
10. Sec. 2.03(b)      Exchange views with          N/D           Views exchanged as
Bank on Bank's recomm-                     required.
endations and steps.
taken.
11. Sec. 3.04(a)     APA to prepare proposal       June 1983     Undertaken as and
to ensure proper                           when necessary
staffing/operation &                       after commiss-
maintenance of facili-                     ioning of new
ties operated by APA                       facilities;
and training needs.                        started 10/86.
12. Sec. 3.04(b)      Implementation of such        N/D          Training needs
(training) proposals to                    included in
time schedule agreed                       bidding documents
with Bank.                                 agreed with Bank
prior to issue, &
in general staff
training program.
13. Sec. 3.06(a)     APA to ensure effective       July 1983     Complied with.
separation of commercial
activities from accoun-
ting department.
14., Sec. 3.06(b)    APA to introduce proce-       July 1983     Introduced as
dures to- keep cost                        project components
accounting/internal                        came into
reporting system                           operation.
current.



- 37 -
MFfle 14
Page 3 of 3
Loan                                          Deadline
Agreement                                       for
Reference        Subject                      Compliance    Status
15. Sec. 4.91(b)     APA to establish separate   N/D            Complied with,
accounts for E1 Diklteila                  3/86.
Port operations.
16. Sec. 4.01(c)     APA to establish account-   N/D            Complied with,
ing procedures to                         3/87.
identify operation
costs for mineral jetty/
storage handling/cost
of minerals.
17. Sec. 4.04(a)     APA to 1) cover opert.       N/D           Complied with.
costs/depreciation;
2) meet interest on and
amortize its debts; 3)
maintain working capital;
4) make adequate provisions.
18. Sec. 4.04(a)     APA to take measures to                    Corplied with.
provide revenues each year
to S) generate equivalent
of reasonable portion of
capital expenditures, inclu-
ding replacement of assets.
19. Sec. 4.04(b)     APA to ensure annual RR of                 1986/7 15.6*
not less than: 9% pre-1985/86;           . 1987/8 16.9%,
8% 1985/6; 4% 1986/7; 5%                  1988/9 22.2%,
1987/88; 7% 1988/89; and                  1989/90 15.8%
10 percent onwards.
20. Sec. 4.05(a)     APA not to incur other debt  N/Df          Complied with
unless net revenues before
depreciation/interest for
prior FY or prior 12 months
shall not be less than 1.5 x
greatest debt service, inclu-
ing succeeding fiscal years.



- 38 -
MLL 1i
ARMB REPUBLIC OP EGYPT
EL DIKHEILA PORT PROJECT. LOAN 2183-EGT
PROJECT COMPLETIONREEPORT
USE 0F SANK RE_SOURCRS
Stage of
Proiect Cycle                 Planned      ReZLAed     Final
-------(In Staffwaeks)-----
Through Appraisal                       -           -         73.2
Appraisal through                       -           -        125.4
eoard Approval
3oard Approval                          -           -          N/A
through
Effectiveness
Supervision                             -           -        176.aJ
Total
A/ Excludes PCR preparation.
M:NgGTVPA056\PCR\XABLE15



- 39 -
EDPUCIS                                                 TAKLE 16
M   RIEPULIC Of EGYPT
....................................._
EL DIKlEILA PORT PROJECT (LOM 2183-ET)
.............. ............................ 
POECT  IPLETIW REPORT
.........................
Ntealan Dots
.............
Ni..'.'
NInth/   No. of   Das in    Specilizatio
year     PerS'   Field        Repr_sted
......   ......... .......    ............ .................
Identif ieation         01/80         1         10    ECI
Prepration 1             05/0         2         20     ECU, EGA
Preparation 11           10/80         2         10    ECN, EOR
Appraisal                0'/81        5          23    ECK (2), EGR (2), FIA
Appraisal Update         11/81         3         2?    ECI, EGR, flA
Stbtotal                                 90
Supoewiion 1             06/8          1          5    EGR
Sqaevision  t            02/84        2          2      FEA, PltC
Supervision III          11/84         1         14    PRC
supervision IV           05/85         1         11    EGO
Seriolon V               O088          1         10    fFA
Supwvision VI            02/86        2         28    EGR, FIA
Siparvision VII          10/86        2         20    EGR, PlC
Suspvisin  Vill          04/8?        3          14    ECU, EGO, PFA
Sieion IX                12/          3          14    ECU. E6R, FIA
iSqsion X                OSl/I        3          13    ECU, ESR, FPA
SupwvisionXl             12XWa        2          IS    EUl, ECU
Supwvisfon XII           06/89        2          7    EU, ECU
Supervision XIII         03/90         2         6     EGR, ECI
SPO"Ision XIV            11/90         1         4     EAR
m*tot tt163
Camletfon                0/91         2          6     EN, ECU. (CONS)
Total                                   259
EC&Econiost; EGRaninser; FlAuFIfncit Analyst;
PlCProcrnmnt Specialtit.
0P16S.p



EL DIKHEILA PORT PROJECT. LOAN 2183-EGT
ACTUAL DISBURSEMENT RELATIVE TO LOAN
140__                                                           _ _ _ _  _  __  _
130                                                                 _ _  _   _ _
120                        -   74
110   -     -                      l                   ..  ,.
100
50          .       _J__._
40 ==T== =
za            ____                    ____ v__
JUN 82         JUN84         JUN86          JUN 88        JUN 90
JUN 83        JUN 85         JUN 87         JUN 89        JUN 91
DATE
0   EST. AT APPRAISAL     +  ACTUAL DIS8/MENT       O  REV. TOTAL LOAN



.nn.n...n..nfn    nn.n.wwnnawon.                            .nn...n.....n..n.                 fl        n....,   nfl    ffnn.....   ..n....................                    ...............I.. ........
.~~~~.   fl....-fl.--nn.    -                                                                       -~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~..... ..............I.... ..................................................  .....
....                                                                             ..... . ..... .....                                                                                                                                                                            M
.w...,   ..n.*nnn.n~~~~~~~~~~u~~n.~~~.nn.nflnnm  ~~.......n...I............f........ ..........n........... . ..    .........n                                                                        .....   ....    ........
-                                                                                                   --                                                                    14114,34*:~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~la  111
fln.flfltnrn..fl.    ..n,n,nn.nwt.   ,        ...........                                                .      ....   nl................i  ....... .........  .. . f.......                           ..............   .    ..                        .............                  ..........
7   -  .                                                                                                               7      'fi.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.....                                            -lw Wiloo
einl*vg.in,  £7391 .1369 111.11                                             41tt" 9.#gm141w 314
..n.n.fln,    fin                                                                                                 .n..~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~...... ...................  .................                                                         .   ... ................
Pfs*h M
Off9 )4
6-4                                                              it-fl~~~~~~~~~~~~~~....   .  ..    .   ...  ........  ........    .   ..........                                                   .......  -          .........                   .........  ...                                                                          I0
I                                                                    7    .ini.                                                                                                                MI~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~O
...........       .lntlfllf l                                                    .........                                                           .   .......... .......................  ...                          ....  ..    ....  .......     ...........                                                .. ................
$469 10 1A 0114
I                                                                                                                                                         2    ....                                                                                                         1031$ pi:
........                      .........   ....    .. ........   ....-....                                          ....   .............                              ..... ......    ................                                                                       .....Sw i..        II
w1w~A911
101 ...           SU.        ofw   m                                                             916113111
..   ....  ...............................  ......I ....... .  ............... ...............  ...............................  ...............  ......
lag. luiliem 13991~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ lmomolo
.....................1131 ................   .......    ...........                                                          ...                            .....
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~. . .W                                                                                                                                                                              1     
34*7.10 733143 113 ~ ~ ~ ~         ~         ~         ~         ~        ~        ~        ~        ~ ~ P~d 



ARAB REPUBUC OF EGYP
EL DIKHEILA PORT PROJECT (LOAN 2183-EGT
PROJECT COMPTON REPOR 
CHART 3. ALEXANDRIA PORT AUTHORITY, CENTER DEPARTMENT FOR FINANCIAL MD COMMERCIAL AFFAIRS
ORGANIZATION CHART, AUGUST 1991
CENER DEPARTMENT
SCOMMEc IAL AFFAIRS
80CRETARYwmiG .                                AHNITATU
DENPARTMENT       DEPARTMENT                   G9RPARTLNT  DEPARTMET   DEPARTMENT      DEPARTMN          DEPARTMENT
REVE      CM   CONTRCTC I             STORES           AUIT          SAFE CASH       COSTING &          ACCOUNTS
PURCHASE                                                               UDE
FEES              LOCALO             STORESRNUEJTGNRA
SECTION           OONTRACTS           CENTRAL                                           FLO-PAOUN
PURCHASES
FOREIGN ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~VTI                        SCORES
RENTS             EXTERAFL             MAIN                                             CO|             ACCOUNT
SECTION           CONTRACTS            STORES
& PURCHASES
MARNKETING                                                                 ACCOUNT___
SECTION
|   FEE8    l    l   LOCAL    l    |  STORE8   1           | | RENUHERATICN |  | GREENUEL  
| 8~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~BCTION qXNRf    N   OU    



_IRD 15905R
ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
DIKHEILA  PORT PROJECT
ORIGINAL PROPOSALS AT APPRAISAL
PROPOSED:
. Roads
Rood Improvement
Ro~~~~~~~~~<   Yilwayg                                                                LIZ
EZI  Filled Areo
Customs Fence
an Gates                                         PbEfXRlict neh aw\                              \     /       \         
Green Areais                 f1/&' Poll ntan  ,  
f- Dredging (depth in meters)                                                                                            \..>w 
EXISTiN-G                                                 //\120.<LgRecl intto'
9~~~                          ~     ~     ~ SXtoce   Reclaimer        B uildiirngAt
\\    lb                        \                                                         A                     .,-Rzilwo  UR H  At 
-    Conveyors      Conain
14 ~ ~ ~
BASIN ~  ~     ~      N
- \  \  {--------------I
\MNERAL JETTY                                    1                   EO 
NOTE' Ore comwyor sytem and stoclyard                                                                                                                                        T                      SYRIAN
iayoot er  diawra tic onl/y,                                                                               \ /RU -<-   ARAB
\   /   \N                            .-    -                -           .                  4Vec>ts~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Moaarzooeon 5esa LEANON   REP.o 
ISRML      o
furXe{~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Ow t     SANO
O~~~~~~~~~~~r ~ ~~                                                                                                                    I
Art,. wmvufswcfnc&n                                                                                                           ~~~~~~~         ~       ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~LIBYA   1JR!I
The~~~~~~~~I&OIA2dI* 'ned                                                                          M~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~AETERS             RPBC           5
m 61, map dor;tnio hnan ibe                                                                        'o,                   L      200    J00    600    800    1000                   OF EGYPT
c,o~~~ ~~f                                                                               \                                                                                        - --
..                ...                                                                                                                                                                             AN



