Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY i
Report No. 3799a-EGT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
EL DIKHEILA PORT PROJECT
ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
May 14, 1982
Regional Projects Department
Europe, Middle East and North Africa Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



FISCAL YEAR
July 1 - June 30
CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit                      =  Egyptian Pound (£E)
Central Bank Rate
US$1.0                             =  £E 0.7  ) for Official Cen-
US$1.428                           =  £E 1.0  ) tral Bank trans-
actions
Commercial Bank Rate
US$1.0                             =  £E 0.84 ) for economic
US$1.19                            =  EE 1.0  ) analysis (non-
tradeable items)
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System                   US Equivalent
1 meter (m)                     =  3.28 feet (ft)
1 kilometer (km)                =  0.62 miles (mi)
1 metric ton (m ton)            =  2204 pounds (lb)
1 hectare (ha)                  =  2.47 acres
1 cubic meter (m3)              =  35.27 cubic feet



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
APA                Alexandria Port Authority
BCEOM               Bureau Central d'Etudes pour les
Equipements d'Outre-Mer (France)
CIF                 Cost Insurance and Freight
dwt                Deadweight tonnage
ER                 Egyptian Railways
grt                Gross registered tons
GWE                 General Warehouses of Egypt
IMC                Industrial and Mining Complexes
JICA                Japanese International Cooperation Agency
NK                 Nippon/Kokan
NTS                 National Transport Study
PAM                 Port Autonome de Marseilles (France)
PMM                Peat Marwick & Mitchell (UK)
TPA                 Transport Planning Authority,
Ministry of Transport
Communications and Shipping
UASC                United Arab Stevedoring Company
USAID              United States Agency for International
Development
WYP                 White Young and Partners (UK)
The words Dikheila and El Dikheila are used synonymously in this report
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



I



STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
EL DIKHEILA PORT PROJECT
ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
Table of Contents
Page No.
I.   THE TRANSPORT SECTOR ...........................1
A. The Transport System ..........................                                                     1
B. Transport Policy, Planning Organization and
Coordination .>.............................    2
C. The Transport Modes.                                                                               4
D.   Previous  Transport  Projects .                    ...................................   7
II.    ALEXANDRIA  PORT ...................................................   8
A.   Port  Facilities ...............................................    8
B.   Organization,  Management  and  Staffing..........................   9
C.  Training .............................................                                           12
D. Operations .............                                                                          13
E.   Port  Planning  and  Development  Strategy .........................  14
F.   Budget,  Accounts,  Audit,  Insurance .............................  15
III.  THE  PROJECT ....................................................                                     17
A.   Background  and  Master  Plan ..................................... 17
B. Project Obectives ............................. 19
C. Engineering Aspects ............................                                                  19
D.  Details of the Project ............................                                              20
E. Cost Estimates ............................                                                        21
F. Financing Plan ............................                                                       23
G. Procurexuent ............................                                                         25
H. Disbursement ............................                                                          27
I. Project Execution ............................                                                    28
J. Operational Targets ............................                                                  30
K. Environmental Aspects ............................                                                30
L. Employment Impact ............................                                                    31
This report has been prepared by Messrs. D. Grant Duff (Port Engineer),
P.O. Cheryan (Financial Analyst), N.C. Yucel (Senior Economist), M. Collins
(Consultant Engineer) and I. Smith (Consultant Economist), following an
appraisal mission in Egypt from April 29 - May 21, 1981 and an updating
mission from November 13 - December 10, 1981.



Table of Contents (cont'd) ..........................................  Page No
!V.  ECONOMIC EVALUATION..........................................  31
A. General .31
B. Traffic Projections..                                                   32
C. Project Benefits .35
D. Economic Costs of the Project ..    37
E.  Economic Return and Sensitivity Analysis and Risks .37
V.   FINANCIAL EVALUATION.         ...........................                   39
A.  Introduction ...........................                               39
B. APA's Present Financial Situation .40
C. Future Prospects .43
VI. RECOMMENDATIONS    ..50
ANNEXES
1    Port and Port Traffic .............................................. 54
2    Details of Cost Estimates .......................................... 67
3    Principal Iterms of Equipment ....................................... 68
4    Alexandria Port Modernisation Plan; Main Objectives ................ 70
5    Selected Documents Available in the Project File ................... 72
Map IBRD No. 16270 Arab Republic of Egypt Transportation System.
Map IBRD No. 15904 Dikheila Port Project (showing Alexandria Port)
Map IBRD No. 15905 Dikheila Port Project



I. THE TRANSPORT SECTOR
A. The Transport System
1.01     Egypt has a land mass of about 1 million sq. km (equal to that of
France and Spain combined). However, most of its 43 million population and
nearly all economic activity are concentrated in 4% of this area, the
remainder being desert and wasteland. The main economically active parts of
the country are the 900 km long valley of the Nile, especially its Delta, the
area adjacent to the Suez Canal, and small areas in both the eastern and
western deserts. Nearly half of the population lives in urban centers, of
which Cairo with 8 million inhabitants and Alexandria at the western corner of
the Delta with 2.6 million, are the largest.
1.02     The most important transport corridors in Egypt are between Cairo and
Alexandria, and along the Nile. Other corridors lead to the Suez Canal from
the Nile Valley. Outside of urban areas, transport demand is greatest in the
densely populated Delta area, where urban development is giving rise to
increasing intercity transport (Map 16270).
1.03     Egypt's diverse transport network of which road transport is the
dominant mode, was in a dilapidated state after the war years ending in 1973
both with regard to its physical assets and the organizations that
administered the sector and operated within it. The main physical
deficiencies have been: (i) in the railways, shortages of locomotives and
rolling stock; (ii) at Alexandria, which is the major port, congestion because
of inadequate facilities; (iii) the poorly maintained road network; and (iv)
waterways which are also in poor condition and operate with an inadequate
fleet. Since 1975 the Government has been correcting some of these
deficiencies with increased allocations for infrastructure in both railways
and ports (in which the Bank Group played a part with two railway projects and
a port project). The Egyptian Railways (ER) have not recovered significantly
as yet. However, with a reform law in 1980, ER became semi-autonomous (para.
1.19), and this provides a basis for reconstituting the railways as a viable
enterprise. Alexandria Port has increased its cargo throughput, primarily by
utilizing costly methods such as lighterage and a three-shift work schedule,
but serious congestion remains with long ship waiting times. The Government
has embarked on a long-term port development program based on the recently
completed National Transport Study to alleviate capacity shortages at all
ports.
1.04     Transport growth rates since 1975 (following table) have been about
12% per annum. This trend is expected to continue in view of the anticipated
rapid economic growth and increase in population. Road transport has been
able to take up the growth in internal demand that other modes have been
unable to meet, but with increasing traffic, many roads will soon reach
capacity, all roads are in great need of maintenance, and many need
rehabilitation. In the near future, all transport facilities are likely to
come under severe strain.



-2-
Annual Transport Growth Rates in Egypt
1969-1974               1975-1979
1. Railways
-  Intercity passenger trips              7.3%                  1.4%
-  Freight movements                      1.4%                  1.1%
2. Roads
-  Number of passenger cars               7.7%                 13.8%
-  Number of buses                        8.4%                  9.7%
-  Number of trucks                       8.6%                 19.9%
-  Consumption of gasoline                  n.a.               13.5%
-  Consumption of diesel 1/                 n.a.               10.5%
-  Road traffic                           8.0%  (Est.)         12.0% (Est.)
3. Alexandria Port
-  General Cargo                         -1.4%                 14.1%
-  Dry bulk                              10.7%                 -2.0%
-  Liquid Bulk                           21.0%                  3.2%
-  Total throughput                      10.2%                  4.1%
1/ Includes uses other than on roads.
Source: National Transport Study (NTS) 1980 and Transport Planning
Authority (TPA).
B. Transport Policy, Planning, Organization and Coordination
Transport Organization and Coordination
1.05      At the national level four principal Ministries and the Governorates
are responsible for the transport sector: (i) the Ministry of Transport and
Communications responsible for main and secondary roads, inland waterways and
the railways; (ii) the Ministry of Maritime Transport for ports and shipping;
(iii) the Ministry of Petroleum for pipelines; and (iv) the Ministry of Civil
Aviation. Two other ministries also participate: the Ministry of Development,
Housing and Land Reclamation in charge of infrastructure investments in the
Suez Canal Zone, the Sinai and the western desert and for specific urban
development projects; and the Ministry of Industry in charge of industrial and
mining projects, including the related transport facilities. Roads, railways,
and ports built by the latter two ministries are normally handed over to the
in-line ministries for operation and maintenance. Transport coordination
between ministries is through the Cabinet. Since 1979, the Governorates have
had ministerial status through the participation of Governors in the Cabinet,
with the Secretariat for Local Government representing Governorate interests
and acting directly through the Prime Minister's office for operational
control.



3-
Transport Planning
1.06     Transport planning had been fragmented and uncoordinated until 1973
when the Government set up the Transport Planning Authority (TPA) within the
Ministry of Transport and Communications. In 1976, the TPA initiated a
comprehensive National Transport Study (NTS), the first phase of which was
completed in 1977, identifying major deficiencies in the transport system
which are being addressed under the second phase. The second phase, finalized
recently, formulated a five-year transport plan for the period 1983-87. TPA
has already initiated discussions within the Government to formalize the plan
to be incorporated in the National Development Plan. This process is still
underway, however, because of the urgent need to expand port capacities. The
port subsector development program has already been reviewed and accepted at
the Cabinet level (para. 1.14). The proposed project will help maintain the
close relationship that the Bank has established with TPA and other transport
related agencies, and will help the Bank to follow closely the formalization
process of the transport plan and formulation of an implementation program.
1.07     The proposed transport plan combines several policy recommendations
regarding pricing, regulation and administration of land transport services
with a list of projects designed to increase the capacities of basic
infrastructure to meet the expected growth in traffic. The total freight
transport is projected to increase by about 55% by 1987 reaching 24 billion
ton-km level. Highways will continue to carry the bulk of this traffic;
however, both railways and inland waterways will also move increasing volumes
of freight. Passenger traffic is expected to grow even more rapidly, about
75% during the same period reaching 60 billion passenger-km. The plan places
emphasis on greater utilization of the existing facilities through
rehabilitation, better operational arrangements and strengthening maintenance
capabilities of transport agencies. The new projects proposed under the Plan
are primarily designed to serve the heavily used corridors such as
Alexandria-Cairo and other routes in the Delta area. The combination of
policy recommendations designed to bring about a rational utilization of
transport facilities and much needed physical improvements is expected to make
a significant contribution to the transport requirements of the economy and
bring about a well-coordinated transport system.
Transport Policies and Constraints
1.08     The over-riding constraint in the sector is the inadequacy of the
various transport agencies, especially in planning and operational
activities. All transport agencies are confined by restrictive civil service
regulations and suffer from very low salary structures and limited rewarding
career development opportunities.
1.09     Choice of transport mode is free in Egypt.  However, the railways
cannot carry all the traffic that is being offered and public sector bus and
trucking companies are not very competitive because of the poor quality of
their services, which is mainly due to Government controls. As a result,
freight is being diverted to private truckers, and intercity taxi services
have been able to cut substantially into the passenger market at the expense
of public bus services and railways even though both bus and railways tariffs
are held low.



-4-
1.10     Transport accounts for about 30% of domestic petroleum consumption,
and although Egypt has only limited proven petroleum reserves, domestic prices
for fuel are well below economic costs, especially gas-oil. In order to
assist Egypt in this area, a pricing study was financed under the Gulf of Suez
project (Loan No. 1732-EGT) which has since been completed. The major finding
of the study is that the current energy price levels and related energy
consumption growth are unsustainable without impairing Egypt's development
objectives. Based on the findings of the study, the Bank will undertake wide
ranging discussions with the Government on the question of petroleum prices
and on the overall issue of efficient energy use. Meanwhile the Government
has recently stated its intention to bring domestic energy prices more closely
in line with international prices and the price of premium gasoline is
expected to rise significantly over the next five years.
1.11     The NTS Phase II Report contains several specific recommendations:
(i) on operational improvements in the different transport agencies and
companies; (ii) on revisions of the laws and regulations controlling
transport; and (iii) on appropriate levels of user charges and tariff
structures. Implementation of these recommendations will have to be
coordinated carefully with the Government's plan for further reforming the
public sector transport agencies and companies and, in the case of transport
user charges, with general fuel price adjustments.
C. The Transport Modes
(i) Ports
1.12     The Port of Alexandria is by far Egypt's largest port.  The ports at
Suez and Port Said, at either end of the Suez Canal, are much smaller. Other
ports are Safaga, primarily a phosphate port on the Red Sea coast, and Mersa
Matruh, a lighterage port serving regional needs of the Western Mediterranean
coast.
1.13     The Port of Alexandria embarked in 1976 on a program of
rehabilitation and modest expansion to alleviate congestion and meet
short-term needs. Cargo handling and operational equipment was modernized and
accumulated maintenance dredging undertaken. Construction of new deep water
berths is still underway. Throughput at Alexandria reached 14.7 million tons
(excluding petroleum) in 1980 and to well over 18 million tons in 1981. With
the expected growth in traffic, these new facilities should be fully utilized
as soon as they become available in 1983. Additional port capacity is
therefore urgently needed, but Alexandria Port, being closely encircled by the
city, cannot be easily further expanded.
1.14     Based on the findings of several country-wide port studies and Phase
II of the NTS, the Government has initiated a port development program. The
first phase of the proposed Dikheila Port is the priority project within this
plan. In addition, the plan provides for construction of a new port at
Damietta at the eastern corner of the Delta. The first phase of Damietta is
to proceed in two stages. The first stage is scheduled for completion in



-5-
1986, the commissioning of the second stage is expected to require an
additional two to three years. When completed, Damietta Phase I will provide
a capacity for about 6 million tons for grain imports, timber and general
cargo including container facilities. There are also plans to allocate some
capacity for container transit traffic. The National Port Plan also includes
rehabilitation of Port Said, Port of Suez and Safaga. The port plan
represents a coordinated approach to the elimination of bottlenecks at all
ports and should, therefore, foster the country's efforts for economic
development and growth. Details of the port plan are given in Annex 1.
(ii) Highways
1.15     The overall road density of about 700 m per square km in the
populated areas of both upper and lower Egypt is generally adequate for the
present needs of the country, but the condition of the road network is poor.
Also, with increasing population densities and with growing per capita
incomes, demands will certainly increase in the foreseeable future. In the
Nile Valley and the Delta a network has for the most part evolved from the
gradual upgrading of roads which were not originally designed for modern,
heavy and high speed motor vehicles. The need to preserve agricultural land
prevents acquisition of extensive rights-of-way for roads and thus forces
traffic to concentrate on the present network. Most of the paved roads no
longer have the bearing capacity to meet present traffic demands, and all of
them have suffered from lack of maintenance.  As a consequence, many roads
need extensive rehabilitation, and widening.  In desert areas, roads are
generally adequate to meet the demands.
1.16     Out of a total highway network of about 28,500 km, about 52% are
paved, of which about 18% are classified as main roads.  The network is
divided into those administered by the Roads and Bridges Authority (RBA)
(about 40% of all the roads), and those administered by the Governorates and
other agencies. Most of the RBA roads are paved, while most of the
Governorate roads are unpaved. About 80% of all paved roads have a
carriageway of 6 m or less.
1.17     The motor vehicle fleet grew at an average rate of about 15% p.a.
between 1975 and 1979 (para. 1.04), and though Cairo and Alexandria together
hold the greater part of the fleet, the growth rates have generally been
higher outside these two metropolitan areas. Overall, there are about 10
motor vehicles (8 passenger cars and taxis) per 1,000 inhabitants. Heavy
vehicles (buses and trucks) now constitute about 42% of the traffic on the
main roads. Freight transport services are provided by five public sector
trucking companies, private sector trucking cooperatives and independent -truck
owner/operators, generally in competition with each other. Highway freight
transport is not regulated and, except for normal registration and licensing,
there are no restrictions on entry into the industry, nor on the
specifications of vehicles and their operations. The public sector companies
have been expanding at much lower rates than private truckers in recent
years. Intercity bus services are provided by four regional public sector bus
companies. Taxi licenses are issued freely and do not contain limitations as
to routes or areas of operation, but bus fares are Government regulated.



-6-
(iii) Railways
1.18     The ER operates a standard gauge system of 3900 route-km of which 950
km is double track. The only electrified line is a 25 km suburban link
between Cairo and its industrial suburb Helwan. The system's main trunk runs
from Alexandria to Cairo and up the Nile to Aswan.  In the Delta, this trunk
is fed by an extensive network of main and branch lines that link it with all
important economic centers.
1.19     For many years, critical shortages of locomotives and rolling stock
have affected all operations, especially freight traffic which fell to 2
billion ton-km in 1976. Sirce then, the Railways have invested heavily in new
equipment and traffic has recovered to 2.5 billion ton-km. Since 1973,
passenger traffic has grown at an average rate of about 3 percent per annum to
a level of 7.3 billion passenger-km in 1979, but most of this growth occurred
on the Helwan suburban line. The ER has incurred losses in its operating
accounts during the recent years.  In 1980, legislation was passed to make ER
semi-autonomous, so that it could operate more freely and be independent of
civil service regulations and the Government salary structure.
(iv) Inland Waterways
1.20     The primary waterway system consists of Lake Nasser between the
Sudanese border and the Aswan High Dam; the Nile River between Aswan and
Cairo; and the Beheiri and Nobaria Canals between Cairo and Alexandria; in all
some 15,000 km. In addition, there are about 1850 km of secondary waterways
in the Nile Delta. Inland waterway services are provided by three public
sector companies, private motorboat operators and traditional sailing boat
operators. Inland water transport is hampered by the aged condition of the
fleet and by navigation conditions that do not permit boats to be loaded to
their capacity. Total traffic is estimated at 1.5 billion ton-km for 1979,
i.e. about two-thirds of rail freight movements. Petroleum products for upper
Egypt are the most important conunodity group, followed by minerals and coal.
Expenditures for maintenance and improvement in inland waterways are being
raised to more reasonable levels, from LE 3.5 million in 1977 to LE 11.0
million in 1979. In 1978, the taxes, fees and duties raised by Government
from inland waterway users is estimated at only LE 0.7 million, which is
insufficient to cover maintenance of the waterways.
(v)   Pipelines
1,21     The pipeline network of Egypt comprises about 1,400 km of pipe
carrying crude oil and petroleum products and about 600 km of pipe carrying
natural gas. These networks carry all the natural gas and about 50%, or 7
million tons/annum in 1977 of the crude oil and petroleum products. The
remaining petroleum products are carried by road and inland water transport.
Six oil refineries at various sites in lower Egypt were operating near
capacity in 1980 with a throughput of about 13 million tons per annum. New
crude oil and petroleum product pipelines are planned to meet the expected
increases in demand. For the most part, the existing natural gas pipelines
together with those under construction and planned, are expected to meet
demand through the 1980's.



-7-
(vi) Civil Aviation
1.22     Of the six main airports in Egypt, only Cairo is of international
standard; the rest conform to domestic standards. Egypt Air is the only
authorized carrier for scheduled air services within Egypt. Tourist traffic
which comprises almost all the domestic traffic is concentrated on the
Cairo-Luxor-Aswan-Abu Simbel corridor. Domestic traffic has been increasing
at 17% per annum since 1972 and reached about 450,000 passenger movements in
1978. Cairo Airport handled 3.5 million international passenger movements in
1978, an increase of 11% per annum since 1976. The volume of air freight is
insignificant.
D. Previous Transport Projects
1.23     The Bank Group has made one IDA credit and five Bank loans to assist
the rehabilitation of transport facilities in Egypt. Loan 243-EGT of 1959
(for US$56.5 million) repaid in 1974, Loan 1064-EGT of 1974 (for US$50
million) and Loan 148z-EGT of 1977 (for US$100 million) successfully supported
the development of the Suez Canal.  The canal is an international transport
facility and, as such, its development and operations are considered
separately from the rest of the Egyptian transport system.
1.24     IDA Crelit 284-EGT of 1972 (for US$30 million) and Loan 1098-EGT of
1975 (for US$35 million) provided support for ER's 1971-1977 rehabilitation
and modernization program. The first Railway Credit was eventually closed on
June 30, 1980. The Second Railway Project which had strong
institution-building objectives and financed the National Transport Study,
suffered a setback when ER's operating and financial conditions deteriorated.
However, with the recent law and the implementation of the reforms recommended
by NTS, the performance of the railways is expected to improve, in the future.
1.25     Loan 1239-EGT of 1976 (for US$45.0 million) helped to finance the
rehabilitation of Alexandria port. The project included a comprehensive study
(para. 2.11) of APA's management organization and finances. Execution of the
project has been delayed, partly due to delays in contract award for civil
works in what was the Bank's first involvement in Egypt's port sector.
Project design included in the appraisal has been modified to cater for
increasing container traffic and completion is now scheduled by December 1983.
1.26     Bank lending in the transport sector and, in particular, Bank
involvement in the financing of the National Transport Study, has resulted in
a useful contribution to establishing Egypt's strategy for port development
for many years to come.



-8 -
II. ALEXANDRIA PORT
A. Port Facilities
Situation and Access
2.01     The port and city of Alexandria lie on the Mediterranean coast near
the western extremity of the densely populated Nile Delta. The port is partly
sheltered by an offshore reef running roughly parallel to the shoreline, and
in the absence of any significant tide or littoral drift, the port of
Alexandria and the adjoining site of Dikheila are favourably situated for
navigation. The shore area available to the port is, however, severely
restricted by the encroaching city of Alexandria and by Lake Maryut (Map
15904).
2.02     Vessels enter the deep water of the port through one of two access
channels dredged through the offshore reef. The main channel, known as the
Great Pass, running roughly WNW provides a channel about 2 km in length and
183m wide with a dredged depth of 12m below mean sea level. The Boghaz Pass
1600m in length and lO0m wide lies roughly NW of the port and is dredged to
8m. Pilotage is compulsory.
2.03     Under the Alexandria Port Project, it was intended to provide a
further entrance channel with an almost westerly axis, to be known as the
Alternate Pass, which would afford safer conditions for navigation. This work
has, however, not been executed under the loan in order to ensure that the
channel entrance requirements to an enlarged Alexandria/Dikheila Port complex
can be considered comprehensively. This work will form part of a study for
the modernizatioh of the greater Alexandria Port Area (para. 3.06).
Accommodation
2.04     The commercial port has developed over many years, with numerous
berths and basins of varying lengths and depths constructed along the
shoreline, and protected by a substantial outer breakwater running westward
from the lighthouse promontory. This constitutes the western harbor, and in
addition to commercial berths it accommodates a naval basin, a basin for
petroleum traffic and other specialized facilities such as those for grain.
In the center of the western port area there is a large naval dockyard which
is a considerable obstruction to internal port traffic. Traffic enters and
leaves the port area by a series of gates leading directly onto extremely
congested city roads. To the east of the lighthouse promontory lies the
smaller, shallower port with breakwater protection, used almost exclusively by
fishing and pleasure craft.



-9-
2.05     There are about 49 deep water berths in varying depths with a total
quay length of about 7000m. However these statistics provide a misleading
picture of port capacity when judged against the present day criteria of the
appropriate berth length and depth for ocean going vessels. For general cargo
traffic, for example, there are no more than the equivalent of about 22 berths
suitable for present day vessel sizes. Moreover, these berths often have
narrow quay aprons and antiquated two-story transit sheds which cannot
properly handle palletized goods carried by forklift trucks.
2.06     In recent years APA has commenced a program of port renewal in which
it has also attempted to overcome the effects of years of neglected port
maintenance and improvement. Assistance in this program was provided under
the Bank's Alexandria Port Project, Loan 1239-EGT, which included accumulated
maintenance dredging, the removal of sunken vessels and wrecks and the
construction of a deep water berth which has now been designated as the
container terminal. Cargo handling equipment was provided by USAID, while
tugs, floating craft and workshop equipment were furnished with Japanese
assistance. Project completion is scheduled by 1983. Project implementation
by APA has been generally satisfactory. Alexandria Port Project will thus
alleviate immediate needs, and make it possible to consider the development of
new port facilities at Dikheila under the proposed project. More radical
rehabilitation at Alexandria Port, entailing the withdrawal from service of
unsuitable old-fashioned berths, and improved access could in turn be
contemplated when new port facilities are provided under the proposed project.
B. Organization, Management and Staffing
Organization and Legal Set-up
2.07     Established under Law No. 6 in 1967,  Alexandria Port Authority has
the overall responsibility for the management, control, maintenance, expansion
and modernization of the Alexandria port. Operational responsibility for
various activities at the port, however, is shared by APA with its two
subsidiary agencies, viz. the United Arab Stevedoring Company (UASC) and the
General Warehouses of Egypt (GWE). APA itself provides pilotage, towage,
berthing and other services to ships, while UASC furnishes services for the
stevedoring and shore-handling of cargo, and GWE furnishes services for the
warehousing and storage of cargo. APA and its subsidiaries come under the
supervision of the Ministry of Maritime Transport. In addition, the Governor
of Alexandria has recently been given increased jurisdiction to monitor the
affairs of Alexandria port, which is expected to facilitate the decision
making process.
2.08     APA's organization chart is shown on the next page.  The
responsibilities of each department are clearly designated and are generally
carried out without undue interference from others. The UASC and GWE have
boards of directors and chairmen of their own, and their chairman also serves
on the Board of APA. The agencies responsible for the various port operations
meet weekly with APA to coordinate their respective activities and to discuss
operational problems.



ALEXANDRIA PORT AUTHORITY (APA)
ORGANIZ4TION CiiART
MINISTRY OF                                    COVERNORATE
MARITIME TRANSPORT                               OF ALEXANDRIA
BOARD OF DIREC ORS
ALE:(ANOiD1 IA
PORT AUTHORITY
CItAIRMAN
MANAGEMENT &
ORGAN EZAT ION
SECRETARIAL
PUBLIC REL4TIONS
PLANNING + STATISTICS    ____I
LEGAL AFFAIRS
T'NSJECTION + CONTROL                             .
SECCLRITY
CLA IMS
(181)
MARINE A              ENGNEERING   .TRAFFIC                                      FINANCIAL            ADl4INISTRATION           CONTRACT STAFF
TECHNICAL               SERVICE                                                & CO4M'ERCIAL                                       & EX-NAVAL
SERVICES                                                                          AFFAIRS                                         OFFICERS ON
(1,094)              _   (411)                    (625)                     j        (216)                    (353)          SPECIAL ASSIGNMIENT
____ ____ ___   (4   3)
EX-NAVAL RATINGS
ON SPECIAL DUTY
(349)
Figures in brackets denote numbers of staff in May 1981
APA - Regular Staff                                               2,952
APA - Contract Staff                                                 392
TOTAL STAFF                                               3,344



- 11 -
2.09     APA submitted to government in 1978 a draft revision to the existing
port legislation designed to increase APA's autonomy, and thus enable it to
introduce more efficient operations at the port. This proposed legislation,
however, met some political opposition and was not enacted. Recent devolution
of authority from the central government to governorates, has made it possible
for APA to submit in November 1, 1981 through the Governor of Alexandria
proposals for revisior. of the existing law in order to consolidate and
strengthen APA's powers for controlling all activities at the Alexandria
Port. Envisaged also is a new decree setting out the working regulations and
by-laws of APA. The process for their enactment is lengthy, involving the
President and Parliament of the country, and may take about a year before
final approval. However, the present arrangements are adequate for the
purposes of the project.
2.10     The management of APA and its subsidiaries, though generally
satisfactory, is uneven in certain specific respects such as planning and
accounting. However, there are a few key individuals who are very active and
competent and whose efforts are the main factor in sustaining the durability
of these agencies.  Also because of the existence of APA, UASC and GWE as
separate entities., their operations are not always properly integrated or
coordinated and these weaknesses are aggravated by the present congestion at
the port, and the inadequacy of present port facilities. There is a need to
reinforce APA's administrative authority over all the services that take place
within the port confines, despite improvements which have already been
effected with assistance from consultants engaged under the ongoing project.
2.11     A consultants' (BCEOM/PMM/PAM group) survey on the management,
organization, operations and accounting activities at Alexandria port which
was undertaken in 1978 under the Alexandria Port Project (Loan 1239-EGT), made
a number of recommendations to remedy weaknesses in APA's operations and that
of its subsidiaries. These recommendations included closer integration of the
activities of APA and its subsidiaries, greater delegation of operational and
administrative control to sectors within the port, and tighter procedures for
maintenance and accounting activities. Maintenance procedures have improved
since the inception of the present project despite the congestion at the port,
and with the execution of the present and proposed project further
improvements would be realised (para. 2.21). During negotiations, APA agreed
to submit proposals, not later than june 1983, for the long-term plans for
staffing, operations and training, designed to further overcome the present
managemental weaknesses identified in para. 2.10, and to ensure APA's
preparedness for the wider responsibilities which will result from the
creation of port facilities at Dikheila and to implement these in accordance
with a time schedule satisfactory to the Bank.



- 12 -
2.12     APA's total staff strength in May 1981 was some 3,344 employees of
which 2,952 were regular staff and 392 were temporary employees (ex-naval
officers and ratings on special assignment as advisors and technical staff).
UASC's staff in May 1981 totalled some 8,000 employees of which 5,000 are
dockworkers, while GWE's staff in May 1981 totalled some 2,170 of which about
half are involved in the warehousing of cargo.
2.13     The present staffing of APA and its subsidiaries shows an increase of
about 10% in the numbers employed at the start of the Alexandria Port Project
in 1976. As government encourages public organisations to engage students and
ex-military personnel, clearly APA and its subsidiaries cannot expect
exemption. Nevertheless, recent recruitment of ex-naval officers (para. 2.14)
has been fully justified in view of their contribution to the port's
development program. There is some attrition of staff by retirement. APA
will train their staff for the future operation of container terminals; as a
consequence, even though it may remain slightly overstaffed in the aggregate,
quality of performance will improve and some redeployment to El Dikheila Port
will be possible. However, new specialized staff will still be necessary in
some fields (See Part C).
2.14     The requirements under the ongoing project also included the
provision that APA should complete, by December 31, 1977, a study of
appropriate incentives for the services of qualified staff and the recruitment
of such staff. As a result, APA has introduced productivity standards and
production bonuses. It has also devised a scheme whereby retired naval
officers and ratings, who are competent and qualified, are recruited on a
contract basis on special assignments. This has improved day-to-day port
operations and discipline. Salary scales in Government and Government-owned
entities are relatively low but this is a national problem which can only be
tackled on a national basis.
2.15     Dock labor is unionized, but strikes are forbidden by law.
Negotiations play a key role in labor management. The ships are normally
worked from 8 a.m. till midnight, which is covered by one full shift and two
half shifts. APA is currently working on proposals to change the present wage
structure based on hours worked to a new structure based on tonnage handled.
The new wage structure is expected to be in force by July 1982.
C.   Training
2.16     APA carries out an extensive training program in co-operation with
several institutions, such as the Arab Maritime Academy at Alexandria, the
Economic Centre for Maritime Administration at Alexandria, the Centre for
Organization and Management at Alexandria and Cairo, and the Arab Management
Society at Alexandria. The training department is run capably by a retired
admiral. The training programs for the fiscal year beginning July 1, 1980
summarized below show the wide variety of subjects covered:
(i)   At the Arab Maritime Academy - Alexandria
Courses in a wide range of subjects from management to several
practical courses for technicians such as electricians and mechanics
totalling some 300 trainee man months;



-13 -
(ii)  At the Economic Centre for Maritime Transport - Alexandria
Courses in radar equipment operation and maintenance, and maritime
economics and law totalling some 400 trainee man months;
(iii) At the Centre for Organisation and Management - Alexandria and Cairo
Courses in secretarial and personnel work of about 50 trainee man
months;
(iv)  At the Arab Management Society - Alexandria
Courses in social law, industrial safety and incentives of about 20
trainee man months.
APA's training programme is already extensive, but insufficiently
comprehensive with regard to container operations. APA has shown a readiness
to expand training programs according to need. APA has agreed to submit
detailed proposals for Bank comment on their training program for all staff
who are expected to be directly involved in the operation of container
facilities. Such a program will be included in the staffing and training
plans that APA agreed to submit (para. 2.11). All contracts for the supply of
equipment under the project will contain appropriate provision for training in
its use. Furthermore, APA has adequate funds to continue its present policy
of sending key staff for training at overseas ports as the need may arise.
D. Operations
2.17     Alexandria Port is currently operating in excess of the optimum
capacity of its present facilities, and in recent years has been obliged to
handle an increasing volume of traffic by lighters. General cargo, bagged and
container traffic are handled largely by ships' gear supplemented by an ample
fleet of mobile cranes of varying capacity much of which has recently been
provided through recent loans by USAID and by Japan. UASC is responsible for
unloading cargo from the ship's hold and placing it at the door of the transit
sheds or on the quay. GWE is responsible for moving the cargo from the shed
door into the transit shed and for its subsequent dispatch to consignees. An
increasing proportion of general cargo traffic is now loaded directly on to
trucks which bypass the transit sheds and storage areas because of congestion
on the quays and limited covered and open storage spaces.
2.18     Container traffic is handled at various berths, but this will shortly
be concentrated at the new container and roll-on/roll-off terminal being
constructed under Alexandria Port Project and scheduled to come into operation
in 1983. It will be equipped with two container handling quay cranes and
associated equipment and is designed to handle up to about 100,000 containers
per annum. This new terminal will be operated by APA. A container and
general cargo freight station is now being built at Nobaria, which lies about
20 km from the port in an industrial warehouse area.   This station is being
constructed under the Alexandria Port Project and will be operated by GWE.



- 14 -
2.19     Specialized traffic such as grain, coal and petroleum products are
handled at separate berths operated by state-owned organizations including the
General Company for Silos. In addition, bulk cement is landed at a floating
bagging station operated by a licensee. Lighterage operations are undertaken
both by UASC, and by private companies, the latter being responsible for most
of the recent increase in lighterage.
2.20     Productivity in cargo-handling operations is adequate and has in
general reached the target of 11.3 tons per gang hour set under Alexandria
Port Project (an increase from about 8.9 tons per gang hour in 1975). The
average statistics for 1980 are as follows, in tons per gang hour:
Unloading general cargo               12.9
Loading General Cargo                 15.1
Unloading lumber                      22.3
Cement                                19.1
2.21     A further improvement in the efficiency of port operations is however
expected when the container terminal comes into operation and the congestion
caused by scattered containers is alleviated. When a study is completed of
the modernization of Alexandria Port and its links with Dikheila (para. 3.06),
decisions can then be taken as to any further major improvements within the
Port of Alexandria which are likely to lead to improved traffic throughput.
E. Port Planning and Development Strategy
2.22     The Government decided that the task of creating new port facilities
at Dikheila should be undertaken by an independent agency supported at cabinet
level who would be responsible both for the creation of the Dikheila steel
mill and all the Dikheila port facilities. The agency selected is the
Industrial and Mining Complexes (IMC) of the Ministry of Industry. After
completion of the new port, IMC will hand over the facility to APA for its
operation (paras. 3.01, 3.02). APA is represented on the Higher-Technical
Committee reviewing the development plans for Dikheila but is not directly
involved in the day-to-day tasks of the development of Dikheila. This policy
has been chosen by Government in an attempt to ensure the earliest execution
of port facilities to meet its port development strategy, and there is an
adequate measure of cooperation between APA and IMC to ensure effective
project implementation. Moreover, APA has the necessary capability to
undertake the operation of port facilities at Dikheila, subject to the
staffing and training requirements noted in paras. 2.11 and 2.16. As in the
case of present operations at Alexandria, APA would continue to engage the
services of other appropriate organizations for Dikheila (para 3.07).



- 15 -
F. Budgets, Accounts, Audit, Insurance
Budgets
2.23     APA and its subsidiaries are subject to the standard budgetary
controls exercised by the Government. Annual operating budgets and capital
budgets are broken down by the following subsidiary budgets: Revenue Budget,
Salary Budget, Current Expenses Budget, Capital Projects Budget, and Budget
for the Repayment of Loans. The budgetary system itself is well conceived.
All transactions are pre-checked with budget provisions before commitments are
made; however, the budgetary control reports are not prepared in a timely
manner to help management to compare current actual performance with the
budget. APA is expected to improve its budgetary controls as a result of
improvements in APA's accounts reporting system discussed in paras. 2.25 and
2.26 below.
Accounts
2.24     All organizations in Egypt in the public sector are required to
adhere to the national uniform accounting system in the maintenance of their
accounts. The accounting concepts, classifications, and definitions follow
the generally accepted principles of accounting, and the accounting system
itself is conventional and generally adequate. The annual financial reports
consist of the Balance Sheet, Current Operations Account, Production and
Trading Account, Profit and Loss Account, and a Statement of Sources and Uses
of Funds. These reports are produced in Arabic from which the usual Balance
Sheet and Income Statement for purposes of the financial evaluation included
in this report have been extracted,
2.25     APA's accounting activities have until recently been carried out in a
haphazard manner lacking as it did a qualified and experienced accountant to
head its accounting organization. Also the quality of performance of most of
its accounting staff is in need of improvement. With this in view, APA has
since August 1981 appointed a qualified and experienced accountant as its
Financial and Commercial Director. The new Director is enthusiastic about
introducing improvements all around particularly for putting into effect some
of the recommendations made by the BCEOM group of consultants. Since a great
deal of his attention will be taken up in improving the accounting
organization, activities and performance, it is preferable that the duties
associated with the commercial activities such as insurance, contracts,
purchasing and stores are separated and allocated to another department.
APA's chairman has indicated that such a separation of duties is presently
under consideration. The completion of this separation by July 1, 1983, was
agreed during negotiations.



- 16 -
2.26      APA's internal accounting reporting requirements which are adequate
for APA's management purposes are as follows:
Title                       Frequency            Remarks
Trial balance                           Monthly           actually pre-
pared several
months behind
schedule
Departmental operating statements  Monthly                       "
Execution and payments cover-
ing capital projects                Monthly
Report on financial situation           Quarterly
Cost accounts                           Quarterly
Balance sheet & income statement   Annually               produced within
six months after
year end.
It is expected that with the improvements discussed in the preceding paragraph
the internal submission of the above reports will become more timely. As a
result of the consultants' recommendations, a costing system had been
introduced in APA to determine the cost of operating each type of marine
services. The system is well-conceived but in practice its usefulness has
been reduced by the tardiness in bookkeeping. During negotiations, agreement
was reached that APA will take all the necessary steps by July 1, 1983, for
improving the costing system by implementing the appropriate recommendation of
the consultants BCEOM group in their report dated July 1980 and for the timely
submission of its internal accounting and budgetary control reports.
2.27      The Government has decided to change the accounting year from
calendar year to fiscal year (July 1 to June 30) starting July 1, 1980, the
last accounting period being for six months starting January 1, 1980 and
ending June 30, 1980. This change was a reversion to the fiscal year concept
which was in existence till 1974, when a change to the calendar year concept
was made.
Audit
2.28      Annual audits are conducted by the Central Accounting Organisation,
an agency of the Government, and are considered acceptable. Auditing is
continuous and is usually completed soon after the financial statements are
presented in final form. Auditing comments and queries are discussed and
disposed of during the course of the audit. Under Loan 1239-EGT, Alexandria
Port Project, APA is required to submit audited financial statements within
six months after the end of each fiscal year. APA complies with this
covenant. During negotiations, agreement was reached that APA will continue
to observe this requirement under the proposed Dikheila Port Project.



- 17 -
Insurance
2.29     APA maintains adequate insurance for its equipment.  During
negotiations, confirmation was obtained that adequate insurance coverage will
be provided at dates to be agreed, over the enlarged Alexandria/Dikheila Port
complex.
III. THE PROJECT
A. Background and Master Plan
3.01     The Government of Egypt instructed IMC, an agency of the Ministry of
Industry, to arrange for the development of port facilities at Dikheila to
meet forecast commercial and industrial traffic. The port will in particular
provide facilities for the importation of iron ore and pellets to be used in
the Dikheila integrated steel mill project. IMC retained the consulting
consortium of Bureau Central d'Etudes pour les Equipments d'Outre-Mer
(France), White Young and Partners (UK) and Port Autonome de Marseille
(France) (BCEOM/WYP/PAM), who prepared during 1977 a series of master plan
studies to the year 2000 for the Dikheila Port Project. These studies
embraced many subsidiary analyses, notably hydraulic and mathematical model
tests undertaken by the Laboratoire Central d'Hydraulique de France. Subsoil
information already available from actual and prospective development in the
qicinity of the Port of Alexandria, was supplemented by additional studies for
Dikheila notably seismic surveys by Sesam (France), and soil laboratory
analyses by Dr. A.H. Ramli (Egypt) and by Doris (France). These studies are
adequate for the purpose of obtaining responsible tenders for the development
proposed under the project. Additional soil investigations and studies may,
however, be needed in carrying out the study of Alexandria Port modernization
and its integration with Dikheila.
3.02     IMC is a large public sector construction/management organization
with a staff totalling about 1500 including about 250 engineers specializing
in civil, mechanical and electrical and other fields. IMC's work covers
industrial development especially in the steel, mining and allied fields and
has, for example, included construction management for expansion of the steel
plant at Helwan. IMC carries out feasibility studies, prepares detailed
engineering and undertakes supervision of construction. Its budget has been
adequately secured by revolving funds from the Egyptian Government since the
inception of the organization in 1969.
3.03     Draft master plan proposals for Dikheila prepared by the BCEOM group
were reviewed within Egypt by the Higher Technical Committee for Ports, on
which Alexandria Port Authority was represented, and the plan selected from
amongst several alternatives was also submitted for comment to the
International Engineering Co. Inc. (USA). Their recommendations were taken
into account and a master plan was accepted in principle by the Government as
the basis upon which port facilities should be developed at Dikheila for the
steel mill, as well as for commercial and industrial traffic. Construction of



- 18 -
the port and some associated shoreworks has already started, notably the main
breakwater, the channel dredging and mineral jetty, the commercial berths and
improvement of part of the Alexandria-Mersa Matruh road (para. 3.16).
3.04     Facilities at the port which have been designed to cater to
industrial traffic consist of a mineral jetty and stockyard. These facilities
wi'll initially serve the Dikheila steel mill and the jetty can accept ore
carriers of up to about 160,000 dwt. which would require a channel depth of
20m. A substantial part of total iron ore imports are expected to be carried
in vessels of this size from sources such as Brazil. Egypt has undertaken to
provide facilities for vessels of this size, together with the appropriate
infrastructure for the steel mill, as set forth in an Annex to the Basic
Agreement signed in September, 1981, between the Egyptian Government and the
Japanese Consortium consisting of Nippon Kokan, Kobe Steel Ltd, and Toyo Menka
Kaisha, which will assist in the financing of the steel mill project. IMC
will be one of the Egyptian shareholders in a Joint Venture Company (JVC)
which is scheduled to be established in April 1982 to construct and operate
the steel mill. The Japanese Consortium will be a 10% shareholder in this
Joint Venture Company providing engineering, management and training.
3.05     The steel mill project is designed to have an initial productive
capacity of about 800,000 tons per year of re-bars and rods based on the
direct reduction electric arc furnace process utilizing Abu Qir natural gas.
In addition to Egyptian Govermental and Japanese concessionary funds, the
steel mill project is expected to attract finance from foreign export credit
agencies and commercial sources. A joint appraisal by the Bank and the
International Finance Corporation was undertaken during February 1982 who
reported favorably on the economic viability of the steel project. Site
clearance for the mill has already started and construction of the mill is
scheduled to commence during 1982 leading to completion by the end of 1985.
An integrated construction timetable for both the port proiect and the steel
mill project is given in para. 3,27.
3.06     The commercial port facilities included in the project are derived
from the first stage of Phase I of the 1977 Dikheila Port Master Plan,
providing for container, general cargo and timber traffic. As the
construction of major new port facilities at Dikheila will have an obvious
impact on the present port of Alexandria, the Board of APA has agreed on the
need for a study to review and update APA's own modernization and development
plans in the light of the combined facilities at Alexandria and Dikheila. The
objectives of this study (Annex 4) include:
(i)   the improvement of the main transport arteries to the Port of
Alexandria/Dikheila;
(ii)  the integration of port services offered by Alexandria and Dikheila
and cargo allocations within both parts of the enlarged port;
(iii) the future development of both ports to 1990 with particular
reference to the designation of land for port related use; and



19 _
(iv) recommendations for the entrance channel to Alexandria, in the light
of the new channel being dredged for Dikheila.
During negotiations, confirmation was obtained from the Government that APA
would carry out this study under terms of reference and with the assistance of
consultants satisfactory to the Bank, and that APA would exchange views with
the Bank on the steps to implement the recommendations. APA agreed that the
substantive conclusions of the study would be available for Bank review by
December 31, 1983.
3.07      On completion of construction, the port facilities at Dikheila will
be handed over to APA and become an integral part of an enlarged Alexandria
Port under APA ownership and under APA operational control. APA will continue
its present policy of delegating stevedoring and warehousing responsibility at
the timber and general cargo quays to its agencies UASC and GWE. APA will
however establish a specialized agency under its direct control to ensure the
unified operations of all container terminal facilities. In addition, APA
will operate the mineral jetty and stockyard in association with the joint
venture, El Dikheila Steel Company. APA will forward to the Bank by September
1, 1982, a confirmatory list of the arrangements which APA will make for the
operation and maintenance of all of the new port facilities in accordance with
the broad policy decisions outlined above. Furthermore, APA agreed during
negotiations to review the staffing and training needs of all those to be
engaged in the operation of the port facilities at El Dikheila, in the light
of APA's policies for operation of the port. APA will then submit its
staffing and training proposals together with an execution timetable for
Bank's comment (paras 2.11 and 2.16).
B. Project Objectives
3.08     The project would continue the Bank's present involvement in the Port
of Alexandria, and enhance our constructive role in the national transport
development plan. The main project objectives are summarised as follows:
(a) to provide commercial port facilities at Dikheila for forecast
traffic, particularly containerized traffic, which cannot be
accommodated within the present limits of the Port of Alexandria.
(b) to provide a jetty at which large ore carriers may serve the steel
mill to be built at Dikheila; and
(c)  to facilitate the future orderly expansion and development of the
Alexandria/Dikheila port complex.
C. Engineering Aspects
3.09     El Dikheila possesses some natural advantages as a port site from the
navigational viewpoint. It lies about 10 km west of the Port of Alexandria
and is partly protected by a reef of rock outcrops which will form the core of
a main breakwater affording shelter from the predominant westerly and north



- 20 -
westerly weather (Maps 15904, 15905). There is a natural bar lying offshore
running parallel to the coast and the existing Port of Alexandria lies within
this reef.
3.10     The area available for development of the new port is partly occupied
by the military authorities, and during negotiations the Government confirmed
that (a) land will be ceded as required for port construction and operating
the facilities, and (b) no action will be taken in respect of the project area
which may jeopardise the implementations of the recommendations of the
Alexandria port modernization plan. The shore area for Dikheila Port
development is narrow, and is limited by the steel mill on which site
clearance has already started. Geological investigations reveal considerable
variations in subsoil strata with deposits of peat in the vicinity of the
proposed berths and with layers of hard chalk interspersed in the softer clays
and silts in the area of the proposed entrance channel. The geological
complexity of the project area and the space limitations imposed by the site
have influenced the selection of the port layout from a large number of trial
schemes. In the selected site, the commercial berths have been located in
such a way as to minimize the excavation of hard material. The port entrance
channel alignment has been dictated primarily by the need to afford easy
access by large ore carriers to the mineral berth.
3.11     Rock suitable for construction of the main breakwater is available
about 80 km from the site. Construction of the commercial berths would be of
concrete blockwork, which is adequate and has been found to be suitable from
past experience at Alexandria. The mineral berth would be of reinforced
concrete caissons which are suitable for the site conditions and the required
depths.
D. Details of the Project
3.12     The principal components of the project are as follows:
(a)  Civil Works and Dredging
(i)    A main breakwater of natural rock rubble with concrete block
armour, about 2 km in length, providing protection against
the predominant westerly and north-westerly weather.
(ii)   A mineral jetty about 660 m long, constructed of concrete
caissons with concrete block armoured protection on the lee
side. This berth would accommodate two ore or other bulk
carriers simultaneously in depths of 14 mi and 20 m
respectively.
(iii) A dredged entrance channel about 4 km long, with a depth of 20
m and width of 250 m and associated reclamation.



- 21 -
(iv)   Two concrete blockwork commercial quays, one about 600 m long
for container traffic, and the other about 820 m for timber
and general cargo, together with the usual transit shed,
warehousing and related buildings, utilities and other
facilities, and access to the berths. Depths alongside are 12
and 14 m according to location.
(v)    A large stockyard for ore and scrap steel for the steel mill
with space for other prospective commodities.
(b)  Equipment
(vi)   Cargo-handling equipment for the container berths including 3
container quay cranes and yard equipment for operation of the
port terminal, the freight station and rail transfer area.
(vii)  Cargo-handling equipment at the timber and general cargo
berths including quay and mobile cranes and forklift trucks.
(viii) Cargo-handling equipment at the mineral berth comprising two
rail mounted gantry crane unloaders of about 30-ton capacity
with the associated conveyor and handling equipment feeding
the stockyard within the port area and the Dikheila steel mill.
(ix)   Floating plant including three tugs of about 2500 hp, launches
and workboats.
(x)    Miscellaneous equipment, firefighting, navigation lights and
beacons.
All items of equipment include appropriate spares, control systems,
site commissioning and training.
(c)  Engineering Services
(xi)   Detailed engineering and supervision of execution.  (Detailed
design has already been completed for the major components
(para. 3.18)).
(xii)  A study of the continued modernization of Alexandria Port and
its integration with Dikheila Port.
E. Cost Estimates
3.13     The total cost of the project, excluding customs and duties, is
estimated at about US$473 million equivalent, with a foreign exchange content
of US$248 million (about 52%) (Annex 2). A summary is given below. During
negotiations, the Government representative confirmed that in presenting the
project to the People's Assembly, they would recommend that project items be
excluded from customs' duties and taxes.



- 22 -
Summary of Estimated Project Costs
----LE Million -----   -----US$ Million-----
Foreign
Item Description            Local  Foreign  Total  Local  Foreign  Total Exch.%
I.   Civil Works
and Dredging
Main breakwater        17.8      3.4    21.2    25.3      4.8    30.1   16
Mineral berth and      19.0    16.0    35.0    27.2    22.8    50.0   46
access channel
Commercial berths      24.7    20.2    44.9    35.2    28.8    64.0   45
Shoreworks & mis-
cellaneous 3/        31.7    17.3    49.0    45.4    24.9    70.3   35
Subtotal            93.2    56.9   150.1   133.1    81.3   214.4   38
II. Equipment
At commercial berths   1.5    29.5    31.0        2.2    42c1    44.3   95
At mineral berths       0.5    10.0    10.5       0.8    14.3    15.1   95
At stockyard            1.9    16,6    18.5       2.6    23.8    26.4   90
Floating plant          0.6    11.4    12.0       0.8    16.2    17.0   95
Subtotal             4.5    67.5    72.0      6.4    96.4   102.8   94
III. Engineering & Consulting
Services                5.4     4.8    10.2       7.8     6.8    14.6   47
Subtotal           103.1   129.2   232.3   147.3   184.5   331.8   56
IV. Contingencies
Physical /1            15,2    16.0    31.2    21.8    22.8    44.6   51
Price /1               39.1    28.6    67.7    55.8    40.9    96.7   42
Subtotal            54.3    44.6    98.9    77.6    63.7   141.3   45
GRAND TOTAL (rounded)       157      174     331      225     248      473     52
Front-end fee/2
on Bank loan          -        1.4     1.4     -        2.0      2.0
Total Financing required   157       175.4   332.4   225      250      475
/1  See para. 3.14
/2 See para. 5.07 C (ii)
/3 Includes miscellaneous small items of equipment.



- 23 -
3.14      Cost estimates reflect December 1981 prices and are based on
estimates prepared by the consultants BCEOM/'WYP/PAM in their reports dated
1977 and 1979, with revisions to take particular account of: (a) the accepted
tender for the main breakwater, and for the entrance channel and mineral
berth, (b) some costs for construction and equipment under the current
Alexandria Port Project, and (c) costs for equipment obtained by Bank staff.
The estimates are therefore realistic and acceptable. Physical contingencies
of 15% have been applied uniformly to all civil works which is considered
appropriate coverage for the assessed risks which include those for dredging
in hard material, together with 10% for equipment. Price contingencies have
been determined in the light of recent experience in Egypt and are as follows
for the local component of both civil works and equipment: 1982 - 14%, 1983,
1984, 1985, 1986 - 13%, 1987 - 12%.  Annual price contingencies have been
provided for the foreign component of both civil work and equipment as
follows: 1982, 1983 - 8%; 1984 - 7.5%; 1985 - 7%; 1986, 1987 - 6%. Consulting
services are estimated at the following totals and average man month costs,
including salaries, overheads travel and subsistence:
i)   for completion of designs and tender documents: an estimated total of
US$500,000 based on the use of specialized expatriate staff mainly
for the design of the equipment at the mineral jetty and stockyard,
at the container terminal and for floating craft representing 45 man
months at an average cost of about US$11,100;
ii) for supervision of construction: an estimated total of US$1,560,000
based on the use of a resident expatriate adviser specialized in
maritime construction, with assistance and occasional use of
contractual experts representing 150 man months at an average cost of
about US$10,400;
iii) for Alexandria Port Modernisation Study: an estimated total of
US$821,000 based on the engagement of expatriate port planners,
operations specialists, hydraulic engineers and allied staff
representing 80 man months at an average cost of about US$10,300.
These costs are reasonable.
F. Financing Plan
3.15      IMC has obtained assurances of Government finance to meet project
needs both for local and foreign currency. IMC has already arranged to
provide both local and foreign exchange requirements for the main civil works'
contracts, and IMC will similarly finance all other civil works. IMC has
requested Bank finance for all of the principal items of equipment needed
under the project, namely the cargo-handling equipment at the commercial
berths, ore-handling equipment at the mineral jetty and the ore stockyard as
well as floating plant. Bank finance of US$132.0 million proposed in the
table below covers 100% of the foreign exchange content of all this equipment,
together with the financing of 100% of the foreign exchange content of the
Alexandria Port Modernization Study in which the Bank has had a long-standing



- 24 -
interest and which is important to the successful development of the
Alexandria/Dikheila port complex. Bank finance would include appropriate
provision for physical and price contingencies. Interest in providing
financing assistance for the port project has been tentatively expressed by a
number of development agencies including the Nordic Fund, the Irish Government
Overseas Development Agency and by a foreign commercial bank. During
negotiations, the Government representative accordingly confirmed that the
Egyptian Government would use its best efforts to secure co-financing for
equipment up to an amount equivalent to US$2O.O million by the time of loan
signing in which case an equal amount would be deleted from the Bank loan.
Tentative Financing Plan
US$ million equivalent
Cost Estimate          Tentative Financing Plan
(Incl. physical and                   Foreign
price contingencies)      Local
Item    Description             Local   Foreign  Total    Egypt       Egypt    IBRD
1 Civil Works and
Dredging                     204      110       314       204      110
2 Equipment
i) Commercial berths        4        56        60        4                  56
ii) Floating                  1       22        23         1                 22
iii) Mineral jetty             1       19        20         1                 19
iv) Stock yard               4        32        36        4                  32
3   Engineering Services
Design and Supervision    11          8        19        11        8
Technical Assistance
(Alexandria)                0.1       0.9       1        0.1                 0.9
TOTAL (rounded)         225       248       473      225       118       130
Front end fee
on Bank loan                 -        2         2         -        -         2
Total financing required         225       250      475       225       118      132



- 25 -
G. Procurement
3.16     Egypt has decided that tenders for the main civil works and dredging
will be restricted to three selected Egyptian contractors, each of whom will
be free to associate with a foreign contractor. A contract for the
construction of the main breakwater was awarded to the Arab Contractors
(Egypt) on November 29, 1980. A contract for the mineral berth and the access
channel was awarded to the Arab Contractors (Egypt) with Royal Bos Kalis
Westminister N.V. (Holland/UK) on July 26, 1981 as sub-contractor.
Construction of the commercial berths is also being undertaken by the same
group following negotiations with the Arab Contractors which were concluded on
December 23, 1981. Rail access will be undertaken by the Egyptian Railways
and utilities will be undertaken by state organizations. It is expected that
all remaining shoreworks including items such as paving, transit shed,
customs, administrative and other buildings and miscellaneous items will be
limited to local contractors.
3.17     As the extent of equipment which may be provided through tied
bilateral aid or possibly through suppliers' credits is not yet known,
procurement procedures for any such items will be provided at a later -date.
Bank-financed equipment would be procured under international competitive
bidding in accordance with the Bank's procurement guidelines.
3.18     Detailed designs and tender documents have been prepared by the
consulting group BCEOM/PAM/WYP (France, United Kingdom) for the major
components of the civil works, namely the main breakwater, the mineral berth
and access channel and the commercial berths. These designs and documents are
adequate for the project. Associated utilities, access, buildings and other
shore-work and miscellaneous items are in general at a preliminary design
stage in accordance with the master plan proposals by the BCEOM/PAM/WYP
group. Completion of detailed designs and tender documents for outstanding
civil work is scheduled not later than June 1983 and is summarized as follows:
Item                                Responsibility (IMC with assistance
as indicated below)
Roads and paving                        Road and Bridges Authority
Rail access                             Egyptian Railways
Additional utilities                     State Utility Organizations
Shed and warehouse)
Container shed/Freight station )          (in cooperation with the
Fencing and miscellaneous items)           Department of Lighthouses
Lighthouse                       )         and other appropriate       -
Buildings                       )        authorities)
Ore stockyard                             BCEOM
During negotiations, a detailed execution timetable was agreed for the
completion of all outstanding design work.



- 26 -
3.19     Tender documents have been prepared for most of the items of
cargo-handling equipment at the commercial berths. However, IMC will prepare
revisions to the tender documents for the equipment at the general cargo and
timber berths after consultation with APA as a consequence of IMC's decision
to exclude dangerous cargo from the first stage of the project.  In addition,
IMC will invite alternative proposals for the cargo-handling equipment at the
container terminal in order to ensure that different types of equipment and
different container stacking configurations are fully examined, not only at
the container yard but also at the freight station and at the transfer points
to road and rail routes. These alternative proposals will be competitively
evaluated with the assistance of consultants. It is not expected that there
would be any change in the provision of the three rail-mounted container
gantry cranes, and at container berths the use of yard gantry cranes has beer.
assumed (Annex 3).
3.20     A preliminary assessment of the required floating plant has already
been determined by IMC in co-operation with consultants, and includes tugs,
miscellaneous harbour craft and work boats. Existing floating plant at
Alexandria is generally fully committed, and with increasing traffic at
Alexandria, there will not be transferable surplus capacity. However, radar
surveillance at Alexandria being provided under the present project is
designed to serve the greater Alexandr4a/Dikheila port. Three tugs are
required in order to ensure the safe and efficient handling of large ore
carriers as well as vessels using the commerical berths. In addition,
provision will be made for firefighting equipment, and for dealing with
possible limited oil spills during bunkering operations. This assessment of
the required floating plant is subject to confirmation by APA, who will
thereafter engage consultants to prepare the tender documents by December 1982.
3.21     Tender documents have been prepared by consultants for equipment to
handle ore and pellets at the mineral jetty.  These documents will be reviewed
and modified by the consultants to cater for the present requirements of the
steel mill. This review will ensure that provision is made for the
importation of scrap steel, and the documents will include conveyor equipment
at the ore stockyard and equipment to convey the ore, pellets and other
materials from the stockyard to the steel mill.
3.22     IMC's procedure for inviting alternative proposals entailing both the
design and supply of some of the equipment is acceptable and will be
undertaken in accordance with the Bank's procurement guidelines. Equipment to
be financed by the Bank totalling approximately US$129 million equivalent,
including contingencies, would be grouped to the extent practicable to
increase competition in bidding. The total number of contracts is expected to
be 10. The threshold for prior Bank review of procurement documentation would
be US$500,000 resulting in the anticipated prior review of all contracts.
3.23 In evaluating international bids for equipment contracts, domestic manu-
facturers will be allowed a preferential margin of 15% of the CIF landed price
of competing imports on the prevailing level of customs duties whichever is
the lower.



- 27 -
3.24      During negotiations, it was agreed that before proceeding with the
invitation of bids for the supply of equipment required for the mineral jetty
and stockyard and before disbursing for this equipment, IMC shall have
undertaken a review of the status of the steel project which shall have
concluded to the satisfaction of the Bank that there are no substantial legal,
financial or technical problems likely to obstruct the timely implementation
of the steel project.
H. Disbursements
3.25      Disbursements from the proprosed loan would be made on the following
basis, subject to appropriate agreements with Egypt and/or other financing
agencies:
Equipment:                 100% of foreign expenditures; 100% of local
expenditures ex-factory if locally manufactured;
and 60% of local expenditures for imported items
procured locally
Technical Assistance:   100% of foreign expenditures
The estimated disbursement schedule for Bank-financed items is given below:
Bank                                --------US$ million equivalent---------
Fiscal Year                               Quarterly                    Cumulative
and quarter                             Disbursements                 Disbursements
1982-83
June 30, 1983                               2.3                             2.3
1983-84
September 30, 1983                         19.8                           22.1
December 31, 1983.                         15.4                           37.5
March 31, 1984                              3.5                           41.0
June 30, 1984                               3.5                           44.5
1984-85
September 30, 1984                         15.4                           59.9
December 31, 1984                          16.5                           76.4
March 31, 1985                             14.2                            90.6
June 30, 1985                              17.7                          108.3
1985-86
September 30, 1985                         20.0                          128.3
December 31, 1985                           3.7                          132.0
Since the major civil works have already commenced, the anticipated period of
expenditure for all project items is approximately 6 years compared to a
period of about 7 1/2 years for disbursements under Bank-financed projects in
Egypt. Bank disbursements, which are limited to equipment items, are expected
to take about 4 years.  The loan would be closed on December 31, 1986.



- 28 -
I. Project Execution
3.26     Project execution commenced in November 1980 with the award of a
contract for the main breakwater to the Arab Contractors (para. 3.16).
Breakwater construction has already been partially carried out for a distance
of about 1.3 km from the shoreline, by the deposition of rock hearting and
placement of concrete block armour. Mobilization for the contract for
construction of the mineral jetty and the dredging of the access channel,
awarded in July 1981 to the Arab Contractors, with Royal Bos Kalis
Westminister N.V. undertaking the dredging work, is well advanced and a large
cutter suction dredger arrived on site during December 1981. Construction of
the commercial berths by the same contracting group already has commenced
following negotiations with IMC in December 1981. The Arab Contractors are
thus the main contractor for the three main civil works contracts, with
consequent advantages in the time needed for mobilization.
3.27     An overall program for the execution of the port project showing the
important links with the scheduled timetable for execution of the Dikheila
Steel Project is given in the next page. The program for thne port project has
been prepared in the light of actual achievements for similar work at the Port
of Alexandria and is slightly longer than the timetable assumed by IMC. The
timetable for the Steel Project is taken from a detailed chart prepared by the
Japanese Consortium. The combined program shows that the expected completion
of the mineral jetty by mid-1985 would be generally appropriate to the
scheduled commencement of operations of the steel mill. However, close
co-ordination will be needed in order to ensure the earliest practicable start
in the site assembly of the ore-handling equipment on the mineral jetty, and
the container-handling cranes at the commercial berths. This program also
illustrates the need for Bank participation in the procurement process for
equipment starting in 1982, to ensure that equipment is installed in time.
During negotiations, agreement was reached with IMC, that in order to ensure
the scheduled completion of the project and of the proposed Dikheila steel
project, IMC and APA will adhere to the target dates for the award of the
following contracts:
(i)  Equipment: Mineral jetty and stockyard          April 1, 1983
Commercial berths                  April 1, 1983
Floating plant                     October 1, 1983
(ii) Alexandria Port Modernisation Study             May 1, 1983
3.28     IMC will be responsible for project execution, and with assistance
from consultants, has adequate capability for this task, The Governement has
established a co-ordination committe with representatives from IMC, APA and
the responsible Ministries to facilitate project implementation. Moreover,
experience is already available in Egypt in the construction of concrete block
quay walls, and IMC will be able to recruit or obtain on secondment from APA,
experienced engineers to assist them. Construction of the mineral jetty is
more specialized and IMC staff are expected to need assistance for this and
for some other specialized aspects of project execution. IMC has entered into



- 29 -
ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
DIKHEILA PORT PROJECT
EXECUTION SCHEDULE
(With Link to Steel Mill Project)
198O               1981              1982               1983               1984               1985               1986
Drinon4 134                3 4       2 3 _   2 3341?                                                    34  1 2 3 4
PORT PROJECT 
1. Main Break~ntr=                                                             i      -    *        mm                         
2. Minlrel Jett and A roa Channel                                            -I
A~~~~~~~~
3. C n,or-al BErths and As,clcied  Orudgorg                                           z _                                             < _
4. Shorsorka, B.ilding, Mirllanpaur                                                    _ o   a          _    2 i           -   -        L                           s
5. Continer Cranes and Riel Cran                                                                    _
6. Mobile Cargo Handling
7. Minearl Jety-=M 
8. Stockyard  nd Connecton to Stei Mill                                               m    =   -          = _      3                           m   =
9. Floating                                                                          =    *           0                < i  2        mm T    _
10. Tachnieal Aoiantrro                                                                        
Supervis,on of Constrotior,                                                                                    m *       m m m m m m                      m m m
STEEL MILL PROJECT
CMi Iworks
1. Relaation, Preprration, Building                                                                 _                          r      _           I        I         I
(Inclding Prn-on.truction Aotiwite)_
Plant Insaellation
(Ex-loding Pre-installatio,, Actiel
2. Direct Rd.nlcr.t-m ~                                                                                                                                ilaa
3. Steal Making
4. Rolling Mill Balr)
S. Rollng Mill tRod)
6. ULie Cacining Shop
7. Sab-sttioc
8. UtilIties
So-rcs: ]MC. Bank Staff.
World BEnk-23526



- 30 -
an agreement with the consulting group BCEOM/PAM/WYP for the provision of an
adequate level of expert assistance as required throughout the construction
period. An adviser from the BCEOM group to the Project has already been
appointed on site. During negotiations, confirmation was obtained on the
above arrangements and on the adequacy of the number and calibre of IMC
engineers, the establishment of an effective team for project execution, and
on the format and responsibility for preparation of project progress reports.
J. Operational Targets
3.29     Targets for productivity in port operations at Dikheila have been
agreed with APA at negotiations, so that after a reasonable period of time the
new facilities will function satisfactorily. These targets, based on those
achieved at Alexandria and assuming full port completion in 1986, are as
follows:
1987     1988      1989
(a)  Availability of container quay
cranes, ore unloaders & rail-mounted quay
cranes                                            85%       90%       95%
(b)  Availability of mobile cargo-handling
equipment (excluding straddle
carriers, side loaders)                           75%       80%       95%
(c)  Availability of straddle carriers,
side loaders                                      65%       70%       75%
(d) Gang shift productivity in tons
per gang hour for general cargo
(average of imports and exports)                  10         12       12
K. Environmental. Aspects
3.30     The effect of the project on the environment may be considered from
two points of view namely: (i) the effect of marine works on the present
coastal regime and, (ii) the effect of development of shore works on the
adjoining resort town of Agami. Any pollution which might occur from vessels
using the new port would be effectively controlled by APA, under regulations
for imposing penalties on offending vessels which have been drafted for
parliamentary approval under the present project.
3.31     Siltation at Dikheila is not expected to be a problem and, as in the
case of Alexandria, depths in the channel and at the berths are expected to be
controlled by periodic maintenance dredging.



- 31 -
3.32      A shelter of trees will screen the port area from the town of
Agami. Road traffic from the port destined for Cairo will be able to reach
the desert road by a proposed new road link without seriously affecting either
Alexandria or Agami. Assurances on the timely construction of this road link
were given during negotiations. Traffic originating or destined for
Alexandria will of course add to the present already heavily crowded
Alexandria roads. This problem is addressed in the proposed modernization
study of the greater Alexandria Port area (para. 3.06).
3.33     Traffic envisaged at the mineral jetty in iron ore, pellets, scrap
steel and possibly small volumes of minerals such as fluorspar will have a
minimal effect on air quality.
L. Employment Impact
3.34     The project will create local employment opportunities during the
construction stage over a period of about 5 1/2 years. On completion of the
project a wide range of jobs would be created totalling about 1000 ranging
from port labor to skilled and semi-skilled workers in the operation and
maintenance of equipment, floating craft and in the management of the port
facilities. These jobs-would be filled by staff already within APA and its
agencies and by recruitment.
IV. ECONOMIC EVALUATION
A. General
4.01     Over the last four years Egypt has experienced continued rapid
economic growth. Overall, GDP increased at an average rate of about 10% per
annum (in FY81 constant prices) reflecting rapid industrialization, the
emergence of the petroleum sector and growth in transportation and trades,
both external and internal. The liberalization of the external trade and the
payment system coupled with the rapid economic growth has created serious
bottlenecks in the country's ports. These trends are expected to continue in
the foreseeable future. Given a moderately optimistic outlook for the
petroleum and gas sectors, GDP growth will continue to be rapid, averaging
about 7% per year. Continued economic development and diversification of the
economy will mean further pressures on the available port capacity,
particularly at the country's major port on the Mediterranean coast,
Alexandria. The Port of Alexandria is already operating well above its
nominal capacity. In recent years, despite diversion of significant volumes
of traffic to Port Said the increase in cargo has necessitated extensive usage
of lighterage operations. In 1980, about 1.2 million ton of general cargo was
handled at anchorage. In addition, significant volumes of cement (about 1
million ton), timber (0.7 million ton), various ores and grain were unloaded
to barges because of the inadequacy of suitable berths. Despite such costly
arrangements, however, ship waiting times have reached unacceptable levels: in
1980 about 12,800 days with an average of 7 days for general cargo ships, 9
days for fertilizer and 11 days for wheat.



- 32 -
4.02     The Bank's first port project in Egypt for the rehabilitation of the
Port of Alexandria, was primarily designed to provide a temporary relief to
congested conditions. Any attempt to rehabilitate the port on a major scale
without providing alternative facilities would have resulted in serious
disruptions in port operations causing unmanageable delays in handling
traffic. Moreover, it was then agreed by the Bank and the Government of Egypt
that future major port constructions would be based on the transport plans to
be formulated within a comprehensive National Transport Study. Although
Alexandria Port Project is scheduled for completion in 1983, the existing high
volume of lightering operations, excessive ship-waiting times and expected
growth in traffic, will result in the full utilization of the new facilities
as soon as they become available. The relief provided by the present project
will thus be temporary and inadequate to achieve a satisfactory port operation
with reasonable cargo-handling costs.
4.03     The recently adopted National Port Plan has been formulated within
the framework of the National Transport Study, is designed to provide
long-term solutions to the main bottleneck in the transport system; namely,
the ports. The projects included in the plan will enable Egypt to eliminate
severe congestion existing at all ports and also to meet effectively the
requirements of the expected growth in traffic. The plan will achieve
additional cost savings in cargo handling and ocean transport through
rehabilitation of old and long-neglected port facilities which are largely
obsolete and unsuitable for modern shipping technology. The proposed project
at Dikheila which is included in the port plan as the priority project, the
new development at Damietta and, to some extent, Port Said will serve Egypt's
commerce within the Mediterranean which m-akes up a predominant portion of the
total external trade. The total planned capacity, assuming that all proposed
projects are implemented as scheduled in the plan, will be fully utilized by
about 1987. Similarly, the planned rehabilitation works at Red Sea ports,
i.e., Port of Suez and Safaga will meet adequately the requirements of the
Far-East bound trade. Details of the National Port Development Plan are given
in Annex 1.
4.04     The proposed project as a natural extension of the existing
facilities, will relieve congestion presently experienced at the Port of
Alexandria, particularly in handling general cargo and provide a mineral jetty
primarily for the Dikheila steel mill. The existence of well established
shipping institutions and enterprises in Alexandria will assure the immediate
use of the commercial facilities of the project and the generation of benefits
expected from them. Availability of adequate land transport linkages with the
hinterland which extends to the whole of the Delta and Cairo area will mean
that the benefits generated by the project will pervade much of the country.
The Dikheila Port Project site has potential for further increase in port
capacity which will be possible at a relatively low investment cost after the
completion of the main breakwater and access channel included in the proposed
project.
B. Traffic Projections
4.05     The traffic projections used in the following economic rate of return
calculations are based on sector analyses for major commodity and commodity
groups, macro-economic relationships and origin-destination studies. In order



- 33 -
to arrive at the projected volume of cargo to be handled at
Dikheila/Alexandria Port complex, total forecast traffic of Egypt was
allocated to all the ports on the basis of minimizing land transport costs and
regional analyses of major commodity supply and demand conditions. The basis
and details of traffic projections are discussed in Annex 1.
4.06     Rapid growth in the economy and the resulting quantum increase in
Egypt's maritime traffic which occurred during the recent years are expected
to continue in the future, although at a somewhat reduced pace. Imports will
account for about 75% of the projected port traffic. Egypt's traditional
exports, fresh fruits, vegetables and other agricultural commodities, will
remain relatively stable because of increasing domestic demand pressures
resulting from growths in population and increase in per capita incomes.
General cargo traffic is forecast to grow at an average rate of about 5.5%
which is considerably below the rate experienced during recent years. Growth
in grain imports will continue reaching about 9.5 million ton in 1995 from the
current level of 6.3 million. Timber will be imported in increasing
quantities. Because of the ongoing and planned investment in cement
production, it is estimated that the demand for imports will decline and the
economy will become self-sufficient in this commodity around 1992. After this
date, there will be some surplus for exports. Similarly, in fertilizers,
Egypt will become self-sufficient by about 1987 and will be in a position to
export this commodity in modest quantities. The Dikheila steel complex will
generate demand for imports of iron ore and pellets, about 1.3 million ton
initially increasing to 3 million ton after 1990 and for scrap steel, 200,000
tons until 1991. Traffic projections for all ports of Egypt by major
commodity and commodity groups are summarized below:
Traffic Projections for Selected Years 1
(in 1000 tons)
1981/2          1986           1995
General Cargo                            8,100         10,800         17,700
Cement                                   5,200          3,000          1,000
Grains                                   6,300          7,300          9,600
Timber                                   1,100          1,600          2,500
Coal                                     2,600          2,900          3,500
Pellets                                      -          1,300          3,000
Alumina                                    250            340            400
Phosphate                                  130            300            300 -
Salt                                        50            160            160
Fertilizer                                 900            500            100
Scrap                                        -            200              -
Other                                      400            900          1,350
Total                              25,030          29,300         39,610
/1 Excludes petroleum products.
72 Estimates based on actual figures for first 9 months of 1981.



- 34 -
4.07     The Alexandria/Dikheila Port complex will continue to handle a
substantial portion of the total maritime traffic, although its share will
decrease because of the availability of additional new port facilities: about
65% in 1986 and 60% in 1995 compared to 75% at present. The complex, however,
will remain the most diversified port facility of the country handling a major
part of general cargo as well as a variety of bulk and break-bulk cargo. In
1986, the complex will account for 6.7 million ton or 62% of the total general
cargo, and 9.2 million ton or 52% in 1995. General cargo facilities at
Damietta will gradually receive increasing volumes of traffic to relieve the
congested conditions in the country's ports: about 1.5 million ton in 1986
increasing to 3.6 million ton in 1995. Alexandria will continue to receive
the major share of the total imported grain tonnage, 3.0 million ton and 3.8
million ton for 1986 and 1995 respectively. Damietta will also become an
important grain receiving port during the same period: 1.5 million ton in 1986
and 2.0 million ton in 1995. Other ports, aLter the completion of
rehabilitation works which are included in the national plan, will also be
able to handle increasing volumes of traffic. The following table summarizes
traffic projections for Alexandria/Dikheila Port for selected years and major
commodities. The distribution of the total maritime traffic among all ports
of Egypt by major commodities, is discussed in detail in Annex 1.
Allocation of Forecast Traffic between
Alexandria and Dikheila
(in million tons)
---1986                                    1995     
Alexandria  Dikheila  Total  Alexandria  Dikheila  Total
General Cargo             5.0          1.7      6.7       6.5          2.7      9.2
Cement                    2.0          -         2.0      0.5          -        0,5
Grain                     3.0          -        3.0       3.8          -        3.8
Timber                    0.9          0.4       1.3      1.2          0.8      2.0
Coal                      2.9          -        2.9       3.5          -        3.5
Pellets                   -            1.3       1.3      -            3.0      3.0
Other                     0.8          0.2       1.0      0.8          0.3      1.1
Total          14.6          3.6      18.2      16.3          6.8    23.1
4.08     During recent years, despite difficulties due to the lack of suitable
equipment at Alexandria, the share of containerized cargo in total traffic has
increased rapidly. The number of ships which carry containers increased from
176 in 1978 to 670 (both Ro/Ro and containers) in 1980. During the first 9
months of 1981, the number of containers handled reached about 50,000; 39,000
for imports and 11,000 for exports. It is expected that the provision of
suitable terminal facilities at Alexandria/Dikheila Port complex will rapidly
bring the share of containerized traffic to a level currently observed in



- 35 -
other ports in the region with container facilities. Based on the trends
prevailing in the primarly trade routes, it is estimated that on the average
about 40% of the containerizable cargo will be shipped in containers, about
1.3 million ton in 1986. This containerization rate is the same as the rate
observed in other ports in the region. The containerization rate is expected
to increase to about 50% of containerizable traffic, namely about 2.3 million
ton in 1995.
C. Project Benefits
General
4.09     Due to steadily increasing traffic, particularly general cargo, the
Port of Alexandria is operating well in excess of its optimum capacity. In
order to cope with the situation the port has resorted to costly solutions
such as, extensive usage of lighterage and overtime work. The situation is
certain to worsen considerably during the next few years until the proposed
project comes into operation. The construction of new commercial port
facilities at Dikheila will, therefore, help relieve the congestion at
Alexandria and significantly reduce cargo-handling costs. The benefits will
bear principally on general cargo traffic, timber and other break-bulk and
bulk cargo.
4.10     The economic evaluation of the project is based on a comparison of
costs involved in handling forecast traffic with the project conditions with
those in the "without" situation. Given the severe congestion presently
prevailing, the "without" situation used in the analyses incorporates, in
addition to ongoing improvements, some incremental capacity increases to
maintain a flow of traffic, albeit, under difficult conditions. Because of
the inadequacy of landspace and the encroachment of urban development to the
port area, only a minor capacity increase is feasible. A major expansion of
the existing port at Alexandria would be an alternative which is costlier than
the proposed project. Accordingly the "without" situation represents the
existing facilities, the facilities which will be available after the
completion of the ongoing works at Alexandria and a marginal increase in cargo
throughput by more extensive utilization of the modern berths, primarily
container and ro/ro, and the use of additional cargo handling equipment.
Investment expenditure required for the latter is estimated to be about $50
million for equipment and land acquisition and other related facilities. Even
with these expansions, the capacity available under the "without" situation
will be completely saturated by about 1988.
4.11     In the "with" situation, it is assumed that new facilities at
Dikheila will be operational by 1986 and Alexandria/Dikheila complex will
operate as a single unit. Facilities will handle the type of ship or cargo
for which they provide the most efficient service, and therefore, the lowest
cost of cargo handling.
Assessment of Benefits
4.12     The principal benefits quantified for the rate of return calculations
include: (a) reductions in ship waiting times; (b) reduction in ship service



- 36 -
times by the use of modern facilities; (c) the elimination of lighterage
operations; (d) reductions in damage to cargo; (e) reduced freight and
handling costs of pellets needed for the steel complex. in addition, the
project will generate further benefits in the form of elimination of hazardous
conditions for ships navigating in the port, reductions in pilferage and
delays in delivery of goods. However, these additional benefits have not been
quantified in the rate of return calculations. Project benefits beyond 1988
are frozen at this level because of the undefinably high ship-waiting time
costs and unavailability of a feasible alternative port capacity elsewhere.
Therefore, the rate of return calculations presented below are conservative
estimates of benefits which will be generated by the proposed project.
4.13     The savings in ship-waiting time attributed to the project commence
at the beginning of 1986 and are calculated on the basis of cost per ship-day
for each type of vessel and the pattern of ship types and sizes handled at the
port. In 1986 the reduction in ship waiting times estimated to be about 8,000
ship days increasing to 10,000 in 1988. By comparison, in 1980 Alexandria
already experienced some 12,800 ship-days waiting time.
4.14     The availability of new cargo-handling equipment including container
facilities will also generate benefits by reducing average ship service time.
These benefits are conservatively estimated to be about 10% of the average
ship service time. Estimates of savings in cargo-handling costs are confined
only to the tonnage which would have to be lightered in the without project
case. Based on the existing cost differential between the along-the-side
operations and lighterage, the savings in cargo-handling costs are estimated
to be about $2 per ton.  Similarly, estimates of the benefits resulting from
the reduction in damage to cargo are based only on the lightered tonnage and
represents about. 2% of the value. This is a conservative estimate as the
damage at present is about 20% of the total value of the cargo handled at
Alexandria.
4.15     The savings resulting from the mineral jetty are estimated
separately. It is assumed that without the project, pellets would be shipped
in large carriers of about 150,000 dwt to an intermediate point in the
Mediterranean and arrive in Alexandria in self-unloading smaller carriers of
about 30,000 dwt. The final deliveries at the steel complex would be carried
out by barges after lighterage operation at anchor. The cost differential per
ton of pellet delivered at the steel complex is estimated to be t8.80 per ton.
Distribution of Benefits
4.16     The estimate of the economic return on the project includes onl-y the
portion accruing to Egypt. That share of benefits would ultimately pervade
the whole economy in the form of reduced prices of imported goods to domestic
consumers and uninterrupted deliveries and lower costs for investors in
industrial and other productive activities. Moreover, benefits retained by
the Egyptian economy will also be reflected in reduction in total transport
costs for exporters.



- 37 -
4.17     Savings in ship waiting time should be retained by Egypt either in
the form of reduced demurrage charges on chartered trade, or as elimination of
congestion surcharges in liner operations. In economic rate of return
calculations only about 80% of these savings have been taken into account
based on Egypt capturing 100% of the savings in the trade handled by Egyptian
owned vessels (accounting for about 15%), 100% of the savings in charter trade
(50% of total traffic), and 50% of the savings for the remaining liner
shipping. Similarly only about 80% of benefits resulting from reductions in
ship-service time has been included in rate of return calculations.
4.18     Benefits which result from the elimination of costly working
practices in Alexandria will accrue to Egypt in totality. Similarly, the
residual value of the project facilities at the end of the evaluation period
will accrue to Egypt in the form of additional benefits.
D. Economic Costs of the Project
4.19     The economic costs of the project include investments required for
the operation of the commercial port and the mineral jetty.  In economic cost
estimates, custom duties on imported items are excluded and major tradeable
items border priced. Costs are expressed in 1981 prices, and therefore
exclude price contingencies. Operating and maintenance costs of the pioject
are also estimated without price escalation.
E. Economic Return and Sensitivity Analysis and Risks
4.20     The economic return from the project investments has been estimated
on the basis of costs and benefits quantified on the basis of the principles
presented in the foregoing sections. A summary of cost and benefit streams is
shown below:
Economic Cost and Benefit Streams of
Project (in 1981 Prices, US$Million)
--COSTS-- --           ------- ----------BENEFITSFITS-------------------------------
Cost of    Ship    Ship                Cargo
Expanding  Waiting  Service  Savings   Handling   Mineral
Existing   Time    Time     on Cargo   Cost       Jetty
Capital Operating  Facilities  Savings Savings  Damage    Savings    Benefits Total
1981              8.7
1982             22.9       -         14.0       -       -        -        -           -      14.0
1983             55.3       -         16.0       -       -  X    -         -           -      16.0
1954             124.6      -         16.0       -       -        -        -           -      16.0
1985             140.4      -          6.0       -       -        -        -           - -     6.0
1986             30.4       5.8       -         33.6     3.4      8.8      3.1        11.4    60.3
1987              -         5.8       -         42.5     4.5      9.7      4.1        11.4    72.2
1988 - 1990       -         5.8       -         48.3     5.1     10.2      4.9        14.4    79.9
1991 - 2000       -         5.8       -         48.3     5.1     10.2      4.9        26.4    94.8



- 38 -
4.21     The project yields a satisfactory rate of return of 22.6%.  The first
year rate of return from the project based on a 12% discount rate is estimated
to be 16.7%.
4.22     The high return on the project indicates the economic justification
of the project and its urgency. The economic rate of return was tested for
its sensitivity to variations in the cost and benefit parameters. The results
of this analysis are shown below:
Rate of Return
a)   10% increase in project costs                          20.2
b)   20% increase in project costs                           18.0
c)   10% reduction in project benefits                       19.9
d)   20% reduction in project benefits                       17.2
e)   a combined 10% increase in costs and 10%
reduction in benefits                                 17.7
f)   a combined 15% increase in costs and 15%
reduction in benefits                                 15.5
4.23     If the port were to have been constructed without facilities for
handling the industrial traffic for the steel mill, namely, without the
mineral jetty and the ore unloading cranes, and having an access channel
dredged to only 15.0 m, then the remaining commercial port bearing the full
cost of the breakwater would show a 25% rate of return.  A sensitivity for
variations in costs and benefits shows the following:
Rate of Return
(a)        10% increase in project costs                     22.5
(b)        20%    "      "    "                              20.0
(c)        10% reduction in project benefits                 22.1
(d)        a combined 10% increase in costs and 10%
reduction in benefits                             19.5
As a corollary to the analysis above, rate of return calculations for the
mineral jetty including only those costs and benefits which are directly
related to it yield a rate of return of 19.6%. A sensitivity for variations
in costs and benefits show the following:
Rate of Return
(a) 10% increase in project costs                      16,6
(b) 20% increase in project costs                      13.9
(c) 10% reduction in project benefits                  15.0
(d) 20% reduction in project benefits                  13.3
(e) Combination of (a) and (c)                         13.6
4.24     Risks due to a short-fall in the forecast traffic allocated to the
project is considered to be low. This is due to the fact that much of the
capacity expansions resulting from the project as well as from other projects



- 39 -
included in the National Port Plan will be taken up by the existing backlog of
demand. Projections indicate that the total port capacity will be fully
utilized by the end of the plan period. Even in the unlikely event that the
projected traffic growth rate is not fully realized due to unforeseeable
developments, the rate of return on the project will not be significantly
reduced. This is due to the fact that in the economic evaluation the project
benefits are "frozen" at the level reached in the third year of operation of
the project, as under "without the project case" costs became unrealistically
high. Therefore, a short-fall in traffic will have the effect of delaying
"the maximum benefit" year. As a result, the total net benefit stream
generated by the project will not be reduced significantly. For example, a
15% reduction in traffic will delay "the maximum benefit" year until about
1990. The resulting reduction in the total net discounted benefit will lower
the rate of return to about 20% which still is an acceptable level.
4.25     Risks to the project due to an increase in cost or a decrease in
benefits greater than those already dealt with in the foregoing sensitivity
analyses are considered unlikely. The competitive design and supply procedure
envisaged for the-procurement of some items of equipment, and completion of
outstanding detailed designs and tender documents might result in more
advantageous solutions with slightly lower costs and increased benefits.
4.26     As IMC has not hitherto undertaken the responsibility for such a
large port project their ability to ensure scheduled project completion has
been assessed as a possible project risk. However, arrangements already made
with consultants for advisory staff and the review during negotiations of the
calibre of IMC staff responsible for project execution will reasonably
mitigate this minor risk.
4.27     Administration of the new port facilities might initially place a
strain on APA's management which is a minor risk to the achievement of
forecast benefits. This risk would be offset by the training and staffing
plans agreed during negotiations, and consequently is fully covered in the
sensitivity analyses.
V. FINANCIAL EVALUATION
A. Introduction
5.01     This report confines itself to the financial evaluation of APA only.
APA's subsidiaries, UASC and GWE, participate in the cargo-handling and
warehousing activities at the existing Alexandria Port as independent
self-accounting entities. The financial analysis in this report is based on
the concept that APA will be directly responsible for the cargo handling and
warehousing activities at the new Dikheila Port, and that consequently the
financial results of these activities will be reflected in APA's books.



- 40 -
B. APA's Present Financial Situation
5.02      APA's operating results as presented in the annual financial
statements have been satisfactory, and APA is a dependable source of revenue
for the Government. Under the ongoing Loan (1239-EGT), APA is required: (i)
to achieve an annual rate of return of not less than 9.0% on the value of its
net fixed assets; (ii) with the assistance of consultants to: (a) revalue its
fixed assets by December 31, 1977, (b) introduce an appropriate management
accounting system by December 31, 1978, and (c) implement a new cost-related
tariff structure by December 31, 1978. APA has been achieving annual
financial returns well above the stipulated rate of 9.0%. APA also engaged
consultants to carry out the requirements stated above, but the consultants'
work has not produced entirely satisfactory results in all areas. For
example, although the fixed assets have been revalued by the consultants, APA
does not revalue these assets on a regular basis; however, APA will be
required to do so under the proposed project. The revaluation of the net
fixed assets as at December 31, 1977 showed an increase from £E 14.0 million
to tE 32.0 million or a revaluation factor of 2.3 times. Net fixed assets as
at December 31, 1979 totalled £E 20.9 million, and APA's net operating income
generated for calender year 1979 was £E 19.1 million of which depreciation
amounted to FE 2.7 million. Applying the revaluation factor to these values,
the rate of return resulting from APA's operations on its net fixed assets is
of the order of some 40%. The operating results of APA's subsidiaries, UASC
and GWE, are also similarly high. As regards the management accounting
system, APA has introduced cost accounting methods for arriving at the cost of
its individual services but the resulting reports are circulated too late to
be useful. APA's Board of Directors has recently approved a change in the
basis of assessing tariffs on ships from the Suez Canal Tonnage which has
limited use in the shipping world to the more universally accepted Gross
Registered Tonnage (grt). The new tariffs will be broadly cost-related and
this introduction by APA will be a step in the right direction. The change in
the tariff basis is also expected to result in higher receipts for APA. The
changes, however, are subject to the Parliament's approval and agreement was
reached during negotiations that the Government will take the necessary steps
to obtain such approval by July 1, 1983.
5.03      APA received from its subsidiary companies, UASC and GWE, £E 6,6
million, £E 8.6 million respectively for calendar years 1978 and 1979 and £E
7.6 million for six months ending June 30, 1980; however, these are excluded
in the rate of return calculations. APA hands over these dividends directly
to Government immediately on their receipt.
5.04      APA's income statements for years 1978 and 1979 and for six months
ending June 30, 1980 are summarized below. The reason for presenting the six
months' statement is due to the fact that the accounting year has reverted to
the fiscal year basis of July 1 to June 30. The income statement also shows
that the operating ratios are remarkably low and the annual return on net
fixed assets is high on account of the relatively low operating and
maintenance costs.



- 41 -
APA's Income Statement  - £E '000
for year       for year    for six months
ending         ending           ending
Dec 31, 1978  Dec 31, 1979  June 30, 1980
Operating Revenues
Income from services
and use of facilities              10,971       21,856         13,775
Income from supervision of
UASC and GWE                       982        1,574         1,042
Other                                  1,579        2,448         1,435
Total                           13,532       25,878        16,252
Operating Expenses
Operating and
maintenance costs                1,943        3,243         2,187
Administrative expenses                  486          977           453
Depreciation                           1,663        2,683         1,687
Total                            4,092        6,903         4,327
Net operating income                   9,440       18,975        11,925
Non-operating items
Interest charges                             317          658           605
Net income                                 9,123       18,317        11,320
Operating ratio %                             30.24        26.68         26.62
Return on net fixed assets %                  86.6        119.2          53.7
Return on revalued net fixed
assets %                                   34.2         42.9          18.4
5.05     APA's balance sheets as at December 31, 1978 and 1979 and as at June
30, 1980 are summarised below. The balance sheets reflect delays in the
collection of APA's accounts receivable. For the years 1978 and 1979, the
receivables show some 40% of its total annual revenue as outstanding , i.e., a
lag of about five months. APA's accounts also reflect large accumulations of
cash as well as increasing amounts of accounts payable as at December 31, 1979
and June 30, 1980. Liability on account of dividends due to the Government
constitute about 80% of the total accounts payable; likewise the receivables
also include large amounts due from the Government. During negotiations
agreement was reached with APA and the Government that they will; (a) submit
to the Bank by June 30, 1983, a program for the settlement of APA's
outstanding accounts receivable and payable from and to the Government's



- 42 -
agencies; (b) ensure the implementation of such program in accordance with a
time schedule satisfactory to the Bank; and (c) ensure that all future
accounts receivable of APA will be settled within three months of the billing
date. Large accumulations of cash (where they are not immediately required),
receivables and payables, should be discouraged and APA will be required to
keep its relevant current assets and current liabilities at a level consistent
with its working capital requirements (see also para. 5.04) regarding use of
excess cash, i.e., either for financing investments in fixed assets or for
earlier retirement of debt. During negotiations assurances were obtained that
APA will maintain current assets and current liabilities at levels consistent
with its working capital requirements.
APA's Balance Sheet - £E '000
As at        As at         As at
Dec 31,78   Dec 31579    June 30,80
Current Assets
Cash                                  1,022       12,362         18,147
Accounts receivable                   5,559       10,915         16,215
Inventory                               710        2,603          9,185
Sub-total                        7,291       25,880         43,547
Investments - subsidiaries               2,112        3,097          3,998
Fixed Assets
Land                                  1,265        1,272          1,272
Buildings, quays, roads, etc.       20,646        21,320         21,884
Equipment                            10,039       21,113         24,058
31,950      43,705          47,214
Less: Accum. depreciation            21,043       22,763         23,719
10,907      20,942          23,495
Add: Work-in-progress                15,270       20,512         30,444
Sub-total                       26,177       41,454         53,939
Deferred Charges - consult. fees           163          184            738
TOTAL ASSETS                    35,743       70,615         102,222
Current Liabilities
Accounts payable                      6,749       20,750         36,325
Non-current Liabilities
Long-term debt                       13,424       32,687         47,503
Government Equity
Capital                              13,047       14,032         14,932
Reserves                              1,841        2,455          2,777
Retained earnings                       682          691            685
Sub-total                       15,570       17,178          18,394
TOTAL LIABILITIES AND EQUITY       35,743        70,615        102,222



- 43 -
C. Future Prospects
5.06     APA's financial results have been forecast for FY 1981 through 1990.
The projected financial statements (income, cash flow and balance sheet) show
acceptable results.
5.07     The projected income statement for FY 1981 to 1990 included in this
section is based on the following assumptions:
(a)   Operating Revenues
(i)   Alexandria Port: APA's income from marine services is projected
at the same rate of growth as total traffic. An increase of 30%
is assumed in FY 84 resulting from tariff changes. Tariff
adjustments to keep in step with inflationary pressures have
been assumed for FY 1987 through 1990. Other income includes
supervision fees received from APA's subsidiaries; open space
rentals, passenger departure dues and miscellaneous items, and
is projected at an average annual increase of 2%.
(ii) Dikheila Port (starting January 1, 1986): Income from services
- commercial facilities: includes receipts from marine, cargo
handling and cargo storage services all of which are assumed to
accrue to APA. Income per ton of cargo handled at present has
been determined for each of the above services and applied to
the general cargo, timber and other traffic that are expected
to be handled at Dikheila. Tariff adjustments to offset
inflation have been assumed for FY 1986 through 1990. Income
from services - mineral facilities: includes receipts from
marine and cargo handling services for mineral traffic charged
at the same rate as commercial traffic. Tariff adjustments to
offset inflation have been assumed for FY 1986 through 1990.
Also included among the revenue producing items for Dikheila is
port dues, which is charged on all traffic passing through the
port. The rate assumed is sufficient to assure Dikheila port's
financial viability. During negotiations agreement was reached
that port dues should be introduced by APA at Dikheila port
with effect from January 1, 1986, to meet the financial
objectives referred to in paras. 5.13 and 5.14.
(b)   Operating Expenses
(i)   Alexandria Port:  Operating and maintenance costs are projected
at the same rate of growth as total traffic. Inflation factors
at the same rate as for local costs in the project cost
estimates, have been applied in projecting these costs.
Productivity gains resulting from more efficient use of men and
equipment starting FY 1984 (on completion of the Alexandria
Port Project) have been assumed at the rate of 1.0% of costs.
Administrative expenses are assumed to increase at the rate of



- 44 -
1.0% p.a. and are also assumed to increase annually on account
of inflation. Depreciation of existing fixed assets, after
applying an initial revaluation factor for equipment of 3.0
times as well as new additions under the ongoing Alexandria
Port Project have been calculated with annual increase in
values at the rate of 10% starting FY 1981. The cost of
consultancy studies is being amortized through FY1990.
(ii) Dikheila Port: Operating costs for marine, cargo handling and
cargo storage services (all of which are assumed to be handled
by APA) have been calculated on the basis of projections of
current unit costs per ton of cargo at Alexandria port. An
amount of £E300,000 p.a. has been included to cover
administrative costs at the Dikheila location. Inflation
factors at the same rate as for local costs in the project cost
estimates have been applied for projecting these costs.
Additionally, maintenance costs for the facilities and
equipment have been assumed at the rate of 2.0% p.a.
Depreciation charges of the new facilities have been
provisionally subdivided as follows: 60% as applicable to the
commercial facilities and 40% as applicable to the mineral
facilities.
(c)   Non-operating Items
These include: (i) interest charges on debt; and (ii) front-end
fee on the proposed Bank loan.
5.08     Net operating incomes are satisfactory throughout for Alexandria Port
operations, which show an operating ratio ranging from 43,8% in FY 1981 to
65.7% in FY 1990. The operating ratios are seen to increase as the new
facilities under the ongoing Alexandria Port Project are placed in service.
The rates of return on revalued net fixed assets at Alexandria Port Project
are considerably higher than the stipulated rate of 9.0% p.a. under the loan
agreement for the Alexandria Port Project (Loan 1239-EGT). For the new
Dikheila port, the operating results show marginal performance in the initial
years because of the lumpy investments involved; however, the trend shows
progressive improvements which is acceptable; operating ratios improve from
86.0% in FY 1987, the first full year of operations, to 76.7% in FY 1990; and
the rate of return on net fixed assets also shows improvement from 1.8% in FY
1987 to 5.8% in FY 1990. For APA as a whole (both ports together), operating
ratios deteriorate from 54.9% in FY 1985, the year preceding start of Dikheila
port operations, to 78.8% in FY 1988, but improve from then onwards to an
acceptable level of 71.3% in FY 1990. Return on net fixed assets is als-o
acceptable at rates ranging from 9.0% in FY 1986 to 4.8% in FY 1987, 5.6% in
FY 1988, 7.7% in FY 1989 and 11.5% in FY 1990. Net incomes after interest
charges also show satisfactory results.



-45-
05,¶3/,82
10:26 AM
ALEXANDRIA POET AUTHORITY
PROJECTED INCOME STATEMENT-FISCAL YEAR
AMOUNT IN THOUSANDS-EGYPTIAN POUNDS
1881        i982        1983         1984        1985        1986         1987        1988         1999        ¶990
OPERATING REVENUES
ALEXANDRIA POET
INCOME PEOM' SEEVICES                      34335.1    38905.1    39897.2    40459.8    39998.5    34722.7    30062.9    305T4.O                31393.4    32415.5
TARIFF CHANGE                                                                    12137.9    11999.5    10415.8        9018.9       9172.2       9418.0      9725.0
TARIFF ADJUSTMENT                                                                                         1467.0       5139.3     10731.5   . 7238.7    24994.3
OTHER INCOME                                 2321.5      2388.0      2415.3       2453.6      2512.9      2563.1       2614.4      2656.7       2720.0      2774.4
SUBTOTAL                                    36698.7    41273.1    42312.9    55061.3    54511.0    49169.7    46835.5    53144.4               60770.2    69510.6
DIIEHEILA PORT
INCOM E PROM COMMERCIAL PACILITIES                                                                        7850.0    15417.5    18048 E         ¶9762.5    20583.8
TARIFF ADJUS TMENT                                                                                         295.5      2158.9       48T3.2       8347.7    ¶2205.2
INCOME FROM MI NERAL FACILITIES                                                                           4612.5      9532.5    1014T.S        ¶0762.5    ¶5375.0
TARIFF ADJUST MENT                                                                                         ¶49.9       1253.5      2739.5       4545.1      9118.9
PORT SUES                                                                                                 5400. 0     11250.0    ¶2229.0       13200.0    ¶5750.0
SUBTOTAL                                                                                                 18277.9    40612.4    48034.2         56619.8    73035.9
TOTAL OPERATING  EEVENUES                  36656.7    41273.1    42312.5    95061.3    94911.0    67447.5   _87447.9             117.6        178.        ¶42945.5
OPEEATING EXPENSES
ALEXANDRIA PORT
OPER 8 MAINT COSTS                           5237.9      6ETS.7      8057.0       9159.9    10232.1    10037.1         9797.0     11152.8    i2850.3       14572.5
ADMINrSTRATIVE COSTS                         1032.2      1208.5       ¶394.0      1594.3      1919.5      2076.6       2364.5      2680.4       3032.0      3429.3
DEPRECIATION                                 9515<1     11633.6    13185.3    15347.0    17508.1         19155.5    20901.6    22823.3    2493S.0    37259 ¶
AMORTIZATION                                  278.2       278.2       278.2        278.2  ...357i.... 436.0__436.0  ...436.0                    435.0        357.1
SUETOTAL                                    16064.0    20000.0    22917.5    26378 .9    29915.8    31705.2    33499.0    37i21.4    41263.3    45915.7
DIKCHEILA PORT
OPER A MAINT. COSTS                                                                                       5585.3    16517.7    22027 4    26549.3    3324R.S
ADNINISTEATIVE COSTS                                                                                        150.0       239.5       431.1       613.2        976.9
DEPR6CIATION                                                                   ~~~~~~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~8921.6  1A06¶.5  19181.6    20413.7    21769.0
SUBTOTAL                                                                                                 14257.9    34918.6    42640.1    47676.1    55994.4
TOTAL OPERATING EXPENSES                    166.        2000.0    229.17.5      !2878.9       9 .        4596.1    6841.6    79751.           893.5       101913.1
NET OPERATING INCOME                        20892.6    21273.0    19395.1    28683.4    24594.2    21484.5    19030.3    21417.1    28449.5    41033.4
INTEREST CHARGES                            2624.8       3054.8      4180.7      6037.4      10001.9     12167.7      13985.7     12782.7     11970.9      11150.5
FRONT END FEE                                                        ¶40. 0
TOTAL NON-DPER.CHAEGES                       2524 8.8  . 30S4:8..8  5580:7.7    . 6037.4.. 10001.9    ¶i3167.7  ¶. 3595.7         ¶2782.7    11970.9       11150.5
NET INCOME/LOSS                             17967.8    1821,8.2    13814.4    22649.0    14592.3          8316.5       1443.6       63.      151478.56      98.
OPERATING RATIO
ALEXANDRIA PORT                                43.8        48.5        54.2         47.9        54.9        64.5         71.5        69.9        67 9         55.7
DIEHEILA PO0RT                                                                                               75.0        86.0        88.8         84.3        75.7
BOTH PORTS TOGETHER                            42.8        48.5         54.2     .47.9          54.9         68.1        78.2         78.6        79.8        71.3
RETURN ON NET FIXED ASSETS
ALEXANDRIA POET                                64.1        51.2         44.1        45.8        31.1        22.8         18.2        23.0         29.6        38.7
OIKCHEILA PORT                                                                                                2.5         1.8.7                    29 ~
ROTH PORTS TOGETHER                            64.1        51.2   ...44.1           4S.         31.1          9.0 ....4.8              5.          7.7        11.5



- 46 -
5.09     The projected cash flow statement for FY 1981 to 1990 included in
this section indicates APA's relatively strong cash position throughout the
years under review. The salient points are:
(a)   APA will meet local currency requirements of the order of fE 14.1
million towards the ongoing Alexandria Port Project which will be
completed by January 1, 1984;
(b)   Expenditure totalling £E 332.4 million for the Dikheila Port Project
will be met as follows:
(i)   By IBRD: A loan to government to finance certain project items
in the amount of US$132.0 million equivalent to EE 92.4 million
at a rate of 11.6% interest p.a. for a term of 20 years
including a grace period of 3 years. Included in the loan is a
front end fee of US$2.0 million. The total loan amount will be
relent to APA on the same terms as above;
(ii)  By Government: Government will finance the remaining project
items to the tune of £E 240.0 million as contribution to APA's
equity;
(c)   After a series of upward adjustments domestic interest rates are at
present between 8.0% and 14.0%; the latter rate corresponding to the
current domestic inflation rate of 14.0%. Recent domestic
inflationary pressures are expected to continue for a few years, but
to decrease to a level of 12.0% by year 1987. The on-lending rate of
11.6% is considered reasonable under the circumstances;
(d)   APA will service the debt incurred for the ongoing Alexandria Port
Project and for the proposed Dikheila Port Project;
(e)   APA will hand over to the Government directly the dividends it
receives from its subsidiaries UASC and GWE; and
(f)   APA will distribute to the Government its net income. However, APA is
allowed to keep part of the depreciation provisions for the renewal
of its fixed assets.
The resulting cash position shows a favourable situation reflecting the
increase from £E 16.5 million at FY 1981 to SE 93.6 million at FY 1990. This
accumulation of cash could be used for future major port development programs
by APA, or for the earlier retirement of debt owed by APA to the Government.



05/13/82
10.26 AM
ALEXANDRIA PORT AUTHOIRITY
PWITJECTED CASH FUDW STATEMENT-FISCAL YEAR
AM4OUNT IN THOUSANDS-EGYPTIAN POUNDS
1981        1982         1993         1984         1985         1986         1987         1988         1989)        1990
SOURCES OF FUNDS
INTERNAL- GENERATION
NET CAYZ INCOME-ALES PORT                 20592.6      21273.0      19395.1      29662.4      24594.2      17464.6     13336.5      19023.0       19509..9    2399,1.9
ADD-2EP A AMOR.ALDE  PORT                  9793.9      111.          346RS       156 25.2     17965.2      19591.5     21337.6      2 3258 .3     2537710     27619.
D-INC.FRM SUAE    OT13266.23     1430.1                           14I  36       478.       146.         1230.        1993.4       12575.1       1317.         373.
SUBTOTAL                                  43653.7      47369.9      47415.0      55035.7    97420.2       50446.0      46667.4      91856 .3     59035.2    89346.9
NE  DYEP INCOME.DIKHEILA P09T                                                                               4019.       5693,8       5394.1        8942.6      1704t95
.02DT.O.IKHEILA PORT                                                                                     a5216       1061.5       19 191.6     20413.7      21789.0
SUBTOT AL                                                                                                 12541.5      23795.3      24975.7      39356.3      38810.5
TOTAL INTERNAL GENERATION               __43652.7  ..47369.9.. 47419.,0  9. 90267.7          . 57420,2    629387.5     70422.7      79432.0      87291.5    104197.4
BORROWINGS
ALEXANDRIA YORT PROJECT
1590 LOAN-13 39EGT                     6500.0       5800.0       5600.0       2400.0
OlT HEY  LOANSU AF6ANESE.USAIO.ETC          1450.0      1450.0
01KHIFILA POET PROJECT
1I60 LDAN RELENT TO APA                                           1600.0     29500.0      44700.0      19600.0
GOVT CCNTRIBUTI ON/EOUITY                  4979.0      29722.0      24497.0      57578.0      61099.0     53240.0
'OTAL BORROWINGS                          12925.0     35973 .0     41697.0      89476 .0    ¶05789.0      6J840.0
TOTA.L SOURCES OP FUNDS                    6577        636.          91.         48513.7     6292        122.           02.         76!4320      8315        145.
4YALICATION OF FUNDS
CAYITAL PROJECTS
ALEXANO RIA PORT                          11800.0      11500.0      10100,0       4300.0
DIKHEIL.A PO0RT                            4975.0      26722.0      36097.0      67076.0    105798.0    69840.0
SELF FINAN4CED                                                 3000.0                                 200.0
--    -      - - - - - - -            - - - - - -  -   -  -     -   -        . . . - - - - -  - -      - -  - - -  - - -  -
TOTAL CAYITSL PROJECTS                    16975.0      40222.0      48197.0    91378.0   105789.0         70040.0
--   - -:        -  - - -  - -           - - -  - - -  - - -     - - - - -    - - -   - -  - - -  -     - - - - - - -  - - -
DEBT SERVICE PAYMENTS
ALEXANDRIA PORT-PRINCIPAL                  2173.0       3526.0       23568.0      2499.0       3521 0      3599.0       3675.0       3793.0       3881.0       3962.0
-INTEREST                2624.5       3054.8       2400.9       3570.4      3509.6       3349.8       316 3.9      3010.1       2829.7       2828.9.
SUBTOTAL                                   4797.8       5590.9       6786.9       7025.4       7030.       694 4.8      6556.5       6773. 1      6689.7       6600 9
DIKHEILA PORT-PRINCIPAL                                                                  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~5435.3  5435 .3  5435 .3  5435.3
-INTEREST                                            779.9       2467.0       6492.3      9817.9      10403.2       9772 .7      9142 .2      8811.3
-FRONT END FEE                                               1400.0
SU6T0TAL                                                             2179.6       2467.0       6492.3      9617.6      ¶9629.5      15209.0      14577.9      13947.0
TCTAL DEST 069  PATMENTS                .. 4797.9       5560.8       8968.7       9492.4      13522.9     16762.7      22697.0      21981.0      21267.2    20547 .8
iNCR565E/OECREASE IN WORK.CAP              9929 .3      1993.9       1377.3       2555.2        350 3      2506.6       7921.0       7601.2       3669.9       5279.1
TOTAL  PPLICAION OFFUNDS26901.1    47756.7               56942.9    10,3425.7    119671.3       99209.3     30219.0      29582.2      24936.1i    25923.0
SUPPLUS/OEFECIT.ANNUAL                    29676.5      35504.2      30769.1      45067.9      43537.0     43516.2      40204.6      48649.8    62456.4        78334.9
OPENING CASH                              18147.0      16599.~5    19771.4       22172.6      298 87 ,4   4797123    57161.2    51667.4          68326.2    90732.0
DISTRIELITION 0O GOVERNMENT
INCOME FROM SUBSIDIARIES            13265.2      14204 I    14593.5        14729.1      1495009     12390.0      11992.4      12579.1      13157.3      13726.8
APAS NED                            17967.9      18219.2    1~3814.4       22545.0      14592.3      16629 4    23905.1       27915.9      35892.2      51991.9
CLOSING CASH                   ~~~~16969.5   79771.4     22172 6    2996 7 .4      4 3971 3    57161.2      61967.4      69326 2    80732.0    92675.8
DFBT SERVICE COVERAGE                          9.1          9.5          5.3         9.2          4 2          3.9          3,1          3.5          4.1         5.1
........    ...............    .....    ..........    ..........



- 48 -
5.10     APA's projected balance sheet summary for FY 1981 to 1990 is also
included in this section. They indicate the following:
(a)   The soundness of APA's liquidity position as showr, by satisfactory
current ratios throughout as exemplified by the level of 9.4 in FY
1990;
(b)   APA's debt/equity ratio changes from 56/44 in FY 1981 to 31/69 in FY
1986, and to 21/79 in FY 1990, which is satisfactory.
5.11     Although APA has the financial resources to participate in the
project, the Government has assumed the responsibility for the construction
and the financing of the Dikheila Port Project. The financing arrangements
are discussed in para. 5.09. During negotiations, agreement was reached that
the proposed Bank loan of US$132.0 million equivalent to £E 92.4 million will
be onlent to APA at the rate of 11.6% interest p.a. for a term of 20 years
including a grace period of 3 years. The Government's expenditures totalling
LE 240.0 million for the Dikheila Port Project will be treated as an equity
contribution by the Government to APA's capital.
5.12     It is important that APA maintains adequate accounting records to
reflect the cost of operations and the revenues accruing to each of its port
locations at Alexandria and Dikheila as well as the different operations at
Dikheila. During negotiations agreement was reached that (a) APA will
maintain records for Alexandria port operations and the Dikheila port
operations as separate self-accounting units so that their individual
profitability can be assessed after taking into account the full cost of their
operations; and (b) APA will also maintain a separate cost centre for its
operations at the mineral facilities at Dikheila in order to ascertain the
full cost of their operations. Alexandria port's financial performance taken
by itself is expected to be excellent throughout; but that of Dikheila is
relatively less satisfactory in the initial years, but show potential for
improvement on a progressive basis. During negotiations, assurances were
obtained that the operating ratios of 87.0% for FY 1987, 90.0% for 1988, 85.0%
for FY 1989 and 77.0% for FY 1990 be adopted as indicators to monitor the
financial performance of Dikheila port.
5.13     APA's financial objectives are to generate sufficient operating
revenues: (a) to cover its operating costs including depreciation; (b) to
service its debt; (c) to maintain adequate working capital; (d) to maintain
adequate provisions; and (e) to internally generate funds sufficient to
finance a reasonable portion of capital expenditures including the replacement
of fixed assets. The projections as presented herein indicate that APA is
capable of meeting these objectives. These objectives were agreed to during
negotiations.



-49.
05/ 13/82
10: 26 AM
ALEXANDRIA PORT AUTHORITY
PROJECTED BALANCE SHEET-AS AT JUNE 30
AMOUNT IN THOUSANDS-EGYPTIAN POUNDS
1961         1982         1983        1984         1985         ¶986         ¶987         1998         1983        ¶990
ASSETS
CURRENT ASSETS
CASH                                      16589.5      19771.4      22172.8      29887.4      43871.3     57481.2    81867.4        6A326.2    80732.0    93675.8
ACCOUNTS RECEIVABLE                       28738.4      18193.8       7052.1       9176.9       9095.2      ¶1241.3     14574.7      16883.1I   19564.A        23A24.4
INVENTORY                                  9644.3      10126.5      10832.8      11164.4      11722.6     17584.0      23439.4      24611.4      25842.0      27134.1
TOTAL CURRENT ASSETS                      54972.2    ,43091.7       39857.5      50223.8    64879.1    85986.4         99881.5    109800.7   ¶26138.8    ¶44634.2
INVESTMENTS
SURSIDIARIES                               3998.0       3998.0       3998.0       3996.0       3998.0       3998.0      3998.0       3998.0       3998.0       3998.0
FIXED ASSETS
AT ALEXANDRIA PORT                       120947.4    135126.5    ¶50623.6   200970.4   218491.8   232365.4   249826.3   269033.7   290181.1    313401.8
LESS-ACCUMULATED DEPRECIATION             80672.7      92308.2    105494 5   120841.5    138349 6   157505.0    176406.6    201229 8   226163.9   253422.9
NET ROOK VALUE                            40374.7      42820.3      45139.1    80428.9        78142.2      745860.3    71419 7    67804 5    63997.2    59978.8
AT DIKHEILA PORT                                                                                         332511.0   342693.7   353894 7   366215.7   379768.9
LESS-ACCUMULATEO DEPRECIATION                                                                              5521.5      26583.1    4 5764 .7    66178.4    87947.4
NET BOOK VALUE                                                                                           323589 4   316110.6    308130.0   30-0037.4   291821.5
ADD WORK IN PROGRESS
AT ALEXANDRIA                             21600.0      23700.0      34500.0       1200.0
Al DIKHEILA                                4975.0      33697.0      70394.0   ¶57472.0   262510.0    -17475.0
TOTAL FIXED ASSETS                        66549.7    106217.3    150023 1   235800.9   340652.3    381374.7   375730.3    376935.5   364034 6   351900.3
DEFERRED CHARGES
CONSLULTANCY                               3292.8       3014.6       2736.4       2458.2       2101.1       1665.1       1229.1       793.1        357.1
TOTAL ASSETS                             ¶29112.8    160321.6    196615.0   295485.8   411430.5   473024.2   492638.9    49052P.3   494528.5   500432.4
LIABILITIES 8 EOUITY
CURRENT LIARILITIES
CURRENT PORTION OF LONG TERM DEBT
ALEXANDRIA PORT LOANS                  2526.0       3388.0       3465 0       3521.0       3595.0       3675.0       3763.0       3561.0      3962.0       4074.0
DIKHEILA PORT LOANS                                                                                     5435.3       5435 3       5435.3      5435.3       5435.3
ACCOUNTS PAYABLE                          36051.4      14035.1       2022.4       2¶23.5       2229.7      7740.5       9405.3       5767.6       5531.0      580.7.-5
TOTAL CURRENT LIABILITIES                 25577.4      17423.1       5477 4       5644.5       6924.7      16860 8     15606.6      ¶4663.9      14925.3      ¶5316.8
NON CURRZENT LIABILITIES
LONG TERMA DEBT-ALEXANDRIA PORT           56567.0      60425.0      62774.0      61653.0    95055.0       94383.0    50620.0        46759 0    42797.0       39723.0
LONG TERM DERT-DIKHEILA PORZT                                        ¶600.0      31100.0     75800.0      86964.7    81529.A    76094.1    7065A-C    69223.5
TOTAL NON CURRENT LIABILITIES             56557.0      60429.0      64374.0      93753.0    133858 0   141347.7    132149.4    122853 1   113455.5    103946 5
GOVERNMENTS EQUITY
CAPITAL                                   19907.0      48629 0      83126.0    140704 0   201792.0   295032 0   255033.0   759032.0   295032.0   255032.0
AEYALUATION RESERVE                        7895.4      17674 5    28871 6    41618.4         55939.8      71813 4    95457.0    12956S.0   163313.          3 00107.5
OTHER RESERVES                             2777.0       2777.0       2777 0       2777.0       2777 0       2777.0      2777.0       7777.0       2777.0       2777.0
NET INCOME ACCOUNT                        33981.6      65254.7      73249 7    101932.1    ¶25776.3    ¶21225.2    139669.0    141504.5   149940.3    165204.7
LESS
OTSTRIBUTtONS                             20992.6      41969.7      61260.7      69943.1    114537.3    ¶36021 8    199052.¶    176469.3   204918.6   2459992.1
SUBTOTAL                                  43968.4      52469.5    126763.6    197088 4   271747.8   3 14 829 . 8 341852.9    353109.3   366144.4   381169.1
TOTAL LIABILITIES6 EQUITY                129l12.8    160331.8    196615.0   29548S.8   4I1430.5   473024 2   492638.9   490526.3   494528.S   500432.4
DEBT/EQUITY RATIO                              1.3         0.7          0.9          0.5          0.5          0.4          0.4          0.3         0.3          0.3
CURRENT RATIO                                  1.9          2.8          7.3         8.9         11.I          9.1          5.4          7 5          8.4         9.4



- 50 -
5.14     The financial results shown in the tables included herein and
summarized in para. 5.08 indicate that in the initial years starting January
1, 1986 when the Dikheila port commences operations until FY1989 APA will not
achieve the 9.0% annual rate of return on net fixed assets originally
stipulated in the existing Loan Agreement (1239-EGT) for the Alexandria Port
Project; however, it is noteworthy that APA will achieve 11.5%, which is more
than the required 9.0%, in FY199O. In the circumstances, the existing Loan
Agreement will be suitably amended, and during negotiations agreement was
reached that APA will take all necessary measures including adjustments in
tariffs to achieve a rate of return on total net fixed assets (at Alexandria
and Dikheila ports) as revalued annually of at least 9.0% through FY 1985,
8.0% in FY 1986, 4.0% in FY 1987, 5.0% in FY 1988, 7.0% in FY 1989, and 10.0%
in FY 1990 and thereafter.
5.15     APA's financial viability could be endangered if it were to incur
substantial additional debt. During negotiations, agreement was reached that
APA will not incur any additional long-term debt without the Bank's prior
agreement unless its net cash revenues for the fiscal year or the twelve
consecutive months immediately before the date of incurrence, whichever is
greater, would be at least 1.5 times its maximum debt service requirements of
any succeeding year on all APA's debts.
VI. RECOMMENDATIONS AND AGREEMENTS REACHED
6.01     During negotiations, agreement was reached that the Government will,
in collaboration with IMC and/or APA as appropriate, undertake the following:
(1)   Master Plan
Prepare, through the auspices of APA and with the assistance of
consultants, a Master Plan of the modernization of the Port of
Alexandria and of the greater Alexandria Port area, under terms
acceptable to the Bank and meeting of the broad objectives already
outlined by the Bank to APA; the substantive conclusions of the study
to be available for Bank review by December 31, 1983 and the
implementation of the study recommendations to be reviewed with the
Bank (para. 3.06);
(2)   Land Acquisition
Cede land as required for port construction and operating the
facilities and take no action in respect of the project area which
may jeopardise the implementation of the recommendations of the
Alexandria port modernization plan (para. 3.10);



- 51 -
(3) Financing Plan
Use its best efforts to ensure co-financing in which case an equal
amount would be deleted from the Bank loan (para. 3.15);
(4) Project Execution and Procurement
(a)   Provide satisfactory evidence of arrangements for the
completion of design and tender documents of all outstanding
project items not later than June 30, 1983 (para. 3.18);
(b)   Ensure that before proceding with the invitation of bids for
the supply of equipment required for the mineral jetty and
stockyard, and before disbursing thereon, IMC shall have
undertaken a review of the status of the steel project which
shall have concluded to the satisfaction of the Bank that there
are no substantial legal, financial or technical problems
likely to obstruct the timely implementation of the steel
project (para. 3.24);
(c)   Ensure that progress reports on the execution of the project
shall be submitted to the Bank each quarter, for which the
format and content were agreed by IMC and APA (para. 3.28);
(d)   Adhere to the target dates for the award of the following
contracts (para. 3.27):
(i)    Equipment:  Mineral jetty and stockyard, April 1, 1983;
Commercial berths, April 1, 1983;
Floating plant, October 1, 1983;
(ii)   Alexandria Port Modernization Study, May 1, 1983.
(e)   Continue to ensure the adequacy of the number and calibre of
IMC engineers, of outside expertise and the establishment of an
effective team for project execution (para. 3.28).
(5) Work Associated with the Project
Undertake the new road link from Dikheila to the desert road to Cairo
(para. 3.32);
Customs and Duties
(6) In submitting the project to the People's Assembly, recommend that
project items be excluded from custom's duties and taxes (para. 3.13);



- 52 -
(7) Management, Organisation and Training
(a)   Forward to the Bank by September 1, 1982 a confirmatory list of
the arrangements which APA will make for the operation and
maintenance of all of the new port facilities (para. 3.07);
(b)   Provide, not later than June 1983, a staffing, operation and
training plan adequate for the activities which APA will
administer under the enlarged Alexandria/Dikheila Port (para.
2.11);
(8) Operational Targets
Undertake, in collaboration with APA, the agreed operational targets
for cargo handling at Dikheila (para. 3.29).
(9) Budgets, Accounts, Audit and Insurance
(a)   Separate the commercial activities from the Accounting
Department by July 1, 1983 (para. 2.25);
(b)   Introduce procedures by July 1, 1983 to improve the costing
system and to ensure the timely submission of internal
accounting and budgetary control reports (para. 2.26);
(c)   Submit audited financial statements within six months after the
end of each year (para. 2.28);
(d)   Submit evidence by dates to be agreed that arrangements for
adequate insurance have been made covering the enlarged
Alexandria/Dikheila Port (para. 2.29);
(10) Financial Evaluation
(a)   Take necessary steps to obtain approval of the proposed tariff
revision by July 1, 1983 (para. 5.02);
(b)   Submit in collaboration with APA by June 30, 1983, a program
for the settlement of APA's outstanding accounts receivable and
payable from and to the Government's agencies; ensure the
implementation of such program in accordance with a time
schedule satisfactory to the Bank; and ensure that all future
accounts receivable of APA will be settled within 90 days of
billing date (para. 5.05);
(c)   Ensure that APA maintains current assets and liabilities at
levels consistent with working capital requirements (para.
5.05);
(d)   Ensure that APA establishes a satisfactory level and structure
of port dues at Dikheila port with effect from January 1, 1986
(para. 5.07);



- 53 -
(e)   ensure that APA maintains records for Alexandria port
operations and Dikheila port operations as separate
self-accounting units (para. 5.12);
(f)   Ensure that APA maintains a separate cost center for its
operations at the mineral facilities at Dikheila (para. 5.12);
(g)   Ensure the achievement of financial performance indicators for
Dikheila port (para. 5.12);
(h)   Ensure the achievement of APA's financial objectives (para.
5.13);
(i)   Ensure that APA maintains an annual rate of return on net fixed
assets as revalued annually of at least 9.0% through FY1985,
8.0% in FY1986, 4.0% in FY1987, 5.0% in FY1988, 7.0% in FY1989
and 10.0% in FY1990 and thereafter (para. 5.14); and
(j)   Ensure APA obtains the Bank's prior agreement before incurring
any substantial debt which would reduce its debt service
coverage below 1.5 times (para. 5.15).
6.02     On the basis of the above, the proposed project provides a suitable
basis for a Bank loan to the Arab Republic of Egypt of US$132.0 million
including funds for the front-end fee of approximately US$2.0 million. An
agreed condition of loan effectiveness is the execution of a subsidiary
agreement between the Borrower, APA and IMC whereby the proceeds of the Bank
loan will be made available to APA on satisfactory terms and conditions.



- 54 -
Annex I
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
EL DIKHEILA PORT PROJECT
ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
Ports and Port Traffic: Present
Conditions and Future Plans and Forecasts
Recent Developments
1.       Egypt at present is mainly served by the Ports of Alexandria and Port
Said on the Mediterranean Coast and by Suez (including both Ports of Ibrahim
and Addabia) and Safaga on the Red Sea Coast. In addition, there are other
smaller ports which handle nominal amounts of traffic. Alexandria is by far
the largest port handling about 75% of the country's maritime traffic.
Moreover, Alexandria is the only port providing diverse services in
facilitating Egypt's foreign trade; other ports handle primarily specialized
bulk commodities although during the recent years because of the severe
congestion at Alexandria some general cargo traffic had to be diverted to
these ports.
2.       Over the last five years Egypt has achieved a relatively rapid
economic growth: GDP increased at an average rate of about 10% per year, the
petroleum sector emerged as a significant driving force of the economy,
important strides were made in industrialization. Parallel to these
developments, the introduction of an "open-door" policy and the
liberalization of the external trade and payment system has led to quantum
increases in port traffic.
3.       The increase in port traffic has almost exclusively been in imports;
exports have remained relatively stable and in some cases, have declined due
to increased domestic demand. Of the estimated 25 million tons of cargo
handled (excluding petroleum) in 1981 about 22 million represented imports.
Within this group about 80% of the traffic consisted of a few major
commodities or commodity groups. These, in terms of relative importance, are
grains/flour 6.3 million tons, cement 5.2 million tons, coal 2.9 million tons,
timber 1.1 million tons, fertilizer 0.9 million tons. Other import items of
some importance were alumina, sugar, edible oils, steel and a variety of
manufactured consumer and producer goods.
4.       Traditionally, a predominant portion of Egypt's. exports consisted of
agricultural products, mainly fresh fruits, potatoes, onions and cotton.
Exports of manufactured products, primarily textile yarns and fabrics,
represented only a small portion, about 300,000 tons, of the total export
volume. Other exports, molasses, salt and phosphate are shipped through
special handling facilities.



- 55 -
5.       Although the predominant portion of the total maritime traffic was
handled at Alexandria, the volume of cargo handled at Port Said was
nevertheless relatively significant and diversified. Because of increasing
congestion at Alexandria, significant volumes of bulk cargo (wheat, maize,
flour and some cement and sugar) was discharged at Port Said. Safaga was
primarily used for wheat, alumina and fertilizers. The Port of Suez handled
primarily wheat imports and some general cargo. The following table
summarizes the distribution of the total maritime traffic by ports for years
1978 through 1981:
Table 1
Total Traffic by Ports, 1978 - 1981 /2
(in 1,000 tons)
1978               1979             1980            1981/2
Alexandria         11,200                12,020           14,730           18,750
Port Said           3,550                 3,420            3,650            3,750
Suez                1,240                 0,800            1,150            1,230
Safaga              0,760                 1,460            1,280            1,350
Total         16,750                17,700           20,810          25,030
/1 Excludes petroleum traffic.
/2 Estimated on the basis of actual figures for first 9 months.
Future Prospects
6.       While it is not expected that the rather high rate of growth in
imports which was experienced during the last four years will be sustained for
long, a moderate rate of growth in the economy and therefore in port traffic
is expected based on planned specific investments and favorable general
economic trends. The basic assumptions and principles which underlie some of
the major commodity forecasts are discussed below:
General Cargo
7.       In parallel with the expected increase in incomes at an average
annual rate of 7%, imports of general cargo are forecast to increase at about
5.5% per annum after 1985. It must be noted that this is well below the rate
of increase which has taken place during recent years and therefore, must be
regarded as a conservative estimate. General cargo exports, on the other hand,
are expected to stabilize at the current level until about 1986 and then to
increase at a moderate rate.
Cement
8.       During the last few years due to the building boom in the country,
cement consumption increased rather rapidly, about 12% per year. As a result



- 56 -
Egypt, which was a net exporter of cement, became a net importer after 1978.
In 1980 about 3.8 and in 1981 4.1 million tons of cement were imported to
supplement the local production of about 3.0 million tons. Current plans
indicate that the demand for cement will increase at a rate of 8.7% in the
foreseeable future. There are also plans to expand domestic production. The
output is expected to reach about 11.5 million tons in 1983 and 13.0 million
tons in 1986. Although the production target for 1983 may not be feasible, it
is expected that in the long run Egypt will become self-sufficient in cement
and therefore imports of cement will start to decline after about 1985 and
Egypt will be self-sufficient by about 1992 and begin to export in modest
quantities. As a result, cement should gradually lose its importance in port
traffic.
Wheat/Flour
9.       A strong increase in imports of food items in general and in wheat in
particular is expected in the future. The estimates based on 3% growth rate
in real per capita incomes, population increases, and the income elasticities
of demand indicate that by 1986 demand will reach about 9.5 million tons and
to about 11.6 million tons in year 1995. Part of this total requirement will
continue to be met by imported flour, although in reduced amounts, because of
the planned extensions in the domestic milling industry. After allowing for
flour imports and domestic production (1.6 million tons) the volume of wheat
imports is expected to be in the order of 7.3 million tons in 1986 and about
10.0 million tons in 1995.
Wood/Timber
10.      All timber requirements and a predominant portion of wood product
needs of Egypt are met by imports. This situation will not change in the
future. It is estimated that demand for wood and timber will grow at about 9%
per year in a parallel fashion with the growth in construction industry and in
demand for furniture. This gives rise to 1.6 million tons of imports in 1986
increasing to about 2.5 million tons in year 1995.
Coal
11.      Although coal deposits have been known to exist in Egypt they have
never been developed, as most are regarded as uneconomic. The most promising
coal field is the Maghara deposits in Sinai with potential reserves of about
35 million tons. The coal is not of good quality and reserves are too small
to justify development at this field. Therefore, Egypt will continue to rely
completely on imports to meet its coal requirements. The availability of
natural gas will limit the need for coal as a source of energy, in particular
for industrial usages. Based on the planned expansion of the domestic coke
plants, the volume of imports is expected to reach to about 2.9 million tons
in 1986 and to 3.5 in year 1995.
Pellets
12.      Demand for imported pellets and virtually all of metal scrap will



- 57 -
originate exclusively from the proposed iron and steel complex at Dikheila.
The initial demand for the complex in 1986 is estimated to be 1.3 million tons
rising to 3 million tons in 1990 after the commencement of the planned second
phase expansion. Total port traffic projections for years 1981 through 1995
are shown in Table 2.
labIa '
TOTAL PORT TRAFFIC PROJICTIONS
1981  1982  1983  1984  1985  1986  19S7  1988  1989  1990  1991  1992  1993  1994  1995
Ce-eral Cargo   S,100  8,500  7,100  9,650    ;0,200    10,800    11, 1,o    12,!00    13,000    13,700    14,50C    15,400    16,300  17,200    17,7,00
Grains   6,300  b,500  ,700  6,000  7,130  7  ,5 cl  ', * 9   .4  3,200  9,440  8,700  9,1500  9,.00  .910
Cement   5,200  5,'OO  5, 40 I  ,20t0  ;,000 3-.-0o )  2,100  2 ,)00  2,000  2,20 ! ),00  2OVO  1,000  1,000  ;,000
Tia.b-r   1,100  .,200  ;,300  1,.00  1,_00  1,0o0  1,i30  2, oU  1,9.o  2,030  2,1C0  _,240  2,3W0  2, 40  2, 00
Phosphate  130   140   i 150  200.)   250  300  3,   300   370   300   304   300   300    i 0  200
Coal     2,500  2,700  2,730  2,800  2,800  2,900  3  3,3 0  3,00 33  3.100  3,100  3,2 30 3,30.    3,  O  3,500
Fectllizer  900  1,00(  1,U0o  1,000  SOO  500  -    -     -    100   I ,1l  100  100   lou   100
Alosina    250   .70   312,  230   340   330   350   3 50  360   370   233  290    'C(  C00    son
Salt       50    lOO   290   16C   160   160   140   160   160   160   IbO   160   160   111   160
PelIlets    -     -     -     -     -   1,300  1,433  1,5330  10  3,000  3,0.0  3,300  3,010  2,000  33012
Scrap       -                            2 -  -  -  200  203  20')  `:'  200  230  -  -   -     -
Other      400   500   bOO   700    S 00  900  I,0uO  i,3OO  1,35u  1,100  1.130  1,2Q0    1,250  1,300  1,3'0
Total    25,030    25,910    27,020    27,740    25,6.0  29,30  29,1.  30, .10    31,4570    34,240    .5,90(    3b.6 30 37,110  38,7,'O    v9,C O
Planned Port Expansions
13.      The Government's recently adopted long-term National Port Development
Plan includes, in addition to the proposed facilities at Dikheila, the
construction of the first phase of Damietta as well as rehabilitation of Port
Said, Port of Suez and Safaga. These planned investments together with the
ongoing improvements in Alexandria are expected to meet the country's port
capacity requirements until about 1995. Details of the expansion and
rehabilitation plans for each port are discussed below (Map 16270). The
proposed project port at Dikheila and ongoing improvements at Alexandria are
discussed in detail in Chapter III of the report and therefore will not be
repeated here.
Damietta Port
14.      The City of Damietta lies immediately west of the Damietta branch of
the Nile River and is about 50 km west of Port Said and 150 km east of
Alexandria. The site selected for the construction of the port is just west
of the Damietta branch of the Nile. Phase I development of the port includes
the construction of 12 berths with an average length of 250m. The access
channel is designed for a depth of 15 m with berth depths varying from 14.5 m
to 12 m. Of the 12 berths, 2 will be for grain imports with a silo capacity
of 55,000 tons, 3 container and Ro/Ro berths and the remainder will be for
conventional general cargo and break-bulk cargo. The construction of the
first phase is to proceed in two stages: Stage I will include 6 berths and is
planned for completion by 1986. The work on Stage II is planned to commence
about the same time and expected to take a further 2 to 3 years. The total
capacity is estimated to be around 6.0 million tons when completed. The plans
also include allocating a part of the container terminal for transshipment
operations.



- 58 -
Port Said
15.      The town and port of Port Said is located at the northern end of the
Suez Canal. The port was originally designed to serve as a waiting area for
ships to be assembled into convoys to transit the canal, and for bunkering and
ship repair point; cargo-handling activities were a secondary consideration.
Port facilities were severely damaged during the hostilities in 1967 and
1973. Due to increasing congestion in Alexandria, however, cargo-handling
operations have been resumed in mid 70's. The port consists of a continuous
quay wall around three basin areas at a length of 1245 m with depths varying
from 6 to 9 m. The plans include overall improvement of the port facilities
as well as construction of commercial berths. Under the plan, a container
berth of 350 m is scheduled for completion; the salt export quay and 7 general
cargo berths will be improved. The estimated capacity after rehabilitation is
estimated to be about 3.9 m tons.
Port of Suez
16.      The Port of Suez is located at the northern shores of the Bay of Suez
and at the southern end of the Suez Canal. It is approximately 135 km to
Cairo. The port traditionally serves the eastern trade routes and primarily
used for wheat from Australia and some general cargo. Port Ibrahim and
Adabiyah are the two principal facilities for cargo and passenger traffic. At
Port Ibrahim, the total usable quay length is about 850 m with 6 berths.
Water depth varies between 7 to 9 m.  At Adabiyah, only about 300 m of quay,
at present, is used for handling ships. The plans for rehabilitation works
include 3 berths for passenger/cargo combination at Port Ibrahim and 2 berths
for grain and 3 berths for general cargo at Adabiyah. The estimated capacity
is about 3.0 million tons.
Safaga
17.      Safaga is located in the center of Egypt's Red-Sea Coast and enjoys a
large and well-protected harbour. The bay offers a considerable depth of
water even at close distances to the shoreline. At present, the port consists
of a 600 m quay with a depth of 10 m providing three berths for medium size
ships. In addition, there is a lighter quay of 200 m long with a depth of 2.5
m and 115 m long 8.5 deep jetty for bulk phosphate. The plans are designed to
improve the general cargo berths and to establish a grain berth. The
phosphate jetty will also be improved. After the completion of rehabilitation
works, Safaga will have a capacity of 2.0 m tons.
Allocation of Forecast Traffic by Ports
18.      In terms of allocation of Egypt's maritime traffic among different
ports, the distinction between the Mediterranean ports and the Red-Sea ports
is the most important. This distinction is, for the most, partly dictated by
the overseas origins/destinations of the traffic. All eastbound traffic
destined to or originating from Cairo, Middle and Upper Egypt is likely to be
handled at the Red Sea ports of Suez and Safaga. In the case of such traffic,



_ D9 _
the hinterlands of the Mediterranean ports will be confined primarily to
Alexandria, Damietta and Port Said governorates. In the case of westbound
traffic, the entire country becomes the hinterland of the Mediterranean ports,
although in the case of Upper Egypt some traffic may use the Red Sea ports
depending on the trade-off between the additional inland transport costs and
the extra sailing costs and canal charges. In any event the volume of
maritime traffic originating from or destined to Upper Egypt is not likely to
be substantial.
19.      Although Egypt has relatively strong trade relations with Far Eastern
countries such as India, Japan, People's Republic of China and Taiwan, the
greater part of its commercial relationships is with the Western countries.
There are no indications suggesting that this pattern will change in the
future. Therefore the division of Egypt's total maritime traffic will likely
remain in the ratio of 85 to 15 in favor of the westbound/originating
traffic. In terms of traffic allocation between the Mediterranean ports, with
the exception of the areas immediately adjacent to each port, inland transport
costs do not play an important role. In this case, the availability of
adequate port facilities and appropriate cargo-handling equipment is a more
important factor in traffic allocation among ports. Similar observations also
apply to the Red Sea ports.
Minerals and Coal
20.      Coal traffic is presently handled at Alexandria where special
unloading and storage facilities are available. The estimated capacity is
about 3.5 million tons. Therefore, totality of coal imports will continue to
be received at this port. Alumina will continue to be imported through Safaga
where special unloading and storage facilities are available. The future of
phosphate trade is uncertain; however if and when the Abu Tartur deposits are
developed, the export traffic, in all likelihood, will use Safaga. Imports of
pellets will be handled at the new mineral jetty which is to be built at
Dikheila.
Wheat
21.      Wheat is at present imported mostly in bulk.  There are plans to
upgrade the handling and storage facilities in existing ports and also to
construct facilities in new ports, i.e., Damietta. In Alexandria, additional
silo capacity is presently under construction. When completed Alexandria will
be able to handle about 4.0 million tons of wheat. The first phase of Port of
Damietta will have a special berth for wheat with an annual capacity of around
2 million tons. The Ports of Suez, Safaga and Port Said also have additional
wheat-handling capacity of about 3.8 million tons. Therefore, the available
capacity will be adequate to handle Egypt's wheat imports for some years to
come, although an additional capacity will be required after 1995.
Timber
22.      Historically Alexandria has been the main port of entry for Egypt's
timber and wood imports. A special area in the port is reserved exclusively



- 60 -
for this traffic and it is expected that bulk of this traffic will continue to
be handled at Alexandria. The proposed Dikheila port project and Port of
Damietta include special berths for timber to help ease the congested
situation presently existing at the Port of Alexandria, and to facilitate the
movement of expected growth in this traffic.
Other
23.      Other commodities which assume some importance in Egypt's maritime
traffic are cotton, salt, molasses and edible oils. Alexandria is the
country's cotton trading center; all institutions involved in grading and
preparing cotton for export are located in this area. Therefore, all
cotton-related traffic will continue to use the port of Alexandria. Salt will
continue to be shipped from Port Said, since salt works are located near the
port. In molasses and edible oils, Alexandria will continue to be the major
trading center and therefore will handle the bulk of this traffic.
24.      Alexandria/Dikheila will remain to be the country's major port
facility in general cargo. The availability of commercial institutions and
shipping agents in this area will continue to attract traffic to this port.
Much of the Delta area as well as Cairo region will continue to rely on
Alexandria/Dikheila for most of its import requirements. Damietta port will
gradually develop to be the second important port for general cargo. With the
development of ancillary services, the volume of cargo handled will rapidly
increase after 1990's to reach about 3.6 m tons. Other secondary ports, after
the completion of rehabilitation programs will also contribute, although
modestly in moving general cargo traffic.
Projected total port traffic and planned capacity
Expansion: A Synthesis
25.      In the following paragraphs the details of the planned port capacity
expansions and traffic projections which are discussed above are brought
together with the aid of diagrams. The figure below related the projected
traffic volume to the planned capacity expansions. Petroleum and raw material
requirements of the Dikheila steel plant are excluded, as the facilities
needed for these commodities are location specific and cannot readily be
substituted for other traffic. Existing facilities and those planned under
the national port expansion program will be adequate to meet the requirements
of these commodities. Completion of the ongoing improvements at Alexandria
and the planned rehabilitation of smaller ports will gradually increase the
total port capacity in the immediate future. With the completion of the
project port at Dikheila and the first stage of Phase I development at -
Damietta, the total port capacity will achieve a significant jump by 1986.



- 61 -
Capacity                                                   Total Plan Port Capacity of the Arab Republic of Egypt
Traffic                                                                                                and Traffic Forecasts
(m Ton)
_        _     _ '_                        _            F     _          _          I   _ I                           _     _      _          I'        _ _    _           F 
I  _      _           _   I                           I                             1                            !_ _   1                      j_ _   1 - __                 
I   _     _           _   I         I_                               I                                           I                             I__ 1 __     _                       
I                         I                           I                             I __                                                       1                                      _
25.0 ~        ~ ___ -I. r__                                                                                 ___  I_                   __        _ I_                _     _ I_
_         ~              ~ ~~~~~~~I                   I                                            1                             1 I___    __
_      _          _            _     _     _                                            _    _         _             _    _          _             _     _     _           F __
I_       _      _          I         _     _          I        _             l           bI _ _                  I   _    _          _             _     _     _           T   _   _
I                          1_ _                       1- 1_ _                                                    1                                                        I_ _     _ _       _ _ _ __    
20.0           1     _     _     _                . _ _     _          I   _      _     _            F __ I _                                       _                _     _     _          F 
I                          1_ _   F-  1_   _                                                                     I __        __                     __                      
_               _               _       _ '_                            _ '  I_                      _ "'1  1_                                1  1_                       1
_               _ I_                                                    _ I             _      _     _ I                    _ I 1_                             _ 1-       1
I        _      _          I_                                                 _    F    __ I                         _      __ I_                              _  I       T        _
1 5 0       _     _      _                                    I                             I_ _   F _                    I    _    _         _         I                          r__ F    _
I        _      _          I         _           _   I    __        I         -_                      _  I       I          _      _           I      -         _          F       -_-
I  _ _        F   _     _           _   I          I_      _           F                                                          I_ _   1I'_  
*_   _           F        _                I                       ._ _   F       _          _         I   __                   _   I    _     __               I        _
1981                       1982                       1983                          1984                          1985                         1986                        1987



- 62 -
The figure above clearly shows that because of the long delays in expanding
port capacity to handle the growing traffic, even with the assumption that all
planned capacity expansions would be implemented on schedule, the nominal port
capacity will be just adequate to meet the demand by about 1987. The
equilibrium will be reached only after the completion of the second stage of
Phase I of Damietta. The projected growth in port traffic after 1987 will
require the construction of the second phase developments both at Dikheila and
Damietta. However, preparations for these further expansions need to be
started soon if a recurrence of congestion is to be avoided in the future.
26.      Because hinterlands of the Mediterranean ports and the Red-Sea ports
are separate and distinct, the facilities provided in one region are not
readily substitutable for the other. Therefore, traffic projections and
planned capacity expansions of each region are analyzed separately. The
figure below shows the projected traffic and planned capacities of the
Mediterranean ports. The equilibrium, similar to the country-wide case will
be attained only by about 1987.



-  bi    -
Capacity                                   Mediterranean Ports of the Arab Republic of Egypt
Traffic                                                    Traffic and Capacity Forecasts
(m Ton)
30.0
I  _  _       _  I    -_   _       I'     _    '      I               -I_     _    _       I               I__ 1  _
_     _  _       1  _  _  _       1l _ _      _          I_     _        _   _     _            _  _       
25.0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
I  _  _       _  I    I_                   I                           I_ _   I_ _   _ _ _  _       _            _
25.0_           _ 1      _  _   _       1   _ _     _       _  _      _        _  _      _        _            _      _
I                i_ _ 1|_        1                _TRAFFIC   II
I                I__ _    1       I_ _     1 _ _ _ _ _ P1A C_I_T  Y
I  _  _   _  1    1              1                     _  _      _        _  _      _       _       _
2 5 .        I _ _ _ _ _                                  I _ _ _ _   I                                         I__ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ __ _ _
20.0                       1                1
1981            198 _19 83                         19                19851              1986       I      1987
15.0                 1    _ _  _       1  _   _       _  1  _       _        1  _  _   _         _   _      _  1 
I    _    _      I _   _       _  I  _       _      I _T_               I                   _   _   _       I _     _
I        ._ _      _   _   _       1     l _ _ _     I  _       _         _   _   _            I_
1 5 0 1 _ _ _  1     _   _          ,      _        I  __             I  _  __          I  _  _       _  I  _     _
____ 1            o__  R  T        C_ _                                               1 P  A|__TY_ 
_I                                                                        [I                                   _
II _ _ _ _ _ 1 _  _   _  _       _   _   _  _    1                1                   I__ _ _   1I__ _ _     _ _
1981            1982             1983               198                198               198              198



- 64 -
27.            The figure below relates the projected traffic and the planned
capacity expansions at the Red-Sea ports. The results are similar to those
shown above.
Capacity                              Red-sea Ports of the Arab Republic of Egypt
Traffic                                           Traffic  and  Capacity  Forecasts
(m Ton)
4 . 0    I _  _   _  _       _  _   _ _       _  _   _  _       _  _ _   _  _   _   _  _   _   _     _  _   _   _  _  _   _
3.0
PI       _ R  T1                                    1       /   I__P        __ITY_
3.0                      1                                                    1                 1   _            F   _
2.01            1982             18 _198                              1985               1 986     \    198
I    _   _       I    _      _      _   __1_                  _   _ 1 _ 1 \_                            I  _ I_I
1   _ _ _ _ __ _ _ _   1: __ _ _ _ __ _ _   I    I                   1  __ _ __ _ _ __ _ _   I  _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ I  __ _ __ _ _
1    _       _    _       _      | _        _ TRAFFIC                I _ _          _I__ I                    _
_    _   _        _   _   _       1  _    _           _   _   _       1  _  _       _  1  _   _      _
1.0     1  _  _  _ _  _   1    _ _ _ _ _ _ 1   _ _ _ _ _ _ _   I__   _  _  _                                     I _ _ _ _ _     _ _ _ _ _   _ _
I   _     _      I               I_ _     _  _           _     _      I                -__ _ I  I_ _          _
___                __             1,    r_ _             r_ _         1     _       _1F
I   _     _      I  _ _   _       1   _      _           _     _      I  _ _     _       1I_       _          _
_   _     _      I  _ _ _  _      ]                ii  _   _       _   _     _    _    ]    _    _ _I       I _ _
I    _   _       i  _           I  _    _   _       I. _  _   _       1     __         .  __
1981            1982             1983              1984               1985              1986             1987



- 65 -
28.       The following tables show forecast traffic volumes for major
commodity and commodity groups by ports for 1986 and 1995:
Table 3
1986 Traffic Allocation by Ports
Alex/Dikh. Damietta  P. Said   Suez    Safaga    Total
General Cargo            6,700       1,500       1,900      500        200   10,800
Grains                   3,000       1,500       1,000     800       1,000    7,300
Cement                   2,000         400        400       100        100    3,000
Timber                   1,300         300           -        -                1,600
Phosphate                    -            -                            300       300
Coal                     2,900            -          -        -          -    2,900
Fertilizer                 400            -        100        -          -       500
Salt                         -           -         160       -                   160
Pellets                  1,300                                                 1,300
Scrap                      200                                                   200
Other                      400                     200     300                   900
18,200    3,700    3,760   1,700    1,940          29,300
Table 4
1995 Traffic Allocation by Ports
Alex/Dikh. Damietta  P. Said   Suez    Safaga    Total
General Cargo               9,200    3,600    2,600   1,300    1,000           17,700
Grains                      3,800    2,000    1,400   1,400    1,000            9,600
Cement                         500         -         -      500         -       1,000
Timber                      2,000        500         -        -                 2,500
Phosphate                        -         -                          300         300
Coal                        3,500          -         -        -         -       3,500
Fertilizer                     100         -         -        -         -         100
Alumina                          -         -         -        -      400          400
Salt                             -         -       160        -                   160
Pellets                     3,000                                               3,000
Other                          950       400         -        -                 1,350
23,050    6,500    4,160   3,200    2,700          39,610



- 66 -
Summary
29.      The proposed port project at Dikheila as well as other components of
the national port plan are long overdue and are much needed. The planned new
constructions and rehabilitation works will not only meet the requirements of
the expected growth in traffic during the plan period but will also enable
Egypt to avoid high cargo-handling costs by eliminating severe port congestion
presently prevailing, particularly at Alexandria. Moreover, the planned
capacity expansions, assuming that they are all implemented as scheduled, will
be just adequate to handle efficiently the forecast traffic volume.
Therefore, it is essential that preparation should start soon for implementing
the second phases of development both at Dikheila and Damietta if a recurrence
of congestion is to be avoided.



AiAI HhiPtrIlOAC OF :GY1'1'
APPRAISAL OF DIKHEILA PORT PROJECT
Details of Cost Estimates
Approximate
----Egyptian Pounds (Million)----           ----------US  (Million)--------    Approximate   % of Total
Local        Foreign        Total         Local           Foreign      Total     Foreign X         Cost
1. Civil Works and Dredging
a)  Bmain Breakwater                         17.776          3.386        21.162        25.394         4.837        30.231         16             6.4
b)  Mineral Berth and Access Channel          19.049        16.009        35.058        27.213        22.870        50.083        46             10.6
c)  Commercial Berths (incl. dredging)    24.669            20.183        44.852        35.241        28.833        64.074        45             13.5
e)  Roads, Paving                            20.077          3.824        23.901        28.681         5.463        34.144         16             7.2
f)  Rail Access                               1.116          0.084         1.200         1.594         0.120         1.714          7             0.4
g)  Sheds & Warehouses                        0.940          2.530         3.470         1.343         3.614         4.957         73             1.1
h)  Container Shed                             0.320         0.850         1.170         0.457          1.214         1.671        73             0.4
i)  Miscellaneous                             4.745          7.117        11.862         6.779        10.167        16.946        60              3.5
j)  Lighthouse                                0.600          0.400         1,000         0.857         0.571          1.428       40              0.3
k)  Port Buildings                             3.882         2.588         6.470         5.546         3.697         9.243        40              1.9
Subtotal                             93.174        56.971       150.145       133.105        81.386        214.491        38            45.3
II.    Equipment
a)  At Commercial Berths                       1.550        29.450        31.000         2.214        42.071        44.285         95             9.3
b)  At Mineral Berths                         0.526         10.004        10.530         0.751        14.292         15.043        95             3.2
c)  At Stockyard                               1.850        16.650        18.500         2.643        23.786        26.429         90             5.6           C0
d)  Floating Plant                            0.600         11.400        12.000         0.858        16.285         17.143        95             3.6            -4
Subtotal                               4.526        67.504        72.030         6.466         96.434       102.900        94            21.7
III.   Engineering Services
a)  Supervision of Construction               4.443          1.111         5.554         6.347         1.587          7.934        20             1.7
b)  Design                                    0.868          3.217         4.085         1.240         4.596          5.836        79             1.2
c)  Technical Assistance - Alexandria         0.115          0.460         0.575         0.164         0.657          0.821        80             0.2
Subtotal                               5.426         4.788        10.214          7.751         6.840        14.591        47             3.1
III.   Contingencies
a)  Physical                                  15.243        16.014        31.257        21.776        22.877        44.653         51             9.4
b)  Price                                    39.067         28.567        67.634        55.810        40.810        96.620         42            20.5
Subtotal                              54.310        44.581        98.891         77.586        63.687       141.273        45            29.9
Grand Total                                  157.436       173.844       331.280       224.908       248.347       473.255         52           100.0
Note
1.   Sources IMC, Consultants, Bank Staff
2.   Contingencies - Physical Contingency 15% on Civil Works and 10% on equipment; Price Contingencies on Civil Works and
equipment; Foreign Componer,t: 1982, 83 - 8%, 84 - 7.5%; 85 - 7%; 1986 - 88 - 6%; local component: 1982, 14%; 1983-86,
13Z; Price Datum for Cost Estimates
- end 1981.
3.   Currency exchange rate;  Egyptian pound LE 0.7   US31.0



- 68 -
ANNEX 3
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
EL DIKHEILA PORT PROJECT
ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
Principal Items of Equipment
Equipment required under the project is considered hereunder under four
general categories; namely:
i)    cargo-handling equipment at the commercial berths;
ii)   cargo-handling equipment at the mineral jetty;
iii) floating plant; and
iv)   cargo-handling equipment at the ore stockyard.
Cargo-handling Equipment at the Commercial Berths
The definitive list of equipment to be provided under the project will
be selected following the procurement procedures already outlined in paras.
3.19, 3.20 and 3.21. Thus, at the container terminal, the equipment to be
selected to handle containers in the yard, at the freight station and at the
transfer points for road and rail delivery is expected to-be influenced by a
choice between straddle carrier operation and operation by yard-gantry
cranes. The evaluation bids would take account of alternative stacking
arrangements as well as other relevant factors, such as the paved area
required for each system, the most suitable location of a freight station, and
the facilities for equipment maintenance. A list of the equipment adopted for
the purposes of this report is as follows:
i) Commercial berths
Container berths, freight station and rail transfer yard
3 rail-mounted container gantry cranes: 45-ton capacity
6 tyred gantry yard cranes
11 tractors 200 HP
30 trailers 2 x 20
9 forklifts 12 ton
3 forklifts 4 ton
6 forklifts 2 ton
2 rail-mounted transfer cranes
4 container handling units



- 69 -
General Cargo and Timber Berths
10  rail-mounted quay cranes 8 ton
6 mobile cranes 15 ton
1 mobile crane 40 ton
15  forklift trucks 12 ton
8  forklift trucks 6 ton
51  forklift trucks 3 ton
3  forklift trucks 2 ton
5  tractors
30  trailers
ii)Mineral Jetty and at a Berth for Scrap Metal
2  rail-mounted unloading gantry cranes of 30-ton capacity
2  unloading conveyors of 1,000-ton per hour capacity.  Conveyor
transfer station
1   crane 12-ton capacity with grab and magnet
20  heavy-duty dump trucks
1   bulldozer
iii) Floating Plant
3 tugs 2,500 HP with fire-fighting equipment
2 pilot boats
2 workboats
Bunkering vessel and mooring
Oil spill equipment
iv)  Ore Stockyard
2 rail-mounted ore stackers, 2,000 ton/hr 40 m outreach
2 rail-mounted ore reclaimers, 500 ton/hr
Conveyor belt system 2,000 ton/hr feeding four stacks including
conveyance system crossing the main road between the stockyard and the
steel mill.
Small plant including stack trimmers.
Control and information systems, one for containers movements and one
for the movements of materials for use in the steel mill (iron ore, pellets,
etc.) together with training in the use of all important equipment items are
included in the project. The cost of the foregoing is included in the
estimated cost of the equipment. The cost of small and miscellaneous items of
equipment, such as electrical switchgear, is included under the appropriate
civil works.



- 70 -
ANNEX 4
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
EL DIKHEILA PORT PROJECT
ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
Alexandria Port Modernisation Plan
Main Objectives
The main objectives of the study are to provide APA and the
Government with specific engineering and planning proposals to assist APA in:
(1) The continued modernisation of the port of Alexandria.
(2) The improvement of the main transport arteries to the port of
Alexandria/Dikheila.
-(3) The integration of port services offered by Alexandria and Dikheila
and cargo allocations within both parts of the enlarged port.
(4) The future development of both ports to 1990 with particular
reference to the designation of land for port related use.
(5) Recommendations for the entrance channel to Alexandria, to be
effective when port faciilities at Dikheila come into operation.
(6) A review of siltation within the Alexandria/Dikheila port complex and
on any recommended remedial measures.
Details to be taken into account in carrying out this study should include,
but not necessarily be limited, to the following:
1 - Alexandria Modernisation
(a) Taking account of the current programme for modernisation of the
port of Alexandria already prepared and being executed by APA,
to review and incorporate this work as appropriate into an
updated comprehensive modernisation programme providing
recommendations for the timing of all important elements such as
renewal of quays and demolition of unsuitable sheds and other
facilities.
2 - Transport Improvements to the Port of Alexandria/Dikheila
Taking account of the development proposals for road, rail and water
transport already contained in the Ministry of Transport's General
development schemes, to prepare for the port of Alexandria/Dikheila



- 71 -
and the city of Alexandria, specific phased proposals to relieve congestion at
the present port entry and exit gates. These recommendations should consider
traffic destined or originating from Cairo and that related to Alexandria.
These recommendations should be made in the light of town planning measures
already submitted and currently being studied and shall have due regard to the
development concerns of the Alexandria Governorate.
3- Alexandria/Dikheila Integration
(a) Recommendations for the optimum traffic allocation between these
two parts of Alexandria port to ensure maximum efficiency in
container-handling operations, and modern facilities for bulk
imports such as grain and coal.
(b) Proposals for future traffic allocation within the greater
Alexandria port complex based on the forecast of the Ministry of
Transport - Port Sector review by consultants Nedeco, and having
regard to port development at other Egyptian ports.
(c) Proposals for the most economic development of facilities for
both parts of the greater Alexandria port area having regard to
the outline master plan for Dikheila prepared in 1977 by
consultants BCEOM/WYP/PAM.
4- Future Land use and Development
Recommendations shall be made for the use of land within the
boundaries of land already ceded to the domain of Alexandria port and having
due regard to the industrial land use and urban plans of the Alexandria
Governorate.
5- Access Channel
Recommendations for a new or improved access channel to Alexandria
based on an analysis of sub-soil conditions and navigational factors in view
of the cancellation of plans to dredge an alternate pass, under World Bank
Loan 1239-EGT and in view of the present development plans for Dikheila.
6- Siltation
A review of siltation within the boundaries of the sea area between
Alexandria and Dikheila and recommendations for any subsidiary studies or
analyses to minimise siltation, if in the opinion of the consultant such
studies are warranted.



- 72 -
ANNEX 5
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
EL DIKHEILA PORT PROJECT
ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
Selected Documents and Data Available in the Project File
A. General Reports and Studies in the Transport Sector
1.   Egypt National Transport Study Draft Final Report 1981 Phase II
including Annexes I to VIII by Netherlands Engineering Consultants
(Holland) in association with PACER consultants, Cairo.
2.   Development Policy
Ports of Egypt
Fedric R. Harris   1980
3.   National Transport Study
Intern Report 1977
by Louis Berger International
4.   Master Plan, Port of Damietta
July 1979 by F.R. Harris
B. General Reports and Studies Relating to the Project
Dikheila Port Project Master Plan
1.   Volume 1 - Proposed layout year 2000
2.   Volume 2 For Phase 1
December 1977
By Bureau Central d'Etudes pour les Equipements d'Outre-Mer (France).
White Young and Partners (UK), and
Port Autonome de Marseilles (France) (BCEOM/WYP/PAM).
3.   Feasibility study on Dikheila Integrated Steel Mill Project
Japan International Cooperation Agency, August 1979.
4.   Dikheila Port Project
The sponge iron pier
BCEOM, August 1976
5.   Alexandria Port Authority
Report on organization, management and finance by consultants Bureau
Central d'Etudes pour les Equipements d'Outre-Mer (France), Peat
Marwick & Mitchell (UK), Port Autonome de Marseilles and Port
Autonome du Havre (France), (BCEOM/PMM/PAM/PAH)
C. Selected Working Papers
1.   APA's audited accounts for 1979 and June 30, 1980
2.   UASC's audited accounts for 1979 and June 30, 1980
3.   GWE's audited accounts for 1979 and June 30, 1980
4.* Project cost estimates
* Held by Project Officer



z2-
30- '                                       -.30  ro            
bu knei;                                                                 _     S. d 'kntr
'5     -
y   Kafr nl  yaoTor
ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPi.T                                          S                         >-'-,, o
DIKHEILA   PORT  PROJECT                                                                                                                                                  30';
TRANSPORTATION   SYSTEM
INCLUDING                                                         el-
MAI N  PORTS-.,4,G'                                              ,> ,                                          %                                       "'i   8_
4,Project part
Other ports
MaOn roads                    SdrkerO 7ar-
-      Railways
----- Canal
=Cun es  El to-     ...=:>
WId
o~~~    ~ 20    an    nO                                           j. 20                     .t                    G    
,Oa'a,raa    Sex  ISRAELs                              X    nc ~ ~ -  \                                                                               \xt< 
-n  L  S0       A 8ZX    
R,,ell~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~5ECa,
ARAB REPPLIC 0    GYPT    Pad ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~  ~     ~     ~     ~     ~     ~     ~     ~    ~    ~ ~ 0 
c ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~GA so                                                               ,,-"         "'       "'',,_ 
___-                   ~     ~     ~     ~         X     t -naaaaa~xvI  ao',                           \,        :          ,,                         \        C
ao---                     ,
ARAB REPUBLIC OF0,EGYPTY  9.                                                                                                              'IxO' a.;-  ,a',' .
S       t  i     -






N',                                                                                                /     A e                                                                                                                                                      5/ /\      _JE' IR
N~~ 1~                                                                       -, /__S    _4r'R  .I AR /'.;'                                                          ..0
I r   all RECInhAATloNi   /    /    '                                                                                  i ( 1e  {K ||               >>      ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~EL ANFU'Hl
A  (; A M I
'A~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~OA
;~~~~~~~~I  ), -A2c-C    AIIAP%                                                       /l 3k /    :g
-P  t            ~~~~~~~"vA,, ,,l   'f-
,>>, .. / Rcsa 1 g . 'I ~ -                       U                                         0 'A
\  ,g'~          ~ ~~~I RiV1 000000'                                      / N''0                                                                                                            'V '.    ff                        >'.   E AF
I~~~~~~ ~~~~                                   ~~~~~~  sr_ DA AN                                                                                                                           NON
ARAB   REPUBLIC   OF  EGYPT      \          \       Zo¢g~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~TIB 
DIKHEILA   PORT  PROJECT ,p.,t°DI-H.ILA
)z  Pro/c shw   nrd'Ne0umlppDsos                            
- Proposd lmproved Rord -nrk, to Port           /                                                                                                                                                     rAE
I -  -   -ort Bound'ry                             A)' .,d., 0SPAEL .   / 0A
Urbr  -d BuII-p Areo                                                                                                                                   / ,A                                                   ;         I  T
.    AADr5h                  rht5 m r A3s OE PEP e -* ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.1PN                                                                                C  ,7'
h.ETERS                          Mineral Port                                                                                                                                                    /
A  I'
D ~ ~    ~ ~ I 'Lt                                                                                                             HARBO l                                   00 20D  PLae  BldnnoieeSlts/ovnl  xvidmmno 
KY'            ChEat   /'                                                                                                                       ,                                               C   H  A  E \N     R






IBRD 15905
OCTOBER 1981'
ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
DIKHEILA  PORT PROJECT
PROPOSED.
Roads
Road Improvement                                                                                                P A-nolitvto
,  Rc llway           .  -- - 9     y f                                                  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~       ~       ~      ~~~~~~~~~Ad,,i  isron/ 
Railway~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Bidn
Filled Area c
-      Customs Fence
Gates . ::. /oieBrok ........./\'   
-     Green Areas                                   0  Police Stn
T3 Dr edging (depth in meters)                 t9io/                                                         ,,<        t
Stockyard:cl< K
+     Stocker / Reclaimer                      -Cs           Bd                                                                                                                oe
-   Convyoars                              A      Area
Road                                                                                           "SO   <\v  ( \ \2s \ss4 fiArea
\  , ( :) 11 '; '° ^ ISASlN " " -~~~~~z~3~, 
\" N                                 x)|                                          MINERAL JETTY                                       .               _ _____-------CO MERCIAL
PORT
Rclai,red Area
IOTz  Ore Cortwevr svste  ond sosAvord \  /  \'\s   w -> v ., i................... v 8 .-14   \
TURNING
BASIN                              2           S 
-20~ ~ ~~~~2
EnrneChannel
ore                                         .. 5.uri.? 5 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-4-20
this nap has hoern prepared bv the                                                                1° \af\/9                                                                                                                      SAUDI
World hark s staff eolusoively to,                                                                                                                                                                LIY             ARA             ARABIA
thetovr0ooor cof theyroosyorLI                                                                                                                                                                             I StokyAN
the report to which rio I attached                                                                                                                            METERS                                            AREPBLIC      <
Thederiorninationsuseda/edthe                       \          qZz            v                              METERS                                           REPUBLICk   \ <,>\~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~RETC:~  YP
bourdaner shows ort trio rep                                                                                        a                      0:- w    200     400      600      E00      1000                    OF  EGYPT        \ 
World Benrk aod its afhtiotio,at..ny                                                                                                                                    
jdgmenrton she ler1 a stastus of                                                                          X                                                               
drly tnrrtsoy oi arJey erdoroerrert                                                                                                                                                                        H n/           E 
inroparcro atcof.uch hoordasos                                                                              Ia                                                                                                      U   0  U   A   N  fh'
-30CHA-             3p      ,



