Document of
The World Bank                   L
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-3338-EGT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
TO THE
ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
FOR AN
EL DIKHEILA PORT PROJECT
May 25, 1982
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization. r,



ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
Currency Eguivalents
Official Foreign Exchange Rate
I Egyptian Pound (LE) = US $1.43
I US Dollar ($)          LE 0.70
Rate for Commercial Bank Transactions
I Egyptian Pound (LE)   US $1.20
1 US Dollar ($)          LE 0.84
Fiscal Year
July 1 to June 30
Abbreviations
APA    Alexandria Port Authority
dwt    Deadweight tonnage
ER     Egyptian Railways'
GWE    General Warehouses of Egypt
TMC    Organization for Industrial
and Mining Complexes
NTS    National Transport Study
TPA    Transport Planning Authority
UASC   United Arab Stevedoring Company



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
EL DIKHEILA PORT PROJECT
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:            Arab Republic of Egypt
Beneficiary:         Alexandria Port Authority (APA)
hmount.              US$132 million equivalent, including capitalized front end
fee.
Terms:               The Bank loan would be made to the Government and onlent
to APA at 11.6% interest for 20 years, including three
years of grace.
Project Objectives  The project would assist the Government in the
and Description:    construction of a new port at El Dikheila (10 km. west of
the existing port of Alexandria) and would: (a) provide
urgently required commercial port facilities, particularly
for containerized traffic; (b) provide a jetty at which
large ore carriers may serve the steel mill being built at
El Dikheila; and (c) facilitate orderly expansion and
development of the Alexandria/El Dikheila port complex.
The project consists of the following components: (i)
Civil Works and Dredging for: a main breakwater, an
entrance channel, two commercial quays and transit shed, a
mineral jetty and stockyard to serve the steel mill,
warehousing and related buildings, utilities and access to
the berths; (ii) an Equipment Package consisting of: (a)
cargo handling equipment for the container, timber and
general cargo berths; (b) cargo handling equipment at the
mineral berth with the associated conveyor equipment
feeding the stockyard within the port area and the steel
mill; (c) floating plant; and (d) miscellaneous equipment;
and (iii) Consultancy Services for detailed engineering
and project supervision and for a study of the continued
modernization of Alexandria Port and its integration with
El Dikheila Port.  The new port will generate benefits
throughout the country in the form of uninterrupted
deliveries, reduced prices of imported goods to domestic
consumers, lower costs for investors and reduced transport
costs for exporters. Through the project, the Bank would
also continue the institution building efforts begun under
the ongoing Alexandria Port Project and the National
Transport Study. Although the Organization for Industrial
and Mining Complexes, which would be responsible for
carrying out the project, has not had experience in port
development, arrangements have been made to ensure
adequate outside expertise. Also administration of the
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- iA. -
new port facilities might initially place a strain on APA,
but the risk is offset by the training and staffing plans
APA has agreed to undertake. Finally, in the unlikely
event that the steel mill would not proceed, the legal
documents provide that the Bank not participate in the
financing of the mineral jetty and stockyard.
Estimated
Project Costs: 1/                                    Local    Foreign    Total
(US$ Million Equivalent)
Main breakwater                 25.3        4.8       30.1
Mineral jetty and
access channel                27.2       22.8       50.0
Commercial berths               35.2       28.8       64.0
Shoreworks & misc.              45.4       24.9       70.3
Total civil works           133.1        81.3      214.4
Equipment:
Mineral jetty                    0.8       14.3       15.1
Stockyard                        2.6       23.8       26.4
Sub-total                     (3.4)     (38.1)     (41.5)
Commercial berths                2.2       42.1       44.3
Floating plant                   0.8       16.2        7-0
Total equipment                6.4      96.4       102.8
Engineering and
consultants services             7.8        6.8       14.6
Base cost estimate           147.3      184.5      331.8
Physical contingency            21.8       22.8       44.6
Price contingency               55.8       40.9       96.7
Total project cost             224.9      248.2      473.1
Front end fee                     -         2.0        2.0
Total financing required  224.9         250.2      475.1
1/ Excluding customs duties and taxes.



Financing Plan:                                      Local    Foreign    Total
(US$ Million Equival ent
Bank Loan                         -        132.0      132.0
Government                      224.9      118.2      343.1
224.9      250.2      475.1
Estimated           Bank Fiscal Year                 1983   1984   1985    1986
Disbursements:                                        (US$ Million Equivalent)
Annual                          2.3    42.2   63.8    23.7
Cumulative                      2.3    44.5  108.3   132.0
Estimated
Economic Rate of
Return:              22.6%
Appraisal Report: No. 3799a-EGT, dated May 14, 1982.



#   *                                                                                                            :^              z~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~



INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED LOAN TO THE
ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
FOR AN EL DIKHEILA PORT PROJECT
1.       I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed loan
to the Arab Republic of Egypt for the equivalent of US4132.0 million to help
finance a new port at El Dikheila.  The proposed loan would have a term of 20
years, including 3 years of grace, with interest at 11.6% per annum.  The
proceeds of the loan would be relent to the Alexandria Port Authority for 20
years, including 3 years of grace, with interest at 11.6% per annum.
PART I - THE ECONOMY 1/
2.       A report on "Recent Economic Developments and External Capital
Requirements" (SecM80-933) was distributed to the Executive Directors on
December 24, 1980. This section updates the economic situation and outlook
discussed in that report; revised country data sheets and macroeconomic
accounts are presented in Annex I.
Background
3.       The last ten years have been a period of rapid growth for the
Egyptian economy. Following an extended period of inward-looking and
centralist economic policies, the late President Sadat in 1974 announced a new
"Open Door" policy with the objective of accelerating the pace of development
by liberalizing the economy and stimulating foreign and domestic private
investment.  Parallel to the changes in economic strategy, there was progress
towards peace which brought with it expectations of rapid economic expansion
and greater prosperity.
4.       Throughout the second half of the 1970's, external circumstances
as well as domestic developments were on the whole favorable to the economy.
The emergence of a strong petroleum sector with a substantial exportable
surplus, large flows of workers' remittances, the successful reopening of the
Suez Canal and the growth of the tourism industry, complemented by substantial
long-term capital inflows, allowed Egypt to reduce considerably the stringent
resource shortages of the early 1970's.  Egypt entered the 1980's with a much
stronger resource base and a somewhat smaller current account deficit; but the
needs of the rapidly growing population remained and are still immense.  At
present, 43 million people have only about 39,000 km2 of usable land. While
Egypt's population has doubled in the last three decades, the cultivated area
has increased by less than 5%. Moreover, the physical and social
1/ This section is the same as Part I of the President's Report for the
Greater Cairo Urban Development Project (P-3329-ECT), dated May 21, 1982.



infrastructure of the country has suffered from long years of insufficient
investment, inadequate maintenance and the effects of war. Low productivity
and underemployment affect many parts of the economy and the consumption
capacity of the poor has improved marginally. Maintaining rapid growth will
require sustained efforts aimed at overcoming these constraints.  In
particular, continued progress depends crucially on: (i) the mobilization of
large national and foreign resources to finance high levels of investment;
(ii) substantial increases in the productivity of capital and labor based on
institutional reforms and effective investment planning; and (iii) an
equitable distribution of the sacrifices and benefits associated with
economic growth.
5.       After taking office in October of 1981, President Mubarak expressed
his firm intention to accord top priority to economic issues.  The outward-
looking "Open Door" strategy favorable to foreign investment will be
maintained. The process of liberalization is to be complemented, however,
by increased emphasis on population and human resource planning, the
rationalization of consumption with a view to ensuring greater social equity,
and a more comprehensive process of investment planning designed to economize
resources and channel a greater share of investment into domestic agriculture
and industry in order to foster increased productivity and employment. These
are some of the key conclusions emerging from a special economic conference
convened by the President in February 1982. The new Cabinet, appointed in
January 1982, has begun the task of drawing up an economic program aimed at
achieving these objectives and meeting the difficult challenges that lie ahead.
Recent Economic Developments
6.       Recent economic trends may be separated into two successive phases
with quite different characteristics: (i) a period of unprecedented resource
growth starting in 1975 and peaking in 1979/80, and (ii) starting in the
summer of 1981, a period of re-emerging resource shortages triggered by the
decline in oil prices and an apparent decline in workers' remittances.
7.       From 1975 to 1980 inclusive, overall GDP growth averaged about 10%
in constant (80/81) prices. This very high growth rate reflects the emergence
of the petroleum sector, and rapid growth in industry, transportation, trade,
finance and Suez Canal traffic. Agricultural growth remained very modest at
around 2.2%, but overall performance in agriculture improved compared to the
1965-1975 period when growth had averaged only 1.5% per year.  Egypt's severe
land constraint makes rapid agricultural growth a very difficult task.
8.       Production of crude petroleum in 1980 averaged close to 600,000 b/d
(30 million tons a year), compared to 220,000 b/d in 1975 and 420,000 b/d in
1977, with the Egyptian share of exports (net of partner companies' share)
reaching 240,000 b/d by the end of 1980. This very rapid growth in output
coincided with sharp rises in spot prices on the world market, leading to
large increases in export revenues, from US$289 million in 1975 to
VS$2.7 billion in 1980.



9.       During the same period, workers' remittances also grew at unprece-
dented rates, reaching US$2.7 billion in 1980, compared to US$366 million in
1975 and US$897 miLlion in 1977. Moreover, Suez Canal earnings and tourism
revenues reached US$663 million and US$775 million respectively, compared to
US$85 million and US$322 million in 1975. As a result, and despite large
increases in imports (US$8.1 billion in 1980 compared to US$4.6 billion in
1975), the current account deficit narrowed to less than 7.4% of GDP (US$1.6
billion) in 1980, compared to 18.8% in 1975.
10.      While the balance of payments improved steadily during this period,
the fiscal situation remained relatively more precarious and showed greater
fluctuations.  The overall public sector resource gap which was 23.2% of GDP
in 1975, narrowed to 12.8% in 1977, widened to 17.5% in 1979, before declining
again to 12.8% in 1980/81. At the same time, inflation emerged as a principal
policy concern. Prior to 1975, Egypt was essentially a fixed price economy,
and resource allocation and investment decisions were centrally determined.
Moreover, international and domestic inflation was low, so that while relative
prices may have been out of line with world prices, price rigidity did not
create undue macroeconomic imbalance.  The situation has since changed
radically. The opening of the economy coincided with an acceleration in
world inflation. At the same time, labor migration and the rapid expansion
of the economy led to supply bottlenecks in several key sectors, such as
construction and related activities, and parts of agriculture.  Effective
demand, especially for consumer goods, also rose sharply following the income
gains that resulted from the growth of tourism, remittances and other
receipts.  All these factors have exerted sharp upward pressure on domestic
prices. In a country unaccustomed to inflation and flexible prices, and where
there are no easily functioning mechanisms for cost-of-living adjustments in
wages and salaries, the required price changes appeared large and inequitable,
given the substantial effect they would have on lower income groups. In the
uncontrolled parts of the economy, prices and wages did in fact surge upward.
In the controlled sector, however, some small adjustments were made, but major
changes could not be achieved. The gap between world prices and domestic
selling prices of key traded goods continuously increased, leading to large
implicit and explicit subsidies and resulting in an increasingly distorted
system of relative prices and incentives.
11.      Despite the persistence of structural problems relating to income
distribution and resource allocation, the growth achieved by the economy in
the 1975-1980 period was very impressive.  To a large extent, however, it
was dependent on factors over which Egypt does not have full or even
partial control.  In the summer of 1981 some of the key variables that had
shown steady growth since 1975 suddenly began to reverse. First, oil prices
started to decline.  The premium Suez Blend Crude declined from the US$40 peak
reached in the spring of 1981 to around US$35 in the fall of 1981 and US$33 in
February of 1982.  The heavier crudes also declined in price.  Compared to
fiscal year 1980/81, the average barrel exported shows a 10-12% decline in
value for fiscal year 1981/82. Almost simultaneously with the decline in oil
export prices, workers' remittances decreased below the levels achieved in
1980/81.  Finally Suez Canal revenues that had been expected to increase
substantially after the enlargement of the Canal, have failed to show



significant growth, reflecting excess supply conditions on the international
oil market as well as the effect of the worldwide recession on the volume of
trade.
12.       These developments have led to a deterioration of the balance of
payments, a widening of the public sector resource gap and an accelerating
pace of monetary expansion. Preliminary estimates for fiscal year 1981/82
indicate that the current account deficit will reach about US$3.6 billion
(13.8% of CDP compared to 9.7% for 1980/81). The overall balance of payments
deficit will come close to US$0.6 billion, requiring special financing from
commercial sources. Similar difficulties are affecting the fiscal situation.
The overall public sector resource gap is likely to widen to 15.3% of GDP in
1981/82 (12.8% in 1980/81). As a result, there has been a large increase in
domestic bank lending, from about LE 450 million in 1980/81 to more than LE I
billion in 1981/82. Accompanied by rapid expansion of credit to the private
sector, this financing has led to a marked acceleration in monetary growth,
with money supply (excluding foreign currency deposits) increasing at a rate
close to 40% per annum, thus creating additional inflationary pressures.
13.       While the above situation is causing concern and requires immediate
policy measures, to some extent its source can be found in the recession
affecting the world economy. The Egyptian economy was also affected by
internal and external political events that increased the degree of
uncertainty and slowed down the flow of remittances and private capital
inflows. With the full recovery of the Sinai completed in April 1982 and the
consolidation of the internal political climate, and given adequate incentive
and exchange rate policies, conditions could again be favorable for larger
remittances, tourism revenues and an expansion of foreign private investment.
This, together with some improvement in oil prices and Suez Canal traffic,
could help strengthen the balance of payments and Government finances.
Nonetheless, while such an improvement is possible, the long-run structural
problems remain a major challenge which the Government needs to address if the
country is to sustain rapid economic growth and achieve greater well being for
its people. The economic program referred to in para. 5 is expected to shed
light on this objective.
Development Potential and Constraints
14.       Egypt has considerable potential for continued rapid development.
The reasons for this are, in brief: a large domestic market, a relatively
skilled population, an agricultural potential not yet fully developed, varied
raw materials (including oil, gas and phosphate), and a key geographical
location. Future economic growth may come less easily, however, than during
the past years. The gradual need to substitute domestic for foreign savings
will become more pressing as foreign aid and net factor income decline in
relation to GNP. Capacities are now strained in a number of areas, including
physical infrastructure. The expansion of new capacities has been slowed down
by administrative inefficiency, inadequate financial resources and weakness
in national coordination and sector programming. Managerial effectiveness
in public enterprises and financial incentives for production are often
inadequate. Higher levels of economic activity together with labor



emigration have led to shortages in critical professional and technical
skills. Educational facilities in Egypt still reflect a non-technical bias
and their quality needs to be upgraded.
15.      In addition, the rapid economic growth of recent years has been based
on the performance of sectors with only weak linkages to agriculture, industry
and services where the bulk of the labor force is occupied. For example, the
Suez Canal and the petroleum sector currently account for about 22% of GDP but
only 1% of total employment. While tourism and remittances directly touch the
lives of a much greater number of people, they cannot provide a solid basis
for employment expansion and technological development. Moreover, the
long-term real growth potential for receipts from petroleum, Suez and
remittances is uncertain. The challenge for Egypt lies in the necessity of
channeling a good part of the surpluses and revenues derived from these
sources, into productive investment in agriculture, industry and social
infrastructure in order to lay the foundations for self-sustaining growth and
employment expansion in the domestic economy.
16.      Another key issue is population.  At an estimated 43 million at
present, Egypt's population is already very large for its limited usable
land area, with an average density exceeding 1100 per km2, higher than
that of Bangladesh or Indonesia.  Recent census results show that population
has continued to grow at an annual rate exceeding 2.5%, adding almost one
million people every year. Moreover, almost half of this increase is
concentrated in the greater Cairo area alone.  This continues to create
pressures on resources for consumption and investment and aggravates the
employment problem in the longer run.  Although the Government has initiated
a more aggressive population program, it will take considerable time and
further measures to achieve measurable results in family planning programs.
17.      A serious side effect of recent inflation appears to have been a
deterioration in the relative distribution of income and a growing disparity
in consumption levels. Although inequality and the incidence of absolute
poverty is no worse in Egypt than in most economies at similar income levels,
continued inflation and lack of progress in more effective taxation of high
income groups could lead to serious distortions.
18.      To maintain the momentum of development and to meet the challenges
of the future, major efforts are required to overcome the structural con-
straints cited above.  Specifically, action is needed to: (i) increase the
efficiency of the administration through organizational and procedural
modifications and selective changes in salary structures; (ii) increase
real domestic savings through an effective mobilization of resources and
fiscal reform; (iii) strengthen the general use of prices as meaningful
indicators of relative scarcities; (iv) develop a long-term export promotion
policy, including appropriate management of incentives and real effective
exchange rates; (v) pursue a vigorous and balanced program to upgrade the
country's physical infrastructure; and finally (vi) intensify efforts to
develop a coherent and effective population policy.  There is an ongoing
dialogue on all these important issues between the Egyptian authorities
and the Bank. They have also been the focus of discussions among the members



- 6 -
of the Consultative Group for Egypt. Much work remains to be done on trying
to fonmulate practical policy packages that would help Egypt overcome these
constraints in a gradual yet effective manner.  Particular consideration is
being given by the Government and the Bank to the social implications of
alternative strategies in the full realization that progress can only last
if it ensures broad based participation in the process of economic growth.
External Debt and Creditworthiness
19.      Egypt's non-military medium- and long-term public debt outstanding
and disbursed as of December 31, 1981, is estimated at about US415 billion.
Bilateral loans comprised about 61% of the debt outstanding while the shares
of multilateral credit and suppliers' credit were about 22% and 10%,
respectively, with the remainder being held by financial institutions. Major
creditors were the USA and Gulf Organization for the Development of Egypt,
followed by Saudi Arabia, Kuwait, and the Federal Republic of Germany.
IBRD/IDA debt comprised about 6% of the total disbursed debt.   Inspite of the
sharp increase in the level of external debt during the last decade--from
US$2.2 billion at end-1973 to an estimated US$15 billion at end-1981--the debt
service ratio declined from 33% in 1973 to about 16% in 1980/81 reflecting the
sharply increased foreign exchange earnings and favorable credit terms.
20.      External financing requirements are likely to remain sizeable in the
medium-term given Egypt's immense development needs and the more moderate
growth of foreign exchange earnings projected.  At the same time, in view of
the adverse global aid outlook, Egypt may have to rely more on conventional
finance than in the past and at significantly higher interest rates.  As a
result, the debt service ratio is projected to rise over the next five years
but will remain manageable in the. 20-25% range.  Over the longer-term, the
balance of payments and debt servicing capacity will depend crucially on
domestic trade and export promotion policies and on developments in the oil
sector. With continued exploitation of its national resources and improved
economic management, Egypt should be able to maintain its creditworthiness
throughout the period.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN EGYPT 1/
21.      The proposed loan would be the World Bank's sixty-second lending
operation to Egypt, and would bring Bank and IDA commitments to US42,582.7
million 2/.  Through these operations, the Bank Group has assisted the
development of agriculture, industry, power and energy, water supply, family
planning, transportation, telecommunications, tourism, urban and education.
Annex II contains a summary of Bank loans and IDA credits as of March 31, 1982
and notes on the execution of ongoing projects.
1/  This section is substantially the same as the corresponding part of the
President's Report for the Greater Cairo Urban Development Project
(P-3329-EGT), dated May 21, 1982.
2/  This includes the Greater Cairo Urban Development Project (US459 million).



22.      The Bank has tailored its response to Egypt's basic structural
problems in a very broad fashion and in close cooperation with other donors.
Its strategy involves entry into a broad spectrum of sectors in order to
provide not only direct finance with its relatively limited resources but,
equally, to act as a catalyst for other bilateral and multilateral agencies,
and as a spur for initiating discussion and positive action on a coherent
framework of policies and investment proposals which can tackle the
substantive issues. The approach also includes delivery of technical
assistance, not only for sound execution of specific projects but for
developing the domestic institutional capability to articulate and implement
future policies and investment programs.  The Bank's deliberately broad
multisectoral intervention has been differentiated by sectors and tailored to
the pace at which the Egyptian authorities can reasonably be expected to
address these issues and implement the programs.
23.      Industry, which has been over the past five years the sector
receiving the largest portion of Bank resources and significant attention,
illustrates the nature and scope of the Bank's intervention. The Government
looks upon rapid industrialization as a means to stimulate growth of the
economy, create productive employment, cater to basic consumer needs, and
generate an "export surplus". Efforts under Bank financed projects have gone
beyond the immediate objective of improving capacity utilization (two imports
loans/credit) and increasing production capacity and supply of essential
commodities in resource-based industries (cotton ginning, textiles, cement and
fertilizer projects). The more fundamental effort has been directed at
introducing policy and structural improvements.  Towards this end, the Bank
has financed six subsector studies in textiles, building materials, pulp and
paper, food processing, metallurgy, and engineering industries, in order to
assist the Government in formulating a package of policy and investment
proposals, which are embodied in our projects.  To complement these efforts
the Bank has carried out a study on small-scale industries. The Bank has also
assisted the Government in a comprehensive study of the construction/
contracting industry (one of the major bottlenecks facing Egyptian industry
today). The Bank proposes to support the Government's efforts in carrying out
the recommendations of these studies. Finally, the Bank is working with the
Government on a study of Trade Strategy, Investment Planning and Shadow Prices
which will focus on the sectoral allocation and timing of Egypt's investment
program in the context of a viable foreign trade strategy.
24.      The illustrative sketch provided above of the Bank's intervention in
one sector is representative of the multifaceted approach that it has adopted
in varying degrees in the entire spectrum of the Egyptian economy. It is a
role that is in harmony not only with the Egyptian Government's wishes but is
welcomed by the various bilateral and multilateral donors as an appropriate
function for the Bank as the Chairman of the Consultative Group. Preparation
of projects for future lending follows this strategy, and the pipeline
includes projects in education, gas development, urban development,
transportation, water supply, agriculture (including drainage), development
finance and industry.



- 8 -
25.      Bank Group disbursements in FY81 represented 7.4% of Egypt's
medium-and long-term capital inflow. The Bank and IDA shares of total
external debt outstanding and disbursed were about 3.6% and 2.5%,
respectively, as of June 30, 1981.  In FY85, the Bank and IDA shares of total
external debt outstanding and disbursed (excluding military debts) are
estimated to reach about 6.0% and 3.1%, respectively. It is estimated that in
FY85, debt service payments due to the Bank and IDA will represent about 4.6%
and 0.2%, respectively, of service payments due on Egypt's external debt.
After an initial period of lower than average disbursement performance, the
disbursement percentage rate in Egypt (20.8% in FY81), although still slightly
below the Bank's overall average, is now comparable to the average of other
countries in the Region. Because of the rapid build-up of lending commitments
in Egypt between FY77 and FY80, and because historically the bulk of a loan
and credit is disbursed between the third and fifth year after approval, it is
expected that the rate of disbursements will improve further over the next few
years.
26.      IFC participation and lending for projects in Egypt now total about
US$74 million and include: a ceramics project, a ready-made garment project,
a project for an agricultural complex primarily for sugar beet, a poultry
project, a fish farming project, a building material project, and a tourism
project. IFC is discussing several other private sector and joint venture
projects. A summary of IFC operations in Egypt is given in Annex II.
PART III - THE TRANSPORT SECTOR
Characteristics
27.      Egypt's transport network is concentrated in the Nile Delta and along
its narrow valley where the bulk of its population and economic activity are
found. Rail, road, inland water and air transport systems provide
complementary services along the 1000 km. long Alexandria-Cairo-Aswan corridor
and link the canal cities of Suez, Ismailia and Port Said with Cairo and the
Nile Delta.  A relatively sparse road network runs through the Western
Desert.  The ports at Alexandria, Port Said and Suez, several smaller ports,
oil and gas pipelines between Suez and the Mediterranean, and the Suez Canal
comprise the remainder of Egypt's transport system. While the geographical
coverage of the transport network is currently adequate to serve the major
regions of the country, the general transport situation is characterized by
serious service deficiencies (para. 30).  Furthermore, a sustained growth in
traffic, averaging 12% annually since 1975, and expected to continue at this
level, will soon outstrip current capacity.
Transport Constraints and Policies
28.       Until the early 1970s the development of the sector was character-
ized by little or no planning of transport investments or operations.
Concerned with the lack of planning and of coordination among the numerous
transport-related ministries, the Government took a significant step in 1973
by creating the Transport Planning Authority (TPA) in the Ministry of
Transport and giving it primary responsibility for coordinating the planning
and policymaking activities of the relevant ministries.



29.      The Government took a further important step in strengthening the
planning process by commissioning a National Transport Study (NTS) in 1976,
finance for which was provided under the Bank's Second Railway Project (Loan
1098-EGT). The main objectives of the NTS are: (i) to help develop
institutional capability to undertake comprehensive transport planning on a
continuous basis; (ii) to assist transport agencies formulate transport and
related pricing policies; and, based on these policies, (iii) to prepare a
transport development strategy to the year 2000 and a detailed overall
transport development plan through 1987. Phase 1 and Phase II, covering the
first two objectives have been completed. The investment needs of the sector
are being reviewed, with the aim of finalizing a 1983-87 Transport Plan.
30.      The findings of the NTS point to the following problems.
Considerable economic growth since the mid-1970s, together with a high
population growth rate, has led to a rapid increase in traffic, and inadequate
levels of investment in the transport sector in preceding years have left the
system ill-equipped to meet this growth. Rail services are seriously
deficient due primarily to Xack of overall maintenance and shortages of
serviceable locomotives and rolling stock; inland water transport is
handicapped by an aged barge fleet operating to capacity; port capacity is
insufficient; and maintenance of roads is inadequate. In addition, because of
capacity constraints in rail and water transport in this period of high
traffic growth, the road system has had to accommodate the bulk of the
increased traffic. Transport plans have, so far, given insufficient attention
to maintenance, operational, and training needs, and have not been supported
by the necessary technical and feasibility studies. Low civil service
salaries and unrewarding career opportunities have resulted in a shortage of
skilled and qualified staff. Tariffs are low and in many cases do not cover
operating costs. Resulting operating deficits further handicap some agencies'
abilities to expand and modernize and provide quality service.
31.      The Government recognizes these problems and proposes to take
measures to correct the situation.  In the 1983-87 National Development Plan
it has allocated a substantial amount to the transport sector, LE 1.4 billion,
an increase of 80% over that of the 1978-82 Plan.  Maintenance works are
recognized as needing priority attention; accordingly, adjustments are being
made to budgetary allocations for this purpose. With assistance of the Bank
(para. 32) and other donors, the process of revitalizing the railways,
increasing port capacity, and rehabilitating and expanding the Suez Canal, has
already begun, yet much more remains to be done.  Some tariff increases have
been introduced, for example, in the railways; and others are being
considered. In view of the price distortions originating in the different
subsidies granted throughout the economy, tariff action has to be gradual in
order not to accentuate these distortions.  The Government is convinced that
the level of subsidies has to be curtailed within a reasonable time frame.
The aforementioned tariff increase in the railways and in some energy products
(gas and electricity) is an indication that the Government is committed to
this objective. How this action will be carried out is what at present the
authorities are debating.



i-vi
Bank Lending in the Sector
32.      This seventh Bank/IDA lending operation in the transport sector would
bring total assistance to the sector to US$450.5 million. The first was a
US456.5 million loan made in 1959 for expansion of the Suez Canal.  A second
loan of US$50 million was made in 1974 to rehabilitate the canal and its
facilities to enable the resumption of operations to pre-1967 levels.
Following the completion of studies financed under that project, another
US$100 million loan was made in 1978 for canal expansion. Progress is
generally satisfactory: total canal traffic continues at levels close to
appraisal forecasts, although revenue is higher. An IDA credit of US$30
million in 1971 and a Bank loan of US$37 million in 1975 provided support to
the Egyptian Railways (ER) for its 1971-77 rehabilitation and modernization
program. These two projects have been completed, and a project completion
report is scheduled for spring 1982.  ER's operational and maintenance
situation remains problematic in spite of this assistance. A new railway law,
introduced in 1980, which gives ER much greater autonomy than in the past,
should provide a basis for its management to improve operations. Lastly, the
Bank supported the rehabilitation and expansion of Alexandria Port with a
US$45 million loan in 1976 (para. 33), and important institution building
features of the project have been instrumental in strengthening the Alexandria
Port Authority (APA).  The Bank's dialogue with the Government has led to the
formulation of a National Port Development Strategy, based on the consultants'
work under the NTS, aimed at rationalizing the future expansion of Egypt's
port capacity. Additional sector work and further lending by the Bank should
assist the Government in its objective of strengthening overall transportation
in the country.
The Ports
33.      Alexandria is Egypt's largest port, handling about 75% of total
foreign trade. Between 1976 and 1980, Alexandria experienced a rapid and
steady growth in traffic: dry cargo movements increased from 9.3 million tons
to 14.7 million tons, a 58% increase.  The port includes commercial berths,
facilities for petroleum and other specialized traffic such as grain, a
passenger terminal, ship repair facility and a naval port. The basic
construction and configuration of the port are about 150 years old, causing
congestion in berthing and maneuvering vessels as well as in cargo handling
and storage. In 1976, APA embarked upon a program to alleviate the most
immediate effects of years of neglected maintenance. Assistance was provided
under Loan 1239-EGT for this purpose and included inter alia maintenance
dredging, construction of a new access channel and a deep water berth (now
designated as the container terminal), cargo handling equipment, tugs,
floating craft and workshop equipment, as well as a comprehensive study of
APA's management, organization and finances. The project has been delayed
because of late contract awards for civil works and revisions to the project
design. The deep water berth was changed to provide for increasing container
traffic and the new entrance channel was deleted until a study, to be
undertaken under the proposed project (para. 43), assesses its proper location
for the combined Alexandria/El Dikheila Port complex. The project is now
proceeding at a satisfactory pace and completion is scheduled for December
1983.



- 11 -
34.      Of the six other ports in Egypt, three are significant and specialize
in a few bulk commodities: Suez and Port Said, at either end of the Suez
Canal, in wheat imports and salt exports, respectively; and Safaga, on the Red
Sea coast, in wheat, alumina and fertilizer imports.  Given the tremendous
growth in Egypt's maritime traffic (para. 56), additional port capacity is
urgently required.  Alexandria Port, however, is severely constrained
geographically and cannot be easily extended; congestion is already recurring
and has become serious.  Based on the National Port Development Strategy
(para. 40), the Government has plans to rehabilitate and modernize Suez, Port
Said and Safaga and to construct new ports at El Dikheila and Damietta.  The
El Dikheila port would have facilities for general cargo and bulk traffic. It
would be located in the same bay as Alexandria and would be integrated with it
through the APA, which would manage and operate the ports as a combined
complex. The first phase of the proposed Damietta Port, near the eastern end
of the Nile delta, will offer facilities for grain import, transit container
traffic and some general cargo.  As a result of these plans, nominal port
capacity in Egypt would increase from 16 to about 28 million tons which would
be just adequate to meet the projected growth in maritime traffic by 1987
(para. 56).
The Alexandria Port Authority (APA)
35.      APA, which would operate the facilities at El Dikheila and be the
beneficiary of the proposed loan, is an autonomous body created in 1967.  It
has overall responsibility for the management, control, maintenance, expansion
and modernization of Alexandria Port.  APA provides pilotage, towage, berthing
and other services to ships.  It owns two subsidiary companies, the United
Arab Stevedoring Company (UASC) and General Warehouses of Egypt (GWE), which
provide, respectively, stevedoring and shorehandling, and warehousing and
storage of cargo. The Chairman of APA's Board of Directors, who is also its
Chief Executive Officer, is appointed by the Minister of Maritime Transport;
its other members include the Chairmen of GWE and UASC.
36.      APA and its subsidiaries employ some 13,500 workers.  As is the case
with other government-owned entities, they face the general problem of being
unable to pay salaries higher than the low civil service scales and find it
difficult to attract quality staff.  The management of APA and its
subsidiaries, though generally satisfactory, is deficient in certain respects,
such as planning and accounting.  Competent professional staff, marine
officers and engineers exist, but the quality is uneven. The existence of
APA, UASC and GWE as separate entities, makes integrating and coordinating the
different aspects of their operations difficult.
37.      The Alexandria Port Project (Loan 1239-EGT) included consultancy
studies covering inter alia: (i) a study of the present management,
organization, operations and accounting; (ii) assistance in the formulation
and subsequently in the carrying out of appropriate training programs, and
(iii) a review of the statutory instruments relating to APA's organization and
operations to determine whether any change would be desirable. The



- 12 -
consultants' recommendations included greater integration of the activities of
APA and its subsidiaries, increased delegation of operational and
administrative control to sectors within the port, and tighter procedures for
maintenance and accounting activities. APA has drafted a revision to the
existing port legislation, based on the consultants' proposals. These
proposals, which have been under discussion with the Bank, would improve APA's
autonomy and consolidate and strengthen its functions.  The revised draft,
including new working regulations and by-laws for APA, is being reviewed by
governorate officials before being forwarded to the People's Assembly.
38.      In the meantime, APA, through the use of incentives and training, has
endeavored to improve the quality and productivity of its staff. As agreed,
under the ongoing project, APA has completed a study of appropriate incentives
for the services of qualified staff and the recruitment of such staff. As a
result, it has introduced productivity standards and production bonuses and
devised a scheme whereby retired naval personnel, who are competent and
qualified, are recruited on contract basis on special assignments.  APA is
currently working on proposals to change the present wage structure based on
hours worked to one based on tonnage handled, which are expected to be in
force by July 1982.  APA also carries out an extensive training program in
cooperation with several institutions in Alexandria which includes a wide
variety of subjects, from management, economics and law to practical courses
in port operations and maintenance. While the program is generally
comprehensive and well run, APA has shown a readiness to expand the program
according to need.  It has been agreed that APA will submit detailed proposals
for Bank comment by June 30, 1983, on its long-term plans for staffing,
operations, and training (including a program for the operation of the new
container facilities), designed to further overcome the present managerial
weaknesses and to ensure APA's preparedness for the wider responsibilities
which will result from the creation of port facilities at El Dikheila; APA
would implement such proposals in accordance with a time schedule satisfactory
to the Bank (Project Agreement, Section 3.04).
39.      Alexandria Port is currently operating in excess of its optimum
capacity and in recent years has been obliged to handle an increasing volume
of traffic by lighters. Cargo handling is now undertaken with three shifts
daily. Despite the outdated port design, congestion on the quays and limited
storage facilities, productivity in cargo handling operations increased
between 1975 and 1980 from 8.9 to about 11.3 tons per gang hour, the target
set under the ongoing project.  Greater improvement in the efficiency of port
operations can be expected when the container terminal comes into operation
and the congestion, caused by container traffic now scattered at various
berths, is alleviated.  Further changes would be based on a study included in
the project (para. 43).
PART IV - THE PROJECT
40.      In April 1980, the Government produced the National Port Development
Strategy based on the Bank-financed National Transport Study (NTS) and in
September 1980 requested Bank assistance to develop a new port at El Dikheila



- 13 -
(10 km. west of Alexandria Port).  Since the new port is to serve not only
additional general cargo requirements but also traffic for the proposed El
Dikheila steel mill 1/, the Government instructed that the project be prepared
by the Organization for Industrial and Mining Complexes (IMC), which is
responsible for the steel project.  During 1977, consultants prepared a series
of master plan studies to the year 2000 for the project. These were reviewed
with the assistance of independent consultants by the Higher Technical
Committee for Ports, on which APA is represented. The facilities included in
the project are derived from the master plan approved by the higher
committee.  Bank preparation missions visited Egypt in April and November
1980, and the project was appraised in May 1981. An updating mission visited
Egypt in November 1981.  Negotiations were held in Washington from April 19 to
29, 1982, with a delegation headed by Mr. Samir Koraiem, Senior
Undersecretary, Ministry of Economy.  A staff appraisal report entitled "El
Dikheila Port Project" (No. 3799a-ECT) is being distributed separately. Maps
of Egypt and of the ports of Alexandria and El Dikheila are attached.
Project Objectives and Description
41.       The objectives of the project are: to provide urgently required
commercial port facilities at El Dikheila for forecast traffic, particularly
containerized cargo; to provide a mineral jetty at which large ore carriers
may serve the steel mill to be built at El Dikheila; and to facilitate the
orderly expansion and development of the Alexandria/El Dikheila port complex.
Through the project, the Bank would continue the important institution
building efforts at the APA, begun under the previous project (paras. 37-38).
42.       The project consists of the following elements: (i) Civil Works and
Dredging for: a main breakwater, about 2 km. in length, to provide protection
against the predominant westerly and north-westerly weather; an entrance
channel about 4 km. long, with a depth of 20 m. and width of 250 m.; two
commercials quays, one about 600 m. long for container traffic, and the other
about 820 m. for timber and general cargo, with depths alongside of 12 and
14 m., and transit shed, warehousing and related buildings, utilities and
access to the berths; and to serve the steel mill, a mineral jetty about 660
m. long to accommodate two ore or other bulk carriers simultaneously in depths
of 14 m. and 20 m. respectively and a large stockyard for ore and scrap steel
for the steel mill with space for other prospective commodities; (ii) An
Equipment Package (including appropriate spares, site commissioning and
1/ The steel mill, a high priority Government project, is in an advanced
stage of preparation.  It is designed to have an initial productive
capacity of 800,000 tons per year of rebars and rods for domestic use
based on the direct reduction electric arc furnace method utilizing
natural gas from Abu Qir. The company, now in the process of being
incorporated, would be a joint venture between the Government and a
consortium of Japanese steel companies. The Bank and IFC are in the
process of appraising the project.



- 14 -
training) consisting of: cargo handling equipment for the container, timber
and general cargo berths, including cranes and yard equipment; cargo handling
equipment at the mineral jetty together with the associated conveyor equipment
feeding the stockyard within the port area and the El Dikheila steel mill;
floating plant and miscellaneous equipment; and (iii) Consultancy Services for
the detailed engineering not yet completed (para. 49) and for supervision of
the project, as well as for a study of the continued modernization of
Alexandria Port and its integration with El Dikheila.
43.      As the construction of major new port facilities at El Dikheila will
have an important impact on the present Port of Alexandria, APA has agreed to
review and update its modernization and development plans in the light of the
combined facilities.  The objectives of this study include proposals for: the
improvement of the main transport arteries to the port; the integration of
port services and cargo allocations within the port; and its future
development to 1990 with particular reference to the designation of land for
port related use and recommendations for the entrance channel.  APA has agreed
to complete the study for Bank review by December 31, 1983, with the
assistance of consultants, under terms of reference and conditions
satisfactory to the Bank, and exchange views with the Bank on the steps to
implement the recommendations (Project Agreement, Sections 2.02(b) and 2.03).
Proiect Costs and Financing Plan
44.      The total cost of the project is estimated at US$473 million
equivalent, excluding customs duties and taxes, with a foreign exchange
component of US1248 million (or 52.4% of total cost).  Cost estimates reflect
December 1981 prices and are based on information prepared by the consultants,
with revisions to account for actual tenders for the main civil works
contracts (para. 47), construction costs under the current Alexandria Port
Project, and equipment costs obtained by Bank staff. Physical contingencies
of 15% have been applied to civil works, which is considered appropriate in
view of assessed risks which inrclude dredging in hard material, and 10% to
equipment.  Price contingencies for the local currency component of both civil
works and equipment have been estimated at 14% in 1982 decreasing to 12% in
1987; and for the foreign currency component of both civil works and
equipment, at 8% in 1982 decreasing to 6% in 1987.  The costs of consultancy
services (including overheads) are estimated as follows: for the modernization
study of Alexandria Port, 80 staff months at US410,300/man month; for
completion of designs and tender documents, 45 staff months at US4ll,100; for
the supervision of construction, 150 staff months at US$10,400.
45.      The proposed Bank loan of US$132 million (including a capitalized
front end fee of about US42 million) would cover 27.8% of the total and 52.8%
of the foreign exchange costs.  It would finance the foreign exchange cost of
equipment required by the port and consultancy needs of the Alexandria Port
modernization study.  The Government would finance the local costs for the
project, the foreign exchange for the civil works and consultants for project
supervision, interest during construction, as well as any cost overruns ( Loan
Agreement, Section 3.01(a)).  The Government is also trying to obtain



- 15 -
cofinancing for some equipment items (of about US420 million) before loan
signing. In the event the Government would be successful in this endeavor,
the Bank would delete a corresponding amount from the loan.  The Bank loan
would be made to the Government and onlent to APA on the same terms as the
Bank loan, i.e., 20 years including three years of grace at an interest rate
of 11.6% per annum (Loan Agreement, Section 3.01(b)(i)).  Conclusion of a
subsidiary loan agreement between the Government, IMC and APA would be a
condition of effectiveness (Loan Agreement, Section 6.01).
Project Execution
46.      The overall control of project rests with the Organization for
Industrial and Mining Complexes (]MC)(para. 40), an agency under the Ministry
of Industry which is responsible for industrial development especially in
steel, mining and related areas.  IMC, with a staff of about 1,500 including
about 250 engineers specializing in civil, mechanical and electrical
engineering, undertakes feasibility studies, prepares detailed engineering and
is responsible for supervision of construction.  A coordination committee has
been established, including representatives of IMC, APA and the Ministry of
Maritime Traffic, to facilitate project execution. A unit within IMC has been
created to oversee day-to-day execution of the project, and IMC has made
arrangements to recruit or obtain on secondment sufficient experienced
engineers from APA and elsewhere for this task.  IMC has entered into an
agreement with the consulting group which prepared the original master plan
for the project for the provision of expert assistance on specialized aspects
of the project. An advisor appointed by the consultants is already available
to IMC's Project Director.  These arrangements are satisfactory, and IMC has
agreed to continue to employ consultants and to obtain the other necessary
staff to supervise the project (Project Agreement, Section 2.02(a)).
47.      Project execution began in November 1980, and the project is expected
to be completed by 1986. Contracts for the major civil works, i.e., the main
breakwater, the commercial berths, the mineral jetty and the access channel,
have been awarded. Arab Contractors, a large public sector construction
company with wide experience in Egypt, will undertake the work.  (For the
contracts for the access channel/mineral jetty and for construction of the
commercial berths, it is associated with a Dutch/UK dredging company.)  An
important start has been made in breakwater construction and dredging the
access channel, and mobilization for the construction of the mineral jetty is
well advanced. As the land earmarked for the new port is owned by the
Government, its acquisition would pose no difficulties; it has been agreed
that this land would be ceded as and when required.  'Furthermore, no action
would be taken to prejudice the use of land needed for further expansion as a
result of the findings of the port modernization study (Loan Agreement,
Section 3.02). The progress of the project will be monitored by performance
indicators agreed with the Bank; targets for productivity in port operations
and for financial operating ratios at El Dikheila, based on those achieved at
Alexandria, have also been agreed (Project Agreement, Section 3.05).



- lo -
48.      APA will assume responsibility for administering the enlarged
Alexandria/El Dikheila Port once the facilities included under the project are
completed (Loan Agreement, Section 4.04).  APA will enter into a contractual
arrangement with the steel company for the operation of the ore unloaders and
of the stockyard equipment on the mineral jetty.
Procurement and Disbursements
49.      The Government has decided that contracts for the civil works will be
awarded locally. Besides the major construction contracts already awarded, it
is expected that the remaining shoreworks including items such as paving,
transit sheds, customs, administrative and other buildings will be undertaken
by local contractors; and rail access and utilities, by state organizations.
Detailed designs and tender documents have been prepared for the major civil
works. Associated utilities, access, buildings and other shore work and
miscellaneous items are in general at a preliminary design stage in accordance
with the Master Plan. Completion of detailed designs and tender documents for
these items is expected by June 1983, according to the timetable agreed with
the Bank (Project Agreement, Section 2.06(a)).
50.      Bank financed equipment would be procured under international
competitive bidding in accordance with the Bank's procurement guidelines.
Tender documents have been prepared for most of the items of cargo-handling
equipment at the commercial berths; IMC is preparing some revisions. In
addition, IMC would invite alternative proposals for the cargo-handling
equipment at the container terminal in order to ensure that different types of
equipment and container stacking configurations are fully examined and
competitively evaluated.  APA would engage consultants to prepare the tender
documents by December 1982 for the required floating plant.  Cargo-handling
equipment at the mineral jetty is being reviewed by the consultants, who are
also designing the stockyard and conveyor system equipment.  IMC's procedure
for inviting alternative proposals, entailing both the design and supply of
some of the equipment, is acceptable aind would be undertaken in accordance
with the Bank's procurement guidelines.
51.      Disbursements from the proposed loan for the cost of equipment
including spares, installation and commissioning would be made on the basis of
100% of foreign expenditures; 100% of local expenditures ex-factory if locally
manufactured; and 60% of local expenditures for imported items procured
locally. Disbursement for the consultants services would be against 100% of
foreign expenditures.  The anticipated period of disbursements of the proposed
loan is approximately four years and would be completed in FY86. The closing
date of the loan would be December 31, 1986 (Loan Agreement, Section 2.04).
Because of the importance of the steel mill to facilities included in the
project, procurement and disbursement for the equipment for the mineral jetty
and stockyard would be conditional upon obtaining satisfactory evidence from
IMC that the steel mill would be constructed as scheduled (Loan Agreement,
Schedule 1, para. 4 and Project Agreement, Schedule, para. A2).              -



- 17 -
APA's Present Financial Position
52.      APA's general operating performance has been satisfactory.  Under
Loan 1239-EGT approved in FY76, APA is required: (i) to achieve an annual rate
of return of not less than 9% on the value of its net fixed assets; and (ii)
with the assistance of consultants to: (a) revalue its fixed assets by
December 31, 1977; (b) introduce an appropriate management accounting system
by December 31, 1978; and (c) implement a new cost-related tariff structure by
December 31, 1978. APA has engaged consultants to help meet the above
requirements. Fixed assets have been revalued and the resulting rate of
return is currently around 40%.  APA has also introduced new cost accounting
methods but the usefulness of these has been reduced by tardiness in
bookkeeping. APA has agreed to introduce procedures by July 1, 1983, to
ensure that the cost accounting and internal reporting system is kept current
at all times and has agreed to separate commercial activities such as
purchasing and stores from accounting departmental responsibilities (Project
Agreement, Section 3.06). With these improvements, APA's accounting
procedures should be satisfactory.  As is the case with other Government
agencies, APA's annual audits are conducted by the Central Organization for
Accounting and Audit and are considered acceptable.
53.      With regard to revisions of the tariff structure, APA's Board of
Directors has recently approved a change in the basis of assessing tariffs on
ships to the universally accepted gross registered tonnage which is broadly
cost-related and expected to result in higher revenues. The Government has
agreed to take the necessary steps to have these revisions approved by July 1,
1983, as well as to establish a tariff structure for El Dikheila Port by
January 1, 1986 (Loan Agreement, Section 4.03).  APA's balance sheets reflect
long delays in the collection of its accounts receivable (largely due from the
Government) as well as large accummulations of cash and accounts payable (80%
due to the Government).  The Government and APA, therefore, have agreed to
establish a procedure for settling these and to keep them current in the
future (Loan Agreement, Section 4.02).  At the same time, to improve its
financial position, APA has agreed that in the future it will keep its
relevant current assets and liabilities at a level consistent with its working
capital requirements (Project Agreement, Section 4.06).
Financial Projections
54.      The financial performance of APA (which would include the El Dikheila
operations) through FY90 is expected to be satisfactory, although in the
initial years it will be affected by the lumpy investments made.    The
operating ratios are projected to increase from 54.9% in FY85, the year
preceding the start of El Dikheila Port operations, to 71.3% in FY90.  Return
on net fixed assets would range from 9% in FY86 to 11.5% in FY90. 1/ The
1/  Considered separately, Alexandria Port's operating ratios would range from
43.8% in FY81 to 65.7% in FY90 and the rate of return on net fixed assets
would be considerably higher than the stipulated 9.0% under the ongoing
project; El Dikheila Port's operating results show a marginal performance
in the initial years because of the lumpy investments involved and an
improvement by FY90: operating ratios would improve from 86% in FY87 (the
first full year of operations) to 76.7% in FY90 and the rate of return on
net fixed assets, from 1.8% in FY87 to 5.8% in FY90.



- 18 -
projected cash flow statement for FY81-90 indicates that APA's position will
remain relatively strong: its liquidity position as shown by the current ratio
will be 9.4 in FY90; and the debt/equity ratio will decrease from 56/44 in
FY81 to 21/79 in FY90. Thus, APA will be in a position to meet the agreed
objectives which are to generate sufficient operating revenues to: cover its
operating expenses, including depreciation; service its debt; maintain
adequate working capital and other provisions (reserves adequate to meet
contingencies); and finance a reasonable portion of its capital expenditures,
including replacement of assets.  It has been agreed that APA will take all
steps, including adjustments in tariffs, necessary to achieve a rate of return
of at least 9% through FY85, 8% in FY86, 4% in FY87, 5% in FY88, 7% in FY89,
and 10% in FY90 and thereafter on the current net value of its fixed assets in
operation properly valued annually (Project Agreement, Section 4.04). As
APA's financial viability could be endangered by incurring substantial
additional debt, APA has agreed that it will not incur any additional
long-term debt without the Bank's prior agreement which would reduce its debt
service coverage below 1.5 times (Project Agreement, Section 4.05). APA has
also agreed that it will maintain records for the Alexandria and the El
Dikheila port operations as separate self-accounting units (and for the
mineral port operations as a separate cost center) so that their profitability
can be assessed after taking into account the full cost of their operations
(Project Agreement, Section 4.01(b) and (c)).
Environmental Aspects and Employment Impact
55.      There is no significant adverse environmental impact associated with
the project. Traffic envisaged at the mineral jetty in iron ore, pellets,
scrap steel and possibly small volumes of minerals such as fluorspar will have
a minimal effect on air quality. Any pollution which might occur from vessels
using the new port would be effectively controlled by APA, under regulations
for imposing penalties, which have been drafted for parliamentary approval
under the present project. Siltation at El Dikheila is not expected to be a
problem and, as in the case of Alexandria, depths in the channel and at the
berths are expected to be controlled by periodic maintenance dredging.  The
project would create local employment opportunities during its construction
stage, and upon completion a wide range of jobs would be created, although
many of these are expected to be filled by staff already at APA and its
agencies.
Project Justification and Risks
56.      El Dikheila Port is urgently required in view of the growing foreign
exchange costs being incurred by the economy from shipping surcharges, delays
in imports and exports, and other congestion at Alexandria. The rapid growth
in the economy and the resulting quantum increase in Egypt's maritime traffic
which occurred during recent years are expected to continue in the future,
although at a somewhat reduced pace. Maritime traffic, excluding petroleum,
which was 16.7 million tons in 1978, increased to 25 million tons in 1981 (an
average annual increase of 16.5%) and is expected to rise further to 29
million tons in 1986 and 39.6 million tons by 1995. The bulk of this increase
occurred at Alexandria which is already operating well in excess of its
optimum capacity and has had to resort to costly solutions such as excess



- 19 -
usage of lighterage and overtime work.  Despite such arrangements and
increased productivity, ship waiting times have reached unacceptable levels.
Although the Alexandria Port Project is scheduled for completion in 1983, the
new facilities will be fully utilized as soon as they become available.
Furthermore, the limitation in land space precludes any major economic
expansion at Alexandria.  The construction of a new port at El Dikheila,
therefore, will relieve congestion at Alexandria and generate benefits
throughout the country in the form of uninterrupted deliveries, reduced prices
of imported goods, lower costs for investors and reduced transport costs for
exporters.
57.      The principal benefits quantified for the rate of return calculations
include: (a) reduction in ship waiting times through lower demurrage and
congestion charges; (b) reduction in ship service times by the use of modern
facilities, especially container facilities; (c) the elimination of lighterage
operations; (d) less damage to cargo; and (e) economical freight and handling
costs of the iron ore pellets needed for the steel complex which otherwise
would have to be lightered and barged to shore.  In addition, the project
would generate further unquantifiable benefits in the form of eliminating
hazardous conditions for ships navigating in the port, and reductions in
pilferage and delays in the delivery of goods. It is estimated that the
project would yield an economic return of 22.6%. Sensitivity analyses have
been conducted; assuming a 10% decrease in project benefits and an increase of
10% in project costs, the project would still yield a rate of return of
17.7%. 1/
58.      Through the project, the Bank would strengthen its relationship with
APA further, and continue the institution building efforts begun under the
previous loan. The study included in the project will assist the orderly
expansion and development of the Alexandria/El Dikheila port complex, which is
important since it will continue to be Egypt's largest and most diversified
port.
59.      There are some risks associated with the fact that IMC is responsible
for executing the project. While -IMC has not undertaken such a large port
project before, it is an institution with wide experience in carrying out
large projects in other sectors.  Furthermore, satisfactory arrangements
(seconding staff from APA and consultants services) have been made to ensure
proper project supervision.  Administration of the new port facilities might
initially place a strain on APA's management, but this risk is offset by the
training and staffing plans contemplated under the project.  Finally, although
it is unlikely that the steel mill would not be built since preparations for
it are well advanced and it enjoys a high government priority, the legal
documents provide that the Bank would not participate in the financing of the
mineral jetty and stockyard if the steel mill is definitely not proceeding as
scheduled.
1/ If the port were to be constructed without facilities for handling traffic
for the steel mill and without the associated benefits, the remaining
commercial port would show an economic return of 25%.



- 20 -
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
60.      The draft Loan Agreement between the Arab Republic of Egypt and the
Bank, the draft Project Agreement between the Bank, the Alexandria Port
Authority (APA), and the Organization for Industrial and Mining Complexes
(INC) and the Report of the Committee provided for in Article lII, Section
4(iii), of the Articles of Agreement are being distributed to the Executive
Directors separately.
61.      Special conditions of the project are listed in Section III of Annex
III. A special condition of effectiveness is the execution of the Subsidiary
Loan Agreement between the Government, APA and IMC.
62.       1 am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the Articles
of Agreement of the Bank.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
63.       1 recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed loan.
A. W. Clausen
President
By M. Qureshi
Attachments
May 25, 1982
Washington, D.C.



-21 -                                                                  ANNEX I
Page 1 of 6
TABLE 3A
EGYPT - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
EGYPT                              REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVER.AG
LAND AREA (THOUbANl SQ. EN.)                                                                 - IIOST RECENT ESTIMATE
IToAL            IUUI.4                                                        MIDDLE INCOME
AGRILULIURAL       2b.4                                    MOST RECENT         NORTH AFRICA &               MIDDLE INCOME
1960  /b    1970 lb ESTIMATE /b          MIDDLE EAST          LATIN AMERICA 6 CARIBBEAN
081' PEh CAPITA (U05)                   IU.0        170.0      480.0                  865.5                     1616.2
ENERGY CONbUtHPTIUN PER CAPITA
(KlLOGRAMS OF GUAL EQUlVALENT)        299.4        321.2      565.1                  758.3                    1324.1
POPULAIUON AND VIIAL STATISTICS
PUPULATIUN, Ml1D-YEAR (THOUSANDS) 25929.0        32341.0   38868.0
URUAN POPULATION (PERCENT OF TOTAL) 37.9            42.2       45.1                   45.2                      64.2
POPULATION PROJECIIONS
POPULATION IN YEAR 20G0  (MILLIONS)                          60.2
bTATIONARY POPULATION (MILLIONS)                    ..      104.0
YEAR STATIONARY POPULATION IS REACHED                      2080
POPULATlON DENSITY
PEK SQ. Em.                          25.9         32.3       38.8                   36.3                      34.3
PER SQ. EN. AGRICULTIURAL LAND   1016.8         1142.8    1338.4                   442.7                      94.5
PUPULAIION AGE STIUCTURE (PERCENT)
U-14 YRS.                           42.2          41.8      40.0                   44.2                       40.7
15-b4 YKb.                            54.7         54.9       56.6                   52.4                      55.3
65 YRS. AND ABOVE                      3.1          3.3        3.4                    3.4                       4.0
'UPULATION GROWTH RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                 2.4          2.2        2.0                    2.7                       2.4
UkiAN                                 4.1          3.3        2.8                    4.6                       3.7
CRUDE BIRTH KAIE (PER THOUSAND)        44.0         38.1       37.0                   41.5                      31.4
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PER THOUSAND)        18.8         14.9       12.2                   12.8                       8.4
LGOSb REPRODUCTION RATE                 3.0          2.7        2.4                    2.9                       2.3
FAMILY PLANNING
ACLEPIORS, ANNUAL (THOUbANDb)          ..        206.0      187.0
USLEK  (PERLLNI OlF MRIED WOMEN)    ..             9.0       17.0
FOOD AND NUITRITION
INDEX UF FOOD PRODUCTIUN
PER CAPITA (1969-71-lUO)             96.0         99.0       94.0                   96.3                     108.3
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (PERLENT OF
REQULREIIENTS)                   102.0         104.0     109.0                  110.4                      107.6
PROTEINS (LRAMS PER UAY)             73.0         71.0       75.0                   73.4                      65.8
OF WhlLH ANIMAL AND PULSE          17.0         17.0       19.0                   17.1                      34.0
CHILD (ACES 1-4) MOIRTALITY KAlE       31.7         21.9       14.9                   14.9                       7.6
sEALIH
LUFE EXPLCTANCY AT BIRTH (YEARS)    46.1            51.6       56.6                   55.9                      64.1
INFANI MORIALITY ATIE (PER
THOUSANu)                             109.3        116.0       85.0                     ..                      70.9
ALLEbS TO bAFE WATER (PERCENT OF
POPULATION)
TOTAL                                  ..           ..       66.0                   59.4                      65.7
URbAW                                39.5           ..       88.0                  83.9                       79.7
RURAL                                  ..           ..       50.0                  40.8                       43.
ALCESS TO EXCRETA DlbPOSAL (PERCENT
OF POPULATION)
IOIAL                                  ..           ..         ..                    ..                       59.9
URBAN                                  ..           ..         ..                    ..                       75.7
RUKAL                                  ..           ..         ..                     ..                      30.4
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN             2556.1       1856.7    1046.Oft               4174.5                     1728.2
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON        2730.0Lc    1588.4.L  1096.6Jc                 1780.5                    1288.2
POPULATION PEK HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                              466.0        448.7      459.6                  647.4                      471.2
URBAN                                  ..        352.2     654.0                  547.2                -    558.0
RURAL                                  ..       2128.1    2291.8                 3361.1
ADMlbSIONS PER HOSPITAL BED              ..           ..       30.8                   25.3
HODUbING
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLDI_
TOTAL                                  ..           ..        5.2
URBAN                                 4.8           ..        5.0
RURAL                                  ..           ..        5.5
AVERAGE NUMBER OF PERSONS PER ROOM
TOTAL                                  ..           ..        1.8
URBAh                                 1.6           ..
RURAL                                  ..           ..
ACCLSS TO ELECTRICITY (PERCENT
OF DWELLINGS)
TOTAL                                  ..           ..       45.7
URBAN                                37.8           ..       76.9
RURAL                                  ..           ..       18.6



4                              ;> ANNEX I
Page 2 of 6
TABLE 3A
EGYPT - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
EGYPT                             REFERENCE GROUPS (EIG1HTED AVERAGES
- MOST RECENT ESTIMATE) -
AIDDLE INCOME
MOSTr RECENT        NORTH AFRICA A              MIDDLE INCOME
1960  lb    1970 /b ESTIMATE /b         MIDDLE EAST          LATIN AMERICA & CARIBBEAN
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIOS
PRIMARY:     TOTAL                  66.0         70.0      74.0                   85.1                     101.7
MALE                  80.0         88.0       8a.0                 101.5                     103.0
FEMALE                52.0         54.0       58.0                  67.5                     101.5
SECONDARY:   TOTAL                  16.0         33.0      47.0                   38.0                      35.3
MALE                  23.0         44.0       60.0                  48.1                      34.9
FEhALE                 9.0         21.0       35.0                  28.3                      35.6
VOCATIONAL EN'ROL. (1 OF SECONDARY)  22.0          19.0       20.0                  11.3                      30.1
PUP1L-TEACHER RATIO
PRIMARY                             39.0         38.0      34.0                   34.9                      29.6
SECONDARY                           16.0         25.0      25.0                   23.8                      15.7
ADULT LITERACY RATE (PERCENT)         26.0           ..       43.5                  43.0                      80.0
CONSUhPTION
PASSENGER CARS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                           3.0          4.0        7.6                  18.3                      42.6
RADIO RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                          57.9        136.1     142.1                  121.0                    215.0
TV RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                           1.9         16.4      17.0                   37.4                     e9.0
NEWSPAPER (-DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST-) CIRCULATION PER
THOUSAND POPULATION                      .         23 0      83 0                   35.9                      62.8
CINEiA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE PER CAPITA  3.0            2.0         .                    3.0                       3.2
LABOR FORCE
TOTAL LAdOR FORCE (THOUSANDS)       7481.4       9041.9   10839.7
FEMALE (PERCENT)                     7.3          7.2       7.8                   10.5                      22.6
ACRICULTLRE (PERCENT)               58.0         54.4      50.4                   43.5                      35.0
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                  12.0         18.8      28.6                   27.3                      23.2
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                 28.9         28.0      27.9                   26.4                      31.8
MALE                                  53.2         51.5       50.9                  47.0                      49.0
FEMALE                                 4.2          4.1       4.4                    5.7                      14.6
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY hATIO                1.6          1.6        1.6                   1.8                       1.4
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE IXCOHE
RECEIVED BY
HIGHEST 5 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS   17.5/d         17 4/d e  22.0/f
HIGHEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS  44.47J         4237:       49.27?
LOWEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS    6 .61d         7. Ode   5. 1/f
LOWEST 40 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS   17.5/d         18. 7/d,   14 8/f
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (USS PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                 .                   131.0                  271.4
itURAL                                .94.0                                      144.6                    187.6
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (USS PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                  .                  180.0                  400.8                    513.9
RURAL                                 ..           .      118.0                  290.9                    362.2
EST14ATED POPULATION BELOW ABSOLUTE
POVERTY INCOHE LEVEL (PERCENT)
URBAN                                 .      .     .       21.0                   22.1
RURAL                                                      25.0                   29.2
Not available
Not applicable.
NOTES
Ia   The group averages for each indicator are population-eighted arithmetic means.  Coverage of countries
among the indicacors depends on availability of data and is not uniform.
/b   Unless otherwise noted, data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; for 1970, between 1969
and 1971; and for Most Recent Estimcte, between 1976 and 1979.
/c   Registered, not all practing in the country;  /d Rural expenditures;  /e 1964-65;  If National, 1974-75.
May, 1981



ANNEX I
- 23 -                                                                                           Page 3 of 6
)OEPI9ITITCS OP SOCIAL, INtDICATOS5
Note.; JAlthough tha data ace drair  ftoe sore   eoryJudged tics toe   -uthoiatv- and re1isbla, it hiold also be sota  that they  sy sot be Inner-
nationaly rnmparabla because of the lack of  -tsdardiaed defi.ticios   and concpt. seed by differet coutrie  in c-llstisg  she data.  The4 datas.,toe
thal1a ...ee.fu1 to descr ibe orders of elsnituda, idicats trend., sod cosoei                 - etain elor ditf-arsue   beteer  countries.
theofonegop  are (Il  th  eats cout:lSry             .    i   .pt gropoftesujc   outry sd(2)- coutry grouP with soabthigher -av.rg   iLote ths the cutry. group.
of tb_ujc   nnr   ecetfrCptliupceIifprea                                    rc  ther  "Mtiddle Incm   North Africa sa   iddlE.fat` Le ohoa.- he.aue. of enronge
...ocutu     affinities   1-tthsonfnoence  utnu  dnne th  ease  ate -opuitioc iaigitaf                                 f-teti  n   ice eth lodicto-  nod ebota onLy u
taicrity of cha  ourist  a grop hedt  for thus tadiator,.  S Ae..tec.                      raoo        utis thth             distredeonde II ~the  -rsilaility of d-s
ard is ocr unifo.s, cation mast be  uria   in'.        reatn   averages of .n. indictroant he.Teeaeagao   ol   eful it coapating the  au   of
ocr itdicat-  at a tie. enoog tic. e.country and -efe-n-  group..
LANDa AREA (thrusad squn.)                                                                           P-plso  prOairltd-totel, c-bac  eud rura  - Populutiot (tote,
Total - Totsl surf. acets  -opriaiug lard Iteu sod ieland etrs_ch    adroa)divided by thir  -epectio- nbe- of hospital bada
annicolt-rl - teti-tac   of egic-ltucl stu  usdtemoatip-                  teaetlTcilable  cn pblic aud privae- e.ra,                               o   ocaio   hospital tad r.-
for croPs., Paturee, sacht sod kitohe.tgaden  or to li   al ;197  data.                           hhiittln          Ietere          =.          .:piIs  c  at hlihaots peta-tetly staffd
ic IoIrs   r            Eheca .trenbliab-tet  providing princiPally.. cusr-
ISP  Et APIT  (19)   Glil  per ..pit. osiatee  cret  tar ketpir,c                                dial care ora to  iclded.  total hcopitals, hoeve, include haalt
culate  by tam   cone-iot e-hdsaod               hokAle(17-9bde;16.ad sudita1 --o-r to  pa=aetly.steffed by a physi IaI (but bya
1970, sod 1979 data..edit.1 assstnt,ous  *iwfe, etc.) ehic  offeri-ain-coc
datioc sad provide a lititd range of medicel fa         Viia.Pr  tt
retaI CONSUMtPTION Pun CAPITA - unu1 consumption of toa.eritl soergy  (coal                            tics) WPnpoaea ubar hosP itals include Woepiops/ee                    heise
and lignite,pnta,            t ..tutI gas and )cyt-, nudest sod gcth         Is .1c-                 so  roos  h pts1, loca  ot rus)  hspitale aud tedital end maternity
tricity) to kcilogrea  of coat eqi_elent Per -spica; 196. 197, and 1979                              oeos-ts.  opecLi: ltad  bopoeteiocueInl   ne  total.
data..Adaissis  reIIona   o  - Tonl  .u.bat of  dadaleictlt.                                                                                                          o  dtnchoges
f-o  hospittal  divided by cict o.-be  of bade.
POPM)ATION ANDl VITAL. STATISTICS
Total Populutiol. Mid-YTa  (thou...A.d) - Al of July 1; 1960. 19li, and 1979                    HOSOtING
dta.                                                                                          Avrstisofoeod)raoserh-ueod  -t                                 l ura. sd rural -
Irhen19 PoottIo  (Petcrt of  tona) -  atilo o  unbut to tou  pplaic                                  A h.ueohold cons.iste of .atgrou  of iudivd l. roahr   unsqurr
difrcndfniin   of urbactrs  tay afecttc           aaiil of data                         sod  hi   aoase   A hoarder or lodgsrtp or toy oat hs ioldsd in
atn  cuties; 1960, 1970, aod 1979 data,tics househoid ftoeansilpupt.
yPorlto   rjcinsAes.nme   f                                                                                                        alls   e   oetoa,uhe   u   url-Aeasnn
Fotulotio  it  ee  11S 20- Curetpp to   proctioetar  bhaad or 1980                                 bs-o  parsaperomi  elitubo.  a1d rurl occuPtd coeweetineal
total poplatico by age an  ae  and their aortality end feroility rta                            deelIgatrpcie.Irelioga ecDud  nc-peeasst strutu-  en
PoojeotionPamersft ortotlityras t t cteo ..i...                 a.: loesaeu-octupied pats
ngL.,  5spoanya   it  cocef.ng   thi rtontry'ePer   'ita.nce                                  Aocest tac-icntv isa-oeott of deolinas) - tot.luhc   n   ua 
trys, an  fats lts epeteutyetailitiog at 77.5 y--n   Th.t p.o-                        Inotto l dwIcs  rth  eeti ityt  livingq esaspretg
esters fo  fertility  rate aa  hove thre  tavaa asesing daclits L.n                              of total, -rba   sod rural dellinsr.ap isy
fertSlitysccotding to itoot   e-e  and pas  family plaoning Per. ene
fEcic  Ioutr, iethen sasigod .-c of th..e oilt coeitatiots of   moraity                     EDUCATION
sod ferttility  trede for p-ojnctlo  purposes.                                                Adluectd E-roilten     Utios
ocacioor  o       to   -Iesttoay i. Ipopulation  lhthr..is .or gothstore1                          Prit,r ncoll otl st  sad temals  - lore. total, sale and fair
thel birth ratitrua  t  the denth tate, adae   h   g                  trutur  ce-                  ecoian fal  gsa  the primary leve  sa peretages: of trepuctie
tie   on Ita  LThsIsahievd only after1 fert ility race,decIlne to                              primary eciccl-g  pouain;oralyicue   hide   gd0i
the  alcmn.evlo   otnt -ep-oduotonrae  or  no   a..e..tio                                         years hat odjosted for different lengths of prity educaion; for
of mttorepace  itelt  aaciy.The stationar  population siosa                              cnrie  with uiesldatio  eoLment  -l n d itO  percent
satittd co the haeie of the ptojsrtsd ch-ste-istics of the population                              sic   osPupl   r   e            rsosteoffIoSlshool age.
it the ye-  i000, aud ths cene of declioso.f fertility rate to repl.cs-.Ottudar   choo  - total. sale sod te 1e  - Computed sa ahov;  -scodar
mast leve.                                                                                         oducatiun raquiree anIat   Pout  yaare of sppov-d primary Sarci
tear snaciocry  WpuA.tioc ia retache   - The y-e  ohon  -otioarypouato                               poides gaura,  octinl,  n..t sach t troingl              unuoioafor opib
site hes bets re-hed.                                                                             usuall  of 12 no 17 years of a 5;oree-nees  ouse  are gesel.-ly
Per sa. he. - Mid-yea  ppultico per square kil-mt  (101 h--tre) of                                Tca Ina enroltt irren    f secoadar) - Vocationlintsoe
total stun; 1960. 1971 and 1979 data..                                                            toluda tenhoicl. ioatta,o  other program   ehich oprtet tudeed
Par so    . aartulcural Land  - fo taptd aeshove  for agriculturl lund                               etly oasdepu-t-et  of secodary  Inaittiue
ol;1965,1970 end 197t done.                                                                  PoIP-ecbortio - P, mato  and ss doart- Tonat toet  unrolld In
PooeieM    St_tosur  (rgocent)_-Children  (0-lA  ye-r). workirg-aga  (15-                       pi.ary an  secoadaty lvele doide  bynubrt. of it-horLi the
ho yeare), sud retire   (615ersaa  over)- as           .. pretages of sod-yea  ~po-                  corroepoding leval..
latico; 1960, 1970, lad 1979 dets.                                                                 Molt literacy rtet foertealt  - Litara.sa adults (able to rla  sad wits)
fprulation Growh NoneP. irret) -total - dAnual arnh tense of total aid-                                aap-raetege of total adult ppolstiun-gd 19 year  aed eve.
yar P.pultion   for 1950-60, 1960-70, and 1970-79.
?Poelanoj Got hoeCacn)-ubn- Ausuel growh rates of urbanpo                                       ComSOttTtIO
laticee  tot 1950-60. 1960-70, sod 1970-7'9.                                                    PaearCar  lear tbo,usad enrlatios) - Pa.eaagar ctst rcesrs   -tott
Crud  Bitth Non  (ret thoo-od) - Annual Live hitch  per thoutaud of mid-yaercar  seting lees ths tight purson; aclaldat   nls1ca. he-en   .an
poplaio;AiNgi, 1971, an  1979 data.                                                             ilitar  vhcls
Crude beacthhosl    thousand) - 'Annual deaths per chonesda of adya                               tadio :ecIv..  os tnald ncenletioe' - All type. of t-nius   for radio
poputlation;1iN, .1970, an  1979 dons,                                                              bradtoeet  gerl pobli  Per IthounId of pWoaIun   socldee
irose tendcco   ho       A-A   ,.a nuber of deughteree aa    til  hear in                         liceneed rasivea_ i  cunatis  en  It ye_o  What reghenrti    of  5dm.
he 1noml,rprudwtnivepro   if eho epariene    Iret age-apc ific  fe-                              ects ems inL.   n    data frr veamsl Tars toy aot he  -oparabl  since
tility rtat  usualy fiv-ye.  -oS..s eading in 1960, 1970, sad 1979.                                 ot oc_rssaho1ished licet- g.S
F emly  lassna   Accotos. Asua )nhuaada)- Annual rbthe  of ..acoPco                  TV houiwe  fearthousand ennl-nis- TV. ateo.iv-   for broe dou   tt
of brtbronrol  evise  ade  aupcs  fntitol Peily plei.ng p-rgoam.                            g-aa  pbi            pttobusd popoletioe;  -.ludte unli-aee   TV roete
amly Platna-OUceiecu  o    aoe eaen   -Pretage of atoned                                           in conriead  ayrewe   reitato                     f fTy  eta en  in effet.
wnmn o  rildbecie  ag  (9-0  yars.) eho aas birth-control deri.e. no                   Neseerare Cir..nlation ba ,,thendrtln l-                   ds the-6 awraait-
all taried ame  in sae  gega.                                                                      cutalen f ni "ail  gE_te  inautnweue" t                   ada        " etidital
pobli-etion dewted piuaril  to otodn    eea   a.                   it     conastara
foot) ANt NUTRITItI                                                                                    no be 'daily' If it appt  an Itunet fou.        he   weak..
lade oFfood Puduocmt   oar Capto  )99-7PlDO) - Iad- of Per  aIts eannal                           Cim dAn-L Atteedasce ea  Capita rEt Tar - heed ow the   -b-s  of
prodnuinoalfo    'oatti                  Pdctme  rlue   sandadfean                                nichtkstsold dcieg the ye.o  includig adi           to . a  driv-in rinse
is ton os1-4- yea  hoeis.         -.diiacoe  pint  soa              I(.g.. ag'rlan                 and -        -iuite..
I-ecald ofaue).hccor dhaed co.tain sottien-  (e.g. coffse sad
tea are  nludsd).    grgt  prdci of each conty i. huasd ow                                     ,AJN  FORCE
national averag  prducer robe. wenicca; 1961-65. 1970. sad 1979 data.                           Total Lahur foroc (thoneand4) - tcocm-al-.ly nctivu pu-on, inciudiag
Per osPit. eucolo of rlcs   (outr     of te...ireTe)  - Cepoed   rw                   d ftfor-e  ca  us-IlTyd but acloidigho ew e  students, etc..
enery equiaen   f           od sple  available in coutr  Par capita                             reveies populaion n  al  ag            D. lfiition   is vri..e ooutoia  are
ptday   Avilbl  appies compoie dame.tit pooductios, imports in1-cc   sat                                    e   1960.f1970 lad 1979 data
anports  ta  ceee   is etkh. ilts supplsenudaimlfd,ed,                                        famala leroet) - femal  labor f-rcnes peoetage of total labor facs
qnastitiauad In tod proes ito. sad leeIn dito ibtit. eqice-                                   AittusIoct)- Labo  forts te ftaring, foretr, hosting end
eat. were  _aeuated by ?A0 hasd os physilogical seeds  o   om                ti-                fishig asporenen  of total lat`r forc; 19. 191.i71 aud  1197  dta.
viny and health conaideciug eriroac .talimperature. body teighte, age                         Industry featoSt) - Labor f..r.s  amining, toestuci_           _IIaftnto
end sun di_tibotton  of pupu1acine, and a11wisg 10 percent for unees atsald elsotriity, wstst and gas se P.ace Sag   of total lahor force.; 1960,
hoa...hold level; 1961-65, 1970, sad 1977data..iN70 sad 1979 data.
Pe ooia usl o  ooti itga  a  day)    .-Prnin connae  of per capita                         atcate.aeferai-ttl male ad tl     -PtIcpanao
eat "oPp    offod -e dayi        lonapl  of food is defndussoe   ho-                              atniv"  ityaee.o         tdasttl    ae   n  faetbofre
quoreent  for all cuountries atablishe   bybAprowfid  for "i"'n                                  peroentages of total. tale sad feml 1        etlto   of sli age. reaapative1y;
allowuno  of 60 gret  of total protein Per day seA  20 gStw   ot anel and                       1960,1.     , 4 1   97sa 9lT  dtne.  Th.-as  ar  heasd on ILSa' pa-itipatia  rate.
pa  protein, of wlhich 10 Ste    should h.auime-        roI  o    Thes sued-refileting ag-se  atruut  o  .f the Nspoltian , ted In-g time ted.  A
aT.daar  10-vthnthoeo   5 are   of tota  poonein aod 73 gCea of                                 feeet tcesar  f- roe  tio l sources.
nial poreit  s as aSr.g for the  -14d  propose d by PAO ic the Third                   icemc  etaeo   eto. - Ratio of ~pngrstire ader 15 aed 65 aed oe
esrl.diFood Iuovey;  191-65, 1970 sad  197 dan.                                                 to  the total laborfre
Pen cai..  s .toni solyfo  tl led ie                      -Pfrtsi. apply of ftod At-
rivad from aiaala and Poltes is Ve   Per day; 1961-65, 1970 sad 1977 data,                  DoCUM  DIOTIStT 51
Chldl seas 1-A) Istalnw1t  Mat.a.er thonsedi - Annual feate per thonead L.                         Paoas  of Private Lot-  both in  .-h ad bind).- la-oi-d bY richaet
asroP 1-4 yeas  to child?enin thie  gS. group; for metdavelopia  oun0peoet, richeat 20 p-rot-   pouvest 20 peret.t  end pooreat 40 percen
triss data derived from  lif.ts nlis; 1960, 1970 end 1979 dat,                                     of huehod
eaALT                                                                                              POEv95  TAGgT G3)0PS
Life Uaretauy so tioth irate) - Averag  nube  at yar- of life raining                              The ftllwing estiatee  ate ver  appruian             aars  of povety lavle,
an brth;196, lOS sd 1979 dut.                                                                a    hudh   stpas   wt   oadrbecuin
Ias  rtalty    t.n bar thn-aodi - Ansual deatbe of infants  ads- onyar                          tIiae   bouefwtrwIomd                 lvlff9ertata  -uhtdhua 
of age pee thonead  Ivebirshe.                                                                     Aslt   oet   oslvli   hrtn    ee   ee  ehib   -d -int
fcast  hots W ter, learren   ofd enn      a  -itotal, thu , ad rura  - f '                       tuttitiomally edqunts dint plu  seanie  so-f ad  -qge-rIn ismt
he ,fpol   tota.ehn1        drrl   tc  rfaaoe orts  o  at
etars  apply (taladas treated sraeueso   nrae                      e  an-esinand                   ePfotdaIls
enter  -eh as thet from  protected horehlne P,srigs  adsaitary alle) asSrSrlrispwryicoelvli   tesido   vraeprrpn
peroenase  of the tr . rePattirt pWuplttone   InaL                                                                                         IeIraaputrproa    es   ftetry  r   level is daniced tee  tbs   ra
Anno  hr   to erdpI 1-tdisr torconte   oto  sedyi  tetohiag the                                runt".                    .-t
th bcllaina          d  ispo l, wth  rwthout  feuta     ft,          th ,aa    mactens    ~-                    P.- o   W Ui   tctnad   ad 1ilnuelhos  i si
ad   a quaifie  frm  -t     its).-   ytbon  - atbaniuric  level. jla             : .E    k                                                            dS-         aaDi,.
foalcto ea eueun Peas - PoplantI  divided by eusbr of fe'cn
mele and fee.s-egrduate nse,prcical ara, ad ..ssitaat   res



-24 -                                                                 ANNEX I
Page 4 of 6
EGYPT - ECONOMIC INDICATORS
Population: 42.5 million (1980/81)
GNP per capita: US S598 (1980/81)
A.ount (million
US$at current                                       A N N U A L   G R O W T H   R A T E S   (X)
prices)                     A C T U A L                      EST.                          P R O J E C T E D
1979          1975    1976    1977    1978    1979    1980/81   1981/82   1982183   1983184   1984/85   1985/86   1986/87
NATIONAL ACCOUNTS
Gross Do.estic Product a/           17745.0          10.4    10.3    10.9    11.9        8.2       9.0        8,6        7.8        7.2        7.1       6.5        6.1
Agriculture                      3844.0            6.3      1.6    -3.0      5.5      3.9       2.2       2.1        2.3        2.5        2.6        2.7        2.9
Industry                         3237.0           10.6     4.8      9.8    12.3      6.5       9.8        9.1        9.0        9.2        8.8        9.1        8.5
Petroleum                        2728.0           39.4    52.3    55.2    22.0    10.3        11.6       13.5        8.6        6.3        7.4        5.5        4.4
Services                         7263.0            9.2    11.6      9.4    12.0    10.2       10.8       11.5       11.0        9.9        8.5        7.4        6.6
Consumption                         15010.0          -3.8      8.3    11.0    11.2       4.5      12.0       11.2        9.2       8.3        7.1        6,7        6.0
Gross Investment                     5450.0          54.2    -8.2      9.3    -2.4       9.4       9.6        5.8        6.0       5.8        5.7        5.7        6.1
Exports of GNFS                      5585.0          27.2    30.8      9.0      3.0      5.8     12.4         7.3        8.2       6.0        6.8        5.8        5.3
Imports of GNFS                     8300.0           16.0    -5.3      2.5      4.2      8.9     18.7       #7.9        6.8        6.7        5.4        5.1        4.7
Gross National Saving                3885.0         133.0    74.8    25.7    17.4   -13.4          -         -          -          -          -          -          -
PRICES
GDP Deflator                                         50.6    55.9    60.5    65.8    81.0    100.0           -
Exchange Rate b/                                      2.15    1.97    1.75    1.54    1.43         1.43      -
Share of GDP at Market Prices (X)                              Average Increase (.  ) at Constant Prices
(at current prices)                                   1965 Prices  1975 Prices    1980/81 Prices
1960    1970    1975    1979    1984/85                          1960-1970    1970-1975  l975-1979  FY81-FY86
Gross Domestic Product
- Agricslture                      27.9    25.3    28.2    21.7        15.7                            4.7           5.1         1.9         2.4
Industry 6 Petroleum             23.7    26.1    25.4    33.6        35.8                            3.0           2.6        17.5         8.6
- Services                         42.9    40.8    42.8    40.9        43.7                            6.3           4.4        10.8         8.6
Consumption                        87.3    90.6    90.4    84.6        88.0                            4.4           8.0         6.8         8.5
Gross Investment                    13.3    13.9    32.3    30.7       28.5                            5.8           4.2         1.8         5.8
Export of CNFS                      19.5    14.2    21.5    31.5       33.0                            4.9          22.8        11.6         6.8
Import of CNFS                     20.1    18.8    44.1    46.8        49.6                            1.1          13.5         2.5         6.4
Gross National Saving               12.9     7.7    10.9    21.9       14.6                            7.2          17.2        22.2         -
As X of GDP
1960    1970    1975    1979
PUBLIC FINANCE
Current Revenue                  18.5    21.3    34.1    37.2
Current Expenditure              21.5    22.0    39.9    33.9
Surplus (u) or
Deficit (-)                    -3.0    -0.7    -5.8       3.3
Capital Expenditure              11.8    11.1    16.6    23.0
Foreign Financing                 -        -       16.0     4.4
1960-70  1970-75  1975-80  FY81-FY87
OTHER INDICATORS
GNP Grovth Rate (. )               4.5       5.0      11.5       7.3
GNP per capita grouth
rate (X)                         1.9       2.7       8.7       5.4
Energy con...mption growth
rate (Z) cf                               14.9      13.2     11.0
ICOR                               -         -         3.6      3.3
Marginal Savings Rate              -         -         0.46      0.12
Import Elasticity                  0.9       1.7       0.9      0.8
a!  GDP for 1979 at current prices is valued at market prices.  Rates of growth concern GDP ot factor cost.
6/  Effective rate computed as a Weighted average of official and parallel narket rates.
c/  Electricity only.                                                                                                                               Division IA
CPD 1, EMENA Region
May 5, 1982 (420J)



- 25 -
ANNEX I
Page 5 of 6
EGYPT - EXTERNAL TRADE
Population: 42.5 million (1980/81)
GNP per capita:  US$598
Amount (million)                       Annual Growth Rate (Z) at Constant 1980/81 Prices
US$ at current
prices)                     A C T U A L                         EST.               P R O J E C T E D
1979       1975      1976       1977      1978      1979    80/81       81/82      82/83    83/84    84/85
EXTERNAL TRADE
Merchandise Exports                4024         27.2      19.6        3.1       7.7       9.6      10.8        9.4       7.2       5.6        6.7
-  Primary 1/                       546       -15.3       -8.5      25.7    -29.8         4.5       5.2      10.2        0.9       1.2       1.4
-  Manufactures !I                  618         24.8    -14.6    -27.3         17.9    -29.6        9.2        6.2       6.2       6.8       7.4
-  Petroleum                       2860        72.0       63.3      11.1      16.1       22.6      12.1       9.9        8.3       5.9       7.2
Merchandise Imports                7336         14.1      -5.0      -1.1        8.5       5.9      18.0        7.5       6.3       6.5       5.1
-  Food                            1677        27.4       16.9    -18.1       25.8       -7.0      21.2      11.8        3.0       5.5       3.1
-  Petroleum                        243       -34.2      -23.3    -53.3         2.7    -11.8       17.7       6.4        3.3       1.8       0.4
-  Machinery and Equipment         2846        59.5       24.8      21.4      -0.7       25.6      14.3       7.4        7.3       6.7       6.6
-  Others                          2570         17.9    -26.2       10.7        7.5       0.2      20.0       4.4        8.3       7.5       5.5
Prices
Export Price Index                              51.5      49.9      52.3      52.9       76.0     100.0      93.8     100.7      109.1     119.4
Import Price Index                             60.6       63.5      70.4      76.1      87.9    100.0       105.8     116.9      126.2     135.7
Terms of Trade Index                           85.0       78.6      74.3      69.5       86.5     100.0      88.6      86.1       86.5      88.0
Composition of Merchandise Trade (%)  Average Annual Increase (Z)
(at current prices)               at constant 1980/81 prices
1970      1975      1979    84/85          1975/79      FY81/FY85
Exports                                                                     9.8            6.8
Primary 1/                64.2      28.3      13.6       12.1          -4.1            2.9
Petroleum                  4.8      25.2      71.0       71.0          26.8            7.3
Manufactures-/            31.0      46.7       15.4      16.8         -15.3            6.9
Imports                                                                     1.9            6.1
Food                      13.4      23.6      22.9       24.8            2.9           5.1
Petroleum                  8.2       6.9        3.3       2.4         -24.5            2.8
Machinery                 23.4      23.7      38.8       40.2           17.2           6.8
Others                    55.0      45.8      35.0       32.6          -3.1            6.1
Share of Trade with             Share of Trade with                    Share of Trade with
Industrial Countries (Z)        Developing Countries (Z)            Capital Surplus Oil Exporters (Z)
1965      1970      1975         1965      1970      1975                1965      1970      1975
DIRECTION OF TRADE
Exports                            27.0      17.0       14.0        18.0      22.0       10.0                1.0       1.0       4.0
Primary                        29.0       19.0      18.0         17.0      22.0      11.0                  -        1.0       3.0
Manufactures                    19.0      12.0       3.0         23.0      23.0       9.0                 4.0       3.0       5.0
Imports                            55.0      42.0      65.0         18.0      25.0      14.0                  -         -        4.0
1/ Not including oil and oil products.
EM1DA (0236J)
April 22, 1982



- 26 -
ANNEX I
Page 6 of 6
EGYPT - BALANCE OF PAYMENTS,* EXTEINAL CAPITAL AND DEBT
(million USS at current prices)
EST.                            P O J E C TE D
1974    1975    1976    1977    1978    1979   1980/8i  1981/82    1982/83               3  X984/T      5     1985/86   1986/87
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS
Export of Goods and Non-Factor
Services                                  2251    2503    3319    3888    4099    5585    8205           8588       10012       11496       13367       15298        17442
- of which merchandise f.o.b.               1818    1875    2169    2346    2558    4024    6002           6156        7085        8110         9467       10846       12359
Imports of Goods and Non-Factor
Services                                 -3959   -5141   -5182   -5879   -6612   -8300  -11429  -13089             -15406      -17739      -20079      -22389      -24875
- of which merchandise c.i.f.              -3618   -4608   -4659   -5110   -5998   -7336  -10039  -11421             -13418      -15418      -17427      -19396      -21520
Net Factor Income                             70      122      413     472    1098    1143        850       874        1147        1198         1086         941         778
Net Private Transfers                         42       90       87       63      54       50      --        --          --          --           --          --          --
C-urrent Account Balance                   -1596   -2426   -1363   -1456   -1361   -1522   -2374    -3628             -4246       -5044       -5626        -6149      -6656
Private Direct Investment                     87      225      444     477      387      710    1170       1357        1572        1782        2016         2250        2512
MLT Loans (Net)                               69      270      647      730    1141    1509    1177        1225        1341        1557         1496        1559        1656
- official                                   -21      210      490     803    1028    1072        874       906         763         927        1022         1289        1354
- private                                     90       60      157     -73      113      437      303       319         578         630         474          269         302
Other Capital (Net) 4/                      1393    1907       191      339    -181    -599    -165         150           0            0           0           0           0
Change in Reserves                            47       24       81      -90       14     -98    -349       -146           0           0            0           0           0
International Reserves 1/                    516      678      642      880    1106    1098    1300        1340        1241        1154        1079         1018         960
- of which gold                              102      102      102      104     104      104      --        --         --          --          --          --            --
Reserves as Months Imports 3/                1.7      1.8      1.7      2.1     2.2      1.8      1.5       1.3         1.1         0.9         0.8          0.7         0.7
EXTERNAL CAPITAL AND DEBT
Gross Disbursements                         2227    3612    2305    3349    2812    2329    2621           3666        4505        5339        6066         6565        7071
Official Grants                          1303    1076      792      445      345      110      339       461         592         706         807         872         966
Concessional Loans                        120    1444      668    1855    1600        996    1276       1235        1312        1472        1524        1628         1646
- DAC                                      55      199     421      591      799      833    1103       1040        1117        1292        1329        1421        1388
- OPEC                                      3    1142      171      137       93       43       69        33          11           1           0           0            0
- IDA                                      12       49      42       42       45       55       48        85         116         103          82          44           22
- Others                                   50       54      34    1085       663       65       56        77          68          76         113         163         236
Non-Concessional Loans                    804    1092      845    1049       867    1223    1007        1536        1859        2162        2428        2598        2850
- official export credits                 379      639     214       24       44       50       83       121         129         145         182         204         230
- IBRD                                     -        14      36       37       57      118      146       197         229         282         347         411         472
- other multilateral                       -         6      -       256       18        5        4        17          37          61          83         102          120
- private                                425      433      595      732      748    1050       774      1201        1464        1674        1816        1881        2028
Gap Financing                                                                                               434         741         999        1307         1468        1608
External Debt
Debt outstanding and disbursed              2830    4830    5770    8090    9920   11330   13505            15290    17506        20216       23179       26377        29720
- official                               1990    3890    4720    6800    8500    9470   11296            12327    13224        14306       15488       16948       18468
- private                                 840     940    1050    1290    1420    1860    2210          2529         3106        3736        4210        4479        4781
- gap financing                                                                                         434         1176        2174        3481        4950        6471
Undisbursed Debt                            1602    2426    3014    4515    4390    4629    5951           6296        6884        7315        7713        8211         8830
Debt Service
Total Service Payment                        517      595      665    1099    1211    1040    2334         2449        2883        3400        4037        4768         5587
- interest                                 70     115      111      340      387      236      684       728         791         914        1036        1156        1275
- payment as I exports 2/                 21%    21.6%   16.8%   23.9%   21.8%   14.6%   15.6%    20.8%             20.7%       21.1%       22.2%       22.1%      22.2%
Average Interest Rate on New Loans           6.3      4.7      5.1      5.1     4.6      6.4      6.5       7.3         7.3         7.3         7.2          7.2         7.2
- official
- private
Average Maturity of New Loans (years)    17.2    18.5    23.3    18.7    27.9    24.5    19.5               16.9        16.0         15.8        15.7       15.6        15.6
- official
- private
1/ Foreign assets of Central Bank.
2/ Exports of goods and services not including foreign oil companies exports.
3/ Merchandise only.
4/ Including commercial banks operations and residual foreign f inancing.
EMIDA (0234J)
April 27, 1982



ANNEX II
- 27 -                                         Page 1 of 12
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN EGYPT
A. STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS
(As of March 31, 1982)
Amount in million US dollars
Loan/Credit      Approved        Borrower       Purpose                                        (less cancellations)
Numbers           FY                                                                    Bank       IDA      Undisbursed
13 Loans and Credits fully disbursed                                                     129.5    184.4            -
Cr 393               73            ARE          Upper Egypt Drainage                         --     36.0           1.9
Cr 423               74            ARE          Cotton Ginning Rehabilitation               --      18.5           0.8
Ln 1064              75            SCA          Suez Canal Rehabilitation                 50.0        --          11.0
Ln 1085              75            ARE          Tourah Cement                             40.0        --           1.5
Ln 1239              76            APA          Alexandria Port                           45.0        --         24.8
Ln 1276-T 1/         76            ARE          Fruit and Vegetable Dev.                  50.0        --         16.2
Cr  637              76            ARE          Upper Egypt Drainage II                     --      40.0           8.9
Ln 1285              76            ARE          Upper Egypt Drainage II                   10.0        --          10.0
Ln 1292              76            ARE          Textile Rehabilitation                    52.0        --           7.5
Ln 1369              77            AWA          Alexandria Water Supply                   53.2        --         27.9
Cr  b81              77            ARE          Education I                                 --      25.0           2.4
Cr  719              77            ARE          Nile Delta Drainage II                      --      27.0           1.7
Ln 1439              77            ARE          Nile Delta Drainage II                    27.0        --          26.4
Ln 1440-T 1/         77            ARE          Nile Delta Drainage II                    12.0        --         11.8
Ln 1453              77            EEA          Regional Electrification                  48.0        --           2.6
Ln 1456              77            ARE          Industrial Imports                        70.0        --           9.3
Ln 1482              78            SCA          Suez Canal Expansion                     100.0        --         29.6
Cr  774              78            ARE          Telecommunications II                       --      53.0         43.6
Ln 1533              78            DIB          Development Industrial Bank III           40.0        --          4.3
Cr  830              78            ARE          Agricultural Development                    --      32.0         24.3
Cr  831              78            ARE          Urban Development                           --      14.0          12.5
Cr  850              79            ARE          Population II                               --      25.0         14.1
Cr 868               79            ARE          Education II                                --      40.0         25.7
Ln S-14              79            ARE          New Valley Phosphate Engineering
and Technical Assistance              11.0        --           3.3
Cr  909              79            ARE          Tourism                                     --      32.5         28.7
Ln 1732              79            ARE          Gulf of Suez Gas                          75.0        --         20.9
Cr  935              79            ARE          Shoubrah El Kheima Thermal Power            --      37.0         34.5
Ln 1733              79            EEA          Shoubrah El Kheima Thermal Power 2/  102.0            --        102.0
Cr  988              80            ARE          Agroindustries                              --      45.0         33.3
Ln 1804              80            DIB          Development Industrial Bank IV            50.0        --         23.4
Ln 1842              80            ARE          MIDB                                      30.0        --         29.8
Cr 1024              80            ARE          Cairo Gas Distribution                      --      50.0          19.7
Ln 1849             80             ARE          Pulp and Paper                            50.0        --         50.0
Ln 1886              80            EEA          Power III                                   7.0       --           7.0
Cr 1052              80            EEA          Power III                                   --    120.0         112.8
Cr 1069              81            ARE          Education III                               --      40.1          39.0
Ln 1928             81             EGPC         Western Desert Exploration                25.0        --         12.1
Cr 1083              81            ARE          New Land Development                        --      80.0         80.0
Cr 1111              81            ARE          Fish Farming                                --      14.0         14.0
Ln 2002              81            HADISOLB    Hadisolb Rehabilitation                    64.0        --         64.0
Cr 1156             81             ARE          Beheira Water Supply                                56.6         56.6
Cr 1162              81            ARE          Technical Assistance                        --       6.9          6.9
Ln 2074             82             DIB          Development Industrial Bank 3/           120.0        --        120.0
Ln 2103              82            EGPC         Abu Qir Gas Development 3/                90.0        --         90.0
Totals 4/                                                                               1350.7    977.0        1266.8
Of which has been repaid                                                                  82.8       1.1
Total now outstanding                                                                   1267.9    975.9
Amount sold                                             7.5
Of which has been repaid                                7.5
Total now held by Bank and IDA                                                          1267.9    975.9
1/ Third Window Loan.
2/ Not included is EEC Special Action Credit 20 of US$35.0 million.
3/ Not yet effective.
4/ Excludes a US$69 million loan for a Textiles II Project which has been terminated, and a
US$64 million loan for a Telecommunications III Project which has been approved by the
Board, but not yet signed.
(231J)



- 28 -                                           ANNEX II
Page 2 of 12
B. STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS
(As of March 31, 1982)
Year    Obligor                    Type of Business                  Loan      Equity    Total
-----(US$ Million)------
1976    Arab Ceramic Company       Ceramic Industry                   4.80      0.83       5.63
1978    Nile Clothing Company    Ready-Made Garment Industry          0.43      0.16       0.59
1978    Delta Sugar Company        Agricultural Production,          20.00      3.00      23.00
mainly sugar
1979    Ismailia Misr Poultry    Food and Food Processing             5.97      1.52       7.49
Company
1980,   Ismailia Fish              Food and Food Processing           1.93       .55       2.48
1981       Farming Company
1980    Suez Cement Company        Building Materials                30.0         -       30.0
1981    Luxor Hotel 1/             Crocodile Tourist Project          4.41       .86       5.27
Total gross commitments 2/                                           67.54      6.92      74.46
Less: Cancellations, terminations, repayments
and sales                                               10.58       -        10.58
Total commitments now held by IFC                                    56.96      6.92      63.88
Total Undisbursed                                                    12.41      2.76      15.17
1/ Not yet signed.
2/ In addition, a loan of US$6.73 million equivalent, with US$732,000 equity, for the
Ismailia Misr Poultry Company has been approved by the Board but is not yet committed.
231J



- 29 -
ANNEX II
Page 3 of 12
STATUS OF PROJECTS IN EXECUTION 1/
AS OF MARCH 31, 1982
Cr. No. 393-UAR - Upper Egypt Drainage I Project; USg36 million Credit of
June 8, 1973; Effectiveness Date: November 281 1973; Closing Date: July 31,
1981.
Work is virtually completed on some 1,640 km surface drains in
300,000 feddan project area. Of the four pumping stations, two are
complete and progress is being made on the other two. Installation of tile
drains is more than two-thirds complete. Progress on this activity has
been slow because of inadequate management by contractors and recently the
shortage of cement.  The Bilharzia Control Program is proceeding as
scheduled.  Progress on procurement is satisfactory.  The credit was closed
as planned on July 31, 1981, but IDA agreed to keep the credit account open
in order to honor existing letters of credit. The account will be closed
shortly.
Cr. No. 423-UAR - Cotton Ginning Rehabilitation Project; US$18.5 million
Credit of July 30, 1973; Effectiveness Date: February 15, 1974; Closing
Date. December 31, 1982.
The project is expected to be completed in 1982. Previous
substantial delays, primarily due to lack of adequate local funds, have
been overcome. Two new ginneries have been commissioned and the remaining
two are expected to be commissioned in August/September 1982.  Progress of
civil works on the ginneries to be rehabilitated is satisfactory, and
procurement of equipment under the Credit is also complete.
Ln. No. 1064-EGT - Suez Canal Rehabilitation Project; US$50 million Loan of
December 20, 1974; Effectiveness Date: April 21, 1975; Closing Date.
December 31, 1983.
Project execution is generally satisfactory although some items
are lagging behind appraisal schedule.  Contracts for most items have been
awarded; bids for the lightening barges are being evaluated, and contract
award is expected by June 1982.
1/  These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding
the progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report any
problems which are being encountered and the action being taken to
remedy them. They should be read in this sense, and with the
understanding that they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation
of strengths and weaknesses in project execution.



- 30 -
ANNEX II
Page 4 of 12
Ln. No. 1085-EGT - Tourah Cement Expansion Project; US$40 million Loan of
February 10, 1975; Effectiveness Date: June 9, 1975; Closing Date: December
31, 1982.
Civil works and procurement of machinery and equipment have been
completed. Mechanical erection has also been completed for several
facilities. Substantial progress has been made in recent months towards
completing the remaining erection work.  Start-up of facilities is expected
to be progressively achieved by September 1982, and the project is expected
to be completed soon thereafter.
Ln. No. 1239-ECT - Alexandria Port Project; US445 million Loan of April 19,
1976; Effectiveness Date: August 30, 1976; Closing Date: December 31, 1983.
Progress on the execution of the main civil works and dredging
contract is proceeding reasonably well although other civil works are
behind schedule. Procurement of most equipment is progressing
satisfactorily although the evaluation of bids for radar equipment is
behind schedule. The Bank has agreed to the Alexandria Port Authority's
request for a reallocation of the proceeds of the loan to finance container
handling equipment. Estimated final cost remains within appraisal
estimates.
Ln. No. 1276-EGT - Fruit and Vegetable Development Project; US$50 million
Third Window Loan of June 11, 1976; Effectiveness Date: December 20, 1976;
Closing Date: December 31, 1982.
The project is now over two years behind schedule but is making
progress. All funds are committed for the credit component. Work on the
drainage component of the project is proceeding satisfactorily.  The seed
component has major problems, which the Bank has been discussing with
Egyptian officials to agree on revised modes of management. However, in
the last 12 months, physical plant has been increased, tenders prepared for
further investments, and considerable crop production achieved. The
agricultural development lending unit in Bank Misr is attempting, with
assistance from the World Bank, to ensure that the various sub-borrowers
proceed with their respective investments, and to identify additional
sub-borrowers. The project scope has been expanded to allow financing of
agroindustries subprojects. A detailed examination of alternatives for the
lining of the Nasr Canal is being conducted.



- 31 -
ANNEX I]
Page 5 of 12
Ln. No. 1285-EGT and Cr. 637-EGT - Upper Egypt Drainage 11 Project; US$10
million Loan and US$40 million Credit, both of June 11, 1976;
Effectiveness Date: January 31, 1977; Closing Date: June 30, 1983.
Progress on construction of open drains is satisfactory with
completion in about 70 percent of the project area. Tile drains have been
installed covering 59,000 feddans, about 12 per cent of the project
target. This activity is behind schedule due mainly to construction
planning and management constraints in the Drainage Authority and in public
sector contracting companies, as well as because of delays in importing
plastic pipe laying machines. Progress on the Bilharzia Control Program is
on schedule, but it will need continued integrated strategy of snail
control measures and treatment of infected patients, and improved quality
control.
Ln. No. 1292-EGT - Textile Project; US$52 million Loan of September 20,
1976; Effectiveness Date: February 16, 1977; Closing Date: March 31, 1983.
The project is proceeding with a delay of more than two years
caused by a later and slower than anticipated start of the civil works,
shortage of steel and cement, and a fire on the construction site of one of
the two beneficiary companies. The project is now estimated to cost about
US420 million equivalent (all in local currency) more than appraised, due
to the increased scope of civil works and increase in cost of construction
materials.  Early management problems have now been overcome and both
companies have developed effective project execution units. Disbursements
are slower than anticipated, reflecting initial delays in procurement. The
Bank has agreed to the Borrower's request for extension of the closing date
to March 31, 1983.
Ln. No. 1369-ECT - Alexandria Water Supply Project; US456 million Loan of
March 7, 1977; Effectiveness Date: July 6, 1977; Closing Date: March 31,
1984.
For the additional works agreed to by the Bank for this project,
five contracts for procurement of operation equipment, pipes, meters and
water barges remain to be let. Tenders for four of these contracts have
been received and are being evaluated.  The remaining contract is scheduled
to be advertised in May 1982.  Progress in construction of the treatment
plants remains satisfactory.  Laying of pipes under existing contracts in
this project is scheduled to be completed by end 1982. Work appears to be
on schedule.
Cr. No. 681-EGT - Education Project; US425 million Credit of March 7, 1977;
Effectiveness Date: August 19, 1977; Closing Date: December 31, 1981.
Procurement of equipment and technical assistance programs have
been satisfactorily completed. However, completion of three remaining
training centers lags behind schedule. The credit was closed on December
31, 1981, but IDA agreed to keep the credit account open to allow
disbursements against contracts signed before the closing date.



- 32 -
ANNEX I]
Page 6 of 12
Cr. No. 719-EGT, Ln. No. 1439-EGT and Ln. No. 1440-EGT - Nile Delta
Drainage II Project; US$27 million Credit, US$27 million Loan and US$12
million Third Window Loan of July 15, 1977; Effectiveness Date: April 17,
1978; Closing Date: December 31, 1983.
Construction and remodelling of open drains in about 480,000
feddans is on schedule. Tile drains have been installed covering some
47,000 feddans, about 12 percent of the project target.  This activity is
behind schedule mainly because of construction planning and management
constraints in the Drainage Authority and in public sector contracting
companies. The progress is expected to improve with the delivery of
plastic pipe laying machines being imported by the contractors. Moderate
progress has been made with the civil works of four new pumping stations.
The Bilharzia Control Program is on schedule, but it needs continued
integrated strategy of snail control measures and treatment of infected
patients, and improved quality control.
Ln. No. 1453-EGT - Regional Electrification Project; US$48 million Loan of
July 15, 1977; Effectiveness Date: February 6, 1978; Closing Date: December
31, 1981.
The project is virtually completed. Deliveries and services have
been completed against all contracts for equipment, materials and technical
assistance. The loan was closed as planned on December 31, 1981, but
disbursements are continuing on commitments made before the closing date.
Ln. No. 1456-EGT - Industrial Imports Project; US$70 million Loan of July
15, 1977; Effectiveness Date: November 7, 1977; Closing Date: June 30, 1982.
The loan has been fully committed and about 87 percent disbursed.
Based on discussions with Government, the Bank has agreed to reallocate
funds among the various categories to take account of projected
over-commitments in Category I and provide additional funds in Category IV
for financing engineering services for National and Rakta paper' companies.
The study of the Construction Industry in Egypt financed under Category IV
is now completed. The proposed program to improve preventive maintenance
practices in public enterprises is now under implementation.  The loan is
expected to close as scheduled.
Ln. No. 1482-EGT - Suez Canal Expansion Project; US$100 million Loan of
September 28, 1977; Effectiveness Date: February 8, 1978; Closing Date:
December 31, 1982.
Progress in the execution of the project is close to appraisal
estimates although in some areas, such as procurement of tugs, there has
been some delay because decisions on design were delayed. The financial
situation of the borrower is sound, total canal traffic continues at levels
close to appraisal forecasts and revenue is higher than appraisal estimates.



- 33 -
ANNEX II
Page 7 of 12
Ln. No. 1533-EGT - Development Industrial Bank III; USJ40 million Loan of
April 12, 1978; Effectiveness Date: July 18, 1978; Closing Date: December
31, 1982.
Progress is satisfactory. The loan is fully committed and $35.7
million has been disbursed.
Cr. No. 774-EGT - Second Telecommunications Project; US$53 million Credit
of March 21, 1978; Effectiveness Date: September 19, 1978; Closing Date:
December 31, 1982.
Project execution has been delayed due to slow procurement action,
and is about three years behind appraisal schedule. ARENTO has been urged
to expedite all remaining procurement. ARENTO's financial performance has
deteriorated since 1979 and the rate of return and contribution to
expansion are currently well below appraisal estimates. ARENTO's proposals
for revision of tariffs which would correct this situation have been
approved by the Government and are being reviewed by the Bank.
Cr. No. 830-EGT - Agricultural Development Project; US432 million Credit of
July 24, 1978; Effectiveness Date: February 20, 1979; Closing Date:
December 31, 1983.
Project tractors have been procured and distributed. Agreements
have been reached and steps taken which have resulted in improved project
implementation. Project organization and management have been strengthened
and the project has been simplified to reduce coordination problems. A
study of the agricultural bank's policies, organization, operations and
finance will be initiated shortly. Establishment and operation of
machinery workshops under the project are now under way and procurement of
farm implements is progressing.
Cr. No. 831-ECT - Urban Development Project; US$14 million Credit of August
30, 1978; Effectiveness Date: April 30, 1979; Closing Date: December 31,
1982.
Efforts to strengthen the Low Income Housing Development Unit are
continuing and performance is improving. Problems associated with the
Alexandria components are being resolved. Satisfactory progress is being
made in the execution of the physical aspects of the components of Cairo
and Assuit Governorates as well as in the selection of consultants for the
various studies financed by the proceeds of the Credit.



- 34 -
ANNEX II
Page 8 of 12
Cr. No. 850-ECT - Second Population Project; US$25 million Credit of
October 30, 1978; Effectiveness Date: May 1, 1979; Closing Date: December
31, 1983.
Civil works and procurement of furniture, equipment and vehicles
are proceeding satisfactorily. All sites have been selected and
construction has been completed on over 70% of the facilities.
Institutional arrangements have been completed to carry out software
activities, particularly the home visiting program, IEC and training.
Project management has improved considerably.
Cr. No. 868-ECT - Second Education Project; US$40.0 million Credit of
January 26, 1979; Effectiveness Date: July 18, 1979; Closing Date: March
31, 1984.
Overall project execution is satisfactory. Implementation of
technical assistance components is on schedule. Equipment procurement is
slightly behind schedule, but no major problems are envisaged.
Ln. No.S-14-EGT - New Valley Phosphate Engineering and Technical Assistance
Project; US$11 million Loan of May 25, 1979; Effectiveness Date: October
19, 1979; Closing Date: June 30, 1982.
The experimental mine started operations on January 4, 1981, a
delay of about 10 months. The chemical tests on the phosphate rock have
been completed and reviewed by the Bank. An optimization study on the
alternative configurations of the project, its scope and output volume as
well as locations of phosphate processing facilities was completed in
September 1981 and has been reviewed by the Bank. The conclusion reached
is that the initial target of 7 million tons per year of phosphate rock
production is not justified by projected market demand and should be
reduced drastically. The draft mine detailed project report is pending
Bank's review of the complete report. Decision on the closing date will be
taken after discussion with Egyptian authorities on the scope of the
proposed project.
Cr. No. 909-EGT - Tourism Project; US$32.5 million Credit of June 13, 1979;
Effectiveness Date: March 26, 1980; Closing Date: December 31, 1985.
Design work is under way on most project components. Contracts
have been signed for several studies and tendering procedures have
commenced on the others. Contracting and tendering are well advanced for
the following components: telecommunications, electricity, roads, Luxor
airport terminal buildings, and the hotel training school. Execution of
most components remains behind schedule, but recent steps to strengthen the
project unit have resulted in reductions in further slippages.



- 35 -
ANNEX II
Page 9 of 12
Ln. No. 1732-EGT - Gulf of Suez Gas Project; US$75 million Loan of June 29,
1979; Effectiveness Date: January 29, 1980; Closing Date: September 30,
1982.
The project is progressing satisfactorily.  The onshore contract
has been signed and the contractor has mobilized.  All contracts for the
Ras Bakr portion of the project have been awarded.  The financial and
energy pricing studies have been completed, and the findings and
recommendations of the financial study are being carried out.  The
exploration study is under way.
Ln. No. 1733-EGT - US102 million, Cr. No. 935-EGT - US$37 million and
Special Action Cr. No. 20-EGT - US$35 million - Shoubrah El Kheima Thermal
Power Project of September 6, 1979; Effectiveness Date: April 8, 1980;
Closing Date: June 30, 1986.
Bids for most major equipment packages have been received and
orders have been placed.  With concerted efforts by project management, it
might be possible to overcome the delay of about six months that has
already taken place in project execution and to complete the project on
time. EEA's rate of return is well below the agreed level. Measures to
improve EEA's financial situation are being discussed with the authorities.
Cr. No. 988-ECT - Agroindustries Project; US$45 million Credit of May 1,
1980; Effectiveness Date: December 3, 1980; Closing Date: December 31,
1985.
Construction of the Cairo abattoir has begun and the contract for
construction of the Alexandria abattoir is in the process of being
ratified. The credit component through the three participating banks is
proceeding well and is almost fully committed.
Ln. No. 1804-EGT - Fourth Development Industrial Bank Project; US450
million Loan of May 1, 1980; Effectiveness Date: August 8, 1980; Closing
Date: December 31, 1984.
Progress is satisfactory. The loan is almost completely
committed; US$26.6 million has been disbursed.
Ln. No. 1842-EGT - Misr Iran Development Bank Project; US430 million Loan
of June 4, 1980; Effectiveness Date: December 31, 1980; Closing Date: June
30, 1985.
After a change in ownership structure, MIDB has been reorganized
and has resumed its full operations.  Disbursements have been slow; however
MIDB has recently revised its operation forecast for 1982 and, as a result,
expects to commit a substantial portion of the loan by end-1982.
Ln. No. 1849-EGT - Pulp and Paper Project; US450 million Loan of June 4,
1980; Effectiveness Date: May 12, 1982; Closing Date: December 31, 1984.
Procurement is proceeding satisfactorily.  Engineering work for
the project is in an advanced stage of preparation.



- 36 -
ANNEX II
Page 10 of 12
Cr. No. 1024-ECT - Cairo Gas Distribution Project; US$50 million Credit of
June 4, 1980; Effectiveness Date: December 4, 1980; Closing Date: December
31, 1985.
Execution of the project is proceeding satisfactorily, although
behind schedule. One of the two power plants has been linked to the
system.  A tariff study has been completed, and Petrogas has prepared an
overall training program.
Cr. No. 1069-ECT - Third Education Project; SDR 30.3 million (US$40.1
million equivalent) Credit of November 7, 1980; Effectiveness Date: April
16, 1981; Closing Date: June 30, 1985.
Satisfactory progress is being made and no major problems are
envisaged.  Although disbursements are currently below appraisal estimates
due to initial start-up delays, significant improvements are expected with
disbursements taking place against recently concluded contracts.
Ln. No. 1886-ECT - Third Power Project; US$7 million, Cr. No. 1052-EGT,
US'l20 million  of November 7, 1980; Effectiveness date: July 7, 1981;
Closing Date: June 30, 1987.
Progress in the physical components of the project is
satisfactory.  Phase I of the tariff study has been completed; Phase II is
delayed but is expected to be completed by May 31, 1982. EEA's rate of
return is well below the agreed level. Measures to improve EEA's financial
situation are being discussed with the authorities.
Ln. No. 1928-ECT - Western Desert Petroleum Exploration Project; US425
million Loan of January 13, 1981; Effectiveness Date: May 13, 1981; Closing
Date. December 31, 1983.
Four exploration and appraisal wells have been drilled, and gas
has been found in what appears to be commercial quantities. On completion
of the fifth well, the Bank, EGPC and its consultants will review the
results obtained so far and decide on the future course of drilling.
Cr. No. 1083-EGT - New Land Development Project; SDR 60.9 million (US$80
million) of December 16, 1980; Effectiveness Date: October 2, 1981; Closing
Date; December 31, 19&7.
Contract for construction of development works on Phase 1 (7,500
feddans) was awarded to a local contractor on January 12, 1982.  Works are
expected to start soon. A contract was signed with a consultant for
preparing design and tender documents for Phase II (17,000 feddans).
Design work is under way and expected to be completed by October 1982.
Field trials continue on schedule.



37
ANNEX II
Page 11 of 12
Cr. No. lll1-EGT - Fish Farming Development Project; SDR 11 million (US$14
million) of April 24, 1981; Effectiveness Date:  January 25, 1982;  Closing
Date: December 31, 1986.
In early 1982, IDA approved a request by the Under Secretariat for
Aquatic Resources to change the pond layout of the Maryut Fish Farm (from
214 ponds of 11.4 feddans to 444 ponds of 5.5 feddans). This change is
expected, inter alia, to double the number of project beneficiaries. Since
Credit effectiveness, the project authorities have been concentrating on
(i) engaging qualified consultants; (ii) completing detailed designs,
specifications and tender documents; and (iii) construction supervision.
Ln. No. 2002-EGT - Hadisolb Rehabilitation Project; US$64 million Loan of
July 28, 1981; Effectiveness Date: December 28, 1981; Closing Date:
September 30, 1986.
The technical assistance contract has been signed, and procurement
action is under way. The other components of the first stage
rehabilitation program, namely the KfW-financed rehabilitation of the old
Demag rolling mills and the USSR-supplied equipment packages, are
proceeding well.
Cr. 1156-EGT - Beheira Provincial Potable Water Supply Project; SDR 46.1
million (US$56.6 million) of November 25, 1981; Effectiveness Date: April
30, 1982;_Closing Date: December 31, 1986.
Engineering work is now about 85% completed and five contracts
have been advertised for tendering. The National Organization for Potable
Water and Sanitary Drainage (NOPWASD), responsible for project execution,
was formed in April 1981 by amalgamating two previous national
organizations in the sector. The Beheira Water Company, responsible for
the operation of the water supply system in Beheira Governorate, was
inaugurated in July 1981 as part of the project requirements. It has now
taken over operations of a large part of the water systems in the
Governorate. Most of the senior management positions have now been filled,
and normal operations are being conducted satisfactorily.
Cr. No. 1162-EGT - Technical Assistance Project; SDR 5.7 million (US$6.9
million) of August 26,- 1981; Effectiveness Date: January 15, 1982; Closing
Date; December 31, 1987.
Progress is satisfactory. The consultancy contracts for the
Ministries of Industry and Land Reclamation are expected to be awarded in
July and August 1982, respectively.



- 38 -
ANNEX II
Page 12 of 12
Ln. No. 2074-EGT - Development Industrial Bank V Project; US$120 million
Loan-of January 12, 1982; Effectiveness Date: (not yet effective); Closing
Date: December 31,-1986.
Action on effectiveness is under way.
Ln. No. 2103 - Abu Qir Gas Development Project; US90 million Loan of May
3, 1982; Effectiveness Date: (Not yet effective); Closing Date: December
31, 1985.
Action on effectiveness is under way.



- 39 -
ARAB REPUBL]C OF EGYPT                        ANNEX  II
EL DIKHEILA PORT PROJECT                     Page 1 of 2
SUPPLEMENTARY PROJECT DATA SHEET
Section I - Timetable of Key Events
(a) Time taken by agency to prepare             13 months (April 1980 to May 1981)
project:
(b) Agency which prepared the project:    Organization for Industrial & Mining
Complexes ( ]MC)
(c) Date of Government request to the
Bank:                                      September 1980
(d) First Bank mission to consider the
project:                                   April 1980
(e) Date of departure of appraisal
mission:                                   May 1981
(f) Date of updating mission:                   November 1981
(g) Date of completion of negotiations:   April 1982
(h) Planned date of effectiveness:              December 1982
Section 1] - Special Bank Implementation Actions
None.
Section III - Special Conditions
1. A special condition of effectiveness is the execution of the Subsidiary
Loan Agreement between the Government, the Alexandria Port Authority (APA)
and ]MC (para. 45).
2. Other special conditions are:
(i) APA will prepare a Master Plan of the modernization of the greater
Port of Alexandria area under terms of reference and with the
assistance of consultants satisfactory to the Bank (para. 43).
(ii) The Government will take the necesary steps to obtain approval of
the proposed tariff revision by July 1, 1983, and to establish a
tariff structure for El Dikheila Port by January 1, 1986 (para. 53).



- 40 -
ANNEX I1I
Page 2 of 2
(iii) The Government will submit proposals in collaboration with APA for
establishing a satisfactory procedure for settling past receivables
and payables and for ensuring that future accounts are kept current
(para. 53).
(iv) APA shall take the necessary measures to generate sufficient
revenues to: cover its operation costs; pay its debts; maintain
adequate working capital and other provisions (reserves to meet
contingencies); and finance a reasonable portion of its capital
expenditures, including the replacement of assets (para. 54).
(v) APA will maintain an annual rate of return of at least 9% through
FY85, 8% in FY86, 4% in FY87, 5% in FY88, 7% in FY89 and 10% in FY90
and thereafter on net fixed assets properly valued annually
(para. 54).
(vi) APA will obtain the Bank's prior agreement before incurring any
substantial debt which would reduce its debt service coverage below
1.5 times (para. 54).
(vii) Conditions for procurement and disbursement for the mineral jetty
and stockyard equipment would be that a review of the progress of
the execution of the steel mill shall justify proceeding with such
equipment (para. 51).



;:~~~~~~~~~ p   .40                        m        i,   v                E    A   ;;      :f      X  = :!         
:,  \           V        A       g     g      >       t!SetZco;,,She,
-x~~~~D,-
ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYC00,W
DIKHEILA PORT PROJECT
TRANSPORTATION  SYSTEM
INCLUDING                   .                   &.1blo                         :-             X                                        ,
MAIN PORTS,'.                                    2.     9:o-'                                 .                                 .?/.'
JD  Project port'
,   Other ports
Moat roods                BvvO-,v-0                                                     ;=J%  
------foi-Iwbd.-
rZZ' O Ct,eo or town o tO  > 
==>---Wodis ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~    ~    ~    ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~b Z-- \\L  
-R-v---Caas                           l oym,             _.-- .      ,.-     ,'-  :                      u
----nternot,ortal bocodarioc& e sT.f- -} b ei
_ ~~~~ ,   JJ   g          .  ,,           , }       $    f ~~~~~~~ G fyu; 2
o ~ ~ ~   ~    ~    ~ ~ ~          v/ / 00   403 00   80   *100                                                0
0    20  0         0    20   100            {W m:              '                    ~                                          S           _,
OIA~ ~ ~~~~AY
MILOEERS                        I  N                                                                                     :=    =
I ARAB REPUBLIC 0   G    p""
41~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~"
>'->S::<',"r')\ r Al1- 1.   - - . - --        - 1 -   -2f-291
0-I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0
)~a0 (   g    } \                                                                                           .                              oE ee
i S0                                                                                                   U            D     L arA N -o o/nae  sn.M.UpAO!.p  h > If VdoS1d 5D, :fv-3ord



I



9                                                                                                                                                                                                3X.<    ;   f   0   iu   S   f   2   5  i  '  l  5  0  0   ;  |   j   !,-   Al ' :: 39 Q ; 3y ; | Wf S 99 ; 04~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~BRD     590
f ;; H f f f; S t:t E E f *' v -sA ; l; f D b i' X \; f ; y --f .-; * I <~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
f  2   f  z   |  f   :   i  \ iS:   ,!_''   i   \   .   ;:   ;  ;      ,  ,' '   .         ;        '     i      0     B:   '.,         2           1         :                                                 .                                  <                                     f~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~A ~
{ S \ _ r;;- , '  f - f s Sii 1'rvfl n ; .0 \ 2 ;\ i >, \ ;xe' . 2 ; < g/ c
A                                                                                                                                                                                                                      C.  A   f  j   \  '   tf   9   ; '   ,;, -: ~~~~~~~" \ A 2 - S / ' r /: / 0 i \ \ t : , ' / \ ff f ,.l it ,7 ::; g; j :; i, is ' t , / g r;O . i f~~~~~~~~- - -   t aA
,~~~~~            ~~~                AA, ..;    IE'LSL\iS;;X,E'MS                                               ;;/ S;10                                                          ;          d d1'   E                              0              4             -,
i~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~P                                                                                                                                                   GR, .N                / IYRDA
'S- ,! U-bn nd B- r p Aeux / s A p<~~~~~~~~~~
500  I00    '50      2U0                                                                  _: }   ,_\cHIAHDEIJA
. W  o .                                                e                                                                                                           4.t    2s                                                      <                 S                         i '          X~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.



l~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~



IBRD 15905
ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT/ 
DIKHEILA PORT PROJECT
PROPOSED:
Roads/
Rood Improvement                                                        -                                           Admiistaion
Railway                                                  ,a,Bidn
L   Hi ied  Area                                                                                        /N
Customs Fence/
U  Galtes                       ~                          oice Borrocks/                                            '
Green Areas                                           oie Canteen                                          
.s2 Dredging (depth in meters)                               G .&/N                                                                      v-
Stockyard:                                Q/utm    olig'
4  Stocker!/ Reclaimer                         AgnsAe                              ',;'2i'9 
*   Conveyors                     /A Qr 
-   Road                                                                            FTIMBER
Railway
DMIN  A                                                                                             N      N 
7             AaMY'SBU  ATIOIN      -.->-----COMMERCIAL
/                                                       7'                                /                     NV              -, ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~PORT
C..Stokyrd-r 
0, ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~02
TUAN ~ ~   ~    ~     ~    ~    in',,N BNNG                    e
-30'~~~~~~~~4
Thirs r-p Oar Sea prnparri by ron                                                                     D.SUI
World Sakssafaooisyfr'S                                                                                          4LBYA                                                                                                                 '-ABIA
tar -ono to  -d-l t rarahd ,hV                                                                                                                                    MEYERS                                         I REPUBLIC 
Tood--nirain radad    _r                                                                                                                        a       oaa      400       600      890      100OO    EGYPT
donrioy,ooropnfod
World Sank and, -naflae,ay
th, 1~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~g~~I,CA 



