LOAN NUMBER 2183 EGT
Loan Agreement
(E1-Dikheila Port Project)
between
ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated Mav 4, 1983


﻿LOAN NUMBER 2183 EGT
LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated May 4, 1983, between ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
(hereinafter called the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (hereinafter called the Bank).
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower has requested the Bank to assist in
the financing of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement by making the Loan as hereinafter prcvided;
(B) the Project will be carried out by (1) Industrial and
Mining   Complexes  Organization  (hereinafter   called  IMC),   a
juridical entity established under Presidential Decree No. 779 of
1969 as amended by Decree No. 8 of 1979 of the Borrower, and
operating under the Borrower's Ministry of Industry and Mineral
Resources, and (2) the Alexandria Port Authority (hereinafter
called APA), a general organization established and operating
under the Borrower's Law No. 6 of 1967;
(C) all facilities under the Project will be turned over,
upon  their   establishment,  to   APA  for   its  ownership   and
management;
(D) the Borrower, as part of its assistance in the imple-
mentation of the Project, will make available to APA the proceeds
of the Loan as hereinafter provided; and
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis inter alia of the
foregoing, to make the Loan available to the Borrower upon the
terms and conditions set forth hereinafter and in the Project
Agreement of even date herewith between the Bank, IMC and APA;
NOW THEREFORE th- parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the
,rovisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Loan and
Guarantee Agreements of the Bank, dated October 27, 1980, with
the same force and effect as if they were fully set forth herein
(said General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee


﻿- 2 -
Agreements of the Bank being hereinafter called the General
Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the Gen-
eral Conditions and in th, Preamble to this Agreement have the
respective meanings therein set forth and the following addi-
tional terms have the following meanings:
(a)   "Project Agreement" means the agreement between the
Bank, APA and IMC of even date herewith, as the same may be
amended from time to time, and such term includes all schedules
to the Project Agreement and all agreements supplemental to the
Project Agreement;
(b)    "Subsidiary Agreement" means the agreement     to be
entered into between the Borrower, APA and IMC rurev-nt to
Section 3.01 (b) of this Agreement, as the same may be      ended
from time to time, and such term includes all schedules o the
Subsidiary Agreement;
(c) "Egyptian Pounds" means the currency of the Borrower;
(d)   "Project area" means the area (onshore and offshore)
required for the construction of the port facilities under Part A
of the Project and for the future expansion and! inte&:ation of
such facilities with the Port of Alexandria;
(e)  "Steel project" means the steel project to be carried
out by the Borrower at El Dikheila; and
(f) "Previous Loan Agreement" means the Loan Agreement
between the Bank and APA, dated April 19, 1976, for the
Alexandria Port Project.
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on
the terms and conditions in the Loan Agreement set forth or
referred to, an amount in various currencies equivalent to one
hundred thirty-twc million dollars ($132,000,000).


﻿-3-
Section 2.02. The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from
the Loan Account in acccrdance with the provisions of Schedule 1
to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be Lmended from time to
time by agreement between the Borrower and the Bank, for expendi-
tures made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for
the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.
Section 2.03. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, pro-
curement of the goods required for the Project and to be financed
out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by the pro-
visions of the Schedule to the Project Agreement.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1986 or
such later date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall
promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.05. Not later than the Effective Date, the Bor-
rower shall pay to the Bank a fee equivalent to one million nine
hundred   fifty  thousand   seven  hundred   thirty-nine   dollars
($1,950,739). The fee shall be payable in such currency or
currencies as the Bank shall specify. In the event that the Bank
shall not have received full payment of the fee by the Effective
Date, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from
the Loan Account and pay to itself the amount required for the
full payment of the fee in the currency or currencies specified
for the purpose.
Section 2.06. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commit-
ment charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of
1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn
from time to time.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall pay interest at the rate of
eleven and three-fifths per cent (11-3/5%) per annum on the
principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time
to time.
Section 2.08. Interest and other charges shall be payable
semiannually on March 15 and September 15 in each year.
Section 2.09. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Loan in accordance with the amor ization schedule set
forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.


﻿ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) Without any limitation or restriction upon
any of its other obligations under the Loan Agreement, the
Borrower shall cause APA and IMC to perform in accordance with
the provisions of the Project Agreement all of their respective
obligations therein set forth, shall take or cause to be taken
all  action,   including  the  provision   of  funds   facilities,
services and other resources, necessary or appropriate to enable
APA and IMC to perform such obligations, and shall not take or
permit to be taken any action which would prevent or interfere
with such performance.
(b)   The Borrower shall enter into a Subsidiary Agreement
with APA and IMC, under terms and conditions satisfactory to the
Bank, and which will provide, inter alia, for:
(i) the obligation of the Borrower to make the pro-
ceeds of the Loan available to APA in the form of
a loan repayable by APA over such maturity period
and with interest and other charges at such rates
as shall be applicable to the Loan; and
(ii) the procedures under which IMC will: (A) carry out
Parts A and B of the Project on behalf and for the
account of APA, (B) withdraw the proceeds of the
Loan allocated for said Parts of the Project, (C)
maintain separate accounts for said Parts of the
Project, and (D) transfer to APA the facilities to
be established under said Parts of the Project.
(c)  The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the Sub-
sidiary Agreement in such manner as to protect the interests of
the Borrower and the Bank and to accomplish the purposes of the
Loan, and except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower
shall not assign, amend, abrogate or waive the Subsidiary
Agreement or any provision thereof.
Section 3.02. The Borrower shall: (a) take all such action
as shall be necessary to acquire as and when needed all such land
and rights in respect of land as shall be required for carrying
out the Project and operating the facilities to be established
under the Project, and shall furnish to the Bank, promptly after


﻿- 5 -
such acquisition, evidence satisfactory to the Bank that such
land and rights in respect of land are available for purposes
related to the Project, and (b) ensure that no action will be
taken in respect of the Project area which may jeopardize or
compromise the implementation of the recommendations of the study
to be undertaken under Part C of the Project.
ARTICLE IV
Other Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) It is the policy of the Bank, in making
loans _o, or with the guarantee of, its members not to seek, in
normal circumstances, special security from the member concerned
but to ensure that no other external debt shall have priority
over its loans in the allocation, realization or distribution of
foreign exchange held under the control or for the benefit of
such member. To that end, if any lien shall be created on any
public assets (as hereinafter defined), as security for any
external debt, which will or might result in a priority for the
benefit of the creditor of such external debt in the allocation,
realization or distribution of foreign exchange, such lien shall,
unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, ipso facto and at no cost
to the Bank, equally and ratably secure the principal of, and
interest and other charges on, the Loan, and the Borrower, in
creating or permitting the creation of such lien, shall make
express provision to that effect; provided, however, that, if for
any constitutional or other legal reason such provision cannot be
made with respect to any lien created on assets of any of its
political or administrative subdivisions, the Borrower shall
promptly and at no cost to the Bank secure the principal of, and
interest and other charges on, the Loan by an equivalent lien on
other public assets satisfactory to the Bank.
(b)  The foregoing undertaking shall not apply to: (i) any
lien created on property, at the time of purchase thereof, solely
as security for payment of the purchase price of such property;
and (ii) any lien arising in the ordinary course of banking
transactions and securing a debt maturing not more than one year
after its date.
(c) As used in this Section, the term "public assets" means
assets of the Borrower, of any political or administrative sub-
division thereof and of any entity owned or controlled by, or
operating for the account or benefl;t of, the Borrower or any such


﻿-6-
subdivision, including gold and foreign exchange assets helA by
any institution performing the functions of a central bank or
exchange stabilization fund, or similar functions, for the
Borrower.
Section 4.02. The Borrower shall: (a) provide the Bank, not
later than June 30, 1983, with a program for the settlement of
APA's account receivables for services rendered by APA to all of
the Borrower's agencies (including companies in the public sector
of the Borrower) and of APA's account payables for services
rendered by such agencies to APA; (b) ensure the implementation
of such program in accordance with a time schedule satisfactory
to the Bank; and (c) ensure the settlement of future APA's
account receivables within three months of the billing date.
Section 4.03. Except as the Borrowcr and the Bank may
otherwise agree, the Borrower shall: (a) take, not later than
July 1, 1983, all action required to put into effect a tariff
system for APA enabling it to charge fees for its services on the
basis of the gross registered tonnage of ships; and (b) enact and
put into effect, not later than January 1, 1986, a tariff system
for the port facilities under the Project, designed to assist APA
in achieving the financial objectives stated in Sections 4.04,
4.05 and 4.06 of the Project Agreement.
Section 4.04. The Borrower shall take all action required
for the transfer to APA of all facilities under the Project,
promptly after the establishment and equipping thereof.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Bank
Section 5.01. For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the Gen-
eral Conditions, the following additional events are specified
pursuant to paragraph (k) thereof:
(a) APA or IMC shall have failed to perform any of its
obligations under the Project Agreement or the Subsidiary
Agreement.
(b)  As a result of events which have occurred after the
date of the Loan Agreement, an extraordinary situation shall have
arisen which shall make it improbable that APA or IMC will be
able to perform its obligations under the Prc :t Agreement.


﻿-7-
(c)   Law No. 6 of 1967 of the Borrower shall have been
amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed or waived so as to affect
materially and adversely the ability of APA to perform any of its
obligations under the Project Agreement.
(d)   Presidential Decree No. 779 of 1969 of the Borrower
shall have been amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed or waived
so as to affect materially and adversely the ability of IMC to
perform any of its obligations under the Project Agreement.
(e) The Borrower or any other authority having jurisdiction
shall have taken any action for the diGsolution or disestablish-
ment of APA or IMC or for the suspension of its operations.
Section 5.02. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the Gen-
eral Conditions, the following additional events are specified
pursuant to paragraph (b) thereof:
(a) The event specified in paragraph (a) of Section 5.01 of
this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a period of
sixty days after notice thereof shall have been given by the Bank
to the Borrower, APA and IMC.
(b) Any event specified in paragraphs (c), (d) and (e) of
Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall occur.
ARTICLE V7I
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following event is specified as an
additional condition to the effectiveness of the Loan Agreement
within   the  meaning  of  Section   12.01  (c)  of  the   General
Conditions, namely, that the Subsidiary Agreement has been
executed on behalf of the Borrower, APA and IMC.
Section 6.02. The following are specified as additional
matters, within the meaning of Section 12.02 (c) of the General
Conditions, to be included in the opinion or opinions to be
furnished to the Bank:
(a)  that the Project Agreement has been duly authorized or
ratified by APA and IMC, and is legally binding upon APA and IMC
in accordance with its terms; and


﻿-8-
(b)  that the Subsidiary Agreement has been duly authorized
or ratified by the Borrower, APA and IMC and is legally binding
upon the Borrower, APA and IMC in accordance with its terms.
Section 6.03. The date September 4, 1983, is hereby speci-
fied for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Condi-
tions.
ARTICLE VII
Representatives of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Minister of Investment and International
Cooperation or the Undersecretary for International Finance of
the Borrower is designated as representative of the Borrower for
the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions.
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Investment and International Cooperation
(International Finance Department)
8 Adly Street
Cairo, Egypt
Cable address:                     Telex:
Ministry of Investment and       GAFEC UN 348
International Cooperation
Cairo
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                     Telex:
INTBAFRAD                          440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                    248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)


﻿IN WIT'VIESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this
Agreement '-o be signed in their respective names in the District
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year
first above written.
ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
By /s/ Nabil Sadek
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By Is/ Roger Chaufournier
Regional Vice President
Europe, Middle East and North Africa


﻿- 10 -
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items financed
out of the proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of amounts of the
Loan to each Category and the percentage of expenditures for
items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Loan Allocated            % of
(Expressed in          Expenditures
Category             Dollar Equivalent)      to be Financed
(1) Equipment under          42,000,000    )      100% of foreign
Part B (1) and                        )      expenditures,
(2) of the                            )      100% of local
Project                                      expenditures
)      ex-factory and
)      60% of local
)      expenditures
)      for imported
)      items procured
)      locally
(2) Equipment under          38,000,000    )
Part B (3) and                        )
(4) of the                            )
Project                               )
(3) Equipment under          16,000,000    )
Part B (5) of                         )
the Project                           )
(4) Consultants'                900,000           100% of foreign
services under                               expenditures
Part C of
the Project
(5) Fee under Section         1,950,739           Amount due
2.05 of this
Agreement


﻿- 11 -
Amount of the
Loan Allocated            % of
(Expressed in          Expenditures
Category             Dollar-Equivalent)      to be Financed
(6) Unallocated              33,149,261
TOTAL    132,000,000
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule, the term "foreign expend-
itures" means expenditures in the currency of any country other
than the Borrower and for goods or services supplied from the
territory of any country other than the Borrower, and the term
"local expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of the
Borrower and for goods or services supplied from the territory of
the Borrower.
3.     Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of:
(a)   payments made for expenditures prior to the date of
this Agreement; and
(b)  payments for taxes levied by, or in the territory of,
the Borrower on goods or services, or on the importation, manu-
facture, procurement or supply thereof.
4.   Disbursement under Category (2) of the table shown in para-
graph 1 of this Schedule shall be made only after the require-
ments set forth in Part A.2 of the Schedule to the Project Agree-
ment shall have been fulfilled.
5.   Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Loan or
the disbursement percentage set forth in the table in paragraph 1
above, if the Bark has reasonably estimated that the amount of
the Loan then allocated to any Category will be insufficient to
finance the agreed percentage of all expenditures in that
Category, the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower: (i) reallocate
to such Category, to the extent required to meet the estimated
shortfall, proceeds of the Loan which are then allocated to
another Category and which in the opinion of the Bank are not
needed to meet other expenditures; and (ii) if such reallocation


﻿- 12 -
cannot fully meet the estimated shortfall, reduce the disburse-
ment percentage then applicable to such expenditures in order
that further withdrawals under such Category may continue until
all expenditures thereunder shall have been made.
6.     If the Bank shall have reasonably determined that the
procurement of any item in any Category is inconsistent with the
procedures set forth or referred to in this Agreement, no
expenditures for such item shall be financed out of the proceeds
of the Loan and the Bank may, without in any way restricting or
limiting any other right, power or remedy of the Bank under the
Loan Agreement, by notice to the Borrower, cancel such amount of
the Loan as, in the Bank's reasonable opinion, represents the
amount of such expenditures which would otherwise have been
eligible for financing out of the proceeds of the Loan.


﻿- 13 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project consists of:
Part A:   The construction in the Project area at El-Dikheila of
port and associated facilities consisting of:
1.   A main breakwater about 2.25 km long, constructed of
natural rock rubble with concrete block armour.
2.   A mineral jetty about 660 m long, constructed of con-
crete caissons with concrete block armoured protection
on the lee side.
3.   A dredged entrance channel about 4 km in length, 20 m
in depth and 250 m in width, together with associated
reclamation work.
4.   Two concrete blockwork commercial quays, one about
600 m long for container traffic and the other about
820 m long for timber and general cargo.
5.   A  stockyard   for  ore   and  scrap   steel,  with   an
appropriate space for other prospective commodities.
6.   Roads, rail access, utilities, sheds, buildings and
other miscellaneous items.
Part B:   (i) The provision of equipment (including equipment for
control systems) and spare parts for the operation of the
facilities included in Part A above, including:
1.   Cargo handling equipment for the      container berths,
including container quay cranes and equipment for the
operation of the port terminal, freight station and
rail transfer.
2.   Cargo handling equipment at the timber and general
cargo berths, including quay and mobile cranes and
forklift trucks.


﻿- 14 -
3.   Cargo handling equipment at the mineral jetty, includ-
ing rail-mounted crane gantry unloaders, together with
the associated conveyor equipment.
4.   Stacking and reclaiming equipment at the stockyard,
including the associated conveyors and equipment serv-
ing the Steel project and workshops.
5.   Floating plant, including tugs, launches and work-
boats.
6.   Miscellaneous equipment, including     firefighting  and
workshop equipment, navigation lights and beacons.
(ii)   Training of staff responsible for the operation of
equipment listed under (i) above.
Part C:   A study of the continued modernization of the Port of
Alexandria and of its integration with the port facilities to be
established under the Project.
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 1986.


﻿- 15 -
SCREDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
Payment of Principal
Date of Payment Due                       (Expressed in dollars)*
On each March 15 and September 15
beginning March 15, 1986
through   March 15, 2002                   3,880,000
On   September 15, 2002                         3,960,000
*    The figures in this column represent dollar equivalents
determined as of the respective dates of withdrawal; see
General Conditions, Section 3.04.


﻿- 16 -
Premiums on! Prepayment
The following percentages are specified as the premiums
payable on repayment in advance of maturity of any portion of the
principal amount of the Loan pursuant to Section 3.04 (b) of the
General Conditions:
Time of Prepayment                                Premium
Not more than three years
before maturity                                         1.75%
More than three years but not
more than six years before
maturity                                              3.50%
More than six years but not
more than eleven years
before maturity                                       6.40%
More than eleven years but not
more than sixteen years
before maturity                                       9.30%
More than sixteen years but not
more than eighteen years
before maturity                                      10.45%
More than eighteen years
before maturity                                      11.60%


