F LE COPY 1Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-2180-TUN
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON AN
INDUSTRIAL FINANCE PROJECT
CONSISTING OF A
PROPOSED SEVENTH LOAN
TO
BANQUE DE DEVELOPPEMENT ECONOMIQUE DE TUNISIE
WITH THE GUARANTEE
OF THE
REPUBLIC OF TUNISIA
AND A PROPOSED LOAN
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF TUNISIA
December 6, 1977
This document has a restrited distributton and way be wed by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorizaton.



Currency Unit                                             Tunisian Dinar (D)
The exchange rate of the Tunisian Dinar is floating. The rate
used in. the appraisal report, which approximates the current rate is:
US$ 1            =      D 0.43
D   1                   $ 2.32
D   1,000        =       $ 2,320
D   1,000,000    =      $ 2,320,000
Fiscal Year                                   January 1 to December 31
Abbreviations
API          Agence de Promotion des Investissements
BDET         Banque de Developpement Economique de Tunisie
FOPRODI      Fonds de Promotion et de Dcentralisation Industrielle



FOR OFFRCIAL USE ONLY
TUNISIA
Loan and Project Summary
A.   Loan to BDET
Borrower:        Banque de Developpement Economique de Tunisie (BDET)o
Guarantor:       Republic of Tunisia
Amount:          US$30 million, in various currencies, including $2
million for expansion of small-scale enterprises.
Terms:           The Loan would be repayable in 13 years, including a
4-year grace period, on a level principal payments
basis; interest at 7.9 percent per year; commitment
charge of 3/4 of one percent .on the principal amount
of the loan not withdrawn.
Relending Terms a) Interest rate of 9.0 percent per annum on sub-
of loans to         loans to medium and large scale industrial borrowers;
BDET borrowers:     amortization depends on individual sub-projects, and
may extend for industrial projects over a period of
up to fifteen years if justified in the individual
case by the forecast financial position of the
borrower and the expected lifetime of the assets.
Foreign exchange risk would be borne by Government.
b) Interest rate of 8.0-8.25 percent per annum on
sub-loans to small-scale industrial borrowers.
Amortization depends on individual sub-projects
and may vary between 7 and 11 years, with grace
periods between 2 and 3 years. FQreign exchange
risk would be borne by Government.
Project          To meet part of BDET's requirements for the financing
Description:    of import components of specific industrial enterprises
(US28 million), and to finance expansion of existing
small-scale enterprises through BDET (US$2 million)0
Final date for
subproject      December 31, 1979
submission:
Free limit:      About $705,000 equivalent for individual sub-loans.
(DFC Component)
This documnt hs a rutricted distribution and nmy be wd by rciplanta only in tho perfornince
of their official duties. Its contents may not othenrie be disclosed withut Word Bank autbonXazon.



Bank loan
disbursements:
Fiscal year:               1978    1979     1980    1981    1982
Annual US$ million:        1.0      6.0      8.4     9.8     4.8
Cumulative:                1.0     7.0      15.4    25.2    30.0
B.   Loan to the Republic of Tunisia
Borrower:         Republic of Tunisia
Amount:           US$5 million in various currencies
Terms:            Repayable in 13 years, including 4 years of grace,
on a level principal payment basis; interest at
7.9 percent per year; commitment charge of 3/4 of
one percent on the principal amount of the loan
not withdrawn.
Relending Terms   Interest rate of 8.0-8.25 percent per annum; amortization
of loans to     depends on individual subprojects, and may vary between
SSE borrowers:   7 and 11 years, with grace periods between 2 and 3
years.
Project           To provide financial and technical assistance to 50 to 60
description:    newly created small scale enterprises (SSE) in Tunisia.
Final date for
sub-project     December 31, 1979
submission:
Bank loan
disbursements:
Fiscal year:               1978    1979    1980     1981    1982
Annual US$ million:         0.1     1.1     1.55    1.6     0.65
Cumulative:                 0.1     1.2     2.75    4.35    5.0
Appraisal
Report:          Report No. 1734a-TUN dated November 29, 1977.
EMENA CPII-B
December 6, 1977



INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON AN INDUSTRIAL FINANCE PROJECT
CONSISTING OF A PROPOSED SEVENTH LOAN
TO THE BANQUE DE DEVELOPPEMENT ECONOMIQUE DE TUNISIE
WITH THE GUARANTEE OF THE REPUBLIC OF TUNISIA AND
A PROPOSED LOAN TO THE REPUBLIC OF TUNISIA
1o        I submit the following report and recommendation on an industrial
Finance Project in Tunisia consisting of: (i) a proposed seventh loan to
Banque de Developpement Economique de Tunisie (BDET) to be guaranteed by the
Republic of Tunisia, for the equivalent of US$30.0 million co he^p finance
lending for industry, including US$2.0 million to finance the expansion of
small scale enterprises (SSEs); and (ii) a proposed loan to the Republic of
Tunisia for the equivalent of US$5.0 million to finance the development of new
small scale enterprises in industry. The interest rate for both loans wfould
be 7.9 percent per annum. The proposed seventh BDET loan and the proposed
loan to the Government would be repaid over a period of 13 years. including
four years of grace, on a level principal payments basis.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.        A special economic mission visited Tunisia in December 1976 to
review the draft Tunisian Fifth Plan, 1977-1981. A special economic report
entitled "Economic Position and Prospects of Tunisia, Review of the Fifth
Development Plan, 1977-81" (No. 1539-TUN) was issued on May 2, 1977. Country
data sheets are attached in Annex 1.
3.        Tunisia is rather poorly endowed with natural resources, but it is
close to European markets and has large untapped labor reserves and tourism
potential. Much of the country is arid or semi-arid and there is an acute
shortage of surface water. Most of the agricultural activity is concentrated
along the coast and in a few oases. The main crop is wheat, which is subject
to sharp year-to-year fluctuations because of irregular rainfall. The main
export crop is olives, but good olive harvests are also subject to a natural
output cycle. Tunisia's most important raw materials are phosphates, petro-
leum and natural gas. However, except for phosphates, proven deposits are
relatively small. Tunisian phosphate rock is of low quality and e;:ploitation
costs are comparatively high. The production and export of petzoleum have
become increasingly important.   Recently, deposits of natura' gas were dis-
covered off-shore in the Gulf of Gabes, which might become important for the
-future development of the country. Industrial development, albeit auite
impressive, has been hampered by a shortage of industrial entrepreneurs and
skilled labor. The service sector, a quarter of which consists of government
administration, remains the most important one, generating about half of GDP
in 1976. Tourism has developed rapidly and workers' remittances have become
a significant item in the balance of payments.   Tunisia has enjoyed a l,.arge



amount of external aid and used it to expand economic and social infrastruc-
ture, broaden the industrial base, make available a wide range of social and
welfare services to a large part of the population, and increase the rate of
growth.
4.        Tunisia's overall economic performance during 1970-76 has been excel-
lent0 Real GDP grew at an average annual rate of 9 percent, about twice as
fast as during the 1960's. GNP per capita reached $840 in 1976, which in real
terms is 60 percent above its level in 1969. The shift in policy orientation
from the centrally controlled inward-looking investment strategy of the 1960's
to a freer export-oriented economy and the drive towards industrial develop-
ment proved highly beneficial for the country. Two other factors also contri-
buted to this performance: favorable weather conditions resulted in good
agricultural crops and the change in world commodity prices during 1973/74
brought oizable windfalls. National savings during 1970-76 were high and
on average amounted to about 22 percent of GNP. Savings, however, originated
mainly in the private sector and Government, and they were temporarily boosted
by favorable changes in petroleum and phosphate prices since 1973. Public
enterprises, as a group, did not make a contribution to national savings that
was commensurate with their importance in the economy, primarily because their
sale prices were not raised sufficiently to reflect cost increases, and also
because some enterprises were inefficiently managed. National savings financed
about 85 percent of investment during the period. Tunisia's dependence on
external £inancing declined sharply from about 32 percent of investment in
1969 to 21 percent in 1976. The balance of payments had been in continuous
overall surplus since 1967, but in 1975 and 1976 this was no longer the case
as the terms of trade deteriorated while imports continued to increase.
5e        Tunisia has made impressive social gains.    By 1976, primary school
enrollment had reached 90 percents, and secondary enrollment 20 percent of the
relevant age-groups. Public health services have been expanded with many pro-
vided free. A family planning program has been introduced and has met with
considerable success. Attempts have been made to tackle regional imbalances
and to improve income distribution. Total social expenditures during 1970-76
increased by about 10 percent per annum and on average accounted for 9 percent
of GDP and for 30 percent of total public expenditures. Nonetheless, major
social issues remain.
6.        The most important problem facing the Tunisian economy is widespread
open and hidden unemployment. Employment creation was one of the main objec-
tives of the Fourth Plan. Chiefly because of the Government's generous incen-
tives to - and the consequent growth in - labor intensive private investment,
the planned creation of new jobs was exceeded by 37 percent0 However, some
form of unemployment still affects close to one third of the labor force
(about 22 percent of the non-agricultural labor force was unemployed in 1976
and about 40 percent of the agricultural labor force was under-employed). In
1976 there were some 265,000 people unemployed, 54 percent of whom were seek-
ing employment for the first time. An increasing number of young people born
during the high birth rate years are reaching working age. This is of major
concern to the authorities, especially since the European outlets for Tunisian



- 3 -
surplus labor have been all but closed, and an increasing number of women is
joining the labor force. Concurrently there is a shortage of skilled labor,
which has proven to be a major constraint to more rapid growth in the past.
7.        Income distribution seems to have improved since 1966 in the wake of
increased employment creation, minimum wage legislation, tax exemptions and
family allowances for low income earners. The real impact of these measures
was safeguarded as domestic price inflation during 1966-76 was kept to an aver-
age of 4.0 percent, mainly because of strict credit and price controls and
government subsidies for basic consumer goods, housing and services. The
increased standard of living during the period is reflected in the reduced
share of food expenditure in the average household budget and in the increased
share of housing expenditure. The share of the population living in absolute
poverty declined from 30 percent in 1966 to 18 percent in 1975. Because of
great internal migration, the majority (55 percent) of the population below the
absolute poverty line now lives in urban areas. Important disparities continue
to exist between the income levels along the coast and in the interior. Per
capita income in the poorest region amounts to about one third that of the
richest region and that of-the rural population to about half that of the
urban.   Existing efforts to distribute the fruits of development more evenly
among regions are still embryonic and insufficient to overcome the attraction
of the capital and the coast.
During 1970-76, agriculture provided about half of total employ-
.zent, 27 percent of merchandise exports and 21 percent of GDP. Food process-
ing accounted for another 3 percent of GDP and over a third of value added in
manufacturing. During this period agricultural production rose substantially,
largely as a result of favorable weather. Large infrastructure investments
were made during the last decade. Current policy emphasizes projects that
make a rapid and direct contribution to production and recognizes various
constraints on agricultural development: absentee ownership, insecurity of
tenure, inadequate access to agricultural credit, inadequate extension ser-
vices, insufficient agricultural education, and underutilization of irrigation
investments. Under the Fourth Plan, about $140 million has been allocated to
a rural development fund which has been executed by the provincial adminis-
trations.
During the 1960's, manufacturing production in Tunisia increased by
8 percent annually. There has been a remarkable acceleration of growth in the
1970's due in part to record years for the olive oil processing industry and
to favorable developments in the textile and chemical industries.    The early
thrust of industrialization was supplied by large import substitution projects
in the social sector. These suffered, however, from the limited domestic
market and shortages of experienced staff and management. More emphasis has
been put on export-oriented private industries since 1970. Under the Fourth
Plan, private manufacturing investment, particularly in food processing, tex-
tiles, fertilizers and metals transformation, was expected to average D 25
million per year, compared with D 12 million in 1972, and to account for two-
thirds of total investment in manufacturing; these targets have been exceeded.
Foreign and domestic private investment is now stimulated by a comprehensive
incentive framework, and facilitated by the streamlined approval procedures of



- 4 -
the investment promotion agency. Foreign investors are expected to contribute
know-how and overseas marketing. A new agreement between Tunisia and the
European Community was signed in April 1976. Although it provided for duty
free entry into the countries of the Community of nearly all Tunisian indus-
trial products, new restrictions have recently been imposed. The Government
has established a special fund to encourage growth of small industries and
industrial decentralization, and has started a program to establish industrial
estates.
10.       The development of tourism in Tunisia is relatively recent.    Foreign-
visitor arrivals reached 1 million in 19769 with an average annual rate of
growth during 1970-1976 of 15 percent, -- sharply higher than that of the
Mediterranean tourism market as a whole. Since 1970, earnings from tourism
have been a major source of foreign exchange, having reached $338 million in
1976D more than twice the earnings from all manufacturing exports and slightly
more than petroleum exports. The rapid development of tourism in Tunisia has
unfortunately not been accompanied by adequate development of infrastructure
(particularly recreational facilities), trained manpower and services. The
Government is endeavoring to alleviate these constraints through a variety
of measures, including revised investment incentives, increased marketing and
training efforts, codes to enforce quality standards and more stringent zoning
laws.
11.       The main objectives of the current Fifth Development Plan (1977-81)
are (i) full employment of the additicnal labor force, (ii) self-sufficiency
in major foodstuffs, defined as a balanced trade account for agricultural
goods, (iii) increases in the standard of living, and (iv) social stability
through incomes policies and wage and price harmonization. To reach these
objectives, the Plan foresees an average annual rate of real GDP growth of 7.6
percent, the same as the one achieved during the Fourth Plan. This growth is
to be generated by investments projected at D 4.2 billion ($9.8 billion) in
current prices during the Plan. In real terms average annual investment would
be 54 percent greater during 1977-81 than during the preceding Plan, but owing
to the high investment level reached in 1976, its annual growth would be 3
percent only in real terms. The Fifth Plan's strategy emphasizes in particular
export-oriented industrial development and agricultural growth. Special atten-
tion will be given to employment creation and to balance of payments considera-
tions. Substantial investments are to be made in hydrocarbons, manufacturing,
water development, transport and housirig. The Plan prescribes increased
domestic production and processing of Tunisia's mineral resources (phosphates,
petroleum) to export as much as possible. Extraction and distribution of the
newly discovered offshore gas deposits in the Gulf of Gabes rank prominently
among the list of major projects. This gas is to be used to substitute for
petroleum based fuels that would be freed for export. Eventually gas would
also be used as an input for the chemical industry. Private sector initiative
is expected to dominate investment in textiles, mechanical and electrical
industries and tourism. In these activities the authorities primarily expect
employment creation to take place. Education and training programs are to be
expanded sharply to meet more adequately the economy's skilled manpower needs



- 5 -
and worke-rs' expectations for upgraded jobs. The strategy proposed for the
Fifth Plan does not represent any major departure from the strategy pursued
successfully during the preceding Plan.
12.       Tunisia's existing resource base, its institutional and infrastruc-
tural framework, its excellent performance in the earlier part of this decade,
and the desire of the authorities to promote further development and to sup-
port it with appropriate policy measures and institutions, are fundamental
ingredients pointing towards continued rapid economic growth during the Fifth
Plan.  The 7.6 percent target set for the average annual real growth of GDP
i.n the Plan is in line with the possibilities of the Tunisian economy. The
investment priorities formulated in the Plan are considered necessary to sup-
port the sectoral strategies. There are some less favorable signs, however.
Tunisia's development recently benefited from the structural changes in world
market prices and excellent weather conditions. It would be unreasonable to
expect that these fortuitous factors will continue to work in Tunisia's favor
to the same extent as in the past. Substantial efforts in domestic and ex-
ternal resource mobilization will therefore be of crucial importance to finance
the planned level of investment. On the domestic side, there is a great need
for increased savings and improved financial intermediation. The Government
sector, in particular, will again be called upon to contribute substantially
to the savings effort. The Plan suggests that this should be done by prudent
expenditure policies and increased revenue collections (selective tax increases
and better tax collection). In addition, the public enterprise sector will
have to increase substantially its contribution to public savings through
management improvements, and especially through cost-related increases in the
sale prices of selected enterprises. Externally, Tunisia would have total
financing requirements (disbursement basis) of some $3.5 billion during 1977-81.
Given the country's creditworthiness, it seems reasonable to assume that Tunisia
should be able to mobilize such an amount without putting undue strain on the
country's debt servicing capacity (para. 14).
13.       Since the early 1960's, Tunisia has obtained relatively large amounts
of official aid. A Consultative Group chaired by the Bank has provided a
forum for aid-coordination among major donors (see para. 22). During 1970-76,
annual loan commitments from public sources averaged $1.77 million, or about
$33 per capita. About 72 percent of these commitments came from bilateral
public sources, chiefly from France, Canada, and the Federal Republic of
Germany. About 20 percent came from oil-producing countries, whose share
rapidly increased from 8 percent in 1970 to 21 percent in 1976. Commitments
from the Bank Group during 1970-76 accounted for 24 percent of total public
commitments. Most aid has been obtained on concessionary terms; during
1970-76, the average terms of borrowing from bilateral sources were 3.5
percent interest and 23 years to maturity, including 6 years of grace; from
multilateral sources, they were 6.0 percent interest and 26 years to maturity,
including 5 years of grace. During the same period, Tunisia also received
annually some $43 million in grants. Loan commitments from private sources
averaged $35 million a year. Direct foreign private investment has been com-
paratively small, but recently it has picked up momentum following increased
activity in the petroleum sector and new incentives offered to foreign in-
vestors in manufacturing. Thus, net direct foreign investment increased from
$19 million in 1970 to $63 million in 1976.



- 6 -
14.       At the end of 1976, total foreign debt disbursed and outstanding
was estimated at about $1.3 billion or 27 percent of GDP, compared with
some 40 percent in 1970. The debt service ratio in 1976 was 8.3 percent,
compared with 20 percent in 1970. This significant decline in the debt ser-
vice ratio was mainly due to the sharp increase in export earnings following
the changes in world market prices in 1973/74. In the future, the external
borrowing requirements of the 1977-81 Plan (para. 12) will again increase debt
service obligations in relation to exports, to around 13.3 percent by 1981 and
16.9 percent by 1986 according to current Bank projections. While these are
relatively high levels, debt service would be a manageable burden on the eco-
nomy and balance of payments, particularly when considering Tunisia's long
record of prudent and skillful external debt management. Tunisia is considered
creditworthy for further Bank lending.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN TUNISIA
15.       Since 1962, Tunisia has received a total of twenty-nine loans and
eleven credits amounting respectively to $404.4 million and $70.1 million, net
of cancellations and refundings. Annex II contains a summary statement of
Bank loans, IDA credits and IFC investments as of September 30, 1977, and
notes on the execution of ongoing projects. While disbursements of some loans
and credits have been slower than foreseen at appraisal, on the whole, project
execution has been satisfactory. In a number of sectors, important institu-
tional improvements have been achieved and independent agencies have been
created or strengthened.
16.       The Bank's lending strategy ia Tunisia aims at supporting Government
efforts to (a) increase employment, (b) encourage more balanced growth and
distribution of income among regions and income groups, (c) promote export-
oriented policies and investments, and (d) provide selective support for the
development of infrastructure and for institution building in key public serv-
ices. The main supporting feature of this lending strategy is to encourage
the Tunisian authorities in timely and well-coordinated preparation of proj-
ects, with emphasis on technical assistance. The Bank is also cooperating
with the Government in its efforts to increase the mobilization of domestic
and foreign resources, in part through encouraging project cofinancing; the
latter is particularly important in view of the extent of Tunisia's external
resource needs, the large size of many priority projects, and the limited
availability of Bank resources relative to the country's needs.
17.       Within this broad framework, past Bank Group lending has emphasized
support for long-term investments in infrastructure and social development.
Lending for urban and social development, including water supply, education,
family planning and the Tunis urban planning and public transport project
has accounted for 30 percent of Bank/IDA commitments in Tunisia. Lending
for transport, power and tourism infrastructure has accounted for 32 percent.
Agriculture and fisheries have receivnd 21 percent of total commitments.



Industrial and hotel financing through the Banque de Developpement Econo-
mique de Tunisie (BDET) has accounted for 13 percent, and the Gafsa phos-
phate development project received 4 percent of total commitments.
18.       Lending for industry has so far been largely through the main
Tunisian Development Finance Company, BDET, and has mostly benefited medium-
size companies. The Bank has encouraged BDET to diversify its sources of
funds and BDET has made significant progress in this respect. Such lending
is expected to continue, but at a declining rate as BDET diversifies its
sources of funds. The Bank has also lent directly for the Gafsa phosphate
mining project. Further direct Bank loans for priority industrial subsectors
in which Tunisia has a comparative advantage would depend on the progress
achieved in the formulation of sound projects. Emphasis is now placed on
development of small-scale enterprises (SSE). The SSE component described
below would be experimental and would serve as a vehicle to prepare further
Bank assistance for SSE development in Tunisia.
19.       Lending in the current fiscal year and in the period ahead emphasizes
projects promoting agricultural and industrial production, such as the Mishkar
Gas Development Project for the development and transmission of Tunisia's
off-shore gas resources, and a rural roads project with complementary agri-
cultural investments; both projects are expected to be presented to the
Executive Directors later this fiscal year. Complementary to this primary
focus, the program would also finance selected priority urban and social
development and infrastructure projects. Projects under discussion with the
authorities include a second fisheries project, a second population project,
a second sewerage project, and an urban development project.
20.       The Bank Group accounted for about 24 percent of total public com-
mitments to Tunisia during 1970-76. The Bank Group's shares in total debt
outstanding and disbursed at the end of 1976 (including loans from private
sources) and in debt service during 1976 were 15 percent and 14 percent
respectively. The Bank Group's share in Tunisia's disbursed external debt
by 1981 is expected to remain unchanged from about 15 percent in 1976, and
its share in debt service would amount to about 10 percent.
21.       IFC has invested in NPK Engrais (a fertilizer plant), in BDET, in
Compagnie Financiere et Touristique (COFIT, a company to promote and invest
in tourism projects), in Societe Touristique et Hoteliere RYM (a large hotel
development) and in Industries Chimiques du Fluor, which will produce alumin-
ium fluoride from local fluorspar for export. IFC's most recent investment,
in May 1975, was in the Sousse-Nord integrated tourism development project.
IFC's net commitments in Tunisia total $15.8 million. IFC's Board has ap-
proved the sale of IFC shares in NPK Engrais to the Tunisian Government.
22.       Since 1962 the Bank has chaired a Consultative Group for Tunisia
bringing together the principal donor countries and institutions concerned
with the country's development. The most recent meeting of the Group, held
in Paris in June 1975, welcomed new participants which included Saudi Arabia,
Japan, the Arab Fund for Economic and Social Development and the Commission



- 8 -
of the European Communities. This year, a development conference was organized
by the Government in Tunis in early July, in lieu of a meeting of the Consulta-
tive Group.
PART III - THE INDUSTRIAL SECTOR IN TUNISIA
Background
23.       Given Tunisia's relatively small endowment with natural resources,
development of manufacturing industries is a major vehicle for economic growth
and employment creation. During the 1960's, the stress was on import substitu-
tion. Since the early 1970's, the stress has increasingly shifted towards
export oriented manufacturing industries to prevent the expansion of import-
substitution activities beyond the limits of efficiency set by the small
domestic market. Simultaneously, the public sector's role as entrepreneur
was de-emphasized and its share in manufacturing investment declined from
86 percent in the late 1960's to less than half during the Fourth Plan (1973-
1976). Domestic and foreign private investment in manufacturing were stimu-
lated by generous incentives, such as the Export Promotion Law of 1972 and
the revised Investment Code of 1974, and by the establishment of new insti-
tutions to assist industry, such as API (Agence de Promotion des Investis-
sements), which is responsible for the administration of the investment laws,
and AFI (Agence Fonciere Industrielle), which is responsible for acquiring
and developing industrial land.
24.       Overall, manufacturing industry performed well during the Fourth
Plan. Value added increased at an average annual rate of 6.5 percent. The
total investment target of the Plan was exceeded by 20 percent in real terms,
mainly because of greater than expected private investment. Employment crea-
tion also exceeded the target by creating 61,000 new jobs, or 50 percent more
than expected. By 1976, the manufacturing sector accounted for 11.2 percent
of GDP compared with 8 percent in 1960. A breakdown by sub-sectors shows a
predominance of food processing (33 percent), textiles and leather (25 per-
cent) and, mechanical and electrical industries (13.6 percent).
Industrial Objectives
25.       The Fifth Plan (1977-1981) objectives for the manufacturing sector
are essentially the same as those of the Fourth Plan. Value added is expected
to grow in real terms at 11.7 percent per year, with non-agricultural indus-
tries growing at 15.9 percent per year. Investment in manufacturing is ex-
pected to reach D 950 million, or 23 percent of total planned investment.
Manufacturing exports are to increase from D 151 million in 1976 to D 327 mil-
lion in 1981. About 90,000 new industrial jobs are to be created, or 43 per-
cent of all non-agricultural employment during the Plan period. The public
sector will continue to play a leading role in implementing strategic projects
of a capital-intensive and high-technology nature,



- 9 -
26.       The Fifth Plan's targets can be achieved, provided that project
identification, preparation and execution capabilities are further strengthened.
At present, only about 70 percent of the expected manufacturing investment for
1977-81 is properly identified. Most of such investment is relatively capital-
intensive. Furthermore, despite the existing incentives, Tunisian private
entrepreneurs have shown so far limited interest in export-oriented activities.
The government is aware of this problem. It intends to stimulate and support
the initiatives of Tunisian enterprises in foreign markets. It is also
encouraging the location of new manufacturing industries in the interior by
offering fiscal and financial incentives and assuming certain expenses for
infrastructure. The AFI has begun working towards this end through its
program for the establishment of industrial estates.
Industrial Finance
27.       The large industrial development projects in Tunisia are gener-
ally sponsored by public sector enterprises, and financed by the government or
through direct foreign borrowings. The authorities rely on the banking system
to finance medium and small scale industrial projects. BDET, which held at
the end of 1976 about 30 percent of total term credit extended to the indus-
trial and tourism sectors, plays a central role in this respect. Commercial
banks are also encouraged to participate in the development financing effort
by the requirement that 18 percent of their deposits be placed in medium-term
(up to seven years) private loans, and by rediscounting facilities for refi-
nancing further commercial bank lending to the private sector.
28.       Inflation in Tunisia has been moderate in recent years (4.1 percent
in 1974, 9.6 percent in 1975 and 5.4 percent in 1976) and the overall level
of interest rates has been kept low. Medium term lending rates for the indus-
trial and tourism sectors have been in the range of 6.25 percent to 8 percent.
BDET's rate for long term- loans (over seven years) was set at 9 percent in
1976 (including a 1 percent Government interest rebate on loans to resident
industrial borrowers). The rather low interest rate structure has discouraged
savings in the form of long term financial instruments and led, on the demand
side, to some credit rationing and a possible sub-optimal allocation of medium-
and long-term credit. Partly as a result of discussions with the Bank, IFC
nd the IMF, the government has prepared a study on the interest rate levels
and structure in Tunisia. This study led the Central Bank to increase as of
September 1, 1977 both borrowing and lending rates by up to 1-3/8 percentage
po::rnts. Medium-term lending rates for rediscountable loans to the industrial
and tourism-sectors have been increased from a range of 6.25-8 percent to
f^-8025 percent. The medium-term rate applicable to loans for resident export-
oriented enterprises and enterprises located in the least developed regions
was kept, however, within a range of 6.75 percent to 7 percent to encourage
industrial decentralization. As of January 1, 1978, the Government's rebate
on BDET loans to -resident industrial borrowers will be abolished, These are
steps in the right direction. The declared aim of the authorities is gradually
to harmonize domestic interest rates with those prevailing in the international
capital markets.



- 10 -
29.       The Ministry of Finance has also prepared a study on the domestic
capital market; the study recommends legislative measures to foster the devel-
opment of the market. The implementation of these measures has not yet been
decided. The conclusions of both studies as well as the rigid Central Bank
control over credit and interest rates and the tightness of trade and exchange
controls are the object of discussions between the Bank and the Tunisian
authorities.
Small Scale Enterprises
30.       Tunisians have a long tradition of craftsmanship and commerce and
the number of small non-agricultural enterprises, defined as those employing
less than 50 workers, is estimated to be close to 80,000, including 18,000
in the manufacturing sector. Yet Tunisia's past administrative, fiscal and
financial policies have not favored the development of such enterprises.
Indeed, the industrial development strategy in the last two decades has given
priority to large scale public enterprises and, more recently, to modern
medium-sized privately owned enterprises. As a result of limited access to
industrial credit and inadequate technical assistance, the entrepreneurial
dynamism and investment potential of a large number of small scale Tunisian
entrepreneurs has gone unrealized.
31.       A change in the government's previous attitude was marked by the
creation in 1974 of the FOPRODI (Fonds de Promotion et de Decentralisation
Industrielle), a budget-financed fund intended to provide financial assistance
for small industrial projects (especially those outside the Tunis metropolitan
area) sponsored by Tunisian investors with adequate technical qualifications
but limited means. Under the FOPRODI scheme, eligible entrepreneurs obtain
from FOPRODI subsidized personal loans to help them acquire majority owner-
ship in the capital of the new enterprises. Wnen the ceiling on total in-
vestment cost was raised in October 1977 from D 200,000 to D 500,000, these
personal loans were set at 70 percent of equity for projects not costing more
than D 250,000, including working capital; sponsors are expected to provide
10 percent of equity. For projects costing between D 250,000 and D 500,000
(including working capital), personal loans represent up to 45 percent of
equity and the sponsor's contribution represents at least 20 percent of
equity. The equity base under this FOPRODI credit facility amounts to up
to 30 percent of total project costs. These personal loans have terms of
12 years including 5 years of grace and bear interest at 3 percent. Medium-
and long-term loans are also extended to SSEs under FOPRODI for new projects
costing up to D 75,000 (including working capital) or expansion projects
costing up to D 45,000 (excluding working capital). The term loans cannot
exceed 70 percent of total project costs. These loans have terms of 10 years
including 3 years of grace for new projects, and seven years with no grace
period for expansion projects; they bear interest at 4 percent. Eligibility
for FOPRODI assistance is determined by API. From December 1975, when it
became operational, until May 1977, FOPRODI financed 81 projects, with total
investments of about D 7 million and creation of 2,553 new jobs. An SSE
policy unit is being established in the Ministry of the National Economy, and
API has decided to set up a countrywide system of technical assistance to SSEs
(see para. 52)



- 11 -
PART IV - THE PROJECT
32.       The proposed project consists of two components:    (i) a DFC-type
loan of $30 million to BDET, including $2 million to be earmarked for finan-
cing the expansion of existing small scale enterprises; and (ii) a line of
credit of $5 million to the Government to provide financial and technical
assistance to newly created SSEs in Tunisia. Negotiations were held in
Washington in November 1977. Mr. Fakhfakh, BDET's Director-General, led
the Tunisian negotiating team. An appraisal report on BDET (No. 1734-TUN),
dated November 29, is being distributed separately.
33.       Objectives of the Proposed Project.   Under the proposed project,
and in line with the Government's Fifth Plan strategy, the Tunisian authori-
ties and BDET plan to give priority to the following categories of industrial
projects: (i) projects creating at least one job for every D 4600 at 1976
prices ($10,670 equivalent) of investment; (ii) export oriented projects
promoted by Tunisian sponsors, (iii) projects sponsored by new entrepreneurs
with adequate technical qualifications; (iv) projects outside the Tunis
Metropolitan area; and (v) small scale industrial projects. BDET's intention
to give priority to these categories of projects is reflected in a Strategy
Statement which was approved by BDET's Board in October 1977. During nego-
tiations, an understanding was reached with BDET that at least 75 percent of
the proceeds of the proposed loan would be earmarked for such projects. The
objectives of the Bank's involvement would be firstly to assist in the financ-
ing and development of these priority categories of industrial projects;
secondly, to continue supporting the development of BDET and, particularly,
helping it to establish itself as a viable borrower in the international
financial markets; thirdly, to pursue the ongoing dialogue with Tunisia on
financial policies, especially regarding interest rates. The institution-
building objectives of the SSE component are described in para. 47; they
represent the most innovative feature of the proposed project.
34.       BDET Establishment and Resources.   BDET was established in 1959 and
reorganized in 1965 with Bank Group assistance. Since then, the Bank has made
six loans to BDET totalling $69 million. IFC holds 10 percent of BDET's share
capital. The last of the Bank loans, amounting to $20 million, was made in
early 1976 and is now fully committed. Over the past few years, BDET has been
successful in borrowing new domestic and foreign long-term resources, permit-
ting a decline of the share of Bank funds from 37.4 percent of its long term
resources at the end of 1974 to 24.9 percent at the end of 1976. In 1976,
BDET placed a bond issue on the international capital market, which was under-
written by the Kuwait Investment Company (KIC) and guaranteed by the Tunisian
government. This operation is the first of its kind undertaken by a Tunisian
financial institution and illustrates BDET's determination to gain access to
the international capital market (see para. 44).
35.       BDET doubled its share capital to D 3 million in 1971, and again
to D 6 million in 1974. A further share capital increase from D 6 million
to D 10 million was authorized by BDET shareholders in June 1976, and is
expected to take place over the 1978-80 period.    As of end 1976, the Tunisian



- 12 -
government held 12.1 percent of BDET's share capital, other Tunisian public
sector institutions 17.4 percent, the Tunisian private sector 28.2 percent,
IFC 10 percent, and other foreign shareholders 32.3 percent. For the purpose
of BDET's new capital increase, the government agreed in 1976 to act as a sub-
scriber of last resort by converting into shares, to the extent necessary, a
D 4 million subordinated loan made to BDET in 1975 to make up for that portion
of the capital increase that would not be subscribed by other shareholders or
by other new private sector subscribers. Most foreign and domestic private
shareholders are expected to exercise their preemptive rights.
36.       Management, Organization and Procedures.   The composition of BDET's
Board of Directors reflects BDET's ownership structure. As agreed during
negotiations for the sixth Bank loan, BDET has taken measures to improve man-
agement effectiveness. BDET's organization was restructured in 1976, in an
effort to decentralize decision-making at the middle management level. There
are now six departments (instead of three), four of which are headed by young
Tunisian professionals promoted from the ranks. Experience with the new orga-
nization over the last fifteen months has been positive. BDET's appraisal
work has further improved over the past two years and overall, BDET's appraisal
reports are generally comprehensive and sound. Further improvement can be
achieved in BDET's market studies, in assessing the project's employment crea-
tion capacity, and in evaluating physical and financial contingencies. During
negotiations on the proposed loan, an understanding was reached with BDET on
ways to improve on these weaknesses.
37.       Project supervision remains the weak link in BDET's organization.
To improve its project supervision, BDET has agreed to strengthen the staffing
of its supervision division, to implement procedures and information flows
which would improve this division's integration within BDET, and to prepare a
comprehensive and detailed work program for the supervision division (Draft
BDET Loan Agreement, Section 3.08). An understanding was reached during
negotiations on the work program of BDET's supervision division for 1978.
38.       Operations.  BDET's policies, established at the time of its 1965
reorganization provide that BDET is to stimulate industrialization and tourism
development in Tunisia through the financing of sound and productive projects,
and to help develop the capital market. In the manufacturing sector, BDET's
disbursements accounted for about 15 percent of total investment both in 1975
and 1976. BDET's involvement in tourism, which represented 41 percent of its
portfolio at end 1974 and about 25 percent at end 1976, is expected further
to decline as industrial sector financing has become the primary objective
of BDET. The proportion of BDET's new approvals in the public sector has
remained well below the ceiling of 30 percent of total BDET financing which
is reflected in BDET's policy statement. The distribution of BDET's opera-
tions by industrial subsectors is fairly evenly spread. Almost half of BDET's
operations are concentrated in the Tunis area. Much remains to be done in
promoting projects in the less developed areas of the interior. During nego-
tiations on the proposed loan, an understanding was reached that at least
60 percent of the proceeds of the proposed Bank loan would finance projects
located outside Tunis.



- 13 -
39.       Financial Situation.   BDET's auditors, the Tunisian firm Cabinet
Finor and Peat, Marwick, Mitchell and Company (PMM) issued an unqualified
opinion on the 1975 and 1976 accounts, with only two minor reservations. The
first reservation concerned the inadequate reporting on 50 of BDET's clients,
accounting for 3.2 percent of portfolio at end-1976; the second reservation
concerned a loan (D 877,500) to a hotel which has been in deficit since 1975.
The work program of BDET's supervision division (see para. 37) includes mea-
sures to improve information collection on BDET-financed sub-projects or
investments. An understanding was reached with BDET on measures to fully
recover BDET's loan to hotel El-Kebir as well as to validate the mortgage
on this loan by June 1978.
40.       BDET's portfolio at the end of 1976 amounted to D 61.4 million,
including D 6.6 million in the form of equity investments. The arrears situa-
tion, particularly in the tourism sector, has improved since 1974, following
a strong resurgence of tourism in 1975 and 1976, assertive action on the
part of BDET in collecting loans in arrears and the rescheduling of loans in
arrears representing 17.8 percent of total loan portfolio at end-1976. Loan
reschedulings were largely due to delays in the implementation of projects
approved in the 1974 industrial investment boom, for many of which BDET had
granted inadequate grace periods. An understanding was reached that BDET's
supervision division would follow up closely the performance of clients
having obtained reschedulings; in case reschedulings should affect in any
given fiscal year more than 15 percent of BDET's loan portfolio, agreement
was reached to the effect that a special report would be submitted to BDET's
Board (draft BDET Loan Agreement, Section 4.12).
41.       BDET's loans to industrial customers are backed by chattel mortgages
which are generally valid and sufficient to cover risks. Substantial progress
has been made since 1975 in validating mortgages of hotel borrowers, in line
with the timetable agreed with the Bank for the sixth Bank loan. During
negotiations it was agreed that, in future, BDET's hotel sub-loans would be
secured by a valid mortgage, failing which the contracts for such sub-loans
would include a timetable, to be approved by BDET's Board, for the mortgage
validation process (Draft BDET Loan Agreement, Section 3.07).
42.       BDET's total assets grew from D 43.1 million in 1974 to D 73.4 mil-
lion in 1976. The maximum debt/equity ratio agreed between BDET and the Bank
was raised from 5:1 in 1975 to 7:1 in 1976 following a change in the defini-
tion of equity, which now excludes the government subordinated loan of D 4
million. The ratio is expected to exceed 7:1 in 1977 and to stabilize there-
after slightly below 8:1 as BDET's capital increase takes place in the 1978-80
period. Given BDET's improved financial situation, an agreement was reached
during negotiations that BDET would maintain at all times its debt/equity
ratio within the limit, of 8:1 (Draft BDET Loan Agreement, Section 4.06).
43.       Projected Operations and Resource Requirements.   BDET's business
prospects for the medium term are good. Yearly approvals are expected to
increase progressively from D 30.7 million in 1977 to D 39.5 million in 1981.
Emphasis in BDET's financing will, however, be affected by the new priorities
outlined in the Plan for the manufacturing sector (see para. 26). This is



- 14 -
reflected in the Strategy Statement referred to in para. 33 above. It is
expected that in the period 1978-79, 50 percent of BDET's new approvals would
be for projects located outside Tunis, 35 percent for labor-intensive proj-
ects, and 15 percent for projects of new entrepreneurs and for SSE projects.
BDET would make all efforts to promote export-oriented projects, but the uncer-
tainty of the international situation (European Community tariff policies)
makes it difficult for BDET to set a specific target for the expected results.
In any case, an understanding was reached that BDET would give priority to
sub-projects belonging to these categories and submit yearly progress reports
to its Board of Directors and to the Bank.
44.       To finance its operations during the Fifth Plan (1977-81), BDET will
have to mobilize about D 143 million of new financial resources (on a commit-
ment basis). About 40 percent of the resource requirements for the 1978-79
period, estimated at D 56.2 million have been identified (excluding the pro-
posed Bank loan to BDET). These include besides cash generation, and the
partial payment of the capital increase, two new French lines of credit
(partly at concessionary conditions), one new loan from Qatar, one new loan
from the Arab fund for Social and Economic Development, and a local bond
issue. The proposed Bank loan of $30 million to BDET would represent about
21 percent of total resources to be raised for the 1978-79 period. This
would leave a financing gap of up to D 22.1 million which BDET plans to fill
through borrowings in the foreign open markets. Preliminary contacts between
BDET and lenders in the Euro-currency market and in the Gulf States indicate
that this objective can be achieved. Initially, at least, the guarantee of
the government will be necessary to contain the cost of such borrowings. BDET
has prepared, in cooperation with the government, a program and timetable for
resource mobilization for the period 1977-79. An understanding was reached
that the Government and BDET would mobilize the required resources for 1977-79
in accordance with the program and timetable which were reviewed during
negotiations.
45.       Projected Profitability.   Under current circumstances, net profits
in percentage of average net worth would decline from a range of 8.3 percent
to 9.7 percent in 1973-76 to 8 percent in 1977 and 1978. This is largely
due to government regulations having imposed on BDET low lending rates of 8
percent in 1974 and 1975, and 9 percent (including a 1 percent Government
interest rebate on loans to resident industrial borrowers) in 1976 and 1977,
despite steadily increasing costs of BDET's borrowed resources. An agreement
was reached during negotiations that the nominal rate of interest on BDET's
long-term loans to industrial borrowers would be raised as of January 1, 1978
by at least one percentage point above the rate applicable to medium-term
rediscountable commercial bank loans (Draft BDET Loan Agreement, Section 4.13).
The Government would no longer provide as of January 1, 1978, the one percent
rebate it provided on the rate payable by resident industrial borrowers on
BDET's long-term loans. An understanding was also reached that the nominal
rate of interest on BDET long-term loans for tourism would be increased from 9
percent to 9.5 percent. Taking into account interest prepayment, commissions
and fees (other than commitment fees), the effective cost of BDET's long-term
resources to industrial borrowers would be about 9.65 percent, and that of
tourism loans would be about 10.15 percent. Although a step in the right



- 15 -
direction, the proposed increases in BDET's term-lending rates will not be
sufficient to guarantee BDET an adequate profitability. Further increases in
the rates of BDET's long-term industrial loans are not desirable, however, as
long as medium-term lending rates on commercial bank loans remain in the pre-
sent range, because such increases would jeopardize BDET's competitive posi-
tion. *To further strengthen BDET's-profitability while encouraging BDET to
maximize its spreads an understanding was reached during negotiations that the
Government would subsidize ex-ante the cost of selective BDET non-concessionary
foreign borrowings so as to ensure an adequate margin of profit for BDET.
46.       Terms of the Development Finance Company Component.   The proceeds of
the proposed $30 million BDET loan (excluding the $2 million to be earmarked
for expansion of SSE projects) would be used for financing: (a) the full cost
of directly imported equipment or services for eligible subprojects, and (b)
70 percent of the cost of previously imported equipment. The free limit for
subloans not subject to prior Bank approval would be D 300,000 ($705,000
equivalent). Exposure to a single customer would not exceed 25 percent of
BDET's equity. The foreign exchange risk on the Bank funds and BDET's other
foreign borrowings would be assumed by the Government (Draft Guarantee Agree-
ment, Section 3.04). Taking into account that the loan will be committed over
a 2-year period, and that the average term of BDET's loans is about 12 years,
with a 2-year grace period, the loan should be repaid in a period of 13 years,
including a 4-year grace period, on a level principal payments basis.
The Small-Scale Enterprises Component
47.       Assistance for small-scale enterprises ($7 million) would aim, on
an experimental basis, to coordinate and strengthen ongoing initiatives in the
field of financial and technical assistance to SSEs. It is expected that this
assistance would lead to the identification of the most suitable institutional
arrangements for a possible future Bank-financed SSE project.   Of the amount
earmarked for SSE development, $5 million would be lent to the Government for
the financing of newly-created SSEs through FOPRODI (see para. 31) and $2
million would be lent-to BDET to finance expansion of existing SSE projects.
Both SSE sub-components would benefit from a country-wide decentralized,
technical assistance scheme for SSEs to be set up by API.
48.       The $5 million loan would be channelled through an account with the
Central Bank, which would be separate from the existing FOPRODI credit facili-
ties (Draft Government Loan Agreement, Section 3.01(b)(iii)). Establishment
of this account would be a condition of loan effectiveness (Draft Government
Loan Agreement, Section 6.01(c)). Agreement was reached during negotiations
on the following financing scheme for new SSE projects (Draft Government Loan
Agreement, Schedule 2, para. 5): the four commercial banks currently partici-
pating in the FOPRODI scheme, as well as BDET would draw from this account an
amount not exceeding 50 percent of total project costs to provide term loans
to newly created SSEs which qualify for concessionary FOPRODI assistance for
the constitution of their equity capital. The participating bank would pro-
vide out of its own resources a term loan to newly created SSEs in an amount
of about 20 percent of total project costs. Individual promoters are expected
to provide the remaining 30 percent of total project costs, which can be



- 16 -
partly financed through the existing FOPRODI concessionary loan facility.
Agreement was also reached on eligibility criteria of SSE sub-projects to the
proceeds of the proposed Bank loan (Draft Government Loan Agreement, Schedule
2, para. 3): (i) total project costs of the newly-created SSE (including
working capital) would not exceed D 200,000 in 1976 prices; (ii) the cost of
job created or maintained would be about D 4,600 in 1976 prices, which is in
line with the accepted criteria of Bank's Urban Poverty Program and (iii) the
entrepreneur would be willing to use, if needed, available technical assis-
tance. These eligibility criteria would be more restrictive than eligibility
criteria currently established for FOPRODI. As a condition of loan effective-
ness, the Government would amend its existing agreements with commercial banks
participating in the FOPRODI scheme to reflect the agreed criteria and opera-
tional arrangements (see para. 49), and conclude a similar agreement with BDET
(Draft Government Loan Agreement, Section 3.01 b(i), (ii)). API would provide
technical assistance to promoters (Draft Government Loan Agreement, Schedule 2,
para. 13).
49.       Promotion, identification, iritia' screening and appraisal of eli-
gible SSE irojects wiould be the responsiMility of the banks administering the
FOPRODI scr.eme assisted, as needec, by API. Once the SSE project and its
financing plan have been approved by the supporting bank and API, BDET would
ver4ry that the project complies with the Bank"s eligibility criteria, submit
approval and disbursement applications to the Bank, and maintain the necessary
documentation (particularly as regards disbursement) available for inspection
by Bank supervision missions. The repayment obligation for the Bank-financed
SSE sub-lo:-is wo-_:;c.e ._.wre the government but the responsibility for loan
collection wou.-: :emn'4n with ,h2 bank sponsoring the project, which will share
equally with the gcvernment the risk of loss on both term loans financed out
of the Bank funds ar. tern loans made out of the bank's own resources for SSE
sub-projects. This arraz.gement, which is an improvement over the existing
FOPRODI systems is eesigned zo 4nduce greater participating bank involvement
in financing new SSE projects.  Tha participating banks will be compensated
for their services by Government commissions as currently provided under the
existing FOPRODI credit facilities, i.e. a flat commission on disbursements
and a commission based on the amount of principal and interest recovered on
behalf of FOPRODI.
50.       The second SSE sub-component, amounting to $2 million, would be part
of the BDET loan but would be earmarked to finance the expansion of existing
SSEs with production facilities valued (before expansion and excluding land)
at less than D 100,000 in 1976 prices ($232,000 equivalent). The terms and
conditions of subloans for such expansion projects are expected to be similar
to those applying on subloans for the new SSE sub-component, but the borrowing
SSE's obligations would be toward BDET with BDET fully covering the risk. In
order to ensure that SSE expansion projects will receive appropriate attention,
BDET agreed to set up a special unit staffed by two SSE specialists (Draft BDET
Loan Agreement, Section 3.09(c)); establishment of this unit is a condition of
loan effectiveness (Draft BDET Loan Agreement, Section 6.01a). The unit would
be responsible for the processing of expansion SSE projects as well as for
administering Bank funds to be channelled through the FOPRODI scheme.



- 17 -
51.       Terms of the Sub-loans for SSEs.   The term of Bank-financed FOPRODI
or BDET sub-loans for SSEs is expected to be between 7 and 11 years, with grace
periods between 2 and 3 years. Correspondingly, loans for the new and expan-
sion SSE projects would be repayable to the Bank, by the Government and BDET
respectively, over a period of 13 years, including 4 years of grace, on a
level principal payments basis. The cost of funds to SSE borrowers would be
equal to the average interest rate charged by commercial banks on medium-term
industrial loans at the time of sub-loan signinLg (Draft Government Loan Agree-
ment, Schedule 2, para. 8 and Draft BDET Loan Agreement, Section 4.13(b));
currently, this rate is 8 to 8.25 percent except for loans financing invest-
ments in less developed regions of Tunisia (6.75 to 7 percent). The foreign
exchange risk on the Bank funds would be assumed by the Government (Draft
Guarantee Agreement, Section 3.04). Although Bank funds would be used to
finance up to one-half of the full investment cost of SSE projects, without
distinguishing between foreign and local currency expenditures, it is expected
that on average this will imply little, if any, local currency financing with
Bank funds, as the foreign exchange costs of SSE investments in Tunisia are
estimated to vary between one-third and two-thirds of total costs, averaging
about 40 percent of total.
52.       Technical Assistance to SSEs.   Technical assistance to support SSEs
is a key element to ensure the success of the SSE component of the proposed
1oan. API would be responsible for establishment and implementation of the
technical assistance program, both for SSE projects financed by the Bank loans,
and other SSE projects in Tunisia. Initially, API's technical assistance
staff would concentrate on identifying SSE projects and assisting sponsors in
preparing their projects, obtaining the financing and properly implementing
the projects. Later, the API-centered extension service would provide follow-
up assistance, especially in the areas of production and financial management,
marketing and improvement of productivity. During negotiations on the proposed
Bank loan, the Government agreed to prepare a plan of action and a timetable
for providing technical assistance services to SSEs (Draft Government Loan
Agreement, Schedule 2, para. 13); an understanding was reached during negotia-
tions on this plan of action and the timetable for its implementation. The
Government also agreed to implement this plan of action and to periodically
--eview its content and implementation with the Bank (draft Government Loan
Agreement, Section 3.06(b)). An understanding was also reached that API would
strengthen by July 1, 1978 its existing central unit and its four regional
offi-.2s through recruitment of at least eight qualified Tunisian specialists.
About 69 man-months in specialized expertise wbuld be required initially to
assist API in establishing the central core of SSE experts and to train experts
for API's regional offices. The Government has agreed to complete by July 1,
1978, financing arrangements for the foreign exchange costs of expatriate spe-
cialists (about $300,000), failing which these costs would be financed under
the proposed $5 million loan to the Government (Draft Government Loan Agree-
ment, Section 3.06(a)).
53.       Benefits and Risks.   Through the proposed project, the Bank would
continue helping BDET to improve its financial management and portfolio, and
the Government to further liberalize credit and develop domestic capital mar-
kets. Sub-projects financed by the proceeds of the Loan would contribute



- 18 -
to employment creation, export promotion, development of entrepreneurship and
decentralization of industrial activities (para. 33). The SSE component of
the proposed project is expected to finance between 50 and 60 new, and 20 and
30 expansion, sub-projects and to create about 2,300 new jobs at an average
cost per job created of about $7,000. This component would, in addition,
contribute to laying appropriate grounds for Government financial and tech-
nical assistance for SSE development throughout Tunisia. The relative lack of
experience, in the Bank and in Tunisia, in assisting SSEs entails a moderate
risk that the SSE institution-building targets may not be fully achieved. The
risk is worth taking, however, since adequate mechanisms would be set up under
the project to ensure that only worthwhile projects are financed by the pro-
posed loan.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
54.       The draft Loan Agreement between the Republic of Tunisia and the
Bank, the draft Loan Agreement between the Bank and Banque de Developpement
Economique de Tunisie, the draft Guarantee Agreement between the Republic
of Tunisia and the Bank, the Report of the Committee provided for in Article
III, Section 4 (iii) of the Articles of Agreement and the text of a resolu-
tion approving the proposed loans are being distributed to the Executive
Directors separately. Features of the loans of particular interest are men-
tioned in paragraphs 47 through 53 of this report. Special conditions of
effectiveness are: (i) amendment of the FOPRODI Agreement between the Govern-
ment and Participating Banks to reflect the negotiated operational arrange-
ments for SSEs, and conclusion of a similar agreement between the Government
and BDET (para. 48); (ii) establishment within BDET of a unit to administer
SSE expansion sub-projects (para. 50); and (iii) establishment in the Central
Bank of a Project Account for the Bank-financed new SSE operations (para. 48).
The draft agreements conform to the normal pattern for loans for development
finance companies.
55.       I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the Articles
of Agreement of the Bank.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
56.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed loan.
Robert S. McNamara
President
Attachments
December 6, 1977
Washington, D.C.



Annex I
Page 1 of 4 pages
TUNISIA             - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
LAND AREA (THOU KM2)                 -------------------------------------------------
---------------                                  TUNISIA                             REFERENCE COUNTRIES (1970)
TOTAL       164.2                                      MOST RECENT
AGRIC.       76.1                      1960       1970   ESTIMATE          UORDAN         IRAQ           GREECE***
GNP PER CAPITA (USs)                    230.0*     370.0*    840.0* /a          350.0*      640.0*    1360.0*
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
_______________________________
POPULATION (MID-YR, MILLION)            4.1        5.0       5.7 /a             2.3         9.4         8.8
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQUARE KM.                       25.0       30.0      35.0 /a            24.0        22.0       67.0
PER sQ. KM. AGRICULTURAL LAND        54.0       67.0      75-0 -a           165.0        92.0       96.0
VITAL STATISTICS
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (/THOU, AV)         46.6       44.7      40.0               47.5        49.1        18.1
CRUDE DEATH RATE (/THOU,AV)          21.5       16.9      13.8               17.8        17.9         8.0
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (/THOU)          ..      125.0      62.6   b           36.3 /abc 104.0        29.6
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BlRTH (YRS)       46.1       51.6      54.1               50.7        50.2       70.9
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE               3.1        3.4       3.4                3.5         3.5         1.0
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (%)
TOTAL                                 1.8**      2.3**     2.3**              3.1         3.2         0.
URBAN                                   *-       3.0/a     4.7/C                .6. .0                1.5
URBAN POPULATION (% OF TOTAL)          35.6 /a    40.1/b    47.0                  ..       58.0        62.6
AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0 TO 14 YEARS                       42.4       46.3      42.1               47.0 /a     48.0        24.9
15 TO 64 YEARS                       52.6       50.2      53.8               49.5   a    48.0       64.0
65 YEARS ANO OVER                     5.0        3.5       4.1                3.5 ^       4.0        11.1
AGE DEPENDENCY RATIO                    0.9        1.0       0.9                 1.o /a     1.1         0.6
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO                1.3/a.b   1.8/b.c    1.4                2.4 7.d    1.8 /a
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS (CUMULATIVE. THOU)           ..      112.2     281.5
USERS (% OF MARRIED WOMEN)              ..      12.0         ..                 ..         .
EMPLOYMENT
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSAND)         1400.0/a   1300.o/b  188o.0              350.0 /a   2700.0
LABOR FORCE IN AGRICULTURE (%)         69.07  5      7.07S'  37.4              33.0 7a     52.0
UNEMPLOYED (% OF LABOR FORCE)          1i .07     12.07      14.0               14.0 r      6.0
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
% OF PRIVATE INCOME REC'D BY-
HIGHEST   5% OF HOUSEHOLDS              ..        ..        ..
HIGHEST 20% OF HOUSEHOLDS               ..        ..        ..
LOwEST  20% OF HOUSEHOLDS              ..         ..         ..                 ..         .
LOWEST  40% OF HOUSEHOLDS              ..         ..        ..
DISTRIBUTION OF LAND OWNERSHIP
______________________________
% OWNED BY TOP 10% OF OWNERS              ..      53.0 /d      ..
% OWNED BY SMALLEST 10% OWNERS            ..       o.s         . .                      .     ..
HEALTH AND NUTRITION
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN            10000.0 /c s9so.o     5560. 0 /e f       2680.0      3270.0       620.0
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON             ..     730.0 /e  670.0 7tR1         1050.0     5490.0      1140.0
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED           360.0 /d   410.07T   410-0              960.0       520.0       160.0
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF -
CALORIES (% OF REQUIREMENTS)         86.0       94.0/8    94.0  /i           94.0        93.0       116.0
PROTEIN (GRAMS PER DAY)              54.0       63.0      67.0 71            60.0        62.0        99.0
-OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE         13.0       14 .0                         I .   18.0/e  17. 0 b  52.0/a
DEATH RATE (/THDU) AGES 1-4              ..          .5 /b,i                     s.o/b
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIO
PRIMARY SCHOOL                       67.0      100.0      95.0               73.0/a      67.0       106.0
SECONDARY SCHOOL                     13.0       23.0      18.0               33.07       24.0        66.0
YEARS OF SCHOOLING PROVIDED
(FIRST AND SECOND LEVEL)             13.0       13.0      13.0               12.0        12.0        12.0
VOCATIONAL ENROLLMENT
(% OF SECONDARY)                     24.0       12.0/h    28.0                3.0/        3.0        20.0
ADULT LITERACY RATE (%)                   ..        ..      55.0                  ..       26.0        82.0
HOUSING
PERSONS PER ROOM (URBAN)                 ..        2.7/b       .
OCCUPIED DWELLINGS WITHOUT
PIPED WATER (%)                                 60.0/b   *     .. .                        .
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY
(% OF ALL DWELLINGS)                    .       24.0/b       ..                 ..         .           .
RURAL DWELLINGS CONNECTED
TO ELECTRICITY (%)                     ..         ..         ..                 ..         .            ,
CONSUMPT ION
RADIO RECEIVERS (PER THOU POP)         41.0       77.0       74.0              160.0      180.0       111.0
PASSENGER CARS (PER THOU POP)           11.0      13.0       18.0                7.0        7.0        26.0
ELECTRICITY (KWH/YR PER CAP)           84.0      155.0     233.0                72.0      291.0      1072.0
NEWSPRINT (KG/YR PER CAP)                0.3       0.1        0.1                0.3        0.3         1.6
SEE NOTES AND DEFINITIONS ON REVERSE



Aniex I
Fage 2 Qf 4 pages
U.loe. othe-is. acoted, doto far 1960 refer to aoy Fear bet-C.e 1959 aod 1MI, for 1970 between 1968 cod 1970, and for M-ost Rmeent Estimate betweeno
19 73 and 1975.
A    GNP9 per c.Pit. dote ore booed on the World Rock Atlaa mthodology (1974-76 basis).
0*  ..u to  oigr-tion popul.tion growth rate is liter thon the rote of naturalinrse
*0G-eece he. been selected as .n objective coontry, on the basis of the         ite of It. population, nediterre.e.. geographical eltuotion and it.
-cn-y, which     tr .ne.t. 050 similarity with   oT-ili's, with respect to n,tione1 rescortes, narket ese., agricu1toe end cerices activities.
TUNISIA1     1960     I   1956;     /b  Rotio of populotton under 15 aod 69 and over to total labor force;          /.  1963;     /d   1962, i..ludiog -rura
honpit.1.7
1970  0      1956-66;     /b  1966;     /c  Ratio of population -nder 15 end h5 aod wver to toto1 labor force-;         /d  Co-eing 4.5 nillion
hectoros of privete 1aed, eccluding 0.8 million hectares is public ownership, and 2.1 million hectare of collective land;
/ePersonnelt to govenmet services only;         If  Governensst hospital ..tehli.faantot only;      /&  1964-66;     /h  ft.l.ding
tehio  coonmy nod technical indutry.       Li- Registered only.
K-ISl lECIIT ET iINHATE;   Ia  1976;     /b   1966-75;    Ic   Registered only;     /d   Ratio of population under 15 and 65 cod over to total
laber force.;    /o  lo-1Jdig dentista;        /f  1972;     /&  Psrsonnel tn government services only;
/b  Govonolnt boopit.1 sstablictmients only;        /t  1969-71 average.
JORDORJ      1970     I   fEe.t lank only;.    /b  1966;     /.  Registered only;      /d  Ratio of Popolatton under    5 cod 65 and over to total labor force;
/.  1964-66;     /f   Including ti9fRA schools.
IRAQ         1970    /c    tiol  of popu1ction undsr 15 and 65 cod over to total labor force;         /b  19646-6.
CRtici       1970         1967.
g13, September 23, 1977
OEf33=TOMn OPF SOCIAL IDICATMR
Lantd Ares (then k. I                                                                    PoonlatIon ocr nursse carson - P.Puletion divided by n,fhr If practlclof
Total   Tool nurf.oe orca cuyrlinig loand or        endtland  atere.                       sale and fcsale gr.duste  .oues, "trained" or 'certified" 51.,and
Asric.   m ost re....c osti-ct. of sgricultsr1 area used tmoaiyor patin-                   s-itliary proronmel with training or   speriesoe.
meetly for crps, pautures, sorkt & kitches gardens or to ILe fallow.                   Poewi.ttee par hmoeIno  bed - Pepalation divided by s,ab.r of boepica1 teds
available is publilnand priest. general sod epeci.lised hospit.l and
GNP par -uit. (17S1) - GN? per capltc soI.ctiet  at correct -kcht prices,                  rehabilitation centoer; omldsa oursing hoess and aatablishlnents fcr
..c.lcu -to  by sme onvr,   o  mthdi ae World Book Atlce (1973-75 hosts);                custedil end preventive sees.
1960; 1970 cod 1975 datc.                                                              Par ..pita .omPly of calorie. ft afrcuemnb- CaMuted fre, energy
equi-alent of set faod supplIes aeil.bls is cotno     ps  capita per dwy,
P.pul.tion 4nd vitul -ttitctlc                                                             evileble euppli.s caspria. dboatic prduction, Ispot        lese . epoot, and
Popnlation (id-yeart! milo)      A. of July firnt: if net aroiloble. over.ge               ohe.Se    in stack; met ..pplieo eccinde aelc.l food, seeds, quontities usad
of two end-year e    tloaee  1-60, 1970 and 1975 dot..                                   In fend processeing and looses to distribution; requirnre.t woos .tisatod
by FAO baeed on physlologi-Il seeds for som1 activity end health conid-
Populotiem dbbsiro   per sour. lee - Mid-year pepoletiosi per squcr   killnter             ering  -mironamtal temperature, body .sights, age end sea distributiono, of
(100 hactrt) of total ero.,                                                              pepuliati, cod allowing 105 for wstsate    hIcs- hoohld leve.
'Poocltiotn     'Caiy  Pars seme  he of coric- land - Ceepucd as shov   for              9cr capitt sopply of"ot I      er   ocrdcv    - Protei. contest of Per copisa
agricoltural loand only.                                                                 net soply of food po day; net eapy       ffodi defined ce shove; require-
semis for all co,natroes eetablLshd by USDA ERooneme Receore    Serei.ee
Vital stottatice                                                                           Provid. for a minimis allowance of 60 Sr,was of total Pretein per day, cod
C-odo birth rats per thouosed. swerase - Amnoal lies birthe per thousand of                 20 grosa of asime cod pales Prortei, of which 10 grean   hbsu1d b. enlmoI
sid-yeer popolotion; ten-ye.r -rithostic overages ending in 1960 and 1970,               protein; thece etondrda ere loser than those of 71 gr,aa of tate1 protsin
cod five-yea  evaroge endIng in 1975 for meet recet satimat-.                           sod 23 gre. of anImal protein as en averag     for the werld. Proposed by PA0
Crude det    rot ncr tbo,cand. average - Asmuol denthe Per thoowend of mid-year            in the Third World Peed Survey.
populotion; ten-yeor arit testic overeges ending in 1960 and 1970 and flee-            Per CoPit' oro':in  onol,free amilso       p'lse - Protein supply of fond
yoar co    ssding in 1975 for meat retest eatimets.                                      derivd fre    siml    sod pcs.   in gre.. pe  day.
ttturoity rare /thou)     A--IAna  dZatba of infeste undr one year of ego         Death rate f/thou) aese 1-4 - Ammual deethe per thousand is age group 1-4
Per thouas..di!ve birth'.                                                                y-sr. to childans in this age grsup; suggested s as .   indicator of
Life ..poct..cy as bIrth fees)   A-tAerge  -abcr of yeers of life renaming at              neltrition.
birth; ususlly five-year averagea ending in 196, 1970 sod 1971 for develop-
Cros rsorTod-ction rot - uverags nmber of Iive dauhtere .      oann will beer            Adjused erollment ratio     erimere school - Esrellashat of all ag.. as par-
1s her -ooc    _rerductivepriod If she      perinoos   Pree...t  ge-ope-ific             cantos of potnery aseles        populaIon. inclod.. children agod 6-11 years
feri i ly rates; -sus1y five-yccr evesge    ending in 1960, 1970 and 1971               bat adjusted for diffsreot length. of primary edustion. for cousriac with
for dwvclpn c, -trla.                                                                    univrersal   dcetin, enrollment e.y emceed 1007. since eons pupils are blow
1opulotionurputh rots Cl     6 -totol.- Conpoosd sensI grvth rtes, of mid-year              or ab=v  the officiml scoo   agt
population for1950-60,    96-7   and 1970O-75.                                          Adiusted wor,s1lmoot retto  aeondre school- Conput.d as above. setondary
Poouiet on Arowth rots  t    - uban - Coaputed like groth rate of totn1                    education requirec at leaset four ye.ar of spprovsd primary isatrution;
populetion; dfeetdfotocfuraarecsay afetaparabtllty of                                     provide general, vocatieal or teacher training ietructions for pupils
datc aIn oetfcf 12 ta 17 y..r. of age; crepdccours..                                                                                         f e ..genrally ...ciuded
Ura opltion ft of t-tal) - Ratio of urban to total populstion; different            Ysorso   cholis provided (first anscod lvels) - Total Is.,. of
definitione of urb.n  r-s say effect ..omparbility of data 4-4      cbont-otr .           schooin; at G.,condar   le,vetIe            instruction say be partially or
conplensly xcld.
,aced sircot-ro (oprcet) - Childreo. (0-14cy..rc) ,  -kring-age (15-64 years),           vonstionol =oolms fl of enodo               m fctiona  l.cjtiouinn  inclod.
an  rtired (65 yeors codonr) es per ctages of mid-year pspulati-n                     te-heice-Hindustrial or other pr-gran, which oper.s.toidapande-ly or 
A00 dependec ratio - atio of popoistion usder 15 and 65 sod over to these                   d.partoat   of secondary inatituti-no
of ages 15 thrOugh 64.                                                                  Adult it-sroc   rete M5  - Lit.r.t. adults (able to rocd and write) as per-
ico cdenpodence ratio - Ratio of population under 15 end 65 and ovr to                 ceotage of tetal edu1t population aged 15 y.ers end ovr.
the labor force I ago group of 1-h4 years.
Fanil elentcoactstors(ctsuleive. thou)  C-1Cuulti- .metr of ...teptore          lionoin
of birth-actrol devices undr eup       oof nainlfenily pl.aning progre.                 Psrs  naocr roe. furb-ol - Average oeber of person    per roe  In oc-pied
amily p ..annlno  users CZ of sar-iod aoe)-Pecnec            of   ried -we    of            structure. end unoncpiad parts.
obi1d-bearing age (15-44 yeas-) whosebtb-on          ldero       n  lsrie                cuied dell         wtou  spte atr l)        -Occupied convenia     dwelling
Inme   inan  age group.                                                                inuba     o  rurl ee     without meildsor outeida Piped ester f-cillitie
as psruetege of .11 oc-pied dwellings.
noeloymeot                                                    Access is electritito ft~~~~~~~~(' of all den1ltg  C- ConetIoa  dwelings with
Tote1 labor force (thounend) - ftcononcally active Paras, inuloding rawnd                    lcff tricity i  lIvin  qusrer  asPsret of total dwellings to urbao eed
forces end uoeployed hot encluding housewives, students, etc.; dinfton.as                 mruralreas.
to vrious coutries ar- oot cemprable.                                                   Rural delioga connected te electricity ft) - Ceeptned as above for rural
Labor force narcltr          1      grlcutura1 lobar force (Is fseno., forsstry,            dwlig     ony
bunting sod fichIng) es percentage of total labor forc..
U._mPloved It of labor force)   U- ne.pl  4s sre usually d.fised aP--prsn   hbe           Consoni
aeable end willing to teke eJob, out of a job on a given day, remand out              Rdorctce(ocr thou                All -1  type. of rec-ivsrs for radis b-nd-te
of a Job, end ...eking wn-k for a specifisd ninina   period not seceding ft.              to general publi  petouad of populsttn; ...olodes oniceoed receiver
week, say not he ompeabl7 between.. outriee due to different deftoitiona                  is countries sod in yss.rs when registration of r.di. sets was La effect;
of unemPloyed end sourceofdet, ,s;.g      - emplymnt office statistics, .-nPI.            date for recent years say sact he nnParable since nest ourisabolished
.._.eye, cnpolso..y unempleynstoI inusc..Pcetg
c                                               "I      c~~~~~~~~~~~~Paes orre (ocr thou p-e) - Passenge.r cars conpries sate .roar  seating
In.- diotributio     - Per ctage of private incons (both In each end kind)                 less then eight Pn peesa  emludee anbulance     heerses wsd  ilItury
received by riohsst it. richest S0t, poorest 201, and pooret 4Ot of hos-.-bcia
holds.                                                                                                      Pacrit (o/ror --P) - AnnuI alnconeption of industrial,  - -riaj,
pulc adprlvets electrIcIty in kilowatt hour     Per cepita, go...r-11y
Distribation of lasd ownrsip - Percestages of land ow-d by wealthiest lOt                   base.d an prod..tion dais, without allwanc   far loases In grIds bar allo-.
ssd poorestlO    of lend  wners                                                           tog for tmPerta mod Wrt. of electricity.
R srit kheyr ocr cop) - Per espit. c.n..I    -xptlapio  is kilogerm
Heeith and Nutrition                                                                        e.timatsd gr- disasati   prodactiop p1ue net imports of newsprint.
Popu1:t on or physician - Populstion divIded by amb,er of prutcticig
physician  q qulified fran s cdical school at univ-reity level.



TUNISIJA -ECONOMIC DEVEI.PMENT! DATA SHEET
Autual             R~~~      ~~at.    Pr  eRd     /1965-                    I90         1976-
1965  1970  1975  1976      1977       1978       1981      ~~~~~~1970   1975        1981         1976
Dloars Milllios   tCotn         92Plr                          Awear6e Aon..l Growth Rate        Share of GDP
A.    RATIONAL ACCOUNTS
Gr..o D-owti    Prodont                                 656         824       1,286       1,444       1,527      1,655      2.084        4.7         9.3         7.6         100.0
Grains fron T-ro    of Tr.de                             -6          -2          53          39          36         36         60         ...2.9
Gross Do,oetlc Intone                                   650         822       1,339       1,483       1,563      1,691      2,144        4.8        10.3         7.6         102.9
Iapoc-   (C and NI'S)                                   179         221         364         409         433        467        573        4.3        11.7         7.0          27.5
E.p.rtn (C and NGS) (laport capacity)                   105         183         333         339         369        361        468       11.7        12.7         9.3          22 
Resource Gap                                             74          38          51          70         .64         70         75         ..                                    3.6
toUn-ptlon                                              549         696       1,061       1,191       1,280      1,395      1,759        4.9         8.6         8.1          84.4
lo-natnat                                               162         164         330         362         346        366       430         0.2        13.0         3.5          20.6
3n,%eotlc SavlnRa                                        88         126         278         292         283        296        385        7.4        17.1         5.7          18.5
Notional Savings                                         67         104         274         280         268        276        347        9.2        21.4         4.4          16.7
GOP at c.rr.nt pric.a (US$ sillinsa)                  1,004       1,444       4,324       4.782       S,456      6,359      9,899        7,S        25.0        15.7
B.   SECTOR OUTPUT                                                       lIar. in GDP at Constant 1972 Prices in Percent                     Aver.ae An-ul Growth Rate
Agflcclt.re                                              22.1        20.4        21.0        21.5        19.4       19.2       17.7       -         10.3         3.5
Industry                                                 22.8        24.9        25.4        25.2        26.6       27.4       30.3      6.3        10.1        11.6
Services                                                 55.1        54.7        53.6        53.3        54.0       53.4       52.1      5.8        12.3         7.1
C.    MERCHANDISE ~TRADE                                                             Millions of US Do11ars                                  Avor.an Annual Growth Rata
OlIve Oil                                                26          17          78          82          58         60         70       -9,0        36.0        -3.2
Crude P.troleun                                                      45         359         296         361        435        294         .         52.0          -
Refined PetroLeun                                        -            5          15          16          16         19        266         .         25.0         75 0
Ph-oph-c Rock                                            22          24         113          75          56         64        101        1.7        37.0         6.1
Phoaphate Derivat.a                                      18          17          80          92         139        159        437       -1.2        36.0        36.5
Agric.lt.ra1 Prod.cts                                    32          40          92          95          95        111        180        4 6        18.1        16.2
Te?ttiles                                                 2           2          53          90         105        141        354         -         93.0        32.0
Gther MacuD.ctore d Goods                               21L         38          67          70          96        118        184       12.6        12.0        21.0
Total Goods                              ~~~~        ~~~~        ~~~~121  188  859  806   928      1,107      1,886        9.2        35.5        18.5
Non, Factor S-riccs                                      68          67         4~97        519         638        747      1.129       -0.         49.0-       16 8
Total Enports                                     169         255      1,356       1,325        1,566     1.849      3,015        4.2        40 0         17.9
Inoo-t. (.if)
Foodstuffs                                               34          50         225         185         225        307        503       18.7        23 0        22.0
Other Coosne     Coodo                                   42          41         218         217         262        309        481       -0.5        40.0        17.3
EOOrgy                                                   11          13         140         139         155        167        118        3.4        60.0        -3.3
Inteenediote Good.                                       85         113         411         410         489        585        961        5 1        29.5        19.0
Ca pital Goods                                           77         7.3         430         489        -515        586        847       -l 1        43.3        11.0
Total Condo                                             252         320       1,424       1,443       1,646      1.954      2,930        4.9        35.0        15.2
Other NSF                                                68          61i        141         15U8        190        222        345       -2.2        10.2        16.9
Total Goods and NI'S  -                  ~~~~        ~~320  381  1,565      1,601       1,836      2,176      3,275        3.b        32 5        15.14
D.    PRICES                                                                              1972 -100                                          A-etage Annual Gr-.th Rare
Enp.rt price indec                                       75.5        89.7       194.9       189.6       201.8      219.6      276.-6     3.5        16.8         1.9
Inport price loden                                       85.8        90.7       144.1       167.9       182.0      200.0      245.2      1.1        12.6         7.9
Teoma of trade indao                                     88.0        96.9       118.8       112.9       110.9      109.9      112.8      2.4         3.7          -
GDP deflator                                             70.7        92.0       135.2       142.0       153.4      164.3      203.9      5.4         8.0         7.5
Average ench.uge rate (TO per S)                          0.525       0.525       0.402       0.429       0.429      0.429      0,429     -          5.5          -
E.    PUB3LIC FINANCE                                    In parn...tof GDP' at Current Prices                F.   DEITAIL ON GOV'T            In-Percen   of -TOtal
1965     1970     1975    1976                       SECTOR U-NVESTMENT           1968-71      1972-75
Current R-venue                                        19.6     21.8    24.4     22.7 
Current Enpenditorn                                    15.0     17.9    18.0     18.0                       Social Sectors                 18.6         15.0
Current Surplus (Central Gout)                          4.6      3.9     6.4      4.8                       Agriculture                    23.8         13.0
Other Govt Sector SavioRs                               0.9     -0.5     0.6      0.3                       Transport and
Co,ci.atlon                   12.2         15.5
Central Govt I-nvesment                                 7.5      3.9     4.0      4.6                       In fr..tructur.                70.0         16 4
Total Govt Inv-CtaNIn                                  11.7      8.1     8.2      8.7                       Other 3/                       29.4         39.5
G.    DETAIL ON cuRRENTr ExpENiTuRE                               In Percent of TotalTt1                                                        oC
1~-RALmGOlT                                            1965     1970    1975     1976  /                    Pinu-cin
Education                                              25.7     32.1    22.3     26.3                       Publi. Sector S-vina           29.9         59 .1
other Socia    S-rinna                                 15.5     16.7     11.1    13.1                       Other Finu....                 IS 1  5      20.8
Agriculture                                             5.0      3.4      5.4     7.2                       DomNstic Dotroujog (net)        1.6         -2 1
Other E-onoil Services                                 17.7     17.7     16.2    14.5                       Foreign RorrouleR (net)        52.6         22.1
Adoiniotrotion ondOefence                              36.1     30.1    45.0     38.9                       Total Financing               100.0        100.0
100.0    150.0    100.0   100.0
0.  LABOR.FORCE (thousa nds)     1972         1976
Agriculturn j                 760          764
Industry                     300          440
ServIces                      345          413
Une.pl.yed                     '9q         264
1.n84        1,681
1/  Projentod by World Dank Staff                                                                                                        ENMA CP II
2/ Budg.tNvmbr17
3/. Includes trans..fers to pbl1ic onterprises                                                                                             o   e   be 
.1/ Residual



ANNEX I
Page 4 of 4 pages
TUNISIA - BAIANCE OF PAYMENTS AND EXTERNAL ASSISTANCE
(Amounts in millions of US dollars) 1/
Actual                                    Eat.                          Proiected 2/
1970        1971       1972       1973        1974       1975       T.976       1977       1978        1979       1980        1981
SUMMARY BALANCE OF PAYMENTS
Exports (inc. NFS)                              316         408        567         714      1,254      1,356       1,325      1,566       1,849      2,138      2.546       3,015
Imports (inc. NFS)                              381         442        593        782       1.242      1.565       1.601      1.836      2.176       2.526      2.882       3,7
Resource Balance                                -65         -34        -26         -68         12        -209       -276       -270        -327       -388        -336       -259
Net Interest Payments                           -50         -18        -18        -13           2         -5         -42        -50         -65        -86       -114        -140
of which: Interest on Public Loana           (-17)       (-20)      (-22)      (-27)       (-31)       (-37)      (-40)      (-48)       (-69)      (-94)      (-126)     (-157)
Direct Investment Income                         -9         -10        -25        -35         -36        -37         -35        -47         -58        -70         -81        -93
Workers' Reinittances                            29          44         62          98        119         146        135         142        149        156         164        172
Other Net Factor Services                        -8         -39        -41        -82        -103        -116       -107       -118        -130       -143        -157       -173
Current Transfers (net)                          10          16          6           4          1          -3          2           7          7          7           7          7
Balance on Current Account                      -93         -41        -42         -96         -5       -224        -323       -336       -424        -524       -517        -4866
Private Direct Investment                        19          24         31          57         49         48          63         75          86        110         121        133
Official Capital Grants                          43          35         37          45         43          50         42         45          40         40          40         38
Public M + LT Loans:
Disbursements                                 82         107        140        153         174        211         285        407         470        590         622        661
-  Amortization                                 -45         -49        -70        -59         -59        -66         -70         -73        -87       -128       -177        - 248
Net Disbursements                             37          58         70          94        1715       1475        21          34         38          6           4          13
Capital Transactions n.e.i. 31                   13          24        -19          -8        -99         -62          3          -3         ----
Change in Net Reserves (increase - )            -19        -100        -77         -92       -103          43         -        -115         -85        -88         -89        -98
Net Foreign Reserves                             15         115        192         284        387         344        344        459         544        632         721        819
(months of imports equivalent)                  0.5         3.1        3.9        4.4         3.7        2.6         2.6        3.0         3.0        3.0         3.0        3.0
B.   PUBLIC LOAN COMMITMENTS                                                                                                                                         Actual Dabt Outstanding on Dec. 31. 1975
IBRD                                             -           37         36          25         64          37         65                                            Disb. Only   in Percent of Total
IDA                                              10          10         10           7         -           -          -         C.    EXTERNAL. DEBT
Other Multilateral                               -           -           1          -          12          11         24 -            World Bank                      109.8             10.2
Governments                                     100          84        106         138         68         130        104              IDA                              55.3              5.2
Suppliers                                         8           5          7          12          2          27         49             Other Al~jtilateral                8.6              0.8
Financial Institutions                           21          28         28          17         12          20          7              Cvovrrmnta                      691.8             64.6
Total Public M + LT Loans                       1739        1674       188        1799        15           2          49              Supir                             6.8              8.1
Financial Institutions            99.3             9.3
Bonds                              1.1             0.1
Public Debt n.e.i.                18.6             1.7
Total Public N H  LT Debt     1,071.3            100.0
D.   DEBT AND DEBT SERVICE
Public Debt Outat. + Disbursed                  524         604        680         807         954      1,071      1,280
Interest on Public Debt                        17          20         22          27         31          37         40
Amortization                                   45          48         70          59         59          66         70
Total-Public Debt Service                      62          68         92          86         90         103        110
Burden on Export Earnings 4/ (7.)
Public Debt Service                            19.6        16.7       16.2        12.0        7.2         7.6        8.3
TDS + Direct invest. Inc.                      22.5        19.1       20.6        16.9       10.0        10.3       10.9
Average Terms of Public Debt
Int. as 7. of Prior Year DO + D                 3.3         3.8        3.6         4.0        3.8         3.9        3.7
Amort. as 7. Prior Year DO + D                   9.5        9.1        11.6        8.7         7.3        6.9        6.5
IBRD Debt Out. + Disbursed                       26          39         52          70         89         110        128
IBRD as 7. of Public Debt                         5.0         6.5        7.6         8.7        9.3        10.3       10.0
IBRD as 7. of Public Debt Service                 4.2         5.3        6.5         9.4       12.0        13.3       12.9
IDA Debt Out, and Disbursed                      16          21         28          57         43          55         64
IDA as 7. of Public Debt                          3.1         3.5        4.1         4.6        4.5         5.1        5.0
IDA as 7. of Public Debt Service                  0.1         0.2        0.3         0.4        0.4         0.4        0.5
I/  Exchange rates used for the varions stocks and flows correspond to those published in IFS.
2/  Projected by World Bank Staff.                                                                                                                                        E!MA CP II
3/  Including erros and omissions.                                                                                                                                         November        1977
4/ Including non-factor services.



ANNEX II
Page 1 of 6 pawes
A.  STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS (ag of September 30, 1977)
Loan or
Credit
Number     Year      Borrower                              Purpose                  Amount (less cancellation)
Bank       IDA     Undis.
Twenty loans and credits fully disbursed                                            116.9      58.5
238        1971      Republic of Tunisia                   Population                           4.8     1.9
270        1971      Republic of Tunisia                   Fisheries                            2.0     0.5
798        1972     Soci6te Nationale d'Investissement     Development Finance Co.   10.0               0.9
858        1972      Republic of Tunisia                   Tourism Infrastructure    14.0              14.0
881        1973      Societe Nationale d'Investissement    Development Finance Co.   14.0               0.6
937        1973      Republic of Tunisia                   Urban Planning 6 Public
Transportation          11.0               440
989        1974      SONEDE                                Water Supply              23.0               6.4
1029        1974      Republic of Tunisia                   Hotel Training             5.6               5.6
1042        1974     Compagnie des Phosphates et
Chemin de Fer de GAFSA               Phosphate Development    23.3               16.5
1068        1974     Republic of Tunisia                    Irrigation Rehabilit-
ation                   12.2               9.8
1088        1975      Republic of Tunisia                   Urban Sewerage            28.0              26.8
1155        1975      Republic of Tunisia                   Education                  8.9               8.9
1188        1976      Republic of Tunisia                   Highways                  28.0              28.0
1189        1976      Banque de Developpement
Economique de Tunisie                Development Finance Co.  20.0               11.1
238-1      1976      Republic of Tunisia                   Population                           4.8     2.9
1340        1976      Banque Nationale de Tunisie           Agricultural Credit       12.0              12.0
1355        1976      Societe Tunisienne de
1'Electricit6 et du Gaz              Power                    14.5                5.8
1431        1977      Republic of Tunisia  b/               Irrigation Development    42.0              42.0
1445        1977      SONEDE  b/                            Water Supply              21.0              21.0
TOTAL:                                                                              04.4       70.1   218.7
of which has been repaid                                                           32.2       3.1
Total now outstanding                                                               372.2      67.0
Amount Sold                       13.1
of which has been repaid           3.0                                             10.1
362.1
Total now held by Bank and IDA   a/                                                 301.4      72,2
Totai undisbursed                                                                   213.4       5.3   218.7
a/ Prior to exchange adjustment.       b/ Not yet effective
B.  STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS IN TUNISIA (as of September 30, 1977)
Year       Obligor                                         Type of business          Amount in US $ Million
Loan      Equity  Total
1962       NPK Engrais                                     Fertilizers                2.0       1.5     3.5
1966       Societe Nationale d'Investissement              Development Finance Co.              0.6     0.6
(SNI) now (BDET)
1969       COFITOUR (Tourism)                              Development Finance Co.    8.0       2.2    10.2
1970       SociEtE Nationale d'Investissement
(SNI) now (BDET)                                Development Finance Co.              0.6     0.6
1973       Societe Touristique & Hoteliare RYM SA.         Tourism                    1.6       0.3     1.9
1973       SociEtE d'Etudes & de Developpement de
Sousse-Nord                                   Tourism                               *       *
1975       Societ6 d'Etude & de Developpement de
Sousse-Nord                                   Tourism                    2.5       0.6     3.1
1974       Industries Chiviiques du Fluor                  Chemicals                            0.7     0.7
Total gross commitments                                                              14.1       6.5    20.6
Lesscancellations, terminations, repayments and sales                                 3.5       1.5     5.0
Total commitments now held by IFC                                                    10.6       5.0    15.6
Total undisbursed                                                                     2.7        -      2.7



ANNEX II
Page 2 of 6
C.   PROJECTS IN EXECUTION I/
Cr. 238:    Population Project; US$4.8 million credit of April 5, 1971; Date
of Effectiveness: December 29, 1971; Closing Date: (Original)
June 30, 1976; (Current) June 30, 1978.
Cr. 238-1: Population Project: US$4.8 million Supplemental Credit of
October 13, 1976; Date of Effectiveness: March 31, 1977;
Closing Date: June 30, 1978.
Through capable management the National Office of Family Planning
and Population is developing the national program steadily. The number of
new acceptors continues to increase, and the Office forecasts that in 1981
there will be 87,000 births averted instead of 55,000 as planned. Under the
project thirteen MCH clinics have been completed, and the remaining sixteen
will be finished by December 1977. Construction of the three maternities at
Sfax, Sousse and Tunis will also be completed by the end of 1977, but late
delivery and installation of medical equipment could delay full operations
until September 1978. The problems of the foundations for Bizerte maternity
hospital are being studied anew, and Government is expected to make major
implementation decisions soon. The Avicenne mid-wifery school is in full
operation and, in 1976, gave diplomas to 35 mid-wives and 62 nurses. Dis-
bursements on the original IDA credit and the supplementary credit provided
by NORAD are now satisfactory.
Cr. 270:    Fisheries Project; US$2 million credit of September 24, 1971; Date
of Effectiveness: May 24, 1972; Closing Date: (Original) December
31, 1976; (Current) July 31, 1978.
183 out of 190 project vessels have been financed under the credit.
Progress of implementation was hampered by slower than expected demand for
project vessels attributable to construction and after-sales service problems.
The latter have in turn contributed to an unsatisfactory rate of sub-loan re-
covery by BNT. To overcome the technical problems, the Government has recently
agreed to set up a mobile service team, has undertaken to provide better train-
ing to new boat owners, and has been encouraged to shift the orders for the
remaining boats to the best of the three boatyards. BNT is introducing mea-
sures to improve loan recovery. The project is now expected to be completed
by September 1978.
1/   These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding the
progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report any prob-
lems which are being encountered, and the action being taken to remedy
them. They should be read in this sense, and with the understanding
that they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation of strengths
and weaknesses in project execution.



ANNEX II
Page 3 of 6
Ln. 989:  Third Water Supply Project; US$23 million loan of May 29, 1974;
Date of Effectiveness: September 24, 1974; Closing Date: June 30,
1979.
Ln. 1445: Fourth Water Supply Project; US$21 million loan of July 5, 1977;
Date of Effectiveness: December 31, 1977; Closing Date: December
31, 1982.
Bidding has been completed for all major components of the Third
Water Supply project. All pipe supply contracts have been awarded; contracts
for civil works and pipe installation are being evaluated. Construction is
on schedule and disbursements are higher than anticipated. The loan for the
Fourth Water Suply project is expected to become effective by December 31,
1977. The contract for final design has been signed and work is being
carried out. Signature of the Kuwait Fund loan, a condition of effective-
ness of the Bank loan, is expected shortly.
Ln. 1188: Second Highways Project; US$28 million loan of January 26, 1976;
Date of Effectiveness: June 16, 1976; Closing Date: December 31,
1979.
Some delays in the execution of improvement works have occurred.
Consultants have nearly completed the preparation of a pilot rural roads
project. The updating of the 1968 transport survey has not yet started.
Ln 1340: Second Agricultural Credit Project; US$12 million loan of November
23, 1976; Date of Effectiveness: July 19, 1977; Closing Date:
December 31, 1980.
Under this project, credit is being extended to small, medium and
large scale farmers and to agro-industrial borrowers. Field appraisal proce-
dures and eligibility criteria for the small farmer component are being worked
out by BNT and will be agreed with the Ministry of Agriculture, whose extension
services are to undertake sub-project appraisal.
Ln. 1355: Second Power Project; US$14.5 million loan of December 27, 1976;
Date of Effectiveness: May 4, 1977; Closing Date: June 30, 1980.
The Project comprises 150 MW of gas turbine capacity in seven units
of equal size to be installed at different locations and is estimated to cost
US$28.7 million equivalent, including a foreign exchange component of US$24.8
million equivalent. In view of the proposed development of offshore natural
gas resources, the substitution of gas for oil for power generation in future
and STEG's likely responsibility for distribution of offshore gas throughout
the country, STEG would undertake a study to establish its organization struc-
ture, its training needs and investments for the gas program. Government
would also undertake a study with a view to determining an appropriate pricing
policy for oil, gas and electricity and submit the recommendations to the Bank
by September 1978. Regarding financial performance, STEG has undertaken to
earn an 8 percent rate of return beginning with 1977. Tariffs were raised
effective June 2, 1977, by 20 percent. Due to delay in increasing tariffs,



ANNEX II
Page 4 of 6
it is unlikely that a 8 percent return will be achieved in 1977, but it should
be achieved in 1978 without further tariff action, provided there is no mate-
rial increase in the cost of salaries and fuel. Contracts have been awarded
and progress is satisfactory.
Ln. 858:  Tourism Infrastructure Project; US$14 million loan and US$10 million
Cr. 329:  credit, both of September 28, 1972; Date of Effectiveness:    June 26,
1973; Closing Date: December 31, 1978.
After considerable delays in 1975 caused by the redefinition of the
project, the project is now moving ahead expeditiously. Ninety percent of
infrastructure works are under construction and 25 percent has been completed.
ONTT will complete procurement of construction material and equipment, and
award the last construction contracts by December 31, 1977. Project comple-
tion is expected by the end of June 1979. According to the most recent esti-
mates (August 1977), project costs, including allowance for price escalation,
would amount to 20 percent more than the appraisal estimates, but the Loan
and Credit along with the KfW co-financing, are expected to cover all foreign
expenditures. Disbursement percentages have been reduced to allow the Bank
to disburse until the completion of all project expenditures.
Ln. 798:  Fourth Development Finance Company Project; US$10 million loan of
February 9, 1972; Date of Effectiveness: April 13, 1972; Closing
Date: (Original) March 31, 1976; (Current) December 31, 1977.
Ln. 881:  Fifth Development Finance Company Project; US$14 million loan of
February 20, 1973; Date of Effectiveness: May 24, 1973; Closing
Date: March 31, 1978.
Ln. 1189: Sixth Development Finance Company Project; US$20 million loan of
January 26, 1976; Date of Effectiveness: June 7, 1976; Closing
Date: June 30, 1980.
Of Loan 798, $0.3 million remain unallocated and $0.9 million un-
disbursed due to cancellations which occurred after the final date for sub-
project submission. Loan 881 is fully committed and $0.6 million remain to
be disbursed: the utilization of the loan has been generally in line with
the appraisal report's projection, which foresaw the loan to be fully dis-
bursed by March, 1977. Disbursements on Loan 1189 had reached $8.9 million
as of September, 1977, about 2 months ahead of the schedule projected in the
appraisal report. BDET has shown considerable improvement since early 1976
in the key areas of management effectiveness, arrears recovery, financial
practices and resource mobilization. The institution plays an increasingly
important role in financing industrial development, extending about one-
third of all term credit available to the industrial sector in Tunisia.
Ln. 937:  Tunis District Urban Planning and Public Transport Project; US$11
Cr. 432:  million loan and US$7 million credit, both of October 5, 1973; Date
of Effectiveness: September 24, 1974; Closing Date: (Original)
December 31, 1976; (Current) December 31, 1977.
Execution of the project is proceeding satisfactorily. The Tunis
District has been well established and operates with only residual technical
assistance. The District has finished its work on the Tunis strategic regional



ANNEX II
Page 5 of 6
development plan and is now regularly associated with or consulted on all major
public investment decisions in the Greater Tunis area. The Societe Nationale
des Transports (SNT) has renewed its bus fleet, as well as its maintenance
services. SNT's clientele has increased in an unprecedented manner; combined
with improvements in routes and tariff structures and with regular payment
by the Government. of compensation for social tariffs, this has resulted in
increased revenues sufficient to offset the effect of a substantial salary
raise. Complementary financing has been found to finance the construction of
the third bus depot and the cost overruns on the railway rolling stock. The
rolling stock to modernize its suburban railway line was delivered last June.
The civil works for the traffic improvement program of the Municipality of
Tunis are now in execution; new traffic and parking regulations have been
established, and special bus lanes and pedestrian areas have been opened.
Ln. 1029: Hotel Training Project; US$5.6 million loan of July 17, 1974; Date
of Effectiveness: November 4, 1975; Closing Date: October 31, 1978.
Project execution was long delayed by difficulties in the acquisi-
tion.of sites for project hotel training centers and by consideration of the
need to change project composition as a result of Government reorientation
of tourism sector development priorities. These difficulties have now been
resolved and the project is progressing well despite delays in Bank loan
disbursements. The courses prepared by the ILO team have been tested in the
Nabeul school and are being introduced into other training schools during the
1977-78 school year. Contracts for construction of the first two centers have
been awarded and construction has begun. The Government is going ahead with
the third center and architectural plans are presently being prepared.
Ln. 1042: Gafsa Phosphate Project, US$23.3 million loan of October 1, 1974;
Date of Effectiveness: March 14, 1975; Closing Date: June 30, 1979.
After many difficulties with the trial of the longwall method in the
Sehib mine, with as a consequence over one year of delay in project implementa-
tion, some positive results have now been obtained. The Company is planning
soon to install further modifications to the longwall equipment and will carry
out new tests which, if successful, would permit Gafsa to proceed with the
purchase and installation of additional longwall equipment.    To obtain optimum
results from the longwall trial face, the Bank is urging Gafsa to reinforce
its technical staff with the assistance of a firm having long experience in
longwall mining. GAFSA has embarked on a vast expansion program with the
SehiJj project, the modernization program and a new open pit project. As a
result of the severe drop in phosphate prices, most of these investments are
planned to be financed by debt. The Government has been made aware that some
additional equity would be needed.
Ln. 1068: Irrigation Rehabilitation Project: US$12.2 million loan of
December 31, 1974; Date of Effectiveness: September 18, 1975;
Closing Date:   June 30, 1982.
Progress in the Medjerda subproject area has been satisfactory, with
the exception of enforcement of certain provisions of the land reform legisla-
tion. Intensification of cropping has been started. In Nebhana, land reform



ANNEX II
Page 6 of 6
implementation continues and work is now underway to intensify agricultural
production. Consultants have been recruited and are preparing various studies
necessary for project implementation and for expansion into a second stage
project. Rehabilitation and construction works are progressing satisfactorily.
Ln. 1088: First Urban Sewerage Project; US$28 million loan of February 18,
1975; Date of Effectiveness: August 15, 1975; Closing Date: June
15, 1979.
A delay of about six months was experienced at the beginning of
project execution as a result of the legislative measures required formally
to establish the new national sewerage authority (Office National de
l'Assainissement - ONAS), followed by the numerous minor administrative
problems involved in the physical transfer to ONAS of systems and employees
from the centers taken over. In spite of these delays it is still expected
that the works will be completed within six months of the date foreseen at
the time of appraisal. However, disbursements are expected to reach forecast
levels only about the end of 1978. Revised cost estimates indicate that total
project cost may increase by 33 percent over appraisal estimates, most of the
increase being in the local cost components.
Ln. 1155: Third Education Project; US$8.9 million loan of August 13, 1975;
Date of Effectiveness: March 1, 1976; Closing Date: June 30, 1980.
Since the July 1976 mission which reviewed project implementation,
there has been no progress. The Government has indicated that owing to a
change in its education priorities, it no longer wishes to proceed with the
project items as they were conceived during appraisal, and to use the loan
proceeds to extend post-primary education. The rationale for the change in
educational priorities and suggested steps for the future of the loan have
just been conveyed to the Bank by the government. The government has been
informed that the Bank cannot agree to the current proposals because they
would not meet the priority needs of the education sector in Tunisia as
outlined in the objectives of the original project, and that the Bank would
be pleased to receive a revised proposal based more closely on the objectives
for which the Bank's funds have been committed. The situation is currently
being further discussed with the Government.
Ln. 1431: Sidi Salem Multi-purpose Project; US$42 million loan of July 5, 1977;
Date of Effectiveness: December 31, 1977; Closing Date June 30, 1984.
The loan is expected to become effective by December 31, 1977. A
project Manager has been appointed by SNCFT. Measures yet to be taken before
loan effectiveness include: (i) the appointment of a Coordinating Committee
responsible for coordinating the work of agencies involved in the project,
(ii) submission to the Bank of the technical data on the Medjerda-Cap Bon Canal,
and (iii) effectiveness of the KfW loan.
Construction of the site camp facilities and the dam has been started.
The contractor is now setting out the alignment of the railroad infrastructure.
Tunisian agencies are now preparing the tender documents and terms of reference
for consultant selection.



ANNEX III
Page 1 of 3
TUNISIA
INDUSTRIAL FINANCE PROJECT
Supplementary Project Data Sheet
Section I: Timetable of Key Events
(a)  Time taken to prepare Project:             About 8 months (from November
1976 to June 1977)
(b)  Agencies which prepared Project:           BDET and Government of Tunisia
(c)  Project first presented to Bank:           August, 1976
(d)  First Bank mission to review Project:      November 15, 1976
(e)  Departure of Appraisal Mission:            May 27, 1977
(f)  Completion of Negotiations:                November 11, 1977
(g)  Planned Date of Effectiveness:             March 31, 1978
Section II: Special Bank Implementation Action
(a) The Bank will review during negotiations, and follow-up closely, BDET's
program and timetable for resource mobilization for the period 1978-79
(para. 44).
(b) The Bank will continue its discussions with the Tunisian authorities
on the harmonization of domestic interest rates with those prevailing
in the international capital markets (para. 28) and on measures to
foster the development of the domestic capital market (para. 29).
Section III: Special Conditions
(a)  For effectiveness-   (i) Amendment of the FOPRODI Agreement between the
Government and Participating Banks to reflect the negotiated operational
arrangements for SSE, and conclusion of a similar agreement between the
Government and BDET (para. 48); (ii) Agreement by all parties concerned
on the design of the technical assistance program and conclusion of
financing arrangements for the program (para. 52); (iii) Establishment
with BDET of a unit for SSE expansion sub-project administration (para.
50); and (iv) Establishment in the Central Bank of a Project Account
for the Bank financed new SSE operations (para. 48).
(b) BDET to take appropriate measures to further improve its appraisal
work (para. 36).



ANNEX III
Page 2 of 3
(c) BDET to prepare and submit to the Bank a plan of action for strengthening
its supervision activities (para. 37).
(d) BDET to take appropriate measures to solve the problems giving rise to
the reservations of its auditors on its 1975 and 1976 accounts (para. 39).
(e) BDET to follow-up closely the performance of clients having obtained
reschedulings, and to submit a special report to its Board and to the
Bank in case reschedulings affect in any fiscal year more than 15 percent
of its loan portfolio (para. 40).
(f) BDET to ensure that its future hotel sub-loans are secured by a valid
mortgage (para. 41).
(g) BDET to maintain at all times its debt/equity ratio within the limit of
8:1 (para. 42).
(h) The proceeds of the Bank loan to BDET to be substantially reserved for
the financing of projects belonging to agreed priority categories, and
in accordance with target percentages established for each category
(para. 43).
(i) BDET to set its effective long-term lending rate at about the percentage
point above that applied by the commercial banks on medium-term loans
(para. 45).
(j) API to prepare and submit to the Bank a plan and timetable for the
strengthening of its staff and extension of its services (para. 52).



ANNEX III
Page 3 of 3
Section IV: BDET's Sources and Application of Funds
1977     1978     1979      1980     1981
(Dinar thousands)
Sources
Internal Cash Generation             1,455    1,798    2,325    3,047    3,163
Share capital increase
and subscription premium               -      1,800    1,000    2,000        -
Term borrowings                     20,200   22,200   23,800   22,500    26,400
Loan collection                      7,345    8,462    11,151   12,491   16,407
Sales from equity portfolio            200      400      600      650       900
Total                     29,200   34,660   38,876   40,688   46,870
Applications
Loan disbursements                  22,078   26,506   28,475   29,776   28,067
Purchase of equity                   1,800    1,705    2,045    2,155     2,305
Repayment of borrowings              4,917    5,318    7,151    7,004    14,771
Other applications                     505    1,131    1,205    1,753     1,727
Total                     29,200   34,660   38,876   40,688   46,870
Projected Balance Sheet:
1977      1978      1979       1980      1981
Assets
Current assets                  12,808    12,848    12,960    12,990     13,038
Loans                           69,536    87,580   104,904    122,189   133,849
Other assets                     5,790     6,946     7,961      9,012     9,906
Liabilities and Equity:
Current liaibilities             9,000     9,000     9,000     9,000      9,000
Borrowings                      69,831    86,713   103,362    118,858   130,489
Equity                           9,062    11,320    13,062    15,852     16,725
Debt/Equity ratio as
-defined in the Loan
Agreement:                         7.7       7.7        7.9       7.5       7.8
ProJected Earnings:
Total earnings                   5,966     7,577     9,479    11,390     13,056
Total expenses                   4,588     5,854     7,229      8,418     9,968
Net profit                         821       998     1,362      1,770     1,973



