CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 1505 TUN
Loan Agreement
(Industrial Finance Project - Pilot SSE Scheme)
between
REPUBLIC OF TUNISIA
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated January 25, 1978


﻿LOAN NUMBER 1505 TUN
LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated January 25, 1978, between REPUBLIC OF
TUNISIA (hereinafter called the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL
BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (hereinafter called the
Bank).
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower has requested the Bank to assist in
the financing of the Project described in Section 3.01 (a) of this
Agreement under the FOPRODI Scheme, as set forth in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement; and
(B) by a loan agreement of even date herewith (hereinafter
called the BDET Loan Agreement) between the Bank and Banque de
Developpement Economique de Tunisie (BDET), the Bank has granted
to BDET a loan, a portion of which (hereinafter called Portion B
of BDET Loan) is to assist in the financing of the expansion of
established small-scale industrial enterprises in Tunisia (in
order to complement the activities of the FOPRODI Scheme); and
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the
foregoing, to make the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and
conditions hereinafter set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all
the provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Loan
and Guarantee Agreements of the Bank dated March 15, 1974, with
the same force and effect as if they were fully set forth herein,
subject, however, to the modifications thereof set forth in
Schedule 3 to this Agreement (said General Conditions Applicable
to Loan and Guarantee Agreements of the Bank, as so modified,
being hereinafter called the General Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the
General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the
respective meanings therein set forth, and the following addi-
tional terms have the following meanings:


﻿- 2 -
(a) "SSE" means a small-scale industrial enterprise estab-
lished after the date of this Agreement to which 4ny of the
Participating Banks on behalf of the Borrower proposes to make a
SSE sub-loan.
(b) "SSE sub-loan" means a loan made or proposed to be made
by any of the Participating Banks on behalf of the Borrower
through the FOPRODI Scheme out of the proceeds of the Loan to a
SSE for a SSE Investment Project.
(c) "SSE Project" means a specific development project in
the small-scale industry sector to be carried out by a SSE util-
izing the proceeds of a SSE sub-loan.
(d) "Dinars" and "D" mean the currency of Tunisia.
(e) "Foreign currency" means any currency other than the
currency of Tunisia.
(f) "FOPRODI" means the Fonds   e Promotion et de D6centrali-
sation Industrielle, a fund financed out of the Borrower's budget
established and operated under the Borrower's Law No. 73-82 dated
December 31, 1973 and Decree No. 74-793 dated August 16, 1974, as
amended by Decree No. 77-855 dated October 20, 1977.
(g) "FOPRODI Agreement" means the agreement respectively
entered or to be entered into between the Borrower's Ministre des
Finances and the Participating Banks, for the management of
FOPRODI, and to be amended pursuant to Section 3.01 (b) (ii) of
this Agreement.
(h) "Participating Banks" mean th4 following banking insti-
tutions established and operating under the laws of the Republic
of Tunisia: Soci6tf Tunisienne de Banque (STB), Union Interna-
tionale de Banque (UIB), Banque Nationale de Tunisie (BNT), Banque
du Sud (BS) and BDET, and any other financial institution which
would accede to the FOPRODI Agreement.
(i) "FOPRODI Scheme" means the on-lending and administrative
rrangements for the Project, set forth in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement.


﻿-3-
(j) "API" means Agence de Promotion des Investissements,
a Borrower's agency within the Ministry of National Economy of the
Borrower.
(k) "Project Account" means the account to be opened by the
Borrower with the Central Bank of Tunisia as provided in Section
3.01 (b) (iii) of this Agreement for purpose of making available
the proceeds of the Loan to the Participating Banks for SSE
sub-loans.
ARTICLE II
The Loar
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower,
on the terms and conditions in the Loan Agreement set forth
or referred to, an amount in various currencies equivalent to
five million dollars ($5,000,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn
from the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Sched-
ule 2 to this Agreement (and, if applicable, with the provisions
of Section 3.06 of this Agreement), as such Schedule (and said
Section) may be amended from time to time, for amounts disbursed
under a sub-loan or investment for the reasonable cost of goods
and services for a SSE Project for which the Bank shall have
authorized withdrawals from the Loan Account; provided, however,
that for each SSE Project, withdrawals from the Loan Account shall
not exceed fifty per cent (50%) of the estimated total cost of the
SSE Project.
(b) Except as the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise
agree, no withdrawals shall be made on account of (i) expenditures
before the date of this Agreement or (ii) expenditures by an
SSE in respect of a sub-loan if such expenditures shall have been
made more than ninety days prior to the date on which the Bank
shall have received in respect of such sub-loan the request and
information required by Section 2.03 (a) of this Agreement.
Section 2.03. (a) Each request by BDET on behalf of the
Borrower for authorization to make withdrawals from the Loan
Account in respect of a SSE sub-loan shall contain the information
described in paragraph 4 of Schedule 2 to this Agreement and such
other information as the Bank shall reasonably request.


﻿-4-
(b) Except as the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise
agree, requests made pursuant to the provisions of paragraph (a)
of this Section shall be presented to the Bank on or before
December 31, 1979.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1981
or such later date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall
promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment
charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of 1%)
per annum on the principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn from
time to time.
Section 2.06. The Borrower shall pay interest at the rate
of seven and nine-tenths per cent (7.90%) per annum on the prin-
cipal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to
time.
Section 2.07. Interest and other charges shall be payable
semi-annually on March 15 and September 15 in each year.
Section 2.08. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set forth
in Schedule 1 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE III
The Project
Section 3.01. (a) The purpose of the Project is to assist
the Borrower in the financing of a prograra designed to promote and
expand such productive facilities and resources in Tunisia, as
will contribute to the development of small-scale enterprises
in the country. The Project consists of the financing of specific
development projects through loans to private enterprises in
Tunisia under the FOPRODI Scheme.
(b) The Borrower shall undertake and cause the Participating
Banks to carry out the Project with due diligence and effi-
ciency, in conformity with appropriate banking, administrative and
financial policies and in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 2 to this Agreement, .d to that end, the Borrower
shall:


﻿- 5 -
(i) enter into a FOPRODI Agreement with BDET to include
it as a Participating Bank;
(ii) amend the FOPRODI Agreements with each of the
Participating Banks, respectively, in order that
these agreements conform with the provisions of
Schedule 2 to this Agreement; and
(iii) open an account with Banque Centrale de Tunisie
for the purpose of making available the proceeds of
the Loan to the Participating Banks for SSE sub-
loans.
Section 3.02. (a) The Borrower undertakes that, unless
the Bank shall otherwise agree, any SSE sub-loan by any of the
Participating Banks will be made on financial terms and conditions
consistent with the provisions of Schedule 2 to this Agreement and
on additional terms whereby the Participating Bank shall obtain,
by written contract with the SSE or by other appropriate legal
means, rights adequate to protect the interests of the Bank, the
Borrower and the Participating Bank, including the right of the
Borrower and the Participating Bank to: (i) require the SSE to
carry out and operate the SSE Project with due diligence and
efficiency and in accordance with sound technical, financial and
managerial standards and to maintain adequate records and for
those purposes, the Borrower and the Participating Bank may
require the SSE to use the assistance of API; (ii) require that:
(1) the goods and services to be financed out of the proceeds of
the Loan shall be purchased at a reasonable price, account being
taken also of other relevant factors such as time of delivery and
efficiency and reliability of the goods and availability of
maintenance facilities and spare parts therefor, and, in the case
of services, of their quality and the competence of the parties
rendering them; and (2) such goods and services shall be used
exclusively in the carrying out of the SSE Project; (iii) inspect,
by itself or jointly with representatives of the Bank if the Bank
shall so request, such goods and the sites, works, plants and
construction included in the SSE Project, the operation thereof,
and any relevant records and documents; (iv) require that: (1) the
SSE shall take out and maintain with responsible insurers such
insurance, against such risks and in such amounts, as shall be
consistent with sound business practice; and (2) without any
limitation upon the foregoing, such insurance shall cover hazards
incident to the acquisition, transportation and delivery of goods
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan to the place of use or


﻿-6-
installation, any indemnity thereunder to be made payable in a
currency freely usable by the SSE to replace or repair such goods;
(v) obtain all such information as the Bank or the Borrower or any
of the Participating Banks shall reasonably request relating to
the foregoing and to the administration, operations and financial
condition of the SSE and to the benefits to be derived from
the SSE Project; and (vi) suspend or terminate the right of the
SSE to the use of the proceeds of the Loan upon failure by such
SSE to perform its obligations under its contract with the Parti-
cipating Bank.
(b) The Borrower shall exercise its rights, directly or
through the Participating Bank, in relation to each SSE Project in
such manner as to (i) protect the interests of the Borrower, the
Bank and the Participating Banks, (ii) comply with its obligations
under this Agreement, and (iii) achieve the purposes of the
Project.
Section 3.03. The Borrower shall arrange for BDET: (i)
to maintain separate records adequate to record the progress of
the Project and of each SSE Project (including the cost thereof,
the amount of financing provided by the Borrower through FOPRODI
and by any of the Participating Banks, disbursements, repayments,
interest and other charges on such financing, including the
SSE sub-loan therefor); and (ii) to furnish to the Bank semi-
annual reports thereon, in such detail as the Bank shall reason-
ably request.
Section 3.04. (a) The Borrower shall furnish or cause to be
furnished to the Bank at regular intervals all such information as
the Bank shall reasonably request concerning the expenditure of
the proceeds of the Loan, the Project, the SSE Projects, the SSE
sub-loans, technical assistance services provided to small-scale
enterprises by API and the Borrower's various agencies and, where
appropriate, the benefits to be derived from the foregoing.
(b) Within six months following the last withdrawal from the
Loan Account in respect of the SSE sub-loans or by such later date
at the Bank shall request, the Borrower shall prepare and furnish
or cause to be prepared and furnished to the Bank a report, of
such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably re-
quest, on the execution and initial operations of the SSE Proj-
ects, their costs and the benefits derived and to be derived from
them, the performance by the Borrower and the Bank of their
respective obligations under the Loan Agreement and the accom-
plishment of the purposes of the loan.


﻿- 7 -
Section 3.05. The Borrower shall duly perform all its obliga-
tions in agreements under which funds, within the framework of a
SSE Project, have been lent or put at the disposal of the Partici-
pating Banks by the Borrower for relending, investment or manage-
ment. The Borrower shall promptly inform the Bank of any action
which would have the effect Lf assigning, or of amending, abro-
gating or waiving any material provision of, any such agreement.
Section 3.06. Unless the Borrower and the Bank shall other-
wise agree:
(a) The Borrower shall make necessary arrangements for the
financing on or before July 1, 1978 of the local and foreign
currency costs of the scheme for the provision of techrical
assistance services to SSEs to be carried out by API in accordance
with the plan of action and the timetable relating therefor which
have been presented to the Bank and are outlined in paragraph 13
of Schedule 2 to this Agreement; provided, however, that, should
the foreign currency financing of said scheme not be obtained in
full or in part by July 1, 1978, (i) an amount equivalent to three
hundred thousand dollars ($300,000) from the Loan proceeds is
allocated to the foreign currency cost of said scheme; (ii)
withdrawals of such amount may be made from the Loan proceeds on
account of the foreign currency cost of technical assistance
services rendered under said program; and (iii) in such case, the
Borrower shall employ experts whose qualifications, experience and
terms and conditions of employment shall be satisfactory to the
Bank.
(b) The Borrower shall take all necessary steps to put into
effect the plan of action referred      in above paragr.ph (a) of
this Section and shall review its contents, as often as needed, in
consultation with the Bank.
(c) For the purposes of paragraph () (i) of this Section,
"allocated", in relation to proceeds of the Loan, means that the
proceeds so allocated may be withdrawn only for the purposes for
which they are allocated unless the Borrower and the Bank shall
otherwiqe agree.
ARTICLE IV
Other Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) It is the policy of the Bank, in making
loans to, or with the guarantee of, its members not to seek, in


﻿normal circumstances, specific security from the member concerned
but to ensure that no other external debt shall have priority over
its loans in the allocation, realization or distribution of
foreign exchange held under the control or for the benefit of such
member. To that end, if any lien shall be created on any public
assets (as hereinafter defined), as security for any external
debt, which will or might result in a priority for the benefit of
the creditor of such external debt in the allocation, realization
or distribution of foreign exchange, such lien shall, unless the
Bank shall otherwise agi.ee, ipso facto, and at no cost to Ihe
Bank, equally and ratably secure the principal of, and interest
and other charges on, the Loan, and the Borrower, in creating or
permitting the creation of such lien, shall make express provision
to that effect; provided, however, that, if for any constitutional
or other legal reason such provision cannot be made with respect
to any lien created on assets of any of its political or adminis-
trative subdivisions, the Borrower shall promptly and at no
cost to the Bank secure the principal of, and interest and other
charges on, the Loan by an equivalent lien on other public assets
satisfactory to the Bank.
(b) The foregoing undertaking shall not apply to: (i)
any lien created on property, at the time of purchase thereof,
solely as security for payment of the purchase price of such
property; and (ii) any lien arising in the ordinary course of
banking transactions and securing a debt maturing not more
than one year after its date.
(c) As used in this Scction, the term "public assets"
means assets of the Borrower, of any political or administrative
subdivision thereof and of any entity owned or controlled by,
or operating for the account or benefit of, the Borrower or any
such subdivision., including gold and other foreign exchange
assets held by any institution performing the functions of a
central bank or exchange stabilization fund, or similar functions,
for the Borrower.
Section 4.02. The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be
maintained procedures and records adequate to monitor and record
the progress of the Project and of each SSE Project (including its
cost and the benefits to be derived from it).
Section 4.03. The Borrower and the Bank shall from time
to time, at the request of either party, exchange views and
information through their representatives with regard to the


﻿-9-
administration, operations and financial condition of FOPRODI and
the Project Account.
Section 4.04. The Borrower shall, directly or indirectly
enable the Bank's representatives to iaspect the records referred
to in Section 4.02 of this Agreement and any relevant documents.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Bank
Section 5.01. For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the General
Conditions the following additional events are specified:
(a) a change shall have been made in the FOPRODI Agreements,
as amended pursuant to Section 3.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement,
which would materially and adversely affect the carrying out of
the Project;
(b) a resolution shall have been passed for the dissolution
or liquidation of FOPRODI;
(c) a resolution shall have been passed for the dissolution
or liquidation of any of the Participating Banks, which would as a
consequence materially and adversely affect the carrying out of
the Project;
(d) an extraordinary situation shall have arisen which
shall make it improbable that the Participating Banks will
be able to perform their obligations under the FOPRODI Agreements;
(e) any of the Participating Banks shall have failed to
perform any covenant, agreement or obligation of said Partici-
pating Bank under any of the FOPRODI Agreements to which said
Participating Bank is a party, and such failure would materially
and adversely affect the carrying out of the Project;
(f) a default shall occur under the BDET Loan Agreement,
other than in respect of the payment of principal, or interest,
charges or any other charge required thereunder.
Section 5.02. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the General
Conditions the following additional events are specified:
(a) the event specified in paragraph (b) of Section 5.01
shall occur; and


﻿- 10 -
(b) the event specified in paragraph (a) or paragraph
(c) or paragraph (d) or paragraph (e) or paragraph (f) of Section
5.01 shall occur and shall continue for a period of sixty days
after notice thereof shall have been given by the Bank to the
Borrower.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as addi-
tional conditions to the effectiveness of the Loan Agreement
within the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the General Conditions:
(a) the FOPRODI Agreement between the Borrower and BDET,
respectively, has been duly authorized and ratified by all neces-
sary corporate and governmental action;
(b) the FOPRODI Agreements between the Borrower and each of
the Participating Banks, respectively, have been amended pursuant
to Section 3.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement;
(c) the account with Banque Centrale de Tunisie referred to
in Section 3.01 (b) (iii) of this Agreement has been opened;
and
(d) all conditions precedent to the effectiveness of the
BDET Loan Agreement have been fulfilled subject only to the
effectiveness of this Agreement.
Section U.02. The following are specified as additional
matters, within the meaning of Section 12.02 (c) of the General
Conditions, to be included in the opinion or opinions to be
furnished to the Bank:
(a) that the FOPRODI Agreements, as amended, have been
duly authorized or ratified by the Borrower and each of the
Participating Banks, respectively, and are legally binding upon
the Borrower and the Participating Banks in accordance with their
terms; and
(b) that the action described in paragraph (c) of the
preceding Section 6.01 has been taken in accordance with the laws
of the Borrower.


﻿- 11 -
Section 6.03. The date April 25, 1978, is hereby specified
for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VII
Representative of the Borrower;
Addresses
Section 7.01. The Ministre Dflgguf aupras du Premier Ministre
Charg6 du Plan of Tunisia, is designated as representative
of Tunisia for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General
Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for
the purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For Tunisia:
MinistZre du Plan
1, rue de B6ja
Tunis, Tunisia
Cable address:                     Telex:
MINISTERE DU PLAN                       MIPLAN 12117
Tunis                                   TN
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                     Telex:
INTBAFRAD                         440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                   248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)


﻿- 12 -
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through
their representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year
first above written.
REPUBLIC OF TUNISIA
By Is/ Ali Hedda
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Maurice P. Bart
Acting Regional Vice President
Europe, Middle East and North Africa


﻿- 13 -
SCHEDULE 1
Amortization Schedule
Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due                          (expressed in dollars)*
On each March 15 and September 15
beginning September 15, 1982
through September 15, 1990                 280,000
On March 15, 1991                                240,000
*    To the extent that any portion of the Loan is repayable
in a currency other than dollars (see General Conditions,
Section 4.02), the figures in this column represent dollar
equivalents determined as for purposes of withdrawal.


﻿- 14 -
Premiums on Prepayment
The following percentages are specified as the premiums
payable on repayment in advance of maturity of any portion of
the principal amount of the Loan pursuant to Section 3.05 (b)
of the General Conditions:
Time of Prepayment                               Premium
Not more than three years
before maturity                              1.80%
More than three years but
not more than five years
before maturity                              3.05%
More than five years but
not more than nine years
before maturity                              5.45%
More than nine years but
not more than eleven years
before maturity                              6.70%
More than eleven years
before maturity                              7.90%
oo


﻿- 15 -
SCHEDULE 2
FOPRODI Scheme
The main objective of the Project is to contribute to the
strengthening and coordination of activities aiming at the estab-
lishment of small-scale enterprises in the industrial sector by
providing financial and technical assistance according to the
following statement of operations and policies.
Establishment of a new FOPRODI credit facility
1.   Decree No. 74-793 of August 16, 1974, as amended by Decree
No. 77-855 dated October 20, 1977, concerning the organization and
the functioning of FOPRODI, has established two concessionary
credit facilities to be financed out of the FOPRODI in favor of
Tunisian entrepreneurs with the required qualifications but with
limited means and willing to assume personally and full-time the
responsibility of the project, as follows:
(a) a credit facility aimed at the promotion of entrepren-
eurship in the form of a loan to a promoter to enable him to
acquire a majority ownership in the capital of a small-scale
enterprise to be created. Said loan may be extended only in the
case of new projects costing up to D500,000, including working
capital. Said loan is extended to a promoter pursuant to the
following scheme:
(i) For projects costing less than D250,000, including
working capital, the amount of the loan cannot
exceed 70% of equity, the promoter's personal
contribution being not less than 10%; and
(ii) For projects costing between D250,000 and D500,000,
including working capital, the amount of the loan
cannot exceed 45% of equity, the promoter's per-
sonal contribution being not less than 20%.
(b) a credit facility aimed at supporting small-scale
enterprise development, in the form of a medium- or long-term loan
to a small-scale enterprise. This facility is only for new
projects for small-scale enterprises costing up to D75,000,
including working capital, or expansion projects for small-scale
enterprises costing up to D45,000, excluding working capital, and
cannot exceed 70% of total project cost.


﻿- 16 -
2.   Pursuant to Article 3 of the abovementioned Decree as
amended, the administration of the above-described FOPRODI credit
facilities has been entrusted to the Participating Banks under
procedures detailed in the FOPRODI Agreements.
Eligibility criteria
3.   In addition to meeting the eligibility criteria for the
FOPRODI credit facility under paragraph 1 (a) above, the following
criteria shall be used in making SSE sub-loans:
(a) the total investment cost of the new SSE Project,
including working capital, shall not exceed D200,000 in 1976
prices;
(b) except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the investment
cost per job created or maintained shall not exceed D4,600 in 1976
prices; and
(c) the promoter has agreed to make use of the available
technical assistance deemed necessary by the Participating Bank
sponsoring the SSE Project or by API.
Operational arrangements
4.   Identification, initial screening and appraisal of eligible
SSE Projects shall be the responsibility of the Participating
Banks with the assistance of API as provided in paragraph 13 of
this Schedule. Sub-loan applications shall be prepared in several
copies so that the Ministry of Finance (FOPRODI) and API shall be
informed at the same time. The Participating Banks shall prepare
an appraisal report for each SSE Project under a simplified
procedure acceptable to the Borrower and the Bank. Such appraisal
report shall specify, inter alia:
(a) the name of the SSE, the industrial sub-sector to which
the SSE Project belongs, its location, as well as appropriate
information concerning the promoter;
(b) the number of jobs to be created;
(c) the total estimated cost of the SSE Project, including
working capital requirements;


﻿- 17 -
(d) a summary list of goods and services to be procured for
the SSE Project including in particular expenditures proposed
to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan;
(e) the amount, terms and conditions (including the amorti-
zation schedule) of the SSE sub-loan and of the other sources of
financing; and
(f) the technical assistance needs, if any, of the SSE
Project and the most appropriate ways to meet them.
5.   The financing plan for a SSE Project shall follow the fol-
lowing proportions in percentage of estimated total invest-
ment cost, including working capital:
(a) equity (part of which may be financed out of the
FOPRODI credit facility under paragraph 1 (a) of this Schedule)
shall not be less than 30%;
(b) the SSE sub-loan shall not exceed 50%; and
(c) the remaining balance shall be financed by a term loan
extended by the Participating Bank sponsoring the SSE Project out
of its own resources.
6.   The appraisal report referred to in paragraph 4 of this
Schedule shall be sent by the Participating Bank sponsoring the
SSE Project to API for its review. Once API has approved the SSE
Project and the Participating Bank has specified its intent to
participate in the financing of said Project, the appraisal report
shall be sent to BDET which shall perform the following functions:
(a) verify on behalf of the Bank that the SSE Project
complies with the eligibility criteria detLled in paragraph 3
above;
(b) forward to the Bank, on behalf of the Borrower, (i)
requests for authorization to make withdrawals from the Loan
Account in respect of a SSE sub-loan and (ii) disbursement appli-
cations from the Loan Account accompanied by a statement certi-
fying that BDET has verified, on the basis of documentation sent
to it by the Participating Bank, that the expenditures against
which withdrawal of Bank funds is sought, have been actually
incurred by the SSE; and


﻿- 18 -
(c) maintain the necessary documentation, particularly as
regards disbursements, available for inspection by Bank super-
vision missions.
7.   Disbursements in respect ef SSE sub-loans for which authori-
zation to make withdrawals has been given shall be made by the
Participating Banks from the Project Account. Such Account
shall be credited, from time to time, with proceeds from the Loan
Account, pursuant to withdrawals made by BDET.
Conditions of SSE sub-loans
8.   SSE sub-loans shall carry interest on the principal outstand-
ing from time to time at an annual rate equal to the average
interest rate charged by Tunisian commercial banks on medium-term
loans to industrial enterprises at the time of sub-loan signing.
9.   The amortization schedule for each SSE sub-loan shall provide
for an appropriate grace period and shall be set forth such as to
take into account the economic life of the investment as well as
the projected capacity of the SSE to reimburse the SSE sub-loan.
Repayment and risk-sharing arrangements
10. The SSE repayment obligations for the SSE sub-loans shall
be toward the Borrower but the responsibility of loan collection
shall remain with the Participating Bank sponsoring the SSE
Project. Participating Banks shall ensure that SSE sub-loan
repayments are made upon maturity and shall immediately thereafter
forward such repayments to the Project Account.
11. Losses on both SSE sub-loan, and term loan made by the
Participating Bank sponsoring a SSE Project out of its own re-
sources shall be shared evenly between the Borrower and the
Participating Bank.
Remuneration of the Participating Banks
12. The Borrower shall remunerate the Participating Banks for
their services in managing the new FOPRODI credit facility fi-
nanced out of the Loan proceeds with a commission or commissions
providing an incentive to use the funds of the new FOPRODI credit
facility and related inter alia to the amounts of the SSE sub-
loans which have been disbursed and the amounts recovered each
year in respect of the principal and interests of said sub-loans.


﻿- 19 -
The incentive resulting from this commission or these commissions
shall not be less than the one resulting from the arrangements for
the remuneration of the Participating Banks under the existing
FOPRODI credit facilities.
Technical Assistance
13. As provided in Section 3.06 of this Agreement, the Borrower
shall put into effect the plan of action, in accordance with
the timetable agreed with the Bank, for the establishment of a
scheme to provide technical assistance to small-scale enterprises
in general, including small-scale enterprises not receiving SSE
sub-loans. To the extent possible such scheme shall be decen-
tralized. In addition to a central core of experts in small-scale
enterprises at API's headquarters in Tunis, it shall make use
of API's existing network of regional branches, which is expected
to be expanded according to the aforementioned timetable. Ini-
tially, API's technical assistance staff shall concentrate on
assisting the Participating Banks in identifying SSE projects
eligible for Bank-financed sub-loans, and on assisting sponsors in
preparing their projects, obtaining the financing, and properly
implementing the projects. Later such staff shall also provide
follow-up assistance, especially in the areas of financial manage-
ment, marketing and improvement of productivity.


﻿- 20 -
SCHEDULE 3
Modifications of the General Conditions
For the purposes of the Loan Agreement, the provisions
of the General Conditions are modified as follows:
(1) The following subparagraph (d) is added to Section
3.05:
"(d) The Bank and the Borrower may from time to time
agree upon arrangements for prepayment of the Loan and
the application of such prepayment in addition to, or in
substitution for, those set forth in paragraph (b) of
Section 3.05."
(2) The words "SSE Projects" are substituted for the words
"the Project" at the end of Section 5.03.
(3) Section 6.03 is deleted and replaced by the following
new Section:
"Section 6.03. Cancellation by the Bank. If (a) the
right of the Borrower to make withdrawals from the Loan
Account shall have been suspended with respect to any amount
of the Loan for a continuous period of thirty days, or (b) by
the date specified in paragraph (b) of Section 2.03 of the
Loan Agreement requests permitted under paragraph (a) of such
Section shall have been received by the Bank in respect of
any portion of the Loan, or having been so received, shall
have been denied, or (c) after the Closing Date an amount of
the Loan shall remain unwithdrawn from the Loan Account,
the Bank may by notice to the Borrower terminate the right of
the Borrower to submit such requests or to make withdrawals
from the Loan Account, as the case may be, with respect to
such amount or portion of the Loan. Upon the giving of such
notice such amount or portion of the Loan shall be can-
celled."


